[{"Title":"You either love it or hate it -- and I loved it!!!!","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"160 out of 196 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I laughed so hard I could hardly breathe. This is one of the funniest films I have ever seen.The Screen-It Our Take reviewer doesn't like silly humor. I do. My most common comments while watching That's SO STUPID!! (when I could catch a breath from laughing) and What was THAT??There are no swear words, no realistic violence, and no sex scenes. It's just FUN!! My 13-year-old son & I rented it and watched it twice in one week. It was even funnier the second time.My husband hated it. He thought it was the most un-funny film he'd ever seen.You either love it or hate it. "},{"Title":"It all depends on your sense of humor","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"111 out of 126 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The first time i heard of Steve Odekerk was when I first saw the movie Thumb Wars on UPN, I found it to be so stupid that it was hilarious. After I saw the movie I quickly went out and bought all six in the series and loved everyone, now the humor in these movies is the stupid off the wall type that I love. Now Kung Pow is the same way and has the most random unexplainable humor that I have seen in a movie. Now I personally love this kind of humor but not everyone does, so I would say if you saw any of his other movies like Ace or Juwanna man these are more normal movies and aren't good to go by. But if you have seen the thumb movies or just love weird humor you will love this movie, I loved but that doesn't mean you will, so my advice is if you don't like stupid comedy don't watch this but if you like that kind of stuff you should check it out. "},{"Title":"Best movie ever!","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"116 out of 161 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" From the man who brought you ThumbWars(My name is Ubidoob Banubi. I have the silliest name in the galaxy!), ThumbTanic(This won't help us! This is a monkey!) and every other great thumb film. Steve Oedekerk, a god amongst men, brings us another hit. This film has everything from a CGI kung-fu cow to Woah, the one breasted kung-fu chick. And who can forget Wimp-Lo, who the crane clan purposefully trained wrong (I am bleeding, making me the victor!).This is single handedly the funniest film I have ever watched. Not many films can get me going like this one did. I still remember the moment when I knew this was possibly the greatest film of all time. The moment just after ling said He's dead. Except for his hair and nails, dead. What happened after wards took me completely by surprise.My dream film is to have Steve Oedekerk and Jhonen Vasquez work on a film together. They are the funniest men in the film industry today. "},{"Title":"'Enter' the theater and get ready to laugh!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"78 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  There's a good chance that when you saw the trailers and TV spots for this movie the first word that came to your mind was stupid. Yes, this a stupid movie. It's one of the stupidest movies I have ever seen to be honest, but it is also one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. Up until I saw this movie earlier today, I hadn't seen one good movie in 2002 so I can say that this is the best move of 2002..so far. No jokes fall flat except the gay henchman was sort of annoying at times, the action scenes are well done, and it's always a treat to see really bad movies get spoofed. ****  "},{"Title":"Funniest, but stupid, movie I have ever seen!","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"68 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie was one of the funniest movies I have seen in some time. It was quite refreshing compared to some so called comdies. I knew it was going to be quite a movie when, at the beginning, the chosen one rolled down the hill and the woman picked him up and said so cute and continued to roll him down the hill. I also felt that the Mufasha seen was a hilarious parody to the Lion King. Even though there were some stupid scenes, I rate this move a 10. Perhaps, also, one of the funniest scenes, is where the chosen one falls down the water fall and yells whale! and a killer whale fall of the cliffs into the depths of the waterfall. I rolled around on the ground in laughter, and I mean this literally. "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"62 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I have watched my fair share of dubbed foreign movies in my time.  I have also seen a lot of subtitled movies.  I prefer subtitled because with dubbing I always felt that sometimes the people dubbing the movie were leaving stuff out or changing what the characters said just to fit their mouths.  Here we have a guy who not only changes what they say to a ridiculous degree, he also added himself to the flick.  This movie is actually an old martial arts movie.  The dubbing has been changed though and some new scenes were added.  I found this movie very hilarious.  Though it is probably just me, as this one didn't score very well.  I don't care though cause it just worked for me.  I usually find with comedies though that I prefer the obscure stuff to the more mainstream hits that usually show all the highlights in the trailers.  The weakest parts of this one are the scenes that were added to the movie while the best stuff is when the main character interjects himself into the movie or adds things to the original movie.  Though none of it to me was particularly weak.  You may want to read other reviews though as this is not a comedy for every one. "},{"Title":"The funniest film I've ever seen","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"66 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film is a masterpiece of comic re-dubbing. Sure it's nothing artistic but everyone I show it to loves it. It really is very very good. Yeah, this film is dumb, but in a way which makes it hilarious. I can't wait for the sequel.The characters include a kung fu master named moon view, who is in fact, more bovine than you expect; a martial arts student who has developed his own style - face to foot style, which he uses to battle his opponents and an armada of french space invaders. You won't find anything else like it.  "},{"Title":"Needs to be watched in the right mind-set","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"43 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I first saw Kung-Pow on DVD with friends who had seen it in the theater and loved it. But they said that people had been walking out of the theater, lots of people. Despite this, I still watched. Everyone around me knew the jokes, and knew when to laugh. I quickly picked up on Oedekerk's sense of humor in this movie, and I ended up loving the movie. If it hadn't been for my friends, I could easily see myself hating this movie too.There are so many things that seem like mistakes, but are done *on purpose* by Oedekirk. If it looks like a mistake, it's probably a joke. After all, it is a spoof type movie. "},{"Title":"The perfect satire of a unique genre","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"29 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The more of a basic understanding of the history and genre of this movie type the viewer has, the more he will appreciate the good natured satire that celebrates it. Oedekerk exploits all of the essential points of this movie style's formula, and does so from a very alert and skillful standpoint. The extra attention and energy given to the inherent goofs and inconsistencies in the original movie (Tiger And Crane Fists, Hong Kong, 1976) are priceless. The accuracy of the spoofing, and its entire purpose in this film has been needed for quite some time (since 1976), and it's very welcome and highly applauded by those of us who appreciate satire at its best. This film deserves an award. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking and tense drama...","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"45 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Only kidding ) Kung Pow is in a league of its own in terms of calibre. It's a slapstick 'chop socky' martial arts comedy full of silliness and ridiculous dialogue. Its vehicle is that it uses old footage of kung fu films such as Enter the Dragan and overlays its modern content onto them. Plus add intentionally bad dubbing and you have a movie which never for a second tries to be subtle, ingenious, or intelligent.Kung Pow is absolutely, 100% absurdity and it uses this to its fullest extent.The plot, if that's what you'd call it, is a mocking of just about every martial arts classic which has a 'wrong fella decides to wreak revenge on the nasty sorts who ruined his life' style story.Steve Oedekerk is 'The Chosen One' whose mission it is to get revenge on the bad folk in as amusing a way as he possibly can. Master Pain is his nemesis and the bad man directly responsible for the unspeakable acts against his family.The rest of the movie is purposefully disjointed and has no continuity half the time, but a masterclass in editing is not the point of this exercise. This is simply ridiculous fun, and assuming you switch off your brain completely and wreck any remaining braincells, you will be quite entertained.As for how funny it is, well, that's quite subjective. Many of the gags are clearly forced and milked (No pun intended (You'll understand that one if you see it)) for all they're worth. However, many *do* work and provide belly laughs. Sure, you'll not have tears rolling down your cheeks but if you're willing to stoop to the dumb level the movie demands of you, you *will* be at least amused.One thing the movie makes particularly good use of is special effects, with some more than decent CG animation complimenting a number of scenes. Aside from this, the technical merits of the movie are pretty decent, in that the interpolation of old footage and new footage is actually rather seamless and you'll not spot it a lot of the time, except where you're supposed to.As The Chosen One, Oedekerk seems to have a great time. It's a daft movie, so he indulges in stupidity as a matter of cause, and it works reasonably well. It's always easier to enjoy a film if it appears the actors are enjoying making it.Overall, leave your brain at the door and do not expect high brow laughs or Jackie Chan style action and you'll probably get something out of this. "}{"Title":"i have a full ab workout every time i watch it from laughing so much.","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" this movie had me laughing from start to the middle of the credits. at some moments i had trouble breathing. this has to be the most hilarious movie I've ever watched. its a sort of a so-stupid-that-its-funny type of comedy, similar to the 'scary movie' and 'naked gun' films, but some people don't find it funny. the original movie is actually an old Chinese film that they edited and inserted the actors and effects. very well done. i didn't even notice it until i saw the making of the film.i you love the so-stupid-that-its-funny type of comedy, then this movie is for you, but its not for everyone. "},{"Title":"I laughed myself a new one","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I speculated on how this movie was going to be and upon watching it for the first time, I realized I needed to see it again. I was laughing so hard by the middle of the movie I had to start it over and watch it again.Call me Juvenile, call me idiotic, but this movie was original and inventive and a much needed break for the hum-drum of all the other movies that have the same plot/actors/endings. I was greatly surprised to see something different.If you haven't seen this movie yet, I recommend it to everyone and if you have seen it. I recommend watching it again tonight. "},{"Title":"An acquired taste.","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung Pow is one of those films you either like or don't like. Kind of like The Pest (which is a movie I love, but everyone else I know hates). I found the film hilarious! I was on the floor in many scenes, especially when Wimp-Lo tries to jump the wall. Oh, and the squeaky shoes. As I mentioned this film isn't for everyone. Steve Oedekirk does a great job doing all the voices in the film. There's a special feature on the DVD where you can watch the film without dubbing (it's called What they're really saying), so you can hear them talk gibberish to make it look badly dubbed when you watch the film. One scene in particular is great, where Oedekirk ad libs Blah blah blah blah blah. If ever you get a chance to watch this on DVD with commentary- do it. It's hilarious! The only let down of the film is the ending. But I like the film enough to get past that. Looking forward to Kung Pow 2 Tongue of Fury, that's for sure! "},{"Title":"I'm sorry...  I'm really sorry...  But I love this movie!","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" OK... Usually I hate juvenile, pointless humor. Thats why the films of directors like Kevin Smith so attract me. The situations and characters serve as the platform for the jokes.Kung Pow! Enter the Fist is a movie I should have hated. In fact, when I saw previews for it back in 2002 (five years ago now, wow time flies!), I thought it looked like the worst movie out there.Finally, in 2004, when my friend convinced me to watch it, I realized just how wrong I was.Kung Pow is without a doubt the stupidest film I have ever seen in my lifetime... bar none. But, I have to say, it is also one of the funniest movies I have seen in quite some time. The humor comes from how dumb it is. Steve Oedekerk (director/writer/star) really does an excellent job at making what is essentially an 80-minute Nickelodeon cartoon entertaining enough for the open minded to enjoy.I was surprised that within 10 minutes, I was laughing at a pretty constant pace... and laughing with much more gusto than I did with big-budget studio-based duds like the American Pie films. (I'm not dissing Pie, mind you, it just wasn't my cup of tea.) Sure, the humor is pretty random... For example, unnecessary quips from characters, and oddball visual touches added into the footage...And some of it just falls flat as a pancake... Like our hero (aptly named The Chosen One) fighting a CG cow, and the fact his tongue has a face and can talk...But the ingenious parodies of martial arts films in general (everything from bad dubbing to bad visual effects to bad directing/editing) is pulled off perfectly.If you are willing to look past the fact that you will feel like your IQ is dropping whilst watching this film, you will probably have a blast.And that is why I give it a very good 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Extremely entertaining and original comedy","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" It takes a certain kind of man to overdub all the voices of an old kung fu flick himself, then digitally insert himself as the hero. That man is Steve Oedekerk.Of course, anyone who has seen Thumb Wars knows the Oedekerkian way of poking fun at things. Take whatever you want to parody, add lots of silly humour, fun special effects, lots of Oedekers voice acting, and voilà, there you are.Kung Pow is a bit like an extension of MST3K. Instead of just riffing the movie, Oedekerk switches every single line of dialog to his own voice, with often very funny results. Since the movie is of the quality one would expect a MST3K movie, you very quickly switch off seeing it as intrusive.Apart from the humour, which Kung Pow does very well, the special effects are worth commenting on. There are lots, especially the digital replacement of actors. Odekerk looks nothing like the hero of the movie, so every shot were you could see more than the hero's back had to be fixed. Other uses for this technique is the ability to add a fat Chinese gangsta dancing to McHammer during the fight scenes, just to name one.The IMDb rating shows extreme snobbism from the audience's side, and probably a lot of misunderstanding. Kung Pow is a silly experiment, which turned out really nice. Don't look for complex and rich story lines, sophisticated black satire or even mental age above, say, 11. You'll just miss an opportunity to have a great time. "},{"Title":"Tongue-In-Cheek Humor","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" One reviewer's headline says You'll Either Love It Or Hate It I did both of those in two viewings! The first time I loved this. On the second viewing, I hated it....and gave it away. Oh well, at least I got a lot of laughs out of it one time. So.....I guess you could say this definitely a one-look film, perhaps just out of curiosity since it is different. It's simply a spoof - an outrageous one at that - on these wild Hong Kong martial arts films that have become popular in recent years.Babies kung-fu fighting?? Tongues in people's mouthing fighting? Animals flying in the air doing drop kicks? Horrible (on purpose) dubbing in which the voices don't match the person saying them? Bad voices, too! A dog that barks but you don't hear him until 5 seconds later? Yup, that and a whole lot more - many funny things, many incredibly stupid things - that added up to a fun viewing experience the first time but too stupid to watch again.Having an absurd sense of humor is a must. This is all tongue-in-cheek (well, most of the time.) "},{"Title":"Credit where credit is due","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I originally checked this listing to see how badly everyone voted for this. And after seeing all of the 1's I felt I should give a somewhat correct view for this.Yes, this is a stupid movie, and I couldn't even sit through it the first time I saw it, however you need to have the correct view when you go to see this to actually enjoy it, and you'll find out it gets better each time you watch it because you understand that.Understand that this is a stupid movie, and it was MADE to be that way. Something this dumb doesn't happen by accident folks, and people who haven't seen any of the Thumb Movies just don't understand that. Though they still could have done without the cow... "},{"Title":"My personal guilty pleasure","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Okay. I'm going to be honest with everyone here; this movie is of extremely low quality. The jokes are juvenile. There's an extremely simplistic plot (The Chosen One has to defeat the enemy, you know, that sort of thing). There's no character development to speak of; basically, if you're good you do good stuff, if you're bad you do bad stuff. In fact, it would be one of the worst films ever made, if not for the fact that it was so darned FUNNY! I found this film to be hilarious; juvenile, yes, but hilarious. It wasn't trying to be a Marx Brothers comedy classic; what it was trying to be was an enjoyable, stupid comedy, which it succeeded at. See it, leave your brain behind, and have some mindless fun. "},{"Title":"How original!","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung PowEnter the Fist sounded like a failed cheap B-grade movie,with average reviews and without any great success commercially.After watching it,boy,was I surprised.Making fun of 70's Hong Kong action movies,from the dubbing to cheesy fighting sequences,you really gotta hand it to Steve Oedekerk,who,I'll just say it,has talent at.I have never in my life seen a spoof comedy like this.The meant-to-be-terrible dubbing was annoying at times,but at some parts you can't help it but laugh because it's exactly or beyond what you had in mind when you see these cheesy scenes.I could literally see the Shaw brothers coughing blood at every scene.As a young Asian,I guess I'm among those few people who could totally enjoy this movie,simply because I've had my share at poking fun of chop-socky flicks,and also know how to appreciate them as action movies.If my Dad or anyone around his age were to see this however,I think Oedekerk just made himself one of the most hated film-makers among them.Which is why I love it^^. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I have EVER seen! You'll hate it or love it!","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie was so funny I laughed so much that it hurt. It's not a typical comedy, where you have the usual cliché jokes. Instead the makers of the movie took a Kung Fu movie, dubbed the sound and that's rather original in my opinion. Now, the humor is purely idiotic at some times, I admit that. But maybe I am an idiot, I don't care, the fact is that it made me laugh and forget about everything else. This film had so many funny stuff in it, it's so ironic, sarcastic at times. I really think it is a SUPER FUNNY film. This should be a model for spoof movies. The way some of the original scenes are reprocessed, is nearly genius. I think the movie is underrated, but I can see why - many people will find it stupid, silly and tasteless - but who cares if there are people who loved it, and I'm sure I'm not the only one. It was just pure fun for me. So, bottom line is, watch this movie, if you don't like the first 20 minutes, just stop it, don't watch it. Everybody has a different sense of humor, so don't be fooled by the low score, just watch it and find out for yourself! "}{"Title":"What's Up, Chosen One?","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I watched this on Sky Movies a couple of years ago. Having never heard of Steve Oedekerk, I did not really know what to expect. An hour and a half later, I had a pain in my side from laughing too much. Steve has taken a typical kung fu movie from the '70's, removed the soundtrack, written and recorded a new one and digitally inserted himself into the action. He's not the first to do this; in 1965 Woody Allen pulled the same trick with 'What's Up, Tiger Lily', a spoof of a dreadful Japanese Bond clone called 'The Key'. But where that movie ran out of steam after only thirty minutes, Oedekerk keeps the momentum going by piling absurdity on top of absurdity, including a kung fu baby, a battle with a cow versed in the martial arts and the unexpected arrival of a fleet of French flying saucers. Utter nonsense, of course, but accomplished with great verve. He even manages to take the mickey out of the Hollywood practice of putting 'outtakes' over the end credits. One of the funniest films in recent years. "},{"Title":"Mag-nificent","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I refused to see this one in the theaters, because I thought it'd be so much tripe.  I had no idea how wrong I was.I was just exposed to Kung Pow this Saturday, thanks to my brother's co-worker who lent my brother (or is that forced my brother to borrow?) the DVD of this flick.  We watched the movie five times in two days.I'll be quite honest; this movie simply is not for everybody.  But if, like me, you grew up on badly-dubbed Hong Kong martial-arts flicks, you will LOVE this send-up of the genre.  The action is top-notch (though that's more Jimmy Wang Yu's triumph than Steve Odenkirk's), the dialogue and voices are roll-on-the-floor-laughing funny, and the cliches that have haunted all aspects of action movie history, from '70s chop-saki flicks to modern big-budget explosionfests, are brilliantly mocked.On the technical side, you have to marvel at how seamlessly blended together this movie was.  Despite the fact that Odenkirk, Lee, and the rest of the modern cast are separated from the original Tiger and Crane Fists cast by 25 years and half a world, they actually convincingly interact with each other.  You could actually believe that they're all there, on the same sets, acting out each scene like any other movie.Again, this isn't for everybody, and if you aren't a fan of Hong Kong action flicks, you will not get most of the gags.  But if you are, this movie is pure comedy gold.10/10 "},{"Title":"So stupid, that it is actually funny","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I didn't know what to expect from Kung Pow Enter the Fist, from the cover, it looked pretty stupid, but my boyfriend said that it was worth a look and that it was pretty funny if I was in the right mind set. But we watched it last night and even if I was in a normal mind set, I thought it was a pretty funny movie. I think I just needed one of those stupid comedies in my night, the one's where you don't have to think, just watch and laugh. Kung Pow Enter the Fist was interesting where Steve Oedekirk took these old martial arts films and just made them into his own amusing comedy. I think the reason why this movie was so funny besides the ridicules voices was because Steve really had a passion for the film and his writing. Who among us has not made fun of the old martial arts films? It's great to see someone else bring it to life, even it at times it was a bit stupid.The Chosen One is one of the finest martial arts masters in the world, but his family was murdered when he was just a baby. When he meets the villain who murdered his family, he wants revenge. But he discovers that he needs more strength, with the help of his martial arts teacher, the love of his life that makes strange noises, and his wood chuck nun chucks, he learns the way of the martial arts and now must face the evil villain that plays popular music while defeating his opponents.Kung Pow Enter the Fist is stupid, but I'm sure you'll get a couple laughs out of it. Like I said the voices are so over the top that you can't help but at least laugh at the movie if not with it. Steve and the rest of the crew looked like they had so much fun making this movie and they didn't take themselves too seriously. I really loved a lot of the spoofs they had like The Lion King, it was so out there, but it was really funny. Just give this movie a chance, I'm sure you'll have a fun time watching it if you just wanna laugh.6/10 "},{"Title":"KUNG POO More Like","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Want to know why pornographic films are so popular ? It`s nothing to do with the sex ( I think I speak for many of us when I say sex shouldn`t be a spectator sport ) , it`s all to do with the awful dubbing which makes for great hilarity . You know what I`m talking about , when a male character sees his female co-star for the first time a voice ( Which sounds suspicously like it belongs to the English royal family ) can be heard saying  Well hi there baby , you`re a pretty young thing  while the actor`s mouth can clearly be seen mouthing the words  Oh my god , what a scanky dog , no wonder I`m gay  . In other words ( Geddit ? ) overdubbing can be sidesplittingly funny - But only if it`s used in porn filmsThis fact seems to have escaped the notice of the producers of KUNG POW ENTER THE FIST who have decided to take some obscure Hong Kong movie and redub and edit it into this alleged comedy and I can`t emphasize enough how the comedy fails . I`m actually shocked that no-one came to the conclusion that this might have been funny for a skit lasting two minutes but this movie lasts almost for an hour and a half . It`s absolutely pitiful that humour in this movie is composed of people making funny noises like Whhhheeee  and  Oooohhh  . Yes that`s right that`s what the humour involves and before anyone asks  But Theo isn`t this a martial arts spoof like SCARY MOVIE is a horror spoof ?  , well all I can say that`s what the ad-men want you to believe down to the number of trailers featuring a cow in a fight scene ripped off from THE MATRIX . The cynic in me ( And no dirty jokes please , the porn topic is finished ) believes that the producers only filmed that scene so they could put it in the trailer and make everyone believe they`d be seeing a martial arts equivilent of SCARY MOVIE . False advertising I think it`s calledI was dying to give this one out of ten , but I did like the theme tune by Mint Royale which is the same track used in the punch up scene from the GET CARTER remake so I`m going to give it two out of ten , but even so it`s still one of the worst movies I`ve seen in a long time . It`s so bad it`s unwatchable      "},{"Title":"One of the worst comedies I have ever seen","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Well I went into this knowing nothing. The opening scene I found to be rather funny. And from then on I laughed once more. The movie is inane. The humor is aimed at towards people below the age of 5 and it is one of the most stupid, unfunny and boring films I have ever seen in my life. The humor consists of silly voices, silly faces and terrible dubbing and that is really about it. It is 1 hour and 21 minutes long and halfway through I had to stop, it is really boring. The film is suppose to be funny, I think. I'm not really sure. There are films that are both stupid and funny. Monty Python and the holy grail does this perfectly, but Monty python and the holy grail is stupid and intelligent. This is stupid and stupid. This really is a pile of crap. The most suicide inducing scenes are when really terrible music starts playing during fight scenes. I really hate this film. It is abysmal. "},{"Title":"cult comedy has limited repetitive appeal","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The Chosen One (Steve Oedekerk) was attacked by the mysterious Evil Council. They killed his parents but he already had kung fu powers even as a baby. He managed to escape and raised by rodents. His powers continue to grow as he fends off his tormentors. He has a thing on his tongue that he calls Tonguey.The silly voice dubbing is funny for awhile but it gets repetitive. The same goes for the silly ridiculous fighting. The use of old kung fu movies also wears thin. There are some good comedy but all of it just feels repetitive. This genre parody has some cult appeal but it's limited in the broader audience. "},{"Title":"Chosimba, that's pretty much it","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" It's a weird thing Steve Oedekerk spent months looking through literally hundreds of kung-fu flicks for good material, and then ended up with something that anyone with a YouTube account and an afternoon could distribute. The mean thing about parodies is, no matter how many jokes crash, burn and die, you keep expecting that the next joke will be dead-on. Even if you get a scene in which the Chosen One fights a cow by squeezing all the milk out of her, you don't lose hope. But seriously, this isn't a parody, it's a boring (worst comedy crime) reading of old clichés, we know these movies were badly dubbed and had nonsensical dialogues, get on with it. The oh-so-ironic undertone of Oedekerk's line-reading gets tiresome within the first minute, much like the numerous references about how this is just a movie. Only one hilarious moment shows up, a truly great parody of The Lion King. That was almost worth the nothing I paid to see it. But the endless fight sequences, the joke with the re-used shots,t he fact that the real bad guys are French and come from space and are defeated by the Chosen One's 50-foot tongue, I can handle crap but that's just being lazy. "},{"Title":"A much needed parody","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung Pow Enter the Fist was a long time coming. Parodies of kung fu movies are not unheard of when done in small bits, but what I'd never seen before was an entire movie done as a spoof of your typical kung fu movie; complete with the horrible voice overs and simple plot.I'd say this movie was a success.It was funny, innovative, and impressive.I could tell from the movie that they were using actual footage from a real movie with obviously new voice overs and a few new actors. But that is just how good the movie was done that I wasn't completely sure.I'd say that it was very well done. "},{"Title":"Utter nonsense that does produce some sporadic laughs if you are in the mood","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" As a baby, the Chosen One had his family attacked and murdered by evil Master Pain, with only his martial arts skills saving him. Undefeated but broken, the Chosen One is raised by various rats and things in the valley and, as an adult he finds himself under constant attack from those that would seek to do the job they failed to do when he was a baby. Seeking help from the Master Tang's Crane school to hone his style and make him stronger, the countdown is on till a showdown between Master Pain and the Chosen One.In case the title leaves you with any doubt that this is going to be a silly film, the opening scene features a terrible CGI baby fighting with a ninja master. This silly approach continues throughout and the entire thing is one big nonsense from start to finish. Mixing modern footage that is dubbed and excerpts from Hu He Shuang Xing, the approach is very simple but does produce some silly laughs. Too much of it is too puerile to appeal to a mass audience (that cow fight was just stupid and unfunny) but at times it is very funny just because it is so off the wall and has lots of lines that are unexpected.The cast is naturally dominated by Oedekerk doing silly voices but it works surprisingly well. He is hardly Oscar Wilde but if you buy into the humour then he will do it for you. God help you if you don't want silly comedy though, because there isn't much else to be had in this film. Overall then nonsense &#150; utter nonsense; but if you are in the mood for it, it does produce some good, if sporadic, laughs. "},{"Title":"I Hated This The First Time I Watched It.","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" It is so obvious. But, the second time, I listened to the voices. Master Tang and Master Pain(Evil Betty)'s voices are hilarious. Yes, some of the jokes are not good. The Lion King joke is wince worthy and I am still not sure if the French pyramid spaceships are an obscure reference to The Fifth Element. I don't know. It doesn't matter. The movie is just to silly to ignore and as the quotes section demonstrates, there are some funny lines in this movie. Although most of the lines are funny simply due to the voice work, this could have been a vanity project that beat it's one joke premise to death. Instead, the joke merely lost an arm, leg, and an eye. I think it has a little bit of a Monty Python or Mel Brooks feel to it. This may not be Mensa material, but at least it isn't another pretentious Adam Sandler comedy. Badong! Bonus points for the use of MC Hammer's U Can't Touch This and Sir Mix-A-Lot's Baby Got Back. *Master Tang This is Ling. Be not alarmed by her shyness for it will pass. (Ling flashes her bra.) There you go!* "}{"Title":"Kung Poo more like it","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I got this movie after finding the trailer funny, as a fan of martial arts cinema and slapstick comedy alike, I was angrily disappointed as this film failed miserably and was not even funny by accident. Not just that all the jokes were glaringly obvious and had been done better, elsewhere many times before, but the production was utter toilet, and the hero had the charisma of a tea towel. This film made Chris Farley in American Ninja look like Lawrence Olivier, we couldn't  take it after 20 minutes, so turned off and promptly firebombed our video store. "},{"Title":"This Dish Gave Me Heartburn","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  My boyfriend and I had seen the trailer for Kung Pow on several rentals and thought 'that could be funny' so we picked it up. I wish we'd known the funniest parts of this DVD were actually the trailer.Of course, with the DVD you get a couple cute outtakes which are amusing, but these aren't worth a rental. If you have movie channels on your cable or satellite and are curious, see Kung Pow there. Do not spend money.Writer/Director/Main Character Steve Oedekerk pieces together classic Kung Fu flicks entertwined with his own brand of humor, much of it physical comedy. Of course, Oedekerk never resists a chance to make fun of bad Kung Fu overdubbing, it's more or less a running joke throughout the movie.  But I found, though the film was off to a good start, it did not hold my attention and the gags weren't funny enough in most cases to compel a smile, let alone laughs. If you decide to take a risk on Kung Pow, be prepared to get the entire fist. "},{"Title":"A few funny one-liners... not much else...","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I understand the premise. Take an old chop socky movie from the 70's and re-dub / re-edit it with a new lead actor. The idea has alot of promise, unfortunately Kung Pow pretty much fails on every level.There are a few parts where I chuckled. Steve Oedenkerk comes up with a few good one-liners here and there for his dubbed characters, but nothing up to level of an average Mystery Science Theatre episode. All the big set pieces fall flat. They run too long and quickly loose what little charm they had.This is truly one of the worst comedies I've seen in a long time. I even got more laughs out of Saving Silverman. It might be worth a rental if you like kung-fu movies, but you should probably avoid this. I give it a 3... as is $3 I wasted to rent this stinkbomb. "},{"Title":"(annoyed grunt)","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  In the words of Ralph Wiggum, this movie is funny, but not ha ha funny.  Director Steve Oedekerk, who brought us the hilarious thumb parodies, now brings us this mindless piece of drivel.  What the heck is going on in this movie?  Weo?  Master Betty?  The mark of the Chosen one?  These are just some of the things that will make you scratch your head and wonder Why did I waste my money and time on this movie?  This is the type of movie like Freddy Got Fingered that should be locked in a vault 100 feet below the surface of the Earth.  No offense, but if you liked this movie, you obviously have no brain.  Yeah, thats right, you.  The very person who is reading this and is thinking, this guy wouldn't know comedies if it bit him in the-whoops, the guidelines.  I give this movie a 0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"At least it was short...","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was dreadful, the equivalent of a talking dog.  The concept was interesting, but as soon as you got over the novelty and expected it to say something interesting, you're disappointed.I had the same problem with Oedekerk's shorts (Thumb Wars), and had I known that it was his film before renting it, I would have passed.The humor focused on the slapstick, but not the great slapstick of Buster Keaton et al.  It's more of the Saturday Night Live variety.  Not only was it unimpressive and unimaginative, the gag was repeated endlessly, making it especially painful.  Kung Fu cow fight sounds great, until you watch the cow squirt milk over, and over, and over again. "},{"Title":"it stinks","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  by far the worst movie ever made. the jokes were horrible, the story line was sad, it was boring and lame. they repeated many of their lines too many times, if you see it you will know what i mean. i dont know what the director was thinking about. "},{"Title":"How this garbage made it to the screen, no one will ever know.","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  We usually spend our hard earned money on entertainment venues, and movies are no exception. Even the worst movies are usually worth the movie ticket. With Kung Pow, I should not only be reimbursed, but should be compensated for the mental anguish this movie caused. I have seen some bad movies over the years, but this takes the prize. I should sue for false advertisement leading me to waste gas money, time, mileage, the cost of a movie ticket, and the cost of raisenettes and a Pepsi (which of course in a theatre costs an arm and a leg), in the hopes of seeing a good comedy to lighten the aftermath of a bad day were shattered. This movie is so pathetic and awful, I almost gnawed my arm off to make it through to the end.Whatever you do, DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE. Save your money, do not even rent it, and the promise of a sequel at the end only makes my faith in humanity dissolve completely.  The people who made this movie should never be allowed to make another one, or work in the industry again. And quote me on this, If the sequel is made it will ensure no one will ever see another movie made by you. "},{"Title":"Kung Pow Exit Asking Theater Manager For Ticket Refund","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I laughed out loud on being shown the online trailer for Kung Pow by a friend, and I was instantly convinced I HAD to see it, and as soon as possible. That's why I am genuinely sorry to report the trailer for Kung Pow is better than the film. Kung Pow is my first walkout in a couple of years.One problem I didn't foresee in watching the trailer is that the by-now over-familiar joke about bad dubbing of Asian films --which has been spoofed for the last 30 years by everyone from Woody Allen to soft drink company commercial makers-- while still enough to elicit chuckles or at least giddy good humor in a commercial length vehicle, does not work long term. After the first five minutes of Kung Pow, you are prepared for the next jokes --which arrive, the few times they do, in a very weakened form. (Weak AND sickening There is a visual gag about a one-breasted woman that I am sure I am not alone in finding ugly and distasteful. ---And confusing. What exactly is the joke here? Freakishness? Mastectomy? Maybe NO JOKE AT ALL, just stupid sophomoric guys with cameras not having a clue what to do to fill the next couple of minutes of screen time? Time and again in Kung Pow, this last seems to be the case.)And what was all the mewling and meowing about? The films female characters make a meowing sound at the end of sentences, about half the time, sometimes going on for seconds. Now, I can see a bunch of teenage potheads laughing themselves breathless over this kind of where's-the-joke joke, until their shirt-fronts are soaked with their own drool. But find a releasing company for this stuff? --Can someone please explain?Kung Pow looks like a 20 minute student film inflated to short feature length at the request of venture capitalists who decided to try something a little more fun than parking lots this time out.In case you haven't guessed, this film is a wretched BOMB. Spend your ticket dollar on any other movie out there now. "},{"Title":"Funny for people who have never watched Airplane!","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This one gets a 3 because it doesn't sink as low as Friedberg and Seltzer's rubbish; at least it keeps its nose above the swamp.Anyway, what's the formula here? Redubbing an old kung fu film, superimposing the image of the lead actors in some scenes, and adding some crude CGI parts and other inanities. That is all. This COULD work, but it doesn't the script is bland and adds pretty much nothing interesting to what you'd expect from a kung fu spoof, the CGI bits redefine crude, and the jokes are... Look, ANY 15 year old kid could have written jokes funnier than these. The comedy in this film is unbelievable -- they are rarely tasteless, but most of them are utterly stupid, and stupid in a bad way. I see people here saying it's so stupid it's good, and it's actually genius and whatnot, but those are people who never watched Airplane!; if you watch that one, you'll realise that sometimes stupidity and genius walk hand in hand. But that is not the case here this is just a writer thinking that the stupider, the better. There is a very clear difference in approach.Once in a while you'll bump into a good joke; say, I actually laughed about every 15 minutes in average. Unfortunately, every good joke is either eventually spoiled as well, and they sink under the weight of everything else. And the redubbing? Eventually, all it does is get on your nerves it's just a guy whining in falsetto, anyway.I believe the extraordinarily low bits are the cow fight (spoofing Matrix? I know this was made in 2002, but come on!), the Lion King spoof (for real? Didn't the Simpsons do it way better about 8 years before??), all the bits with Tonguey, the baby fight and many other smaller moments. Good bits include the dog with a SEVERE problem of audio/video synchronisation (a very clever target of spoofing), the flashbacks in which nothing is added to what has already been said (until it turns into a fart joke), the parody of the dramatic zoom in effect of Japanese films (it's slightly overdone but still works) and the nut salesman with a very loud voice (THAT'S A LOT OF NUTS!! That was unexpected and genuinely funny). But overall, I'd say skip this, it's not worthwhile. If you want an example of what GOOD film spoofing is, watch Airplane! and the Naked Gun films, and if you want a truly excellent comedy kung fu film, with creative storytelling, great CG effects and smart comedy, watch Kung Fu Hustle; skip this garbage and go straight for the real thing. "},{"Title":"Pure Funny!","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is great.A parody of old Kung-Fu movies, It should pf been nominated for an academy award and thank god, it wasn't nominated for a razzie. My brother and I laughed a lot, when we rented it on DVD. The casts mouths aren't moving to what they're actually saying, but that what makes it funny.Even though it's a B-movie (Or kinda a D-Movie if you know what mean), it provides enough laughs to get you through one movie night, and maybe you'll cry.So call out your friends, get the DVD player ready, and Go get some snacks! Perhaps a carbonated soda? "}{"Title":"An excellent gag-based comedy.","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Anyone who sees this film expecting anything but silliness will be severely disappointed. Kung-Pow is one of those movies that earns the brand So bad it's good. Everything about this movie is a joke. It is supposed to be. Nothing is to be taken seriously, like the color-changing shirt, Betty's constant muttering, and the Three-Breasted Oracle. Steve Oedekerk made this move on a dime-store budget, wrote the script, directed it, voiced all the characters (with the exception of Whoa), and I'm pretty sure he edited it all by himself. I liked this film mainly because it fell into the range of comedy I enjoy disturbingly awkward. The movie can be watched multiple times, but give it a cooling off period between viewings. I watch it every four or five months, and find myself laughing at the stupid-a## jokes over and over again. Kung Pow! Enter the Fist falls into the category of movies like Airplane! Austin Powers and Scary Movie. If you like movies that are plot-driven, sensible, and free of kung-fu cows, don't see this, or the two sequels that are being planned out. Otherwise Enjoy! "},{"Title":"The last guy that commented is an idiot.","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is probably the best movie ever made. Nuff said. Yeah I guess if your a complete idiot you won't understand any of the PRICELESS jokes, but believe me this movie is gold. The voice overs are hilarious, the characters are hilarious, everything is hilarious. The best thing about this movie is that it's SUPPOSED to be weird and different, I mean who would have thought to take an old Japanese movie and use completely old film? The parody of every old ninja movie is blown out of the water by Kung Pow. Read the quotes, if you don't pee yourself laughing then I'm pretty sure you don't have a brain. My number one advice is before you really judge this movie, give it a chance, you won't be disappointed. Anyhoo, don't go see this movie if you have a stick up your butt, but everyone else...enjoy. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable & Funny","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This film took me by surprise from the very beginning to the end, it is truly a great comedy with lots of action and plenty of belly laughs. As a baby, the Chosen One (Steve Oedekerk),Thumbtanic,'02, does some very unusual things, like rolling down hills and is ready to handle his own against his enemies. Fei Lung,(Master Pain (Betty),Angel of Fury,'92 plays the wicked man who does everything to kill the Chosen One as an infant right up to being a full grown man. Jennifer Tung,(Whoa),Conlagion,'01 gives some romance to the film and also manages to assist the Chosen One from making any wrong decisions. This is an excellent film with plenty of entertainment and something entirely different in the way of Comedy. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie was freaking amazing. Its the only one of its kind, completely innovative even though it is rated so badly. Obviously the plot makes no sense and such, but one doesn't watch this kind of a movie for plot. People need to realize how awesome this movie is. The humor never stops, it is laugh out loud funny. I really hope that Steve Oderik is able to make another movie at some point. But if only they had made enough money to make a sequel to Kung Pow, its such a shame. Kung Pow is probably the funniest movie of all time. But if they come out with a sequel, me and all of my friends will die as soon as we see it because there would no longer be a reason to live once Kung Pow 2 comes out. "},{"Title":"The greatest Kung Fu spoof ever!","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung Pow Enter the Fist is about a baby who see's his parents get killed by a mysterious warrior. The baby escapes danger only to return years later as an adult to get revenge on his parents murder. He takes refuge with a wise teacher named Master Tang, a group of dimwitted karate students, and a beautiful woman named Ling. The man known as the Chosen One finds out that along the way to revenge lays perils of ninjas, a fighting cow, and metal claws of death to destroy the evil Master Pain. Kung Pow first off is not a serious film, it's down right funny! Steve Oedekerk who wrote and directed the film plays the Chosen One perfectly, and dubs all of the other actors voices hilariously! Master Tang's and Master Pain a.k.a. Betty's voices are fabulous! The story is very out there and mystical that works very well. The special effects are cheesy but they work for a film like this. This spoof is funny if you like the stupid out there slapstick stuff. The way Steve wiped the soundtrack clean and dubbed the voices in badly was great! But the film gets really bad near the end. The story falls short with an evil tribe revealing themselves as French Aliens and stuff that's really confusing but the film packs in a few good laughs with The Chosen One fighting Betty and avenging his family and friends. Kung Pow is a great funny bone tickler that gets an 8 for being hilarious but stupid. Fun for everyone if you like this kind of comedy. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Skip it","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  .*MINOR SPOILERS*.I usually like stupid comedies, but I hated this movie. All my friends loved it, but I just can't see why. The jokes were incredibly bland. Another Matrix parody? Come on. And the woman with the one breast. Sure, it was funny the first time...the first five million times you saw it on the trailer.I barely even need to talk about the acting. I mean, there was barely any NEW acting. As you know, Steve Oedekerk just took an old kung fu movie and dubbed the voices. Steve, your Thumb movies were awesome and hilarious. Why did you stoop so low as to do something five year old kids do?The only thing I liked about this movie was one joke in the very beginning when The Chosen One was rolling down a hill. A woman picked him up, said he was adorable, and sent him back on down the hill. I did laugh pretty hard at that joke, but that was the only time I did laugh at all.My advice just skip it. There are better things to do and better movies to watch.2/10.  "},{"Title":"I could do a stupid movie like this!","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow is one of the simpliest comedies you could do. Take footage from an old Hong Kong Marital arts film, over dub them with silly voices and add your own crazy characters and you get this. Though I must admit, it did make me laugh sometimes, it's not a brilliant well-written comedy. It would only make teenagers and kids laugh, not grown-ups (I'm trying not to make myself sound like a grown-up).I could do this. Give me some random film, I'll go over some old geezer 'Oh, my name is Master Poo-Poo, dude.' Just like that.So if you are young and laugh easy and silly voices and simple jokes, go for this. If not, go for Schneider's list or something.  "},{"Title":"Sometime Kung Pow turn bad, like this time.","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Unfortunately this movie doesn't turn out as good as the real Kung Pow. It turn more into a pile of s**t. For once the critic were right. This movie really has nothing to offer their viewer. The movie got great idea though, but tell the truth, this is not to the standard of the movie should be. If you like the movie I really have no idea what to say. I don't want to talk anymore about this movie. One thing for sure this movie is overrated.Max 3.5/10Recommendation Wait till it shows on the TV, or just forget about it.  "},{"Title":"how exactly do these films get financed?","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Maybe im a little bias, due to having also watched the totally rocking One armed boxer vs master of the flying guillotine in a 24hr period, but ive got to say how appalled i am at the fact that this movie actually made it past a screenplay (that is if there was one! Im sorry, but people making silly noises for minutes at a time constitutes neither script, nor comedy)!The feature is culled from the Jimmy Wang Yu movie Tiger and Crane fists, spliced with new footage, overdubbed with new dialogue and shaped into a new plotThis movie would have been more appropriately placed as a 2minute sketch on a comedy show. The joke prevelant here, its safe to say, is that the formulaic cliche ridden HK martial arts movies, when distributed stateside, were treated poorly and dubbed by people who seemingly had no idea as to the original language thus baring no relevance sometimes to the onscreen action... Ha ha... okay, good joke - so lets see the movie? Oh, there isnt one?Get the picture?I gave it a 2 for the cow scene, otherwise it would have had a 1, no questions... "},{"Title":"Life is too short for movies like this","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Just taking the time to comment on this movie is questionable, but all I'll say is this Don't rent it, let alone buy it! You'll be sorry.This is a great flick to watch with a girlfriend or whatever that you're trying to get out of your life. If this doesn't do the trick, then the only other solution is to hire a hit man. "}{"Title":"Give it 5 years and it's a classic...","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Most everyone has missed this movie for what it is...The realization of many a drunken night when the volume is turned down in Shaolin Dragon vs. Black Ninja Nannies or Shodokan Samurai Fights Back! The Sequal and you and your closest friends do the voice overs and have a laugh riot from scene to scene...Only Steve O. did it before anyone (and somehow got someone to help pay for it) had the actual cajones to make a movie like this. Campy, high-brow, MST3K attitudes are a must while watching Kung Pow. I guarantee this script will be a classic after...well...it's going to take some time, but I haven't laughed so hard at a chock-and-block-what-the-hell-did-he-say movie like this for...well, it's not even a kung-fu movie really, the whole storyline has nearly nothing to do with kung-fu as much as a backdrop for funny scene to funny scene. Trust me, you'll be walking down the hallway at work mumbling I rock...and roll...sweet Suzie! for quite a while...or at least until your co-workers tell you to shut up, but you can just move on to another line from the movie for at least a month or two. Don't go in with preconceptions; just watch this movie... "},{"Title":"As delightful as a rake fight with an angry monkey.","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is easily the worst movie I've ever seen. It plays out like a  one-joke, end-of-the-show SNL skit that just doesn't know how to quit -- and when you factor in the sophomoric voiceovers that wouldn't even pass for funny on America's Funniest Home Videos, you have an hour and a half of cinema that is so painful on so many levels that it ought to be illegal. Kung Pow starts with a modicum of promise, though; the scene with the baby rolling down the hill brought genuine giggles from the entire audience (all eight of us) the night I saw the movie. But then the fun was over, and that creeping realization that I was about to lose almost 10 bucks and a perfectly good two hours of my life started to set in.   The movie's jokes are predictable, its mismatched dubbing is uninspired, its premise is criminally tedious, and its cliched bathroom-and-body-part humor wouldn't even bring a wan smile to the face of a perverted third-grader.  I'm still trying to figure what forces of evil even got me into the audience in the first place -- but I implore you to benefit from my pain and suffering Do not -- for the love of all things sacred and good -- ever watch this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever!","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Wow, who gave this movie the greenlight!  I had to leave it was so bad. I've been to a lot of movies, and this one was unbearable.  It was not funny, just plain awful!!!!  The dialogue was terrible, and the action scenes were just stupid.  And that scene with the cow--disgusting! "},{"Title":"Apart from Blood Moon & You Got Served,WORST FILM EVER MADE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This film is so wrong in so many different ways! Where do I begin? A five-year-old could have written better gags! The film's central idea of dubbing over an old kung fu film is funny for about ten seconds. The only problem is that the film goes for 80 minutes!Painfully unfunny execution of the idea.What truly frightens me is that there is going to be a sequel next year, called Kung PowTongue of Fury. OH, THE HUMANITY!!! In short, QUITE POSSIBLY THE WORST FILM EVER MADE!!! I do have something to compare this against. I once saw Swept Away and Killing Me Softly back to back on the same day. Kung Pow is even worse than both of the films mentioned above.What scares me and is making me write this is that there will be a sequel next year!Couln't that money be put to better use somewhere, PLEASE??? Never let Steve Whatshisface direct, write or act in another film ever again. Put him on the same banned for life list that Michael Cimino is on! "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever made","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I believe firmly that this movie is the worst ever made, now don't come crying to me about, you didn't get it, or other bs like that. There is nothing to get, it's a horrible movie and I wish I could have gone to the theaters to see it, just so I could throw popcorn at the screen and boo the whole time. Many may say I'm being unreasonable, but I must say that a rating of 1/10 is much too high for such a horrible, grossly disgusting, piggishly, torturingly detestable, crappy, nasty, stupid, immature pile of dog doo that some call a movie. I can't understand how ANYONE, and I mean ANYONE could possibly think this movie was in the least bit funny. Just reading the posts makes me sick. I believe this movie reflects very poorly on us as human beings, that our culture would stoop so low as this, movies are made to entertain, they are art, and Kung Pow was just as sacrilegious as smearing baby-puke yellow paint all across the face of one of Da Vinci's masterpieces. I say we can redeem ourselves, but we must get drastic, I say we should get every copy ever made and all form a giant circle of hope, dancing around the burning pile of Kung Pow. Dancing and singing as one united force against the horror this movie has played in our culture. You may say I'm exaggerating, but you shouldn't shrug this off lightly, such horrible films being worshiped is reason for concern about both those who worship it and the state of all humanity.Arreviderci --Throckmorton  "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever!!!","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'd consider myself a conosour of movies, not necessarily the more popular ones, though i do enjoy Hollywood Blockbusters. The statment I'm about to make is definitive and heart felt. I've considered the comment I'm about to make for a while now ,and believe i can say in all honesty THIS IS THE WORST MOVIE... EVER!!! Can I stress that enough? This is the only movie I've ever walked out of. I didn't even hang around to see how much worse it could get. There were about 5 people in the theatre other than me and my date ,and the most inspiring thing i heard was a guy say, Ha, There's a Bowflex! Then he got dirty looks from the few other people in the theatre ,because he woke them up from their sleep. The only possible reason people went to see this movie is to get some sleep away from their kids. 0 stars. I would give it 2 thumbs down but i cut them off for entertainment while i was in the theatre. Now, you may ask how i remember this movie 10/22/03 long after i've seen it, if it was so horrible. I'll put it to you like this. You know that traumatic childhood expierience that you had as a kid and you can never forget and it still gives you nightmares. Yah, for me that was this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Comedies ever made","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This certainly is NOT in the tradition of Mystery Science Theatre 3000 as a previous user wrote. This movie has not even a single hint of cleverness about it. Words cannot describe how incredibly unintelligible this movie is. Of course, the fact that it's purposely dubbed in a silly way would lead you to believe it will have silly humor and be kind of fun to watch. But no... it's PAINFULLY stupid. Not silly, not even remotely funny, just pure stupidity! Such that it rivals the lowest jokes in the Austin Powers sequels to the point where it makes those movies seem like comic masterpieces. Honestly, I wouldn't suggest this movie to anyone with an IQ higher than that of a 2-year-old. Had I seen this in the theatre, I would've stormed out angrily demanding my money back. "},{"Title":"THE WORST MOVIE I'VE EVER SEEN...","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  On a scale of 1 to 10, I give this film a negative 5. While watching this movie, I found it comforting to gnaw upon my cracked and bleeding coldsores just to take some of the pain away from watching this horrible piece of recycled Hollywood trash.  From the Miss Piggy-like noises emitted from the female lead to the computer generated tongueface, certain elements about this film made it almost unwatchable. I see reviews one after another posted by fellow imdb colleagues praising this film as if it were the 5th gospel, yet few if any give reasons as to why they think this film is such a masterpiece of comedic genius.  I understand that it was supposed to be a spoof comedy of a kung fu film, but the spoofs were uncreative and unfunny to the point of repetitive annoyance. Tongue Of Fury, a sequel to this film due out next year, will once again bring the joy of short attention span comedy to Generation Y speds, and agony to all legitimate movie goers who will be ripped off at the movie theatres in a trend that has become all but too familiar in recent years. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've ever seen!!","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I don't know the words to tell you how bad this movie is!!  It's just terrible!!  I know it was made to make fun of kung fu movies, this Kung Pow is not funny.  NOT FUNNY AT ALL!!  Now, I've seen spoofs before, hell I'm even one of the few people who enjoyed Pootie Tang, but Kung Pow just sucks!!  Thank God I didn't see this in the theaters!  I would of had to burn the place down if I didn't get my money back.  This movie is so bad that I couldn't bare watching the whole thing.  I watched the first 30 or so minutes and then went back later to watch the last 20 (i think).  The movie is bad!!  For those people who like this film or even painfully watched the whole thing, you are unique individuals.  God help you. "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It was the worst movie i have ever seen. I went with a couple of my friends to see it and we all left early because we couldnt stand how annoying the dubbed voices were! I dont recommend anyone see it! its a waste of time and money! "}{"Title":"Crap","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Haven`t seen the full movie as the first 10 mins are so bad. Still if your on a desert island somewhere or on top of the mountain and this is the only movie in exsistance.Might be worth a watch, but there are more movies thankfully. "},{"Title":"Dreary, shabby crap. It makes Tom Green look like Woody Allen","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Whew! This piece of crap is so lame and stale it makes Tom Green look like Woody Allen. It has one joke, and it repeats it over and over and over and over... you get the idea. Worse, it doesn't even do the joke very well. Speaking of Woody Allen, his What's Up Tiger Lily? from 1967 or so was the first movie to dub joke English dialogue onto an entire actual Oriental (Japanese in that case) movie. It was fresh, outrageous, and funny then. It's not so outrageous now, but it's still fresh and funny. Kung Pow, Fists of Crap is just the opposite. And, it's rather mean spirited and dreary. As a whole, it is a shabby exercise in someone not really knowing when he isn't being entertaining anymore, and yet still managing to get a bunch of money to put that stale garbage on the screen. "},{"Title":"Bad Shape","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I was wondering every single time when it is going to finish and have to bring myself to fast forward a movie for the very first time just to get it over with and done for.As a Chinese myself, I don't find the comedy that funny. Not that I am discouraging Hollywood from spoofing Asian movies, but at least they could have done it far better. Even amateurs could have done better, this more like reminds me of the orientation I had to go through while in university, when we were required to come up with a skit, which we ultimately made it to look totally silly that wins laughter not for its content but for the way it was done. "},{"Title":"Couldn't even finish watching it -- way too stupid.","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Now, I love stupid humor movies.  Some of my favorites  Orgazmo, the South Park movie, the Beavis and Butthead movie, Shaolin Soccer, Dumb and Dumber, Old School.  Anything by Kevin Smith, or Sam Raimi.  I also love action and martial arts films -- the cheesier the better.So you'd think that 'Kung Pow' would be right up my alley... but no.  This one was a waste of time.  The first few minutes are kind of amusing, but after that the gags are unoriginal and overdone.  This is not a witty parody, and it's not even mildly entertaining.  I'm not quite sure what the filmmaker was going for here, but the mark was missed by a mile.It's just not worth it -- it's just not funny.  Very, very disappointed. "},{"Title":"Pointless silly talk.","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw Kung Pow and I must say that I'm very disappointed. I first got my eyes opened for Steve Odekerks work when I saw The Thumb Wars. This was a excellent work with the right kind of parody-humour for my taste.Even though I had small expectations about Kung Pow after seeing the trailer I thought I'd give it a try... it would at least be fun to see the man behind my favorite thumbs.Since a lot of scenes in the movie is borrowed from an old kung-fu movie most of this movie is a simple make funny voices to silent movies humour The kind of thing that one did when seeing Fong Say Yuk the first time without subtitles. Great fun in the living-room for a small be there group of people. But on the big screen? Very dull.I smiled 3 or 4 times watching this movie but I can't call it comedy. Sure. Steve has some great faces and the movie has some really good blue-screen jobs. I found myself trying to see when there was original actors and when there were new ones. A great job some of the time but the rest of the movie was really bad in my opinion. maybe I'd liked it more if I had watched with some friends and being doomsday drunk at the same time. But then anything would be funny.Summary I like some of Odekerks humour. I like some crazy-wire-superhero-kung-fu-movies like Iron Monkey and such.. but Kung Pow had none of this. just pointless silly talk.THUMBS down =( Better luck next time. 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Beyond Goofy","Date":"25 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung Pow Enter the FistGoofy, no, it's beyond Goofy. There needs to be a word for how ridiculous this movie is all throughout. The martial arts film is a edit of archive footage that they got the rights too, dubbed everyone of the voices to complete hilarity.Written, Directed and Stared by Steve Oedekerk. You probably don't recognize his name so I'll list some of his credentials you might know of. Bruce/Evan Almighty, Nutty Professor I and II, Patch Adams, and Ace Ventura When Nature Calls.I don't laugh easy, and I particularly don't laugh at stupid humor. For instance I don't for the life of me understand the draw of Pewdiepie. Normally I laugh at comedians like Kevin Hart and Lewis C.K. but this movie made me laugh. If it can do that to me then it'll probably bust some guts for others.There are some cultural references in the movie that you'd have to lived through the late 90s and early 2000s to understand. There's a matrix reference, one of the thousands out there with the bullet time bending of the main characters back to avoid the bullets. In this case it's a martial arts cow shooting milk at him. Nuff said.WEE-OOH WEE-OOH WEE-OOH! - Ling One of the best catch phrases in comedy. I'm probably going to appear as some sort of sociopath (more than normal) saying that at random moments because it's stuck in my head. Good luck getting that ear worm out.Verdict Cult Classic. Definite watch. It's free on HBO, at the moment, if you got it. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Honestly, I have no idea how in the hell this movie has gotten such bad ratings from every single media outlet out there. Let me go ahead and set your ways straight here.This movie is absolutely hilarious. From start to finish. Oedekirk's timing is beyond ridiculous. And just when you think he's about to bomb a joke, some guy kills a dog with a massive fart. Good grief.Honestly this movie has me dying... like.. absolutely dying of laughter every single time I watch it. It is a bombshell from start to finish. Try not to throw up, you will laugh that hard.(P.S. This is line #10 of text for this review. Required to get past the whatever it is) "},{"Title":"Enter the Laughs!","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung Pow Enter the Fist (2002) Dir Steve Oedekerk / Cast Steve Oedekerk, Fei Lung, Ling Ling Tse, Hui Lou Chen, Lau-Kar Wing Utterly stupid to the highest degree but that is the point. Nobody was attempting to create art but I still laughed throughout the entire spectacle. Plot doesn't matter as it satires a Japanese film Tiger and Crane Fist onto itself with clichés in full exposure. Director Steve Oedekerk plays the Chosen One raised by various rodents and wishes to avenge the death of his parents at the hands of Master Payne (or Betty as he prefers). Betty makes his presence known under the leadership of the Evil Council in a hilarious jab at Independence Day. There is a martial arts fight scene against a cow in a jab at Twister. Running joke regards Oedekerk providing all of the voices completely incoherent as to when the actors speak. He plays the hero who has a tongue with a face of its own, and advised by the one-breasted woman to seek training. In hilarious supporting roles are Fei Lung as Betty whose defeat seems impossible. Ling Ling Tse plays the damsel with the dubbed, Oowee, oowee! Hui Lou Chen plays his trainer who seems to become increasingly ill. Lau-Kar Wing has the triumphant name of Wimp Lo, which must be encouraging. Celebrated lunacy with much originality and a cow that fights its last before falling to exhaustion drained of its source. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Wee-ooh!","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" As anyone who has been exposed to the crazy cinematic world of Godfrey Ho can attest, cutting up an old kung fu flick and re-editing it with original footage can prove to be very funny indeed. I'm not saying that Kung Pow Enter the Fist, a deliberately daft martial arts mash-up directed by and starring Steve Oederkerk, is quite as hilarious as, say, the unintentionally side-splitting nonsense that is Ninja Terminator (my favourite Godfrey Ho 'classic'), but for avid fans of 70s chop socky, or of randomly absurd comedy in general, it should provide a reasonable amount of giggles.Digitally inserting himself into the old school kung fu classic Tiger & Crane Fists, Oedekerk lovingly parodies the genre, mimicking the bizarre dubbing, mocking the expressions, and exaggerating the drama, as well as introducing lots of truly off-the-wall silliness. As Oedekerk's character, The Chosen One, searches for the evil man who killed his family, the film throws in such left-field craziness as a kung fu cow, a one breasted woman, wood chuck nunchuks, and French aliens, along with lots of silly throwaway dialogue. Although much of this zany stuff falls embarrassingly flat on its ass, and the basic idea eventually runs out of steam, there are just enough moments of truly inspired lunacy to make it all worth a watch. "},{"Title":"A low brow but hilarious martial arts send-up","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung Pow! Enter the Fist is not your average martial arts flick. For one thing, it stars a white guy- with a face on his tongue. Plus there's a dastardly villain called Betty, a climactic fight with a cow, and a mysterious one-breasted woman who shows up in one scene and is never seen again. And no, I am not on crack as I write this, just Mountain Dew and gratuitous amounts of AC/DC.Anyways, as you've probably guessed, Kung-Pow is intended as a send up of all those campy, poorly dubbed kung-fu movies from the Far East. Those of you who are Woody Allen fans or have particularly long memories may remember a film called What's Up, Tiger Lilly, in which Allen took two low budget Japanese spy movies, moved some of the scenes around, and completely re-dubbed it to create an entirely new, entirely nonsensical plot. Here, writer/director/producer/leading man Steve Oedekerk takes things a step further, digitally replacing the original film's star with himself, and adding completely new scenes, like the aforementioned one with the cow.Like What's Up, Tiger Lilly, Kung Pow! Is utterly ridiculous, and makes little if any sense, which is the whole point. Exhibit A is the dialogue. As stated before, all original lines have been replaced by new, hilariously nonsensical ones. Seriously, half the lines in this movie have nothing to do with anything. Ling, the Chosen One's love interest seems to be voiced by the same actress who does Miss Piggy. And in a nod to the usual quality of dubbing in Asian films, many characters sound just like fifth-graders reading from a Chinese-to-English dictionary. There's even a part where the guy's mouth keeps moving forever, and all he says is no. And this is far from the only aspect of traditional martial arts movies that gets lampooned. The training sequences, the requisite close up of each fighter's face accompanied by dramatic music, the dramatic last words of the hero's dying sensei, and many more clichés are stretched well beyond their logical limits. Just for good measure, they even threw in parodies of the Lion King and the Matrix.And just in case the ludicrous re-dubbing and slaying of clichés weren't enough, Oedekerk goes for further laughs by suspending all attempts at believability and adding whatever random ideas popped into his head. One suspects that much of the story for this movie was fleshed out by guys sitting around a table taking bong hits, which if true makes this one of the best things ever created as a result of drugs. Besides the fight with the cow, there's also a fight between the bad guy and a baby, and several fights set to hip-hop. And there's that tongue-face, who has lines of his own and proves key to defeating the Council of Evil. Add an intermission straight out of Monty Python and a trailer for a fictional sequel, and you get one of the most oddball productions in many years.From this review it may sound like the filmmaker is desperately trying to inject humor any way he can, which may be why most critics panned Kung Pow! upon its release. But I personally could not stop laughing. This movie is simply to oddball and too original not to like. Even its flaws, like the sub-par CGI, only add to the campy feel. It may not engage your intellect, broaden your horizons, or make much sense, but if you have any experience with its source material, Kung Pow! Enter the Fist will have you laughing too hard to care. "}{"Title":"Funny again.","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Some movies are so idiotic that they are simply disgusting. But then in Pratchett-style it moves to the other side of idiotic and become funny again. This is prime example of such movie. If you know in advance that this is manipulation of the old Asian movie with new characters added and order of scenes rearranged then you will enjoy it even more. Even better if you have ever seen Chinese movie with the dubbing that does not match timing.There is a wide array of humor elements Fighting cows, ioioioioi- speaking girl, Girl with one breast, Lion king reference, dying scene and the ending. Also I did quite enjoy the french song played by ... that would be spoiler ... near the end of the movie. Cannot find it anywhere.One have to start watching prepared for the worst. Especially Chosen One. Especially Chosimba. "},{"Title":"Spoofs galore","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Despite the mediocre rating this isn't exactly an anti-review of this extravagant spoof comedy on wu-shu Asian martial arts movies, together with one hilarious English dubbing. Although definitely several notches below the ludicrous brilliance of Kung Fu Hustle, this Steve Oedekerk written-directed-starred journey into oblivious stupidity, does have its undoubted merits.Even at birth the enigmatic Chosen One (Steve Oedekerk) is hunted by the evil and mysterious Council, as he alone possess the 'tongey' to prevent earthly doom. Thus the deadly Master Pain (Fei Lung) vel Betty is sent to put an end to the fated infant. After murdering his parents with his weaponised claws, the baby Chosen One decides to put up a fight, disposing of two agile martial artists and peeing Master Pain sour. After enacting a heroic escape the three month old tot is brought up by rodents, growing up with a keen eye for vengeance...Rife with humour, Kung Pow Enter the Fist aims for guttural joy and laughter, not always hitting the mark, but continuously flinging out new ideas. Essential takeaways from the movie are a CGI epic showdown with a cow and some very cheeky usage of mistimed dubbing. Nonetheless a lot of the humour flies over your head and several elements are repetitive posing questions as to the necessary runtime for such a joke flick. Possibly an iconic comedy shtick, but a level headed approach is necessary to avoid just slapping it into the same category of drab affairs such as Scary Movie or The Naked Gun. "},{"Title":"In the words of Master Pain, I like it because it's so bad.","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" If you like Mystery Science Theater 3000, you will probably like this. If you read bad fanfiction because you think it's funny, you will probably like this. If you've ever lingered over bizarre Deviantart profiles, reveling in the absurdity, you will probably like this.The humor is cheap and often vulgar, but it gives the impression that it's doing so tongue-in-cheek; it's not just a parody of weird Kung Fu movies, but also of itself, laughing at its own flaws and shortcomings.It's very easy to understand why people would dislike this movie; I mean, it's lowbrow, it's dirty, and it's stupid. But somehow, it's also snidely sophisticated, compelling, and clever. If you've ever watched the recent Scary Movies and wished that they were actually good, watch this. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Watch it, and laugh until your sides hurt.","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung Pow- Enter the Fist is a parody movie. Wait&#x85;do not run away just yet. Unlike the mass of lackluster parody movies that are produced these days, this movie is actually very funny. Its vehicle is that it uses old footage of kung fu films such as Enter the Dragan and overlays its modern content onto them. Plus add intentionally bad dubbing and you have a movie which never for a second tries to be subtle, ingenious, or intelligent. It's clear that Steve Oedekerk and crew prided themselves on this movie making little or no sense at all. Oedekerk had himself digitally inserted into dozens of existing scenes from other older movies simply because he could and it looked ridiculous. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest, well made, watch-againable movies I have ever seen","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" 5.9?!? This hardly feels like a proper rating in my opinion, this movie was well made, and took as long as lord of the rings to make, I have NEVER in my entire life laughed as hard at a movie as I did this (with maybe the exception of Borat), This movie can be watched over and over again, with no more than 30 second having been passed without a joke being said. The reason the rating is so low is because 45% of users rated this movie as a 10/10, which actually get's rejected by this site, so if you agree, please vote this a 9, and write a review, this is easily my favorite movie of all time, sit down, open a bag of popcorn, and get ready for 2 hours of the funniest kung fu you've ever seen (then come back and rate this a 9). "},{"Title":"If you love humor its for you","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung Pow- Enter the Fist is a parody movie. Wait&#x85;do not run away just yet. Unlike the mass of lackluster parody movies that are produced these days, this movie is actually very funny. Its vehicle is that it uses old footage of kung fu films such as Enter the Dragan and overlays its modern content onto them. Plus add intentionally bad dubbing and you have a movie which never for a second tries to be subtle, ingenious, or intelligent. It's clear that Steve Oedekerk and crew prided themselves on this movie making little or no sense at all. Oedekerk had himself digitally inserted into dozens of existing scenes from other older movies simply because he could and it looked ridiculous. "},{"Title":"A brilliant parody of the genre","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung-Pow is a woefully underrated film. The type of comedy the film contains is certainly not for everyone, but it works wonderfully for those familiar with older kung-fu movies. This movie is like what the X Movie, series (think Disaster Movie, Epic Movie,, etc.) would be if those movies actually bothered to poke fun at the genres they are named after instead of making inane, unfunny pop-culture references.Roughly half of the film's humor won't make any sense at all without prior understanding of kung-fu movies. Bad lip-syncing/dubbing, over-the-top fight scenes and low-quality editing are all targets of parody in this movie and the end results are hilarious. Combining this with generally silly characters and some dumb comedy just works.If you're looking for a comedy movie that isn't too intelligent and you're familiar with kung-fu films, you will probably enjoy this movie a lot. If you aren't, then you should go watch a couple of those kung-fu films then watch this. "},{"Title":"great stuff","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" this is one of the most funny movies that i have ever seen, not because of an amazing production value, but because it was just stupidly hilarious. if you watch this movie expecting it to be quick witted and well written, your watching it the wrong way. its the scary movie 1 of badly dubbed Asian kung-fu movies. my advice for those of you that did not like it Chill out and stop taking it seriously, then you have a good laugh.the way this movie makes fun of things that are so bad in movies of the genre it is making fun of is great, mixed in with things that he included just for sheer hilarity... if you don't think your going to die because you cant get enough air, you take everything too seriously. "},{"Title":"A silly movie that is in its own class","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I got sucker into going to see this movie in the big screen. Wasn't that bad of a movie, but certainly wasn't worth the eight bucks I paid to go see and not be able to pause or forward. When the movie hit DVD, I managed to see it first hand and here is the review of the movie.First off, the storyline is the typical Chosen one whose family is killed and he gets revenge. Of course nothing wrong with that setting but the presentation of the movie was bland and colorless.Graphically, since the movie is using Crane and Tiger Fist as its movie, I must praise that the producer Steve managed to bring this old movie into the DVD colors and now begging to see the original movie in in clear crisp color and sound.Now here is the problem with the movie, there is just way too many sexual jokes, testicle talks, and some scenes that was just so stupid the comedy fell flat. And this is also the strength of the movie because the producer purposely made the movie stupid and silly which some people can laugh at it, while others just look and give the WTF face.Kung Pow is one of those movies that you probably won't watch unless you got friends who just want to have belly laughs and get drunk. This isn't a movie where boyfriend/girlfriend could really watch unless they want to also get some cheap laughs, but then there is another movie called Kung Fu Hustle that has the same slapstick comedy, but is a lot better then this turkey.Other then that, either buy it cheap on Amazon or rent it, don't know if you like to have this movie in your collection. "},{"Title":"Tongue in tongue in cheek...","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" In KENTUCKY FRIED MOVIE, director John Landis gave us one of the funniest kung fu movie parodies ever, FISTFUL OF YEN (a take off on ENTER THE DRAGON). While there have been a number of notable kung fu comedies in the intervening years (MY YOUNG AUNTIE, SHAOLIN BASEBALL, SHAOLIN SOCCER, KUNG FU HUSTLE, etc.), there haven't been a whole lot of parodies. Enter... KUNG POW ENTER THE FIST. Steve Oederkirk actually manages to pull off a GAME OF DEATH-type of digital extraction, excising none other than Wang Yu himself from his own movie. In the context of Oederkirk's context (contextually speaking), it works beautifully. Of particular interest are two deleted scenes that shouldn't've been deleted in the first, The Chosen One (Oederkirk) is being given the Bush-Cheney-Rumsefeld (mis)treatment like a sit-in protester on Wall Street. We see here a spider-like woman crawling around on the floor and back into her cage. It's a creepy scene not unlike one often finds in kung fu movies of the era (the 1970s). The second deleted scene shows The Chosen One using his middle leg to do everything from push-ups to pounding his opponents; it's funny and should've been left in (in my opinion). All told, some good, clean kung fu comedy. Recommended. "}{"Title":"thin line between insanity and genius","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung Pow (2002)5 word summaryChosen one battles against evilKung Pow is truly one of the dumbest and most ridiculous film ever made, it also is one of my personal favorite comedies ever made. After watching the previews back in 02 I thought this movie looked stupid, I had no interest in seeing it. The main focus of the trailer is the battle against the cow and that looked stupid. Most of my friends at the time thought it looked hilarious. One day, while home sick, I decided to watch it against my better judgment. And what happened? I laughed my ass off. The comedy in it is really, really stupid and yet genius at the same time. one of those things that prove there's a thin line between genius and insanity. Right when you figure out the humor they toss in something you didn't expect that is just so random and hilarious that takes the film to another level. For instance, the opening scene. We see a baby fighting a man. He flips all over, pees on him, and soon the man gets frustrated and burns down the house. The baby flies out the window and falls down a hill. At this point you think you know the humor. Alright its immature dumb humor but it seems like it will be OK. Then we see what the film really is like. The baby lands on a path going through the hill. A woman picks him up and holds him swaying and mentioning how cute he is. She turns and walks to the hill and throws him off saying bye bye and the baby continues to fall. So random and yet it's a remarkably genius addition to the scene. A scene that most films would have stopped 2 minutes earlier. It's the first clue that this will not be your average comedy. Kung Pow has so many great lines. Along with Anchorman and Monty Python and the Holy Grail, it is one of my favorite movies to quote.My main problem with the film is the same reason I didn't originally want to see it. The fight with the cow. I do and always have skipped that scene, it goes on to long, it doesn't look good, and it's just not funny. But for some reason that's what the film is remembered for, and that's a shame.Other than that I haven't much else to say. The film is definitely not for everyone and I don't get mad when someone I talk to didn't like it or the not so high ratings it gets. I understand it's a dumb film but I do truly believe it is fantastic. If you're willing and open to it maybe you will see it for the genius it is.8/10 "},{"Title":"OMG this movie was funnier the 2nd and 3rd times","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The first time I saw this movie I was sort of stunned. It didn't really sink in while I was watching it. Sure, I laughed here and there but overall I wouldn't give it a very good score. However, I do know that over the years there have been a few comedies that I didn't find funny the first time I saw them. I remember seeing The Life of Brian in the theater and I was not impressed. A few years later my friends and I saw it again in a 2nd run theater and I laughed my a$$ off.This movie is something like that. I have watched it three of four times, each time finding it funnier than the last. I just read a review someone wrote about the girl love interest, and how she's constantly saying wee ooh wee yea wee oh oh wee or something like that. Just reading that brought tears to my eyes and made me start laughing again. I have decided to watch this movie again tonight. Lucky for me I own it as part of my video collection. I can't wait to see it again tonight.If you get a chance to see this movie, and you love stupid comedies, please see it. If you REALLY love stupid movies you might want to bring a change of underwear with you. "},{"Title":"Not Everyone Will Like This...","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Not everyone will like this movie. You really have to be able to appreciate random, silly, ridiculous humor to watch this. If you don't like in your face silliness, you will not like this movie.In some reviews on here I've mentioned that a film is silly and have given it a lower rating as a result. However, those films had unnecessary silliness whereas this film just embraces silliness, and it's really an experiment on how seriously ridiculous can someone make a comedy/parody film.I love this movie. I've seen it over 20 times, and it never fails to make me laugh. The film is a parody of Hong Kong martial arts action films made using footage from an actual 70's Hong Kong film, which I think was called Tiger and Crane Fists in the English translation.What Steve Oedekirk does in this film is take that footage, overdub it, and re-edit it adding in silly bits, original footage, and himself in the process.The jokes in this film are often goofy and ridiculous. You have a kung-fu fighting cow, odd sight gags, and really weird voice-dubs. And I love every minute of it because it's so weird and random you can't help but be drawn in and laugh at it.Some of the edits are kind of obvious, but the entire thing is just so silly that I really don't care. The humor in this is ridiculously funny, and I can't really think of anything bad to say about this. I will say that not everyone will like this. You have to really love in your face random goofy humor to like this. I love this kind of humor, so I'm giving this a 10 because it was really perfect for my taste. Not everyone will like this. Not everyone will think it's as fun as I do. But if you're looking for a really funny film, and you want to see some random crazy stuff, I definitely recommend this film.Oh, and this has the BEST fart joke I have ever seen in a film. If you haven't seen it, I won't spoil it, but I will say this is the most perfect fart joke I've ever seen in a film. This is going to sound stupid, but a fart really isn't funny in itself. You have to take into account the situation, circumstances, etc., and this movie does it perfectly. It is the perfect fart joke.But enough from me. I highly recommend this for anyone who wants a random, silly comedy. It's a lot of fun, just don't watch it with someone who can't stand silly humor.10/10 - Amazingly funny silly random comedy, but not for everyone. "},{"Title":"Swingin' the chain... swingin' the chain!","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is a very funny movie! True, there are plenty of minor annoyances that could detract from the fun, but they are so insignificant.Anyone who has made up their own dialogue to a movie while they were watching it will understand and like this movie. The writing is just clever enough, while still being sophomoric enough not to alienate more immature viewers with being too intelligent (a pity that even needs to be said!).I agree that the movie's weakest points are the original content - the whole mono-breasted ninja subplot and sequence is hard to sit through and is just not that funny, to be fair. As is the entire tonguey subplot, and how it integrates with the French aliens finale.But forget that - there are so many quotable lines of well-conceived and well-executed dubbing! A lot of attention was given to how the new dialogue blends with the actors' behavior and facial expressions. I absolutely love the ventriloquists' fight (and it's very darkly comic conclusion), the large dark nippled guy, and I LOVE Ping - O-weeo weeo weeo peeo! This movie stands up to multiple viewings - there really lots of very subtle jokes and lines of dialogue that you won't notice until the second or third time around. For instance, listen very carefully to what you hear at the first instant of Ping's very first screen entrance - funny foreshadowing stuff! Yes, I am a HUGE MST3K fan, and this movie plays right into those preferences.So endure the somewhat lame original content - but realize there are HUGE exceptions to this problem, most notably being the entire opening fight with the baby sequence, the Chosimba Lion King-James Earl Jones-voice-over bit, which brings me to tears (I still walk around saying Chosimba... to people, sorry you guys), and of course the muay thai cow, which is really, really superbly done.And appreciate the movie for its strengths - the good writing, the really complex green-screen work (watch the extras and you will be impressed), the very clever and original dubbing (I find it hard to believe that the lead actor did all the voices himself, truly, hats off to him), and the care and thought that went into making a public-domain Z-grade kung fu movie int a really funny movie experience.The original movie is Tiger and Crane Fist, by the way, which I happen to have a copy of, and is a so-so movie in its own right, worth watching at least once.Also, I love the closing credits theme song a ton! An amazingly catchy sitar-dance-groove riff.Enjoy this movie! "},{"Title":"An amusing yet annoying feature","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung Pow is one of those interesting movie experiments that turns out to be amusing in many ways. This was pretty much messing with the dubbing of a bad Kung Fu flick and adding in some parts here and there to make it something of a unique movie in it's own right. I remember seeing this before with Woody Allen's first comic attempt in What's new Tiger Lilly? where a similar approach is used. In all fairness this movie has some genuinely funny parts to it and you are guaranteed to laugh @ least once during this film.Ah but with the good there is the bad...When watching this movie I could tell that the maturity level was pretty much the same as Epic Movie using cheap jokes that sometimes seemed to be done with little thought on the fly making some of them just sound stupid and many not being funny at all. Some scenes that have been added appear over the top to the point where you wonder what the heck? Most of all the thing that annoyed me the most about this movie is the lines they give the female lead with that odd whining thing she does. The guy voicing her (Yeah sadly a guy is voicing her) does this constantly throughout the movie making you want to reach through the TV grab her and shake her by the end of the movie.All this being said Kung Pow is fairly original and fairly funny. If you spot this in the $3 bin then it might be worth a pick up. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it. All of the 12 times I saw it...","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I really like this movie. Not only it seems original as a concept but really is hilarious. Although I fear that sequel will not be as funny or amusing I am still looking forward to it.The movie mostly makes fun of the dubbing Americans do on Chinese fight movies. Steve Oedkerk really makes us laugh in almost all the scenes!There are scenes that are not as funny though. The movie takes scene from original Chinese fight movies and adapts them so that they fit the storyline of Kung Pow. This parody is a lot funnier than other genre parodies in my opinion (see Date Movie, Epic Movie etc. you get the point). It's not only the acting that makes you laugh, it's the altered screenplay, the funny dubbing and many more features. I watched it once and really got the mood to show it to friends and family just so they don't miss such a great movie! In total I've watched it 12 times. And even though I know what is going to happen next I really enjoy it!!I recommend you to rent this movie and watch it with friends. It's some time worth spending. Beware! The movie HAS scenes not particularly funny but don't be discouraged, because the good scenes will make you forget the bad ones... In the beginning and in the end I was kind of disappointed because there weren't any funny scenes, but that was maybe because at the beginning I wasn't getting in the mood yet, and in the end I had watched such funny scenes that I couldn't laugh more...A Great Movie, truly a must see! "},{"Title":"Stupid Fun","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie isn't for everyone - I didn't expect to like it as much as I did as based on the previews it just came off as pure slapstick for 14 year-olds. Which it more or less is, but it works pretty well. Unless you're completely jaded you'll be laughing in spite of yourself at this thing. It's immature and downright moronic in parts, but that's the point. Still, it is a dumb movie, and I would assume works better for a younger (teenage) audience. But that shouldn't stop older folks from giving it some time. You might feel self-conscious enjoying it, and you'll almost certainly walk away from it thinking it was awful, but you'll also be wondering how something so juvenile had you laughing so much. "},{"Title":"Come On...","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Sure, this movie has its dull moments when the jokes fall flat, but overall the movie is still Pythonesque. When Monty Python did this 30 years ago, everyone laughed then. Yet when this guy somewhat-to an extent does it, people call it cheapening.I sure loved the spoof, way better than the Scary Movie Series. And Steve Oedekerk's voice acting for all the Chinese people sure keeps you amused for at least half an hour before it loses its fun. Don't expect an intellectual movie, just some good old fun.If there is a sequel planned for this movie, I don't think it will be as funny as the original "},{"Title":"Stupid beyond belief, but some humor comes from re-dubbing movies.","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" You shouldn't expect much when watching this. Almost all the humor comes from the novelty of dubbing over movies and putting in funny voices, or putting scenes together where they don't make sense. Some new scenes were filmed, such as the amusing baby fight at the beginning, the cow fight and Whoa the one breasted woman, but most was archive footage.Trying to give a plot to this is hard, because their really none. It's about the Chosen One (Steve Oedekirk) and his quest to defeat Master Pain, now known as Betty....and well, that's it. It almost felt like a repetitive sketch comedy with fast jokes coming at rapid speeds. Because of all the jokes and stupid voices, the laughs come more than one would think, but thinking back, it's such a terribly stupid movie with no point or plot. If you watch it with friends late and night expect to laugh. If you watch it by yourself during the day, get ready to change the channel.My rating ** out of ****. 81 mins. PG-13 for violence and crude humor. "},{"Title":"....And then he Killed the Dog!","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" First, a joke. What do you get when you cross an owl with a bungee chord? My ass. D A great movie, In the vein of Airplane and Top Secret(Which also involves a cow D)....Just silly gags accompanying an even sillier plot.As in the other movies mentioned, Most of the jokes work well overall and the funny voices help to keep you interested, From Master Pain's Betty cackle, To Ling's (Miss Piggy Inspired) wailing and on to other characters, Like Wimp Squeaky Shoes Lo.The only let down, Is that some of the new footage, Dosen't really fit in well with the feel of the original....Though I think this was an intentional flaw?Overall, This isn't high art and if your looking for a Clever comedy, Stay far away from this. "}{"Title":"Very Silly Indeed","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  IMDB asks would you like to comment on this film whenever you rate it. While I am not sure that I would actually *like* to comment on this film, I feel compelled to comment on it.I like to think of myself as a pretty smart guy with pretty decent taste. You know, the kind of person who is happy to sit down and watch a high quality foreign film with a glass of port.  In general, I despise mindless comedy.  Oh, mind you, I like smart comedy - like, say, Monty Python or Oscar Wilde.Then I saw Kung Pow and just about burst a lung laughing.  I don't know if it was the hilariously stupid dialogue of Master Betty, or the heroine's constant wee-ooo wee-ooo sobs, but something about this film had me on the verge of tears from laughing several times.While this is not a film that will impress your educated friends, it is a great sit around with your beer swilling pals and laugh until you barf kind of film.  Better still, the lines and, well, sounds from the film will stay with you and become fun little in jokes (much like the more intelligent dialogue from, say, This is Spinal Tap or Monty Python and the Holy Grail).  For example (and this will make no sense until you've seen it), my friends and I sit around still going Birdie...  birdie... birdie...There is no logical reason why this film should be so much fun, but, for me at least, it really was.  (7 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Good enough.","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The opening of this lightweight romp, which sees a small baby dispose of a clan of professional warriors using his chosen one power (a tongue? - that can talk?) and, of course, p***, is far too silly for it's own good. It leaves the impressioon that all of it's running time is devoted to lame toilet humour, but suprisingly the modicum of sophisticated humour shines through. The comments he makes on the cliched genre are amusing to both virgins and hardcore fans of hong kong trash. Ludicrous dubbing and eccentric combat are enough to induce laugh-out-loud moments. It's just a shame that there's no narrative and his inspired encounter with a cow his five minutes too long. "},{"Title":"A very guilty guilty pleasure, a love-or-hate thing.","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  When I went to see this movie in the theater, my parents and I were very excited. I thought it would be very funny , and...it was!  my father and I were hysterically laughing, but ,(surprisingly) my mom hated it, it's a guy movie. It's one of those stupid comedies that make you laugh out of control, and what Steve Odekerk is famous for. Steve is just.......a genius! He's written a lot of other very famous comedies like Patch Adams(a really good movie),and the Nutty Professor(a movie I'm not terribly found of). He's also the creator, director, and writer of those thumb movies you see at video stores, like Thumb Wars , The God thumb, Thumbtanic, and The Blair Thumb. But let's get back to Kung Pow.  It's funny, clever, creative, and very original. What Steve Odekerk did was take an old 1970's hong kong film, change the story line, submit extra footage according to the new story, dub new dialogue into the old footage, and make it totally insane! the new dialogue really did fit with the old footage . Like when the character was saying something very serious, he made it sound like he was doing something very strange. I recommend it to any guy who is looking for inspiration , a laugh, or who likes too try every thing once.Good luck, this is a weird one, man! "},{"Title":"Loved, Hated, yet underrated","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It's good to see this film has attained somewhat of a cult status.  Sadly, I didn't see it in theatres, as no one would go with me.  However, I discovered this gem on DVD and have fought for its good name ever since.This movie isn't meant to be watched for plot or character development- this is for laughs, pure and simple.  Check your film critique high-mindedness at the light switch and enjoy the silliness that is Kung-Pow Enter the Fist. Indeed my friends, let your expectations go and enjoy the sidesplitting randomness, the zany CG add ins and the parody of old-school Kung-Fu films.Yes, it has it's uninspired moments that leave me with a straight face (the cow fight- although the milk mustache is a nice touch), but overall, this film had me laughing harder than any movie since Ace Venturas line Your question is much like your lower intestine-- stinky and loaded with danger. That Steve O. sure is a funny guy.If you rent it and hate it, so be it.  But if you don't, you may be missing out on one of the best laughs you've had in a while. And who doesn't need one of those? "},{"Title":"Not fully aware of its potential","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I don't remember much about this movie, just the feeling of boredom and some moderately funny jokes in between. The movie made fun of so many things and jet failed to really make me laugh. Maybe it was the juvenile humor, maybe it was the annoying voices or maybe I was just stoned beyond recognition.But still, not nearly as funny as it could have been. And the Matrix fighting sequence was getting old way back in 2000. PLEASE, NO MORE MATRIX FIGHTING SCENES PARODIES, THEY JUST AREN'T FUNNY ANYMORE! I love a lot of Oedekerk's work, but Kung Pow is a far cry away from being one of those. 5/10   "},{"Title":"Acquired taste","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie but you have to have the right mind-set for it.  You can't take offense at some of the racially tainted jokes.  In fact, the entire movie is a rip on Chinese martial arts movies, not to mention the poor dubbing job that's usually involved, lol.  It's still ground rolling funny once you get into it, especially if you've seen plenty of martial arts films before.     "},{"Title":"lame jokes","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Yusing a other movie to make a movie was a very good idea. but sometimes the jokes were very boring. i only laught a few times (mostly because of mister pain(betty)) The main reason why i kept on watching, because it was someting i havent seen before.  "},{"Title":"Better than you'd think","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I avoided going to see this at the cinema, opted against renting it at Blockbuster or watching on PPV but eventually it arrived on HBO and with nothing better to do whilst waiting for friends to turn up before going out I watched it and I'm glad I didRaised on programmes like The Water Margin & Monkey and the standard fare of Bruce Lee films this film hit the mark again and again, what with attrociously dubbed voices and blatant rip-offs from other films (I don't care what others here have said I liked the Cow fight especially the Matrix take-off with the milk projectiles).I also loved some of the asside pieces (like the children playing in the street singing we are children, we are childrenThe ending was a bit ropey with all the hallmarks of we don't know how to end the movie but I'd certainly recommend watching it on HBO, buying it maybe not  "},{"Title":"Hysterically Bad","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Most movies intended to be bad are just that, bad.  Kung Pow Enter the Fist is so bad it's hysterical.  Don't get me wrong, there are some painfully unfunny parts.  However, if you go in accepting this and take the movie at face value for what it is you can enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Just watch the first 15 minutes...","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  <<<POSSIBLE SPOILER>>>I think it's because we just have a 3 month old, that we found the beginning hilarious.  After that, I was left wondering why the heck we didn't turn it off... But I thinks it's becuase we liked it, we just didn't know it. There was a part when a woman picked up the rolling baby... and... I won't tell you the rest, but it was soooo funny!From the toungue, to the cow, to the girl's voice, to the 'Mustafa'... It was stupid, freeky, and unexpected... which is what made it funny.We have cable and we taped it to watch it on our Just spending time together, eating junk food, movie night.  We recommend you do the same. Don't waste money on it, you'll regret it. "}{"Title":"Yawn...seen it all before","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I won't say this is a blatant rip-off of a half-dozen other similar comedies, but it's close - it contains elements of MST3K, What's Up Tiger Lily, The Kentucky Fried Movie (Fistful of Yen segment), and Airplane!. It's OK to work in that genre, but ripping off ideas and jokes is just going too far (like when Chosen One goes into a cave and starts echo-talking like a baseball announcer - directly from Airplane!).  Steve Oedekerk is a pretty good in the lead role, though his dubbed vocals (he does all the voices) start to grate pretty quickly.  This occasionally funny movie offers little original and becomes a real chore to watch after about 10 minutes. "},{"Title":"At least Steve Oedekerk was ok.","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  *Possible spoilers* He and the cow scene was about the only thing positive in this weird movie. I'd say more 6th grade or 7th grade humour. Also the actors and directors take something of the movie and keep pushing to you laugh. I smiled a few times, but not enough.The cow scene was one of the best assets of the movie, though.  "},{"Title":"83 precious minutes of my life I won't see again!","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Terrible, terrible, terrible!! I never thought that a movie could be this bad, but it does exist!! A kung-fu fighting cow? A talking tongue? A woman with one breast? What in heaven's name is going on in Hollywood? They must be really hurting for ideas to release this garbage. Actually, garbage is better than this. This is like the little white stuff that accumulates at the side of your mouth when you are very thirsty.Do not rent. Do not even watch it for free on cable!! You will kick yourself!! Five bucks, and 83 minutes of my life I will never see again!  "},{"Title":"Boy, do I wish I'd thought of this first.","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Here's an energetic and blissfully silly spoof that combines an actual Kung-Fu movie with new footage and a Mystery Science 3,000 style dubbed soundtrack.  I didn't give it a very good rating (it isn't a well-made movie by a long shot) but it's one of those movies that was so insanely stupid, I couldn't help but like it.  If you like the Kentucky Fried Movie or Dude, Where's My Car? you'll probably dig this.If not... well, you're on your own.Special hint  You'll enjoy this movie much more if you take a shot every time they say Betty. "},{"Title":"funny, crude -- stupid","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was not bad. It was not the best movie ever but it had some funny moments. My friends & I enjoyed watching this movie, but the special effects are terrible. I didn't get to see it in the theater unlike my friends, so I rented it. I wouldn't watch this movie again. But the previous comment on this movie was exaggerated. Rent this movie and see what you think, you may enjoy it! At one point in the movie he gets a visit from a one boobed  woman, what looked funny in the ads. wasn't.My rating for this movie 2 1/2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"2 Bottles of Beer, and half a bottle (40%proof) later...","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  and i was as drunk as anyone by themselves watching movies should be. And i realised how wrong all the negative press of this film was... anyone who has learnt that at least 65-80% of movies made are more enjoyable while watching through various levels of non-sobriety will appreciate a film like Kung Pow Enter The Fist. The first time i got properly drunk was during a Troma night special, and ithought, WOW, Troma TV is some great stuff, why? because it appeals to our deepest and truest nature, and that is a commone nature,every human being is sick and twisted to some crazy extent... and that is why  Kung Pow appealed to me in this state of mind. Now i'm someone who appreciates film, i like all sorts of film, from hardcore drama to dumb comedy to ambigous surrealism and subjective commentary, so don't think i'm some kid who just watched his first movie. This love of film has made me demand more from so called 'DRUNK - FILMS' they need to be truly visually dynamic and inventive while maintaining a solid tongue in cheek humour... and Kung Pow seems to be a film that has met my very demands.SO don't watch this film while even half sober, you'd most likely hate it with a brutalistic vengeance, but do watch it when very drunk, you'll realise the genius of Steve Odererberkerdek, and how he MUST have made this movie for guys like me, who just want something so crazy, goofy, and utterly wacky to watch when our minds have gone off the rail tracks and into some depraved dirty ditch.Bad point needed more senseless nudity.Godd point get drunk.. and watch this, and have a real good time... otherwise stay far the hell away!!!0/10 Sober   -----    somewhere near/10 Drunk!!! "},{"Title":"Semi-Disastrous, Semi-Hilarious","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie had many things in it that were stupid, unfunny, or just embarrassing to watch. Most film buffs would rather spend hours watching an Ishtar marathon than be subjected to this film. HOWEVER, there is an underlying hilarity about it that is impossible to deny. Perhaps it's better watched at 3am when everything is funny, but this movie was better than I expected it to be. Being a fan of the overly-dramatic Kung Fu movie, I decided to watch this film and expected the worst. Any fan of Kung Fu movies and/or Mystery Science Theater 3000 will enjoy this movie. It's got the good martial arts parody stuff, and the goofy dialog over-dub reminiscent of Woody Allen's What's up Tiger Lily? Check your brain at the door when you watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Cinematic blunder? I think not.","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  6/10 Once in a great while, a movie is made that takes a flying nosedive under the radar of intellectual comedy. A movie that is so immature, so moronic in its humor that many dub it a travesty of cinema. Despite what the general public may think, this film is one of the funniest of 2002.A delightful kung-fu spoof that tells the tale of The Chosen One on his quest for revenge against the man who killed his family, Master Pain. Sporting the fresh moniker Evil Betty, Pain sets out to kill The Chosen One to make way for the Evil Counsel's empire.This film was stupid. That's why it's funny. The dubbing was meant to be bad. It's a spoof. This is clearly not a movie everyone will enjoy. However, it is reminiscent of some of Oederk's other projects, namely the Thumb series (Thumb Wars, Thumbtanic, The Thumbatrix, etc.)This movie is stupid, crude, and overall a bad film. But fans of Princess Bunhead and Loke Groundrunner(like myself) will most definitely find it amusing. "},{"Title":"this movie is meant to be stupid","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  this movie is meant to be stupid, well i assume the makers intended it so. personally, i don't mind. this is not the funniest film ever made, but is probably the best kung fu parody i have ever seen. with every raised eyebrow that Steve Oedekerk points at the camera you can tell that this thing is to be taken as seriously as...........something not that serious?! (sorry for not being too imaginative there!!)it film is full of obvious jokes, and some quite orignal. its interesting to view how they used to old footage and added stuff with cgi, as shown in the credits. i also think the fight with the cow is just mad, good stuff - kids will love it!!i would urge you to see this, but remember, dont expect anything remotely mature. its a good movie to watch with ur mates. also there is quite alot of jokes u really have to listen to.all in all, not the best film in the world, but far from being the worst - have u seen Batman & Robin?????this film is meant to be stupid, get over it u uptight serious people!! "},{"Title":"It was different","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I think that this film did not need to be made, but it was ok. I thought it had stupid humor, and I like clever humor. This film was kind of stupid, but some parts were funny. I would give this film 5/10. If you like this film, thats ok; but if you don't like this film, that's ok also.  "}{"Title":"Clazy clazy clazy","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  OK well first off you don't need to think at all when you watch this movie - which means most of the population will be happy about that.Ok now if you like silly humour and just plain stupidity (ie. you are a male between 15-50) you will have a good laugh at most of this.Short and sweet - It was silly and don't expect to come out a better person, but its good to put a smile on your dial.I'll give it 3 out of 5 (was 2/5 but the more I think back, the more I found the sillyness funny)- Ljuek. "},{"Title":"Hysterical yet banal","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Not in a long time have I laughed hysterically from the beginning of a movie to its end.  This praise is not  easily earned.  Most movies make me retch uncontrollably with their pre-programmed and formulaic prose plaugerized and basterdized from There's Something About Mary.  O Entertainment's humor is unique, well-timed, and delivered with a pahoche usually reserved for bad humor in French cinema.  That's it's good humor is a plus. Yeah. "},{"Title":"Oh God","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I wish I watched Orange County instead. After watching this, I thought, God, I hope they were kidding about that sequel. The only reason I saw it was because my friends and I were hanging out at the mall and had nothing better to do. Sure it was funny. It was just overly stupid. It was like an episode of Mystery Science Theater 3000. Just a lot of voice-overs making cracks about two old movies. I kinda wished that the voice-overs for the women were actually made by women. Oh well, I should have expected worse. It could have been worse. At least it was funny. God, I wish I saw Orange County instead.  "},{"Title":"Worth a look if you take your knitting.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I thought the trailer looked rather good. Mind you, I was looking at it whilst surfing the imdb and responding to one or two board messages. This sort of film, made for about 5,000 quid, is unpretentious if nothing else, and there's no harm in lampooning martial arts films. "},{"Title":"BWA HA HA, boo-hoo boo-hoo, boing...ouch!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  i laughed, i cried, i ruptured my appendix, gosh what a movie! this guys (steve whatshisname) movie kpetf was so funny, i checked out his movie-ography and saw he starred in a 1991 movie called high strung. i never saw it or even heard of it, but i'm hoping to rent it today at blockbuster based on what i saw in kung pow.  BWA HA HA, boo-hoo boo-hoo, boing...ouch!  "},{"Title":"Second worst movie ever in my book","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It wasn't the worst movie I ever saw, just the second worst. The worst is saved for The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. It might have surpassed it as worst had I not fallen asleep halfway through Kung Pow. My pre-pubescent son, on the other hand, loved it. Then again, you can't expect an 11-year old to understand why this chop suey was horrible. After all, he turned down seeing Lord of the Rings to see this piece of garbage. When the movie started I went to the lobby to complain that the projectionist did not have the film in focus or the sound clear. In hindsight, I should have stayed in my seat. Is it possible to start a class action lawsuit to try to get the money back for people who were subjected to this toxic waste?  "},{"Title":"Umm.....okay.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'm still here scratching my head , and puzzled here , trying to figure out what the hell was the movie about? And why I had such a hard time laughing? I can even go as to say that some of the scenes were quite frightening , and It wasn't a scare that let you bone chilling.  That would of actually of been quite good.  But it was a more of a child saying , Mom , I'm scaredThis movie had nothing , no plot , no storyline , and dried up milk comedy.I don't know , I honestly can't give much credit to a movie such as Kung Pow Enter The Fist.If this were a high school script , I would of found it quite brilliant. But the fact of the matter is , this isn't High School. And even if it were high school , I would give them a B+.Weren't producers and directors made so they could think a little more?*/**** "},{"Title":"O.k O.k","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kind of corny, some really funny parts in it.  Overall a good movie to see for a laugh.  Probably only once. There were some good fetures, if you looked carefully you could see images that weren't so obvious the first time around. Watching the outtakes you were able to see how they put most of this movie together.  By including him into the scene of a movie that was done in the fifties or sixties. Not bad. "},{"Title":"It's not everyone's cup of tea","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie COULD be funny to some people, but it could also be stupid for most others.  I did get a few hard laughs, but they're mostly tasteless, Scary Movie type jokes.  Bottom line is, it may not be worth $9 to see it in a theatre, but it's not a bad way to kill an hour and a half to rent on video if you have nothing else better to do. "},{"Title":"What are the critics smoking?!?","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" (r#76)I'm going to keep this short because this is not a movie that requires an in-depth analysis. You either find the idea of a man fighting a cow funny, or you don't. For this reason, Kung Pow will be absolutely polarizing - everyone's definition of what's funny is different, and if you're not into the kind of comedies where a guy dodges milk, you just won't like this. In my opinion Kung Pow is a masterpiece of stupid humour, and it has been unjustly panned by just about everyone. That this film has a score in the low 5's on IMDb.com and only a disastrous 8% on rottentomatoes.com says more about the critics than it does about the movie. I can't believe that someone didn't find this movie at least a little bit funny. This is a relentless comedy that does what all good comedies should sacrifices script, story and acting for the sake of being funny. And it's hilarious, from the deliberately bad dubbing, to the one-boobed chick, to Wimp Lo and his squeaky shoes, this is dumb humour at its very finest. The cow vs. Steve fight, which brilliantly spoofs The Matrix, is classic. Unbelievable.This is by far one of the most spot-on genre spoofs ever, but to appreciate it you must, of course, have watched the kind of stuff it parodies. If you're familiar with overdubbed Japanese schlock the likes of Time of the Apes or Fugitive Alien, the film becomes even funnier. Having a dog's dubbing out of sync is pure genius.Steve Oedekerk has a great ability to make you laugh without trying too hard. This movie is like a longer and more Japanese version of Thumb Wars, a short film I loved to death (I escaped somehow. Let's go! Priceless!). If you didn't enjoy this movie I doubt that you have a sense of humour and you should stop watching comedies. As for stuck-up critics, they can keep their Duck Soups while dissing the Farrelly brothers, Sandler and Carrey, this is a movie for us real people. Watch it! "}{"Title":"rather funny and rather stupid","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I watched this one with the kids and I liked parts of it and found other parts very amateurish and stupid. My bet is most of the other reviewers probably felt this way as well. The jokes seem to either work really well or fall really flat. Oh well, at least my kids liked it a lot. So, maybe this IS a good film for the average kid--and that's not a bad thing. Plus, of this type of film (re-edited and re-dubbed Asian movies), this is 100000000% better than Woody Allen's extremely lame WHAT'S UP, TIGER LILY? That movie, unlike this one, only seemed to have flat moments.For a better example of the good (and funny) work Steve Oedekerk can do, try his THUMB movies--like THUMB WARS or THUMBTANIC. Because they are only 1/2 hour long, the jokes work a lot better and the pace is much better as well. "},{"Title":"felt like being fed 1000 bugs","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I felt like fed 1000 bugs after watching this movie, and couldn't calm myself down for like an hour... I will gave it a 10 in terms of sickening originality. Interesting movie, but AWFUL,AWFUL,AWFUL soundtrack It's like a practical joke on the audience it'll put something crawling in your stomach obviously you need to be very well prepared to watch this, let alone get any fun.... My suggestion watch it if you are really bored of having a relaxed stomach. UHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU~~~~~~~~~~ I'm speechless. this comical movie puts every other comedy in grace. "},{"Title":"Wimp Lo Rules! The Rest Stinks!","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Steve Oedekerk would have done well to simply dub over the original film Savage Killers in its entirety instead of digitally inserting himself as a main character. The new sections of the film that feature him are not funny in the least. But SOME of the re-dubbing is hilarious, and a very few of the digital additions not featuring Oedekerk are good too. Oedekerk isn't really a very funny visual performer; he reminds me of a little kid who mistakenly thinks he's funny and is desperate to prove it to you by making faces and telling jokes that make no sense. There are about 10 really good laughs, though, most of them having to do with Oedekerk's dubbing of the character Wimp Lo. I rule, baby!But Wimp and the other funny dubbing only makes up about 8 minutes worth of this 75 minute flick. Oedekerk the screenwriter (rewriter) should have stuck with it until he had at least an hour's worth of funny stuff. The face on his tongue, French aliens, gophers, the little pyramids--not only did none of these gags make sense, they weren't even funny. Not even in an absurd way. They were just...there. "},{"Title":"Kung Pow - should be Kung No","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I liked his 'thumb'-movies I saw before on the net. The trailer of this movie and the well known cow-fight-movie made me watch this one.Starting with the kung fu baby-fight scene (can't give that one away) which was great, skipping a lot of chapters until the cow-scene, and then at the end a look-alike commercial break.At the end I liked the idea of adding a trailer as if Kung Pow part 2 would be made ever. To my surprise, it wasn't a good joke but reality.Believe me put this movie on when you're doing things beside watching all the time (like cleaning up) or when you're almost drunk. Otherwise, you'll just like me be skipping chapters faster than this guy fights. "},{"Title":"Forget what the critics say, this movie is great.","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie. Forget what the critics say. Forget what your friends say. Forget what your mother says. It's basically an old Karate movie from the 70's dubbed over with hysterical voices. If you like movies like Monty Python and the Holy Grail, this is perfect.  "},{"Title":"I can hear the Four Horsemen approaching - I actually enjoyed this movie","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  My brother recommended this film to me over the summer, and while I will admit that he has been dead on in his recommendations to me thus far I absolutely could not bring myself to watch this film.  All that I had seen of it were clips of the `Chosen One' fighting the (badly executed) CGI cow in the field and knew that it was probably not something that I would really get into.I actually started watching this film in the middle and ended up in complete hysterics.  The premise is not a knew one (but perfected in Woody Allen's What's Up Tiger Lily?), but the concept of taking a Kung Fu film from the 70's and inserting your own dialogue and placing yourself in the scene via CGI is an absolute riot. Creator/Writer/Director/Star Steve Oedekerk may not have done many films that I enjoyed in the past, but his career has been an eclectic one, and this one is a gem.Some of the jokes are extremely corny, and the CGI cow is still really painful to watch, but the majority of the comedy is *very* humorous.  My recommendation would be to watch the film on DVD because it has a couple of very funny commentary tracks that made the $9 I dropped on it more than worth it.  Much more painful will be admitting to my brother after giving him a world of s*** for even watching this film that he was dead on in his recommendation once again.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"What? No award?","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow is the best spoof i have yet seen. What Steve Oedekerk did was brilliant. I don't think there have ever been any other movies like this. For how well the movie was made, I'm surprised it did not get nominated for any awards. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen did it first, and funnier","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is an unfunny movie. The humor progresses deeper and deeper into sophomoric misfires, a silly fight scene Matrix=style with a cow that failed to generate any laughs (and the theater was dead quiet, mostly in horrified silence). Woody Allen did this before and did his version much better, so if you want laughs, or at least something that won't bore you to death, rent What's up Tiger Lily and let this one collect dust!  "},{"Title":"Can't believe i fall asleep!","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  this happen to be the first movie where i fall asleep into. I'm glad i didn't buy this movie, it was a waste of my money. I have seen worst movie, by far i know this one is the worst of all. bad translation, bad humor, in fact i didn't find it funny at all. Why i rent this movie? Coz i had seen the trailer, i thought it looks great with the cow kicking and stuff. Then again, My friend and I back out after the first 1/2 hour of the movie. Its that worst.  "},{"Title":"a unique twisted comedy","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This picture didn't get good reviews because critics often don't get it! Lured by the trailer I went to see this movie with my son....the first 10 minutes of film I was really mad and couldn't believe this was a re-dubbed old martial arts movie.  As the movie went on it turned out to be hilarious! If you like Mel Brooks commedy you should appreciate Kung Pow. This movie explores, mimic and teases not only martial arts movies but the way of making action pictures.  The movie lines are really funny....there was not actual script and were remarkably improvised.  Steve Odereck dares to say what viewers think....One either will hate or  love this movie.  I ended up buying the DVD. "}{"Title":"Mommy, make the bad man stop hurting me","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I recently saw this on DVD at a friend's house. I don't know if it was the pills I was on or what but this movie was not funny. And no, I wasn't expecting a comedy masterpiece. You ever watch a comedy sketch show and occasionally they're off the mark? This movie felt like that except they were rarely on the mark. This seriously should've gone straight to video because if I had spent ten bucks to see this in the theater, I would've called Robert Ginty and had myself a little barbecue in that movie theater because, this movie is an insult. Admittedly, the special effects are actually pretty decent, what with all the splicing and stuff they did. It looks bad in some places and great in others. Some parts will make you laugh out loud but they are way too far and few in between. They try way too hard to make you laugh and IT JUST ISN'T FUNNY. The whole Matrix thing with the cow, did anybody really find that funny? The movie is just like that, with these kinds of inspired moments that probably had the studio execs falling out of their seats with laughter. Studio execs with no sense of what's actually funny. Me and a friend of mine did the same kind of voiceover thing with a scene from the Terminator and it's funnier than this entire movie and not because I had something to do with it. His teacher in the movie, he was the only one who ever got a laugh out of me. I started wondering if the movie was ever going to end so I could have time in the day to go to a park and hang myself from a tree. An almost total waste of time. Rating 1/2* out of *****. "},{"Title":"Worst film of the century (so far)","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow had so much going for it. First, there it had a cool premise -- taking an old 1970s kung fu flick and inserting new actors and dialogue. Second, it had a great piece of theme music. Third, the mono-boob woman was a dead-ringer for Tia Carrere. And the talking tongue was a bit of endearing silliness.Sadly, have I rarely seen a film fall flat so badly. The problem is not the technical wizardry that puts director-star Steve Oedekerk into the action of the 1976 film in ways the makers of Forrest Gump could only dream about a few years ago. It is brilliant, with only a few flaws. If Kung Pow receives an Oscar nomination for this, I wouldn't complain (too much).The problem is the extremely poor script. Showing a complete lack of imagination, the script is painfully bad with very few if any good lines (which is deadly for a so-called comedy). Even worse, most of the redubbed dialogue is done by the same actor (Steve Oedekerk again), the result sounding like something a high school film class might produce. One female character comes off sounding like Miss Piggy.The less said about the talking tongue, the better. The joke played well in the trailer, but is overdone (and more than a little gross) in the movie. If you want to see this sort of animation, go rent Oedekerk's Thumb Wars.Oedekerk and his actors spouted gibberish while they were filming, in order to ensure their lips would not match up with the final dubbed dialogue. The DVD offers viewers the chance to hear this original soundtrack. It is far more entertaining (and actually makes more sense!) than the final movie.  "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  According to the IMDB guidelines I cannot give a 'Single-word review' , We want to know why you liked or disliked the title.  I don't think a single word can truly describe this movie. For example, SUCKS is not complete enough.  BLOWS might imply a good review for a different genre. Here is a number of 'single-word reviews', backed up with reasons why I DISLIKED the title.AWFUL - Only 2 bits gave a chuckle. One was a flattened squirrel, the other something about 'enie-meenie-minie-moe which way will this glove go'.TERRIBLE - The cow scene was really, really dumb.REGRETFUL - Ripping karate flicks could be so funny, but this movie blew it. Let one of the Zuckers do this.Please, this movie is so bad, this is the first time I've ever registered on a site in order to write my review in order to help my fellow man. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies, a COMPLETE waste of film and time","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I liked stupid movies like Bones, Loaded Weapon 1, and other critically trashed movies, so I thought I would get a kick out of this one (pun intended).  I couldn't have been more wrong.  The ONLY redeeming values of this movie were when the baby was thrown down the mountain, the line, It is an honor for you to come beat people up in our streets, and the poking fun of dubbed movies. Other than that, this was a complete waste of film, time, effort, and whatever movie makers have to offer.  The acting was horrible.  It looked like Steve took samples of movies and put himself into them.  There were no special effects, no entertaining of anything.  The only other funny part was when the man got a hole in his chest.  Even the funny parts mentioned up above were pathetic. I couldn't even bare to finish the movie.  I wouldn't even rent this is it came out on regular television. If you have ANY sense, skip this movie at ALL costs.  Trust me.  This film will only, if even so, amuse people who fell in love with Bones, Plan 9, and other dumb flicks. "},{"Title":"Well I laughed (a lot) call me weird.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Now I wasn't expecting great art and guess what I didn't get it! The opening ten minutes of the film for me were pant wettingly funny. By being so the rest seemed a little flacid in comparison. It definitely had it's moments though. "},{"Title":"This is the worst movie ever!!!!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  At first I did not think myself qualified to review the film Kung Pow, since I did only see the first 25 minutes of it.  However, after some reflection, I realized that no sane human being would be able to endure any more than that so I figured I might as well.  This is the perfect film to take your special lady friend when you are ready go to the next level.  If she is willing to talk to you after seeing this film then it is true love.  Hold on to her!!!!What I found most disturbing  was not the poor acting, the stupid voices, the utter lack of anything remotely funny, or even the computer animated cow (that's right, I said computer animated cow).  What is most disturbing is that the producers of this film, 20th Century Fox, actually turned down other films to make this.  Someone read this script and were like it's go time! (at least that's what I like to believe Hollywood execs say).If you are considering renting this movie I would strongly urge against it. "},{"Title":"Kung Poo!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I couldn't even watch all of this horrible movie.  Steve Oedekerk needsto stick to writing and smaller roles like the security guard he playedin 'Nothing To Lose.'  He should not have cast himself as the star. Actually, he never should have written and directed this filth.  Shameon the studio that picked this film.  It is so painfully unfunny. 0 stars out  "},{"Title":"Did not live up to the expectations","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I must say that I am a big comedy fan.  I love slapstick and just enjoy that style of movie.  Mel Brooks in this regard makes great movies that I enjoy. When I saw the previews for this movie I had high hopes for a funny, enjoyable romp.  Unfortunately this movie lacked in just about every category.  The humor was forced and most of the time things made no sense. The attempt to parody the Bruce Lee movie dubbing went beyond a mockery and into pure lack of taste.  There was no comedy in this movie.  Just a bunch of random events smashed together with some puns and punch-lines.  I give it a 3 for an attempt but no results. "},{"Title":"nice try but fails to deliver the laughs","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  In 1966, a neophyte filmmaker by the name of Woody Allen came up with a humdinger of an idea for his first feature length film he took a low budget Japanese spy movie, dubbed outrageous English dialogue over the action and ended up with a cleverly zany comedy that became the prototype for all those laugh-a-minute parodies from `Airplane' to the Austin Powers movies.  He called his creation `What's Up, Tiger Lily?' and it launched his career as one of the major comedy directors of all time.Writer/director Steve Oedekerk has chosen to use essentially the same gimmick in `Kung Pow Enter the Fist,' taking two martial arts films from the 1970's and combining them with modern day footage featuring Oedekerk himself as a legendary warrior with magical powers.  Technically, Oedekerk has done a faultless job wedding the old and new footage into a seamless whole.  The trouble is that the humor is often so juvenile, obvious and lame that one tends to groan more often than laugh in the course of the film's running time.  Oedekerk certainly brings a lot of energy to the proceedings &#150; both as director as well as actor &#150; but the film is just never as witty or as funny as it so desperately wants to be.  It's a shame because individual moments do work and the concept is certainly one worth exploring. (though one need only think of the often-delirious brilliance of a show like `Mystery Science Theatre 3000' to see how this sort of self-commentary parody can and should be done).  Yet even the idea of modern actors interpolating themselves into older film footage is not exactly a novel one, having been done before and better in more sophisticated works like `Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid' and Woody Allen's own `Zelig.'One wonders by what strange law of physics a movie that runs a scant 81 minutes can seem longer than many that run several hours past that point.  But this one does.  Depending on the mood you're in, `Kung Pow' will probably seem either like a cleverly original and fun film or a total waste of time and money.  Only your own funny bone can be the judge of that. "},{"Title":"Wow I didn't know movies could get this bad","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I really don't know why I went to see this. It looked pretty bad. But the previews showed some really funny stuff. Um about all the funny stuff in the movie. Grr I hate when they do that. Of all the things I hated about the movie was girl with that stupid voice. I mean it was humorous for a minutes then it just got old. I must admit that the movie was good idea. Just a bad movie.   "}{"Title":"$7.50 is probably better spent on a decent burger combo meal","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  As a martial artist (TKD, blue belt), I went to see this movie because it appealed to my innate love of slapstick comedy (I've seen Dumb and Dumber more times than I care to admit) and the trailers suggested a decent spoof of the martial arts.Should you see this movie?  No...don't even wait for video.  Now that's quite an admission since I'm an avid video rental aficionado - you know a movie is deplorable when someone will indicate that it shouldn't even be seen on video (ala Jurassic Park III, but I digress).It is not giving anything away to say that you'll be utterly or is it udderly )  disappointed in this flick.  Thinking you'll get some laughs? The do yourself a favor and record the funny parts from TV commercials - at least then you'll have SOMETHING to laugh at. "},{"Title":"Pure Comic Genius!!!!!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I was expecting very little if not nothing from this film except the comedy styling of the same person who brought us thumb wars. Yes sure a few things are irritating in the movie, but I don't think I have seen one movie where it was perfect,  well maybe Bottle Rocket.The work that was put into this movie is over-looked because some people decide that it is just a cut-rate movie.   Obviously this movie was not intended to make eight hundred gazillion dollars,  it was a movie made for fun.I thought the movie was excellent, and if you think that this movie was humorless than you probably didn't enjoy mystery Science Theater 3000.This movie was excellent all around!  I laughed out loud all but ten minutes of the movie because it was funny.    Kung fu movies are a joke, heck even all of Jet lei's movies are a joke and this movie exposes that!In kung fu movies everything is sacred and important and this movie take advantage of that, making everything simple and straightforward make it absolutely the funniest movie of the year.   But if you like American pie 1,2 and slackers you probably won't like this because it dose not have old women boobs in it.  "},{"Title":"Krap Phooey!","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  KUNG POW ENTER THE FIST is the latest work from director and actor Steve Oedekerk who is suffering from bad comedy syndrome(the stage which he makes himself laugh more than others).  Honestly, I've seen Oedekerk's other films, and I wasn't impressed them and wouldn't reccommend them (anybody here enjoy ACE VENTURA 2 WHEN NATURE CALLS?) His other films were bad, but this is different, THIS IS HORRIBLE!!!! Now he does the old fashion let's dub my voice over the soundtrack of a classic film and try to make the film funny.  But Oedekerk does more than that, he digitaly inserts himself into the picture so he can appear in the film as well (he also suffers from vanity).  Now I'll be honest, making comments while watching a old movie can be entertaining.  Hell, take Crow, Tom Servo, and Joel (or Mike) for instance, MYSTERY SCIENCE THEATER 3000 (MST3K) is one of the most entertaining shows of all time, and the movie was very enjoyable as well.  But what Oedekerk lacks compared to the residents of the Satelite of Love is humor and wit.  Where MST3K is humor that would entertain the audience it's aiming for, adults, KUNG POW doesnt'.  No instead KUNG POW is the kind of movie that entertains those obnoxious teenage boys who found CORKY ROMANO to be a classic comedy (which it's more of a classic nightmare). Where does this film fail?  Everywhere.  I think the more impossible task is to find where does the film succeed.  What is so funny about a man who has a tongue with a face on it that shreaks?  Or a woman who is a uni-breast?  Or the enemy of the movie are French aliens?  And the heroine squeals like a pig almost every scene she is in?  Oedekerk had a pretty good idea on dubbing a movie by adding humor to it.  But he is so hung on himself that he turned it into a disaster.  Why didn't he get other comedians to do the dubbing of the other voices?  And it would have been a lot funnier if it was improvised instead of scripted.  Just think, getting funny people like Jack Black, Steve Zhan, Eddie Murphy, Sarah Silverman, Margret Cho, David Cross, etc. people who are great at improvising to come in and do their comedic lines as they are watching the film.  That would make a great movie, it could be a cult classic.  But no, like I said earlier Odedkerk instead love himself too much (or nobody else thought it was funny) that he dubbed all of the voices.  And when the villian speaks, it sounds like Oedekerk angry, when it's a woman, it sounds like Oedekerk sounding like a woman. And to make matters worse, KUNG POW also has outtakes in the end, which are simply not funny.  I watched on Ebert and Roper last year that they were talking about outtakes at the end of bad movies like TOMCATS and POOTIE TANG that simply were not funny.  And you know it's a very bad sign when the outtakes aren't funny, when the movie isn't funny.  Hell, the outtakes at the end of GRUMPY OLD MEN were hysterical, and Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau (god rest their souls) weren't trying that hard to be funny, they had that talented gift!  KUNG POW goes much futher with it's outtakes, Oedekerk has real outtakes mixed with phoney and planned outtakes that aren't that funny.  It was funny in A BUG'S LIFE and MONSTERS INC., with KUNG POW, it's just pathetic.  WARNING  there's another horrible comedy out right now called SLACKERS, along with this film avoid both. Go see enjoyable comedies like ORANGE COUNTY, or OCEAN'S 11, or SHALLOW HAL, or ROYAL TENENBAUMS.  Catch some serious excellent films like BLACK HAWK DOWN, ALI, HARRY POTTER, LORD OF THE RINGS, I AM SAM, SPY GAME, VANILLA SKY, and A BEAUTIFUL MIND, IN THE BEDROOM, GOSFORD PARK, and LANTANA, and BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF(films that I haven't seen yet).  Or just sit down and read a book.  You get more productive things done by watching or doing any of the suggestions above or sitting on the toilet than watching KUNG POW or SLACKERS.  But as for KUNG POW, it is officially the worst movie of 2002, and I will be amazed to see something be much worse (unless the Spice Girls release a new film). * (out of five stars) "},{"Title":"About the stupidest thing you'll see all year","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow Enter the Fist had me beffudled, stunned, and sometimes in laughter.  In it's funniest moments, it can be seen that the film does have an audience, but when it's stupid, my god.  This film does something I have rarely seen a film do- it goes BELOW stupidity into a sub-genre of comedy that will make some cringe and some in stitches.  Writer/director/co-producer/lead star Steve Oedekerk, who was responsible for Ace Ventura 2, Nothing to Lose and some projects for Imagine Entertainment, takes on a form of comedy I have seen before in a sense; ten years ago a comedy (much better than this one) was made spoofing Night of the Living Dead with all the sound dropped and new, funnier dialogue put in place.  This technique is used in Kung Pow as Oedekerk drops all the sound from two kung fu movies from the seventies, edits them together and even brings himself into the action to create a parody with such brilliant (sense the slight sarcasm) gags as the one breasted woman, the milk fighting cow, the chosen one as a baby, and a computer animated lion in the sky who finishes his mufasa-like speech to the chosen one with this is CNN.I would reccomend this comedy to one particular group- zoned out druggies who are fans of kung fu movies and want to laugh their asses off.  Others, procede with caution and see if it pays off.  It almost did for me.  B- "},{"Title":"piece of $hit that i could have made in backyard","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Not to say my friends and I went in with high hopes but we expected and entertaining move, two hours later we walked out and realized the movie could have been condensed into 10 minutes and that a single person could have done everything in it. In fact the only part of the movie which we were still discussing when it ended was how they did the one breasted woman. To say the least this movie is funny in only a few sections and is nowhere near theatre quality, perhaps rent it on video howerver I would rather rent the Zucker's Kentucky  Fried Movie for a good kungfu spoof. My rating = 2/10 "},{"Title":"Oedekerk's one man band blows; the CG steals the show","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  While sitting through the early minutes of Kung Pow Enter the Fist, I quickly got the sense that this was simply playtime for Steve Oedekerk, as if he were back in grade school trying to impress the other kids at recess with wacky voices, fart jokes, and a superior physique.  In fact, I would not at all be surprised if Oedekerk had conceived this film in grade school and had to earn just enough clout in Hollywood (and spend enough time at the gym) to be able to make it according to his vision.  However well-written you felt Ace Ventura When Nature Calls, Patch Adams, or Jimmy Neutron were, for example, this is decidedly worse.Oedekerk's jab at bad voice-over acting done by Americans for Asian films is cute, however it's a lot less endearing by the end of film (yes, it's not just a running gag, it is in fact the entire film).  Unfortunately, beyond the obligatory Matrix parody (yuck and yuck), this film does not seem to make any effort to be a well-rounded parody of Hong-Kong action movies and/or martial arts movies.  It's hard to tell what exactly it is a parody of (What on earth is the deal with the one-breasted chick? Why is the tongue supposed to be funny?  Who...what...oh forget it).  I hate to say this, but even Scary Movie and Not Another Teen Movie were more clear and more satisfying in their approach (but not by much).There are *some* good laughs to be had in this film.  The computer animation in Kung Pow steals the show, though that is really not saying much.  I have to hand it to him though Oedekerk's Lion King parody had me in stitches. It was by far the funniest gag, and really the only justification I could give for seeing this film at all.  Kung Pow is the worst comedy I've seen since Oedekerk's Nutty Professor Two.  In fact, Kung Pow's own hints at a sequel are some of the funniest moments in the movie, though perhaps for the wrong reasons.I would give this film a 2 on a 10 point scale "},{"Title":"A-Grade trash to the first degree.","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I am still scratching my head as to just what kind of an audience this kind of movie was intended for. Apparently not the test audience I saw this movie with. Like FREDDY GOT FINGERED for 2001, KUNG POW ENTER THE FIST will definitely take home the award and distinction for being the first worst movie of 2002.There was absolutely nothing funny about this film at all. Writer-director Steve Oedekerk (responsible for cinematic gems such as THE NUTTY PROFESSOR II THE KLUMPS and PATCH ADAMS) portrays the main heroic character aptly titled the Chosen One. The premise for this movie is pathetic - loosely based on the 1976 kung-fu film SAVAGE KILLERS, Oederkerk finds himself inside that movie as he avenges the death of his parents at the hands of the evil kung-fu legend, Master Pain, a.k.a. Betty. Yes, you heard me right - this is actually a 'film within a film'. KUNG POW ENTER THE FIST is actually THE 1976 film SAVAGE KILLERS that has been dissected to create a spoof, the tragic tone changed to accommodate a comedic melange.Like SCARY MOVIE did for the horror genre and like NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE did for the teen movie genre, KUNG POW ENTER THE FIST makes fun of the martial arts genre. It parodies snippets from films such as ROMEO MUST DIE where x-rays are used to show the effect of the bodily strike - and in KUNG POW, we get to see what happens when someone gets a foot up their butt. Priceless. Another priceless moment would be scenes that parody THE MATRIX where we get to see a cow shooting milk out of its teats as Oederkerk dodges them slow-motion style. The only reaction that scene got from the audience I was with were a few dry coughs.Just like SCARY MOVIE and other films of its genre such as FREDDY GOT FINGERED and BUBBLE BOY, audiences are encouraged to check their brain at the door. Unfortunately, you'll also want to check your eyes and ears as well as this was most definitely one of the WORST things that I have ever bared witness to in my entire life.Comedy can be funny. Unintentional comedy is the best - but when something that intentionally sets out to be funny turns out to be painstakingly awful tripe (example, SCARY MOVIE 2), you will find yourself in an awkward situation, such as asking yourself, Why am I watching this garbage?I would never pay money to see a movie like this. The worst thing is that the screening was free and I still feel like it robbed an hour and a half of my life.MY GRADE - 0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever!!!","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" And I'm not just saying that. It is actually right at the top of my list for the worst movie I have ever seen.This movie may have about 3 or 4 funny bits at most - one is right at the start when the woman picks up the baby and then keeps rolling him down the hill. That's IT! This is not even funny in a gross-out or juvenile sort of way. Imagine 'Scary Movie' (which is probably the funniest adolescent humour movie I've ever seen) drained of all swearing, nudity, gross-out gags, fart gags, blow job gags and everything else 13 year old boys find funny and you've got this film. It's like a bunch of bratty 7 year olds, who haven't even heard of the word dildo before, cracked themself up for a while dubbing lines before getting bored and going to the park. I could go on and on but this film zero imagination, inventiveness and is barely even offensive. Worst movie ever!!! Now go out and burn all the copies you can find. "},{"Title":"Terrible, don't waste your time","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I usually finish every movie I start, even the bad ones. But this movie is so bad that I couldn't even bring myself to finish it. I only watched it because a friend lent it to me one day after football practice and I had nothing else to do. I would've broken the DVD in half if it was mine. I probably should've have cause this movie made absolutely no sense. It was perhaps one of the worst spoofs I've ever seen. If you want to watch a good spoof, rent Airplane or Scary Movie. But what ever you do DON'T SEE THIS MOVIE! I only watched the first 30 minutes, but it was was 30 minutes of my life that I will never get back. I pity anybody that actually bought the movie and watched the whole thing. Do yourself a favor and actually watch something good, like Apocalypse Now or Office Space. "},{"Title":"This is SHEER GENIUS!!!","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I am an adult. I've had a good education and I am regarded as somewhat intelligent! SO! When I say this movie is sheer genius, you can BET on it!!!! Yes, it has some slow spots. However, it is so hilarious that it had me rolling on the floor in front of my own couch. If you can't GET the humor in this, you have no sense of humor at all. I think Steve Oedekirk is one of the funniest men alive. FOUR STARS! And, incidentally, I USUALLY prefer very serious movies...but my husband, one early Saturday morning, called me in and said, You gotta see THIS one. He was right. I LOVED it!!! There are some lines in here that can cause you to nearly collapse laughing. There is slapstick, lunacy, and every beautiful aspect of laughter in this flick. It should've gotten some award for funniest piece in a long time. I must've watched it seven times, and then I bought it!!! And, when I watch other Kung Fu type movies with my hubby, I'm always yelling out Oh, CHOSEN ONE!!!! GREAT FUN! SIMPLY GREAT, BIG FUNNN!!! "}{"Title":"The Worst Movie Ever?","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Usually, I'm pretty lenient with movies. It takes a lot for me to actually turn it off. This movie. This movie was one of the few that I actually did turn off.Maybe it's because I can't stand dubbed movies. But I'm betting it's because this is truly one of the worst movies I've ever seen. I watched this movie for about an hour with disgust. I'd seen the previews and thought, hey, maybe this is a good movie. But, no. This is one of the stupidest movies to ever exist. Save your money and don't ever rent it, let alone buy it. If you see a hint of this movie, save yourself the torture and turn it off. "},{"Title":"Kung pow - a movie for the insane","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I've watched this movie at least 6 times since I first saw it on one of the movie channels on TV. I can honestly say that this is the funniest movie that I have ever seen, and the people involved in making it are sheer geniuses. As soon as I saw it the first time I telephoned my friends and told them to tune in to the channel that it was on, and the day after we all went out to buy the DVD, 6 of us in all. It is unfortunate however that there have been no sequels released as far as I know although at the end of the film, sequels are previewed. I have searched, but to no avail. If anyone knows better maybe they could inform me. The movie is absolute joy from start to finish, and my ribs ached so much that I had to watch it again is disbelief of what I had just seen. A truly awesome movie and PLEASE PLEASE MAKE MORE. "},{"Title":"there is no god","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The lowest the IMDb will allow me to give this movie is 1, well it doesn't even deserve that.This movie sucks so much, it blows my mind that it was even made. I could only sit through the first 10 min, before I had to shut it off because I was physically becoming angry. I could feel myself becoming dumber the more I watched it.If I watched the entire movie, I seriously believe that I could killed someone after.Don't even bother, it's not even funny in a crappy way. I could crap a better movie that this abomination. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have seen","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I suppose you could consider something in here a spoiler, though it is not much of one...I mean...there's nothing even in this movie TO spoil.I have heard that The Sweetest Thing, and Shakes the Clown are the two worst movies ever made (bad enough to make you puke), however I have not seen them, making this the worst movie I myself, have ever seen. Although it is almost fun to try to catch all of the odd things they put in the movie (i.e. different outfits on people in different shots of the same scene, or the Hooters restaurant), it isn't worth an hour and 22 minutes of your life just for that. There are possibly two seriously funny lines throughout the whole entire movie. I'm a man too ya know, I go pee pee standing up and in the beginning when the baby rolls down the hill and gets picked up Aww so cute... and then gets thrown back down the hill ...bye-bye. My friend called this movie true art, however, I do not see how any movie that has the line My nipples look like Milk Duds, can be art. Which is why this movie gets only 1 star out of 10. "},{"Title":"Kung Pow Enter the Fist","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  'Kung Pow' is a movie that would have been served better as a five-minute sketch on SNL. Or, it could have worked better as a martial arts spoof a la 'Scary Movie'. Instead, the movie is basically an old kung-fu movie with voices dubbed over in silly style by the movie's director and star Steve Oedekerk. At first, the dubbing seems moderately amusing, but there is no doubt that this spoof wears thin well before its halfway mark. Although, it has its moments like the cow-fight that does a good job at poking fun at 'The Matrix'. In a movie where the laughs are few and far between, it needed more moments like these.Rating 5/10 or (2 stars) "},{"Title":"Underrated brilliance.","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest movie I have ever seen. I spent 81 minutes trying not to wet myself. You have probably seen some of Steve Oedekerk's (The Chosen One, writer, director, producer, dubbed voices) other work, for instance Bruce Almighty, Patch Adams, Nothing to Lose or the Ace Ventura movies. With this one he takes a completely different route - madcap, nonsensical comedy. Take Mystery Science Theater 3000, any Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker movie, and an episode of The Simpsons and put them in a flaming sack full of snakes. Tie sack up. Feed sack to various rodents. You've got Kung Pow.Clever editing and dubbery of a 1977 kung-fu movie 'Tiger and Crane Fists' and the insertion of zany new scenes is what this movie is. The jokes can only be appreciated by those with either a sick, twisted sense of humour or an open mind. The jokes are clever yet stupid, and occasionally stoop to crude and/or toilet humour. Excellent.What you may notice is that people absolutely love this movie or completely despise it. Literally. Check the detailed user ratings and you'll see what I mean.So, if you want every conversation you ever have to turn into a frenzied quote-fest of lines like I spanked you as a baby, I'll spank you now or I've got some yellow liquid for your popcorn... and it's non-dairy! then watch this movie. Otherwise, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Annoyingly unfunny","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The first few minutes of this movie is quite funny, then it gets really annoying after. The concept and technical aspect of it is ingenious, however, the material is really not funny enough. More so, when Oedekerk tried hard to be Mike Myers.   "},{"Title":"EEWWWW!","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  4.7 is way too high a score for this movie.  I think it was the worst movie ever, massacring satires from the great kung-fu movies.  I gave it a one, with no redeeming qualities, horribly crude humor, and a waste of my hard-earned $5.00. "},{"Title":"Do not throw away your life","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The only reason I saw this in theatres is because a friend would only go if we all went to see this.  All of us quickly regretted that decision.The movie had a good premise - and I was looking forward to a good *dumb* movie... but it was anything but that. It was painful.  If the dub hadn't been done the whole time, or only just for one or maybe two characters the movie would have been passable.  As it was, I implore you not to throw away your life.  Stay as far away from this as possible.  Mutitlate your body over seeing this.Later. "},{"Title":"This movie sucked","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  OMG this movie was the worst movie I have seen in along time.  I watch a lot of movies and this is the stupidest movie I have ever seen.  You have to laugh because it is so stupid.  This movie is as bad as Godzilla 2000 "}{"Title":"worst movie ever","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have ever seen!  I would have walked out on it, had I not paid the $7.00(US) enterance fee.  The idea I think, is somewhat well, but the acting is horrible, the only special effects they had were ok, but that's about it.  WOST MOVIE EVER!!!! "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Didn't make me laugh at all.  I saw previews and it looked really really bad.  Since it was on Cinemax, I figured I might as well take a look at it before I write it off as really bad.  Would have driven me to suicide if I didn't switch channels. "},{"Title":"Too lame!!!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  OK, I'll make this short.I am sorry I ever even thought about watching this movie. This is possibly the most awful piece of crap I have ever laid my eyes upon.The story is weak, the execution is weak, the idea is bad, the idea with the sync is bad AND badly executed. It just isn't funny. Some people should have their heads examined. If not before, then at the very least AFTER they watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Terrible...what a waste","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I have no problem with ridiculous spoof comedy...but this is simply a waste of time. It's as if someone just did a bad dub job over someone else's movie...but NOT funny, just stupid...Like perhaps a drunk frat guy would find this amusing... What pisses me off is that there are so many really, really good low-budget films out there that have no chance of being seen due to lack of $$$$ but this piece of garbage gets a NATIONAL RELEASE because someone had the money???? This is why Hollywood has the horrible reputation that it does... "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This was perhaps the worst movie I have ever tried to see, and I like almost anything.  We rented this and I could not get past the first 10 minutes. Even my 9 year old son thought it stank.DON'T waste your time with this one!!! "},{"Title":"I wish I could have given it a 0","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  while watching this film I actually checked my watch, more than once.  I was hoping that the travesty I was witnessing would soon be over. Unfortunately I was only 25 min into the film.  I can't believe I actually sat through the entire hour and 15 min or so of this horrendous excuse for a movie.  I would recommend it to prison wardens of inmates who have committed terrible crimes against humanity, because to watch this film more than once is truly cruel and unusual punishment. "},{"Title":"Not even funny by accident","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It took 4 tries to get through about the first half of this movie.  There are a lot of things intended to be clever, but all the site gags are flat and rerun.  If my dvd player could vomit, it would have.  please, don't waste your money, or encourage them to make another movie like this by buying or renting this garbage "},{"Title":"An unfunny man tries to be funny with a kung fu theme.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I almost didn't vote because I couldn't give it a zero.  It really was that bad!  Who can make a piece of junk like this?!.. The money used for this film should of been spent on something that could of done some good for society.  "},{"Title":"Easily one of the WORST movies ever!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This was hands down one of the worst movies I've ever seen in my life.  What were they thinking when they made this movie?  I couldn't believe we actually rented this piece of junk.  I couldn't finish the movie, because it was so unbelievably stupid.  I laugh very easily.  I like all kinds of stupid comedy movies, but this one was just so annoying.  I didn't even laugh once.  What a horrible movie...I'd punch the smack out of those who made this movie.Grade F "},{"Title":"Who thought this was funny?","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Who in their right mind thought this film was funny? There was never a funny moment, and it was so bad it made me want to cry. I cannot believe people spent money to see this. If it doesn't get the Razzie for the worst film of 2002, I will know the end of the world is coming. The jokes were cheap shots, the Matrix spoofs are tiring, and I would like to find Steve Oedekerk and personally kick his ass for thinking this was good. Referencing (several times) what would happen in the sequel scared me. God help us if there is a sequel. Unfortunately for my brother-in-law who rented this, he will never get his money back. Him, my sister, and I watched this together and we all suffered for it, and regret spending the time to watch it. My advice is to not ever bother renting this, for you would only make Steve Oedekerk think that people like it and he might actually make a sequel. Save yourselves the trouble-it's painstakingly bad. I give it 0 out of ****. "}{"Title":"Funny for maybe 10 minutes...","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Then this film degenerates into what could easily be the worst film I have ever witnessed.  Its only saving grace is a couple of laughs delivered fairly early on.  The film overuses all of gimmicks which range from stupid to painfully stupid.  The face in tongue is a great example of this.  It was not funny in the beginning and was worse at the end.  The plot is unbearable for even a spoof, and in the end, the film simply bores the viewer.Rating 1.5/10 (rounded down to 1 for imdb) "},{"Title":"Has the makings of the biggest piece of sh*t Hollywood has ever produced.....","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'm really not even going to waste my time reviewing this movie. All I can say is, it's not even an hour and a half, the intentionally funny jokes aren't humorous at all because they're flat, the dubbing on a level of annoyance, would be excruciating. A friend of mine recommended this movie to me, and as soon as I see him, I'm going to smack him upside the head. This is an implication that Hollywood movies are really going to hell. Whatever talentless executive(s) greenlit this movie, should be taken out into the street and beaten with a stick. This is one of those movies where you're supposed to leave your brain at the door, which basically means watching a movie that is supposed to be a comedy, but really, is better off being used as toilet paper, just like Slackers.Grade F (If there were something lower, then I'd grade it that) "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I just finished forcing myself to sit through this travesty of a movie. I feel it's my responsibility to fellow human beings to warn them about this movie. First off I would like to make it clear that I enjoy stupid movies. I can watch Not another teen movie and appreciate it for its intentions. I watch Zoolander and I love it cause it was stupid well done. The thought process of this movie Hey lets take old kungu films super impose Steve Oedekerk and dub over them and add some stuff. It will be funny. The unfortunate reality is that after picking the scenes to dub over from two old kungu fu movies Steve Oedekerk realizes that its not funny. So he adds all types of rushed and simple dialogue that is not even remotely funny. Some much happens in the movie that is just so out of place and poorly thought out. Oedekerk does most of the voices and he really is not funny. His acting is weak with his one goofy expression. I still don't see the reason why he is in this movie. To show he has been going to the gym lately? I waited impatiently for this movie to come out and I got it the day of release because I enjoy those kinds of silly movies. This movie quickly filled the top spot for my Worst movie of all time chart. I will be sure to avoid anything with Oedekerk's name on it from now on. Absolutely NOT recommended.0.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I've never been so annoyed...","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I've never been so annoyed so quickly by a movie. It starts out funny but quickly takes a turn for the worst. Within the first 30 minutes I just couldn't take it anymore. I would definately NOT recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Relentless","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie forces itself upon you whether you like it or not.  The whole joke with the fake dubbed voices was funny in moderation in Wayne's World. Here, they beat you over the head with it because it is the only joke they have.  Did Steve finance this movie himself?  How could anyone else have wanted their name, let alone their money, involved? "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung-Pow sucked, really bad.  It wasn't even a real movie, the guy dubbed himself into an old kung-fu movie.  I didn't even see the whole movie, because after an hour into it I wanted to stab myself in the head with a pitch fork, but instead I walked out.  Rating, -10 out of 10.  Oh yes, it is that bad. "},{"Title":"Waste of Money","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie back in January, because my friends and I missed the screening of Black Hawk Down we went to see Kung Pow not knowing anything about it, but if we knew then what we now know, we would have run from the cinema and not returned until it had stoped screening. The worst movie ever comes to mind, but then you would be giving it credit. I would not even send my worst enemies to this film. I'am not going to say anything about this film because it will only bring up the bad memories and then I will cry thinking about the money I lost (and the brain cells). I have never seen so many people walk out of a movie. All I have to say is to thoses people wanting to see this movie. Don't even if you get it offered it for free don't take it. YOU WILL REGRET IT.My spelling has gone down the drain as has my I.Q "},{"Title":"Save your time","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I often watch a movie and even if I do not like it I understand how people with other views, lifestyles, sense of humor, etc. would like the movie. While watching Kung Pow the only thing that interested me was the fact that how in the world does anyone enjoy this type of movie, including the artists(used loosely) who made the film.  I enjoy a parody as much as the next person, but this is ridiculous.  If you really have to see it for yourself, download it or wait for it to come on television(do not even pay to rent it).  Trust me I downloaded it and I am still mad.  I have seen pornos that has better content than this. "},{"Title":"Possibly the Worst All-Time Movie Ever","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Let's put it this way - Halfway through the film I turned around to find that the twenty or so people that had been seated behind me - had all left the theater. That was just before I walked out! Since comments are required to be at least four lines - it SUCKED! "},{"Title":"Why waste time?  Watch anything else...","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This probably the second time that I walked out during the movie. This moive is imcomplete and disoriented and most of all not funny at all.  I expected to see LOL stuff thoughout the movie.  But all I could think was how to get my money back.... "}{"Title":"What is this?","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I initially thought this movie was a spoof or parody of Chinese Kung Fu movies. Unfortunately, when I watched it, I realised I had not only wasted my money, but my IQ had dropped by a hundred points. It is amazing such movies are actually allowed to be made, since these movies are an insult to movie makers in general. First of all, the voices are really stupid. A lot of the characters have tinny, cartoony voices. The dialogue is also very stupid. There's a part where a man speaks for very long with no sound until the last few words. So you just see him moving his mouth and not hear anything.I'm not against spoofs or parodies, but at least movies like Not Another Teen Movie and Scary Movie take the effort to ACT and spoof other movies. Kung Pow just takes an old movie, cuts and rearranges portions, change the dialogue and call it a movie.I always thought such cheap editing was only done and then distributed on the Internet. Making anyone pay just to watch this is criminal. I wouldn't even watch it again if any paid me to.This movie gets my vote for worst movie of all. "},{"Title":"What is this pile of bollocks?","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Where's that zero star rating when you need one? My recent winter holiday in Arizona was filled with good friends, food & pleasant moments. All I can think now is that I shouldn't had paid for a ticket to see a Z-grade flick known as Kung Pow, the one dark stain in my otherwise great holiday. It looked funny from the advert poster, but it is not. Heck this is NOT even what I call a real movie; watching the grass grow would be more exciting. The so-called female character is just SO annoying. The main guy who directed this stuff obviously is in love with himself by churning out old, tired, half-baked jokes at himself while leaving the audience in the dust. Everything in the movie has been beaten to death by other movies. Ooh look, its yet another Matrix joke. Great. Been there, done that.For those without brains will surely like this movie. I have a soft spot for a simple, well-made parody movies (like the ones with Leslie Nielsen), even if sometimes they try too hard to be funny. But all I can say is that Kung Pow is so incredibly stupid, it's beyond redemption. "},{"Title":"WHAT?!?!?!","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY!!! Back in 1966 Woody Allen made the film What's Up Tiger Lily? He took a full-fledged Japanese movie and wiped out the sound-track. Then he put in his own sound with voice overs and everything. IT WAS RATHER FUNNY!!! Kung Pow took a Chinese film and trashed the sound-track. Then HORRIBLE voices that aggravate your ears after a while, were placed in. About 4 modern characters were integrated into the film, and a whole slew of potty jokes were inserted into the dialogue. Even the jokes weren't funny for bathroom humor. The flashes between characters back and forth became extremely annoying with the sounds added. The female romantic character from the original film's voice was done by a man using a female voice and she always said ee-oo-ee-oo-ee at the end of her lines. The last time she said this it was dragged out WAY too long. The commercials for this film made it look like something along the lines of Zoolander. Basically a fun mindless movie. However the commercials were more entertaining than the film. When those scenes were put into context they lost all their humor. Also, certain attempts at intelligent jokes were really jokes overplayed, like the Lion King's face in the clouds. All I can say, is what was the director/main star thinking? When he sat down to look at his final print, did he honestly enjoy it? This film isn't even good for children, as the simple jokes are interspersed with swear words. One last time... DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY!!! "},{"Title":"Very few laughs...Thus far the worst movie of the year...Worst movie I've seen since Tomcats","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is terrible.  There are few funny parts and too many repetitive bits that just get annoying. The idea was decent and could have been so much more. Instead this movie contains unfunny jokes and fifth grade humor. It was about 90 minutes too long. This guy should stick to directing and staying out of his movies so he can hire people who are actually funny (i.e. Jim Carrey in Ace Ventura 2.) This is the worst movie I've seen since viewing Tomcats. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all cost!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I never wrote a review about a film, but I felt it's my duty to warn people about crap. I can't think of any movie that is worst no matter how much I try. The jokes get tiring after the first few minutes of the movie, and the lack of voice talents surely do not help. Avoid at all cost. "},{"Title":"Steve Oedekerk Should Be Forced to Publicly Apologize","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I gave this piece of utter garbage a one-star rating because IMDB doesn't allow 0 stars.  Kung Pow had no redeeming qualities at all.  It was without a doubt one of the worst movies I've ever seen, and definitely the worst I've ever seen released in theaters as opposed to going straight to video.  I couldn't sit through the whole thing and walked out after the first hour.There are no funny jokes and nothing at all clever about this movie. Aside from being a really poor imitation of What's Up, Tiger Lily?, the script had all the genius of a stoned 13-year old with a lobotomy.  I can't believe this even made it into theaters!Steve Oedekerk should be forced to return every dollar he took in making this movie and then publicly apologize for spawning this terrible, terrible movie.  He should be banned from ever making another one.I can't believe what I just saw! "},{"Title":"Where Was The Humour?","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" My brother and I went to see this movie and had planned on a great night out. When it started, I knew I was in for a very long boring night. People were walking out of the movie theater 5 minutes after it started. I sat there continuing to watch until my brother finally said lets go. That was the only time I smiled in the theater. We went straight home as the night was just ruined. The acting was pathetic. The fighting cow seen was stupid beyond reason. If you want to waste money on renting or buying the DVD then go ahead. But your taste in movies and humor must come from the bowels. Spend your money elsewhere. Maybe a night out to dinner with family than watch this. From younger brother would be saying the same thing. "},{"Title":"Very Un-Funny and Boring","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is without doubt one of the most un-funniest movies I have ever seen. Sure, everyone says it's meant to be stupid and a parody.This is basically a parody of Kung Fu movies. With this guy just dubbing voices. I really don't need to explain this plot, it is basically about a Chosen One.There have been plenty of good parody movies like Scary Movie, Scream, Top Secret, Flying High and The Naked Gun. This was lame, boring and had the stupidest humour I have ever seen. I love some movies with stupid humour, this was just way too dumb and pathetic.½/5. "},{"Title":"avoid seeing this film at all costs","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" After watching this movie I came to the conclusion that there are worse movies than resident evil and this is it. Kung Pow is unbearably, ludicrously, pathetically terrible.The film focuses around a martial artist (Steve Oedekirk) with a magic tongue who is the one. He is chosen by the gods (or whatever, don't really care) to vanquish evil and get revenge on the people who killed his family (i think, cant remember). What follows is one irritating and pathetic scene followed by another. After seeing and hearing the same jokes for the umpteenth time in a row ( this is about 10 minutes in) you already begin to regret wasting time and money on such a travesty of a movie. It still puzzles me how anyone in their right mind could adore this movie in any way. People and animals excrete things more entertaining than this. I am going to finish off with some words of advice. Choose life, don't choose Kung pow. "},{"Title":"WTF??????","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  How is this movie not rated as the worst movie ever??? This movie is beyond horrible. I would rather watch a midget paint purple paint on a drunk camel's back before watching this movie again. The plot is horrible. The acting is horrible. The scene with the cow is probably the dumbest scene in movie history. Anyone who voted this movie as a 10 deserves to be institutionalized. I have watched this movie sober and while drinking, but the only common thread is that it stinks both ways... "}{"Title":"I would have given it less than 1 if possible","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This was one of if not the worst movie I've ever seen.  It was painful to watch, and I kept wondering why I was watching it.  Don't bother to waste your time watching this, and go and watching something better. "},{"Title":"Absolutely the WORST movie I've ever seen!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I've seen a lot of bad movies but this one takes the cake.  I thought it would be sort of funny in a juvenile way but I was truly unprepared for what I saw.  After watching what seemed like 2 hours of the films tired jokes and noises, I was ready to turn it off (something I never do) when I realized it was only 45 minutes in.  My only consolation is that I rented it and didn't see it in the theater.  DO NOT, I repeat, DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!!! "},{"Title":"Terrible Movie!  Not funny, not even worth renting!!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I really liked The Naked Gun, Dumb and Dumber, Airplane and those type of silly comedies.  This movie was a complete waste of time!  Only once did I laugh, luckily the film is only 81 minutes long.  The jokes were more embarrassing than funny.  Anyone who watches this trash and finds it humorous would laugh at a freight train running over a box of kittens. "},{"Title":"I walked out in the middle","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  In the over 40 years that I have been old enough to go to movies without my parents, I can't remember ever walking out before.  This time, however, I did.The only funny parts in the entire movie were in the previews, and they were taken out of context.  In context, even those weren't funny.  It was total garbage from beginning to middle.  From middle to end, I wouldn't know.If you are considering going to see this movie, do yourself a favor and see something else.  Anything else. "},{"Title":"Waste of time.","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I was hoping for something like what Naked Gun did for cop movies, this one would do for kung fu movies,  ERROR. This is, by far, the worst movie I have ever seen. Do not waste your cash or your time to go see this fiasco. The only reason people were laughing during this film was when they realized how stupid it was to have paid to be in the theater. Avoid at all cost. "},{"Title":"stupidest comedy yet","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  ***MAY BE SPOILERS***well..I thought it was going to put me to sleep quite actually. there are a few scenes that condoned animal and child abuse in here, just like Scary movie had done in it. Yes I know its fake, but in reality is domestic violence ever funny? No. Is murder ever funny? No. What ever happened to Marx brothers or Abbott and costello type of comedies? Where was the originality in the film?  To the ones who thought it was above a 5...why? it was stupid, degrading and very unfunny...the only thing that kept me from sleeping was the roar of the audiences laughter at stupidity. I just wonder how many stupid people actually fell for and went back to this attempt at comedy? My rating isnt on here because it is a negative 10..it is that bad.  "},{"Title":"Masterful","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" There are only two ways to master the world. One is through Kung Fu. There are only two ways of becoming a Kung Fu master by doing the work, or by dedicated watching of certain movies.This is no relaxing work in general, my little crickets, and this movie may need some guidance from someone trained in the inner art. Take my word for it that hidden beneath some repetitious, dumb, childish, cardboard humor this movie contains the final secrets for those waiting to get through the eleventh portal.Naturally, you cannot watch this in its English translation, rather you need to see it in the original language, actually several languages. But be careful; one character is there to throw you off and is obfuscating in glossolalia.Thanks go to Quenten Tarantino. His uncredited efforts to bring this to the masses could result in a massive shift toward enlightenment.Also, the tongue-works rocked!Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Still rates as one of the funniest movies of all time!","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" If you have not seen this movie, grab it from your local video shop and enjoy! I watched it again recently and found myself laughing along with the ridiculous voice overs and bad hair actors! After watching modern comedies with millions wasted on rubbish scripts and actors, I say wake up Hollywood and look at this genre that actually is funny! Sure it is corny in parts but what comedy isn't? Kids will love it too as much as the adults so have some great family laugh therapy. I hope they proceed with the sequel which I am sure will be rubbished by critics but will make the millions of fans of which I am one laugh even more. See it and enjoy! "},{"Title":"LMAO Funny!","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I was browsing Hulu and found this, and it only took 2 minutes to hook me. The opening scene is HILARIOUS, and the rest of the movie doesn't disappoint. I would go on and on and on about why it's so good... but all I can say is SEE THIS MOVIE!Some others on IMDb may call it stupid, but it's a brilliant comedy that really takes the p*ss out of dubbed Kung Fu movies. The inclusion of old footage with new is great, and whilst it's obvious where the joins are that is a part of the charm. Every time a face is super-imposed it looks rubbish, but I took that to just be another one of the jokes. Kind of like bad Sci-Fi... if it's bad enough, then it becomes funny.If you like it, then check out Hercules Returns. Another dubbing classic http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0107103/ "},{"Title":"Kung Cow Enter The Spoof","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" People who have given this film a low rating are far too opinionated to understand that this film is a SPOOF and most of the bad acting is intentional, the bad dubbing; intentional, the plot; intentional etc etc etc.Enjoy this film for films sake. If you truly LOVE films then WATCH IT! Give it a chance. It wont KILL YOU.Superb CRAZY comedy that will have you in tears.Even watching sections of it on You Tube does not do it justice. This IS a film for fans of the Police Squad/Naked Gun/Airplane/Hot Shots/Ace Ventura movies. (Scary Movie not included)Funny as HELL. "}{"Title":"Very funny to begin with............ then too far","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" As far as modern dubbed Asian action comedies go this was probably one of the best starting out with an hilarious kung Fu baby beating up some bad guys, what's not to like! (it's been a while since i've seen this movie so i might be thinking of something else)After that however the movie only gets worse and worse as the jokes are recycled over and over again and we can't be bothered even to fake a laugh anymore, not only that but the storyline, which i've forgotten, is so weak that there is nothing to fall back on when the slapstick runs out and we can't be arsed finding anymore problems with the dubbing. Basically the only people that have the energy and short enough memory span to be amused by this all the way to the end are small children and a few mentally severe old people. For the rest of us though the film will be forgotten quickly especially since the most memorable thing in it was the goddamn baby. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie I've ever seen","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is by far my favorite comedy, and I'm the kind of guy that doesn't just call movies his favorites out of the blue. This movie's only reason for existing is to make you laugh, and it does that really well with slap-stick comedy and crazy antics.This move is original, and hilarious. Anyone who want's to see a weird but funny comedy, I highly recommend this one. Everyone who has a problem with the movie calls it stupid, but that's exact what makes it so funny. he wasn't going for an intriguing plot or spectacular action, he just wanted laughs. It works so well, even from the beginning. The only part that drags on too long for me is the cow fight, but that's possibly because i've seen this movie so any times to know exactly what happens during it. "},{"Title":"Funny movie. Good but could have been GREAT!","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Yeah the movie was funny. Parts SUPER funny. If you really dug Monty Python, you'd probably mark this movie much higher than I did. I can enjoy really funny stuff, but have a much shorter limit on the really stupid.The idea for the movie, though, was super, just think that a different approach would have gotten this movie seen a whole lot more! Final point. The fight with the cow was THE single best scene of the movie, bar none. That scene was a 9 out of 10Seemed to me that the CGI was exceptional for otherwise what I presume was a very low budget flick "},{"Title":"Hilarious and Fun","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Well, my review is not that different from the many other reviews made by fans of this hilarious movie, but I suppose one more review of praise wouldn't hurt.Sure this movie may seem ridiculous and all, but that's the whole point. It's a combination of old and new footage put together to develop a parody of traditional plot formulas used in old kung-fu flicks. The whole dialog is dubbed over (including Oedekerk's insertions), poking fun at what the situation might appear visually and at the same time making it work to follow his plot. Not only that, but Oedekerk delivers his lines for each character in a hilarious way, making the whole situation look ridiculous out of the scene that is played.Basically, you just have to lighten up and laugh at the way this movie is presented. It may seem childish at times and such, but it is doing what it's supposed to be, which is poking fun at all the cheap kung-fu movies. There are a lot comedies out there that don't strive for much response out of the audience and have little substance to them. This, however, was uniquely made and it is obvious that Steve had a lot of fun with this and enjoyed making it. Everything used in this film was intentionally done just to achieve it's goal of being a parody and is not poorly made. Everyone has their own tastes in humor and if this isn't yours, then that's just it, it's not your kind of humor. For me, it was great, since I am one of those people who has seen this an uncountable number of times. I have to say this is the only movie that I have seen the most with my friends, and is a specially good choice to watch among a group, and because of this, Betty has become one of my favorite villains of all time. ) "},{"Title":"It's not as stupid as it seems","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" When one watches the trailer, it is easy to expect the cheap comedy of sex jokes, slapstick and vulgarity. Well, this movie delivers exactly those things, but one thing sets it apart from others it is brilliant in its stupidity. Yes, the comedy may be stupid, but the way it is delivered is brilliant and very creative.Taking to the extreme the gimmick Woody Allen used in What's Up, Tiger Lily?, director/actor/writer Steve Oedekerk creates a funny story using clips from an obscure 70s Kung Fu movie, Tiger and Crane Fist (Shao Lin Hu Ho Chen Tien Hsia, 1977). Just as Allen before him, Oedekerk inserts him in the story and makes a complete re-dubbing of all the voices in the film creating a completely different and funny story.Oederkerk stars as The Chosen One, or Chosen as he prefers to be called, a man whose family was killed by the evil Master Pain when he was a child. Now, years later, Chosen has developed an enormous power thanks to a strange secret he has in his tongue, and he'll find Master Pain for the revenge.The plot is silly, just as silly as the plot for every post-Bruce Lee Kung Fu movie of the 70s; making fun of the clichés of the genre, chosen's story involves a training school, an old master, the master's beautiful adoptive daughter, and every other cliché imagined. Kung Pow makes a good job at this, but its true power, just the same as Chosen, lies on its tongue.With this work Oederkerk makes fun of the awful re-dubbing the U.S. companies did with Asian Kung Fu movies, with characters' mouths unsynchronized and the awful edition done here on purpose to mimic the old movies. The re-dubbing Oederkerk wrote for the film is brilliant, and the way the words are place carefully on the WRONG frame makes everything work perfectly. Truly, the jokes never get old.Definitely, it's major flaw is that the original scenes filmed are not as good as the re-dubbed ones. Oederkerk is an excellent writer, but his acting seems unnatural as he tries too hard to mimic the acting of the original movie.This movie is worth a watch. Do not expect a high work of art, and it will be even funnier. This movie sadly went almost unseen during its release, which is a shame since even when it is stupid on purpose, it is brilliant on its own. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Rather dumb spoof of Kung Fu flicks, that really didn't have me laughing at all, wasn't my type of humor I guess","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is a rather dumb spoof of Kung Fu flicks, that really didn't have me laughing at all, wasn't my type of humor I guess. All the characters are OK, but they all have goofy dubbed voices, and a lot of the humor is weird goofy noises, plus not even the spoof of the Matrix scene involving the cow and The Chosen one made me laugh. The thing on The Chosen One's tongue was somewhat amusing, and the fight scenes were kind of fun to watch, however the laughs just were not there for me. It's well made and written enough, and Steve Oedekerk did a good job, however the dubbing voices did get on my nerves at times. I was quite disappointed with this as I expected it to be very funny, and I can see why the people were mixed on this movie, plus there is going to be a sequel apparently, however I will most likely not be seeing it. I would have appreciated more slapstick humor, as most of the humor contains silly noises and dubbing, and while the effects were decent enough it's just not enough, however the opening was somewhat amusing with the baby falling down the hill and making the noises. This is a rather dumb spoof of Kung Fu flicks, that really didn't have me laughing at all, wasn't my type of humor I guess, I suppose it's worth a watch because some people may like it, but I didn't. The Direction is good. Steve Oedekerk does a good job here with good camera work, good angles and keeping the film at a good enough pace. The Acting is OK. Steve Oedekerk is good here, he entertained me and kept me watching, even though I didn't find his facial expressions or his noises that funny. Fei Lung(Betty) and Ling Ling Tse are OK but both are dubbed. Rest of the cast are OK as well. Overall worth a watch I suppose since some may like it, however I did not. ** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Not the smartest of all comedies, but then again, most comedies aren't usually smart.","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Parodies will always have their place in cinema. There was Scary Movie for the Horror genre. Blazing Saddles parodied the Western genre. Airplane was made for the disaster flicks. Many more movies have parodied others. Mel Brooks (Blazing Saddles) also created Young Frankenstein to parody Frankenstein, and Spaceballs to parody Star Wars.Steve Oederek has been known for spoofing movies. He was the creator of the Thumb series, which parodied many movies such as Star Wars, Titanic, Blair Witch Project and Batman. (I haven't seen these movies yet, but they were popular with some people in my school.) Steve brings us another parody, but this time, a parody for the kung-fu genre.Based on the movie Tiger and Crane Fist, Kung Pow Enter the Fist goes in all sorts of silly directions, often taking shots from the original movie. These include the Matrix Cow, the peanuts joke, and many more. Of course, the film is not smart, or witty. Then again, neither are any of Monty Python's or Mel Brooks' movies. The movie isn't exactly stupid, just silly. To give you an exampleOk, so here were my options. (a), quickly duck left, dodge the claw and take him out with a spinning back kick, or (b), take the claw in the face, roll on the ground and die. (Tang gets hit with the claw) Hmm, should have gone with (a).I'll kill him. I'll kill him dead. Like with, with a, rock or something. Like a, like a stone.Not all of the jokes are good, but not all of them are bad. Kung Pow Enter the Fist is fun and entertaining. It's one of the better stupid/silly comedies.7/10Good Funny!Bad Well, it isn't exactly smart, and some of the jokes are just, eh...Feel free to send me a Private Message regarding this comment. "},{"Title":"It is supposed to be crappy...","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Many of the critiques dissing Kung Pow claim that it is a bad movie filled with crappy dubbing, badly edited scenes and awful special effects... What some of those Critics don't seem to understand is that the movie is supposed to be crappy... It is a spoof on those Awfully dubbed, bad Martial Arts movies from the 70s... The movie is no masterpiece compared to other films, but as a spoof of the Martial Arts genre it is an Excellent flick... Steve Oedekerk messed with a classic mostly-unknown flick to deliver his insane tribute to these badly dubbed flicks... this movie is not for everyone, if you hate bad martial arts movies from the 70s, or expect every movie to be as funny as Seinfield, this movie is not for you. If you can get beyond the fact that it is supposed to be bad and wrong, then you'll find nothing badong with this movie... "},{"Title":"Affectionate spoof of, and tribute to, the old chop-socky films that holds up to repeated viewings","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Whether or not you like Kung Pow depends entirely on whether you enjoy a) slapstick humor, b) old style Kung Fu Theatre movies from the 60's-70's-80s and c) parodies and spoofs like Airplane! and Hot Shots!. If you don't enjoy movies in at least one of these categories, Kung Pow is NOT for you. My grandmother would have HATED this movie. My girlfriend HATED this movie. But a friend of mine who does some work as a fight choreographer loves it, and so did I. The first time I rented Kung Pow, I thought it was a bit thin; mildly amusing in some spots, spill-your-popcorn funny in two or three spots (I now officially know TOO MUCH), but it dragged quite a bit elsewhere. So it seemed worth a rental, but not really worth remembering. Then a peculiar thing happened cable movie channels decided to broadcast it in fairly heavy rotation for several months, at a time when I had a lot of free time on my hands and did a lot of channel surfing. So I ended up watching it several times when I had nothing else to do...and I discovered that the movie had grown on me. I think that in the case of Kung Pow, knowing where the jokes were, and looking forward to the next giggle or belly laugh helped pass the time in the dull spots in the movie, and after a while, even the dull spots acquired their own charm as I came to understand more of the 'inside' jokes and references that escaped me before. So now I like this film quite a bit, and plan to pick it up for my collection whenever the DVD price drops below $10-$12. And if Steve O does a similar project in the near future, I plan to check it out. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I have watched this movie countless times, and it never gets old. Although it is extremely cheesy, I find it hilarious. The premise of the movie, and how it was made, is brilliant, but the content is some of the dumbest jokes I've ever seen. Steve Oedekerk truly is one of the most brilliant men involved in film. I absolutely loved the Mushufasa scene, with the great circle of . . . stuff. I found it hard not to burst out laughing at 3 AM when I watched this, but couldn't help myself with the that's a lot of nuts! scene. I also liked when Ling was putting lemon juice and salt on his wounds, asking him if it hurt yet. Then she broke a thermometer in his hands, poured gasoline on them, and set his hands on fire. I really hope that the sequel to this movie is as good (or hopefully better) than the original. "}{"Title":"I Almost Died of Laughing So Hard.","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is a really good movie I thought. He seemed to pull his humor out of no where. I watched it with my friend and at some points we watched for like 15 minutes because I couldn't stop laughing so hard. I found out he wrote Ace Venturea 2, another great movie, I was like no wonder its so funny. And If you do watch this film pay attention at all times don't turn away because you'll miss parts and there is some secret stuff hidden so if you do go see this just remember to pay attention. If you haven't seen it then go see it now. Stop reading this and go see it now. "},{"Title":"I couldn't stop laughing","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie was rude and distasteful. And that's what I would be saying if I didn't like this movie. Seriously, it is awesome, both humor-wise and fighting-wise. The jokes are very well done, and the combat coordination, just blew me away. The sequel can't come out sooner! I know people will like this movie, because there is a combination of silly jokes as well as lewd innuendo. In that way, it pleases all pallets. Well, this, uh, I can't think of anything else to say! This is just great, I used all of my material. Who would have thought, huh? Anyway, just see this movie either on DVD or VHS. If it doesn't make you laugh, there is no hope for you. I now bid you adieu. "},{"Title":"If you've watched it only once, you have to watch it again, trust me, the second (third,fourth,fifth) times are definitely funnier!","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the select few of movies that in its sheer stupidity underlies the brilliance that only owning the film will ever uncover. Yes, we've all watched movies like Speed, Saving Private Ryan or the like, but do you ever look at it in your video collection and say  hmm...maybe I'll watch this tonight, just for fun you can't, these videos aren't worth owning, because in all honesty they can only be viewed once, maybe twice and their coasters...If you've ever seen Robin Hood Men in Tights (which also hints at a sequel in the movie by the way), you may know what I'm talking about. The first viewing of these types of films is never a good indication of how good it really is. The sheer stupidity of the film definitely will give you a sensory overload, and you probably won't be able to comprehend just how ridiculous the situations are unless, you've rested, given it some thought, then in the right mind set it'll hit you. Trust me, you won't get enough... "},{"Title":"Take A Close Look...Cos This Film Rulz, Baby!","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Hey y'all. I LOVED this movie. It's a REAL movie - I'll explain that in a sec - & it's currently at the top of my (short) list of films both my brother & I can enjoy together.Now, I call Kung Pow a real movie because, first & foremost, movies are meant to entertain. That's why actors & all them are in the ENTERTAINMENT industry. That's not to say I don't enjoy films with a more serious slant, but I have to laugh when people stress out that some movies aren't historically accurate - like, oh say, Gladiator - because the whole purpose of a movie, I think, is to make you FORGET about reality for a while & just kick back and enjoy the show.This film is great in that it just does nothing but make you laugh. I live in a divided household (I love Evil Betty & my brother is a staunch supporter of the Chosen One) which makes for some hilarious episodes in our life, usually right when we're in the middle of an argument. ^_^Well, anyway, Kung Pow is a movie that I recommend that everyone see, simply because you have to watch it to formulate your own opinion on it. I had seen bits & pieces of it while my brother & step-father were watching it, and I thought it was the biggest waste of time ever. But then I got all curious as to what the fuss was over (& I wanted to see the fighting cow, Moon Yu) so I waited until I had the house all to myself for an afternoon & borrowed my brother's video & ... MWAHAHAHAHAH!!! I LOVED IT!! MWAHAHAHAHA!!!All I can say in conclusion is Take a close look...cos this film rulz, baby! Chances are you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Don't be such a smartass!","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I don't know wath peoples problems are when they say that movies like this one sucks! The humor is so great and different than the so called big-movies that you don't know where to go! In style like Hot-shots, with small details all the time that make you want to watch it over and over again. I Love this movie! In sweden it is really hard to get the second film, but as soon as I lay my fingers on it I'm gonna watch it before you wannabe-intelectualls-critics can say wiiihooo wiiiii, scchhh! GREAT MOVIE!//A voice from sweden "},{"Title":"Enter the fist, baby.","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Alright, so I'll say it right off the bat this film is not for everyone. Half of the people will love this film and the other half will hate it.  I think there is very little middle ground.I think most people know that this film is basically an old 70's martial arts film from China mixed with new footage.  Steve Oedekerk places himself into the parts where the original star was.  The plot gets pretty wild.Ling's wee-ooh-wee-ooh--wee makes me laugh every time.  Master Pain is the Darth Vader of the film; he's a villain to be sure, but you wind up loving him all the same.  Oedekerk's suave, creepy, cheesy, cocky turn as the Chosen One is very funny.  The narrator is probably one of the funniest parts of the movie, almost a character unto himself; it is great to hear him become surprised at events as they happen.As for specifics, you will love the part when Ling is helping Chosen One get ready to fight; keep your eyes out for broken glass and mercury.Steve Oedekerk does every voice save one Whoa, the single breasted woman, which is one of the odder turns in this film; why one breast?Supposedly the voices were originally going to be done by several different people, but his crew laughed so hard at the voices he was using to show them what he was looking for that he decided to do it himself.I laughed so hard at this movie.  I loved that it isn't afraid to be silly.The most annoying thing for me was Tonguey, though I suppose he/she/it is central to what there is of a plot.  Yeah, don't watch for a plot; watch for the zany comedy of it.  Let the oddball humor wash over you, and be one with the universe.  This has been CNN.  10/10. "},{"Title":"best trash in town","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I´m a real fan of martial arts and crude humour. In fact in europe it´s hard to get this movie and so it nearly took me one year to get a copy. The cow scene is absolutely the best and everybody, who has got contact with internet has already seen it. I love it! ... and i know a lot of guys, who have the same bad taste. Fxxx for the normal hollywood comedy - this is the real stuff. A wonderful mixture of Bruce Lee, Matrix, Chucky and martian movies from the fifties.  "},{"Title":"Kick,Punch, Its All In The Mind","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  WOW.....that's how i have to start this comment. When I first saw this movie i wanted to throw it onto the highway, it was bad, but then i saw it agian...why i dont know.....but this time was different (Cable Guy Syndrome). I was laughing at every stupid joke. Yes this movie is stupid but it just makes you laugh. This movie is not the best movie in the world but its good enough to put a smile on my face.Rating Six Thumbs Up "},{"Title":"Intentionally dumb, and hilarious to certain tastes","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Man, I'm stepping on front of a bullet here. How do I review a movie with a rating that, at the time of this writing, is at a mere 4.8, without being laughed at myself? Well, obviously these reviews are personal opinion, and in my opinion, Kung Pow is (expletive) hilarious.It's the story of a man whose parents were murdered, left as an orphan. He must find the killer and avenge his family. It's intentionally cliched, and stupid as all hell. But darn it, I laughed so hard that I was teary and embarassed in the theater, and later that evening I threw up. Sure the gobs of popcorn were partly responsible, but I know that the extreme muscle work my stomach got from laughing so much was the main culprit.Reviewed only for what it is- not what it could have, should have, or what I wanted it to have been, I found Kung Pow great. It appealed to my stupid nonsense sense of humor. For example, the main character is set up to do an exercise in withstanding pain, and when his partners render upon him the expected attack, he immediately doubles over in pain and falls to the ground, where the others continue to pummel him with weapons for a good minute or two despite the common sense that says the exercise should have ceased. He lays there motionless the entire time, and in some angles is even substituted with a dummy. It's that kind of dumb comedy that appealed to me when I went to see Kung Pow. But I also laughed at the more subtle jokes, such as the fact that the evil parent killer doesn't barge into his victims' house, but rather politely rings the doorbell...The doorbell on a thatched hut.Another scene is subtly funny because of its punchline, which many people miss. The hero, Chosen One, is yelling at his lady interest, begging her to change her mind on an important issue. The guy is obviously screaming, his face strained and with wide eyes, as the camera zooms in towards his panicked face. But due to the intentionally bad voice dubbing, the line doesn't come out as something loud and panicked to match the face. Instead, the line is a humorously calm I implore you to reconsider.  Good stuff. Kung Pow is dumb like this, in the tradition of the Naked Gun films. Rife with sight gags and stupid jokes aplenty, I thoroughly enjoyed it and was shocked to see how many people didn't. After all, the Naked Gun series has been long missed, and this film brings some fresh, unapologetically ridiculous stuff to the table. It bothered me to see that it made less than 20 million, when in fact movies like I Know What You Did Last Summer make that much on opening weekend. Granted, they're wildly different films. But they're intended for more or less the same audience, and while one is a cookie cutter remake of old themes and current movies that are WAY too common, the other was a delightful escape. Again, that's just my opinion. But I'm happy to be one of the few whose opinion praises it for its originality and the chances it took, with no known stars or bankable premise.Granted, some of it was too stupid. The cow fight, of which was always on the commercials, was the weakest scene. It looked UNintentionally cheesy, and even included a Matrix parody a year or 2 too late. Granted, a unique spin on the Matrix parodies, but a Matrix parody nonetheless. I also tired of some of the character's odd noises, in particular Ling, the romance interest. At first, some of her noises, like an apparent cat hiss, were humorously inserted to deliberately fill a gap in synching up the voice dubs. But 2/3rds into the film, there's a scene involving her and the evil killer, whose dialog eventually turns into a sort of noise vs. noise contest to express their points. It's annoying, and I think it was sort of supposed to be, but I would have preferred more wit in scenes like this. Finally, the ending is ridiculous. I was sure it would be, and it doesn't stray from the rest of the film's tone but I found it a little too silly to really care for.In all, I still heartily enjoyed Kung Pow, and found it to be an entertaining change to today's usual (but not always) crop of recycled stuff. Whether you like it or not directly relates to your sense of humor, and I hope there's more people out there who share mine so the underrated film finds a bigger audience. To those who are unsure, rent it first. To those who liked it and don't yet have the dvd, GET IT. It's a thank you to the fans LOADED with bonus material. Hope you guys give it a chance! "},{"Title":"Third times a... Well you know the rest... (revised score)","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is something I would never see myself doing after the first two watches of this film. I am going to give it an 8 out of 10. A dramatic increase from my previous scoring of it. My previous score for this film was 2 out of 10. I watched it the first time because my cousin told me it was great. The second time because he was so shocked at my score for it. I said that I would never watch it again. However, I wanted to show a friend of mine just how bad it was. Suddenly the film was almost 100% better. I guess the third time truly is a charm. At least with this movie it is. It's a great movie that grows on you.  "}{"Title":"It will split the audience, for me it's raw comic fun","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  KUNG POW ENTER THE FIST ***Writer/director Steve Oedekerk has taken a tacky 1977 kung fu movie, Tiger and Crane Fists, digitally inserted himself into the action as an inept martial arts hero and re-dubbed all the other characters' voices with his own banter and nonsensical sequiturs.  The result is a juvenile and probably pointless film, that is without a shadow of doubt unbelievably funny that had me in tears at regular intervals.  Best viewed with a few beers, it is definitely a movie that will split the audience.  If you're in that sort of mood for laughter and to be just entertained for no apparent cause then this movie is sublime.  If you have a serious disposition though, caution, you'll probably hate the movie.  There is little plot apart from constant kung-fu battles and the film is riddled with squeaks, nuances and excruciating banter.  With an open mind, the movie is a master class in comic simplicity and is undeniably creative. "},{"Title":"the fist is funny","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I haven't laughed this hard at a movie since I can't remember  when.  I was in stitches, damn it!!  If you enjoy the act of laughing, I highly recommend this movie!! p.s. I have to apologize, but I was the six hundred and sixty- seventh vote for a rating of ten.  Perhaps an omen?  An omen of funniness? "},{"Title":"What's the deal, man?","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I have something to say to all who criticize movies like this for bad acting In a movie that sets out to be as stupid as possible, laughs are the first and only priority. When laughs and comedy are what the movie runs on, the movie is not meant to be taken seriously IN ANY WAY WHATSOEVER. And when there's a movie that is not meant to be taken seriously in the least (like this great parody), you cannot criticize the acting unless somebody cracks up while trying to do their comedy without cracking up. This movie is belly-aching comedy at its greatest. It is one of those rare movies that had me laughing non-stop from start to finish. (For an example of badly done comedy watch the 1987 horror-comedy Dead Heat for some major mistakes made by both the writers and Joe Piscopo.) Kung Pow! Enter the Fist seems as if it's one of those movies that just doesn't seem to get a break when there's too many squares who act as if this movie was supposed to NOT BE A STUPID MOVIE. If you ask me, these people are fairly stupid themselves. Who watches a movie like this (knowing what it is) and expects to witness the martial arts masterpiece of the ages? Unfortunately, too many people! I guess I shouldn't be so condescending, BUT COME ON! This is a stupid movie, and it's supposed to be that way! I love this. It is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen in my life. At least it wasn't National Lampoon's Loaded Weapon 1! "},{"Title":"Painfully funny","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Concerning the DVD Version of Kung Pow Enter the FistThis film is gut-wrenchingly hilarious. Steve Odekerk has redefined absurdity in this work of comic genius, destined to become a classic.Ok, that's my New York Times-esque one line review.More to the point, I'm just startled that this movie was so poorly received by IMDB users. Obviously, it's not for everyone, but what on earth would impulse someone unprepared for stupid humor to watch this film? And those who have an appetite for such film, did you fail to laugh, if nothing else, at the Neosporin?While the film isn't deeply intellectual, I wonder if it was so poorly received becasue most people simply didn't get it. The basic concept of the film is totally original and acheives its goal with the minimum amount of production, leaving the comedy of the film to reign supreme.I entirely missed the film in the cinema and didn't know it existed until a friend pointed it out to me in the bargain rack at Super-Mart. It's widely available now, and the DVD provides almost endless amusement as the film can be watched in one of six different audio tracks (even non-Francophones should appreciate certain select jokes from the French track). Especially amusing is the What Are They Really Saying audio track. Additionally, there is a healty supplement of out takes, alternate versions and other silliness captureed on film.But as I finish my remarks, I am still troubled that viewers of this film have generally disliked it so. I'd be thrilled to know more about what it lacked, in the opinion of others.   "},{"Title":"Really really f'ing stupid (but fun)","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Judging by the votes for this film you will either love it or hate it.I thought it was great.The closest thing I could compare it to is Zoolander, just for the fact that it is so silly.I was pretty ripped when I saw it and p*ssed myself laughing.If your in the right frame of mind (maybe a few beers would help -) you really should enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Stupid, Funny, Stupid.... QWAKKK!","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  No long report here.  Let yourself go and enjoy it.  There's nothing socially redeeming about this movie.... it's stupid, BUT there are several hilarious moments between the flat spots.  So if you don't want to feel like you are totally wasting your time, do something else while you are watching it, like ironing clothes, cooking dinner or overhauling the transmission on a '89 Honda Civic.  Eeeeoooooweeeeoooooo..... "},{"Title":"Fun, fun... trails a little... then more fun!","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Anyone who's seen The dubbed martial arts sequence in Wayne's World 2 will instantly appreciate where this style is from - cross that concept with every other dubbed comedy where footage from another movie is used, and you have a pretty darn funny flick in the shape of Kung Pow. In fact the first 20 minutes or so had me in tears almost choking on my ale. Sure it lags in the middle and Steve O's voice (all the voices are performed by him) are a little grating at times, especially the falsetto wee-ooo-eee whoeeech bint, but if you've got some time and fancy switching off yer noggin for 80 or so minutes I guarantee this should muster a good few laughs. The rating is surprisingly low for this movie and I do recommend giving it a rent at least. "},{"Title":"Very funny!","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It happened a lot with me, and I'm sure it happened with all of you you go watch a comedy, thinking it'll be good, but it turns out to be lame and not funny. Well, with Kung Pow, for the first (and possibly only) time, it was the opposite! When I first heard of the movie, and saw the Bullet Time Cow scene, I just knew it was a bad, bad movie. Today I caught it on cable TV, and decided to check it out... And what do you know, it's one of the most funny movies I have ever seen! It had everything to go wrong and be lame, but it worked, and worked so well! Maybe because it followed MST3K formula's. Steve Oedekerk did a great job. "},{"Title":"Very funny!","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It happened a lot with me, and I'm sure it happened with all of you you go watch a comedy, thinking it'll be good, but it turns out to be lame and not funny. Well, with Kung Pow, for the first (and possibly only) time, it was the opposite! When I first heard of the movie, and saw the Bullet Time Cow scene, I just knew it was a bad, bad movie. Today I caught it on cable TV, and decided to check it out... And what do you know, it's one of the most funny movies I have ever seen! It had everything to go wrong and be lame, but it worked, and worked so well! Maybe because it followed MST3K formula's. Steve Oedekerk did a great job. "},{"Title":"Laugh riot!  Stupid Funny Excellence!","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is juvenile, and it is loaded with sexual jokes.  Therefore, you have to exercise EXTREME caution in airing it with your kids present. That said, it is so damned funny that I found it hard to catch my breath from all of the laughter.Everytime I thought the movie might drag a little bit, up came something new, stupid, and usually side-splitting.  Examples include the narrator's incredulity when the Chosen one punches a clean hole through a bad guy, the eenie meenie miney moe scene with the master, two young apprentices and a long rubber glove, and when Ling sets the chosen one's hands on fire.The fight with the CGI cow is the funniest segment in the history of CGI, period!  This is the same genius who brought us Ace Ventura and Jimmy Neutron, and the Chosen One is another winner! "}{"Title":"I am nice man, with happy feelings all of the time!","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Aw, man.  This movie was hilarious.  Stupid, but hilarious.Then again, it was supposed to be bad, wasn't it?  Ah, well. SPOILER ALERT!! The one character that I thought stole the movie was the villian, Master Pain--uh, Betty.  Steve Odenkirk, who was dubbing ALL the characters' voices, had Master Betty sounding like the old school gangsters (m-yeah, see?).  He's a kingpin, representative of the Evil Council, and the most feared man in Japan.  Yet, he finds time to admire pictures of animals and to be a great magician (Your clothes are RED!).  SPOILER OVER All-in-all, this movie was funny as Hell, but this is the kind of movie that should not have a sequel. "},{"Title":"If you've got an ass, I'll kick it!","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  spoilers. The opening scene of KP was so unfunny that I would have turned it off if I hadn't been so incredibly bored.  It involved the character development of the main Character, Chosen One.  Poor Chosen One lost his parents at the hand of Master Pain when he was just an infant. The first action scene involves a small digitally created infant performing acrobatic stunts and ass-kicking moves for several minutes.  Sounds bad, right?  It gets worse. Chosen One grows into a man and discovers he has a talking tongue (done with really cheesy digital effects) that likes to say yippeee!.  It was not funny.But then, a miracle happened.  Instead of trying to be funny, the movie got even stupider and, well, REALLY funny.  A good many scenes fell flat (reca ll the cow scene), but the scenes that were funny were unforgettable.  I saw this movie over a year ago and still find myself laughing out loud at some of the parodies.  What actually adds to the movie's authenticity as a classic comedy is the fact that the entire cast was just dubbed over with Steve Oedekerk's incredibly poor voice impersonations (MST3K).  This is a movie to watch at home with friends.  You'll feel like Steve Oedekerk (the man behind it all) is sitting right there in your living room do the whole thing improv.I just have to rewatch the movie in my review, it is so funny... My favorite parts  Ling's rival suitor in squeaky shoes; Betty's magical powers (Your shirt is red!); Betty's talks with Evil Counsel; whenever Ling would go into hysterics over Chosen One's detemination to get his revenge peeeooo weeeooo!...Chosen? Is that you?; and my favorite stupid scene was the one where Steve Oedekerk clearly had time to kill and made Betty become highly fascinated with animal pictures.  Steve Oedekerk did an incredibly good and funny job on all the voices.Just one problem; I kept accidentaly calling this movie Kung Pow Enter the Chicken whenever I'd ask people if they watched it yet. Perhaps that was Steve Oedekerk's intention? "},{"Title":"For the life of me, I really wanted to hate this thing...","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I saw the commercials for Kung-Pow and almost died trying to make my eyes roll out of my sockets. I saw the cow Matrix parody and couldn't help but change the channel in disgust. What an idiotic looking flick, I thought to myself with pride. Then it came out and everyone told me how rib-busting, milk-spurting hilarious it was, and I didn't believe them for one second. These were the same lame-brained idiots with less taste in movies than white blood cells that liked such crappy movies as The Wedding Planner (which I saw half of and hated) and Freddy Got Fingered (which I refuse to see). Then at the end of this school year I promised someone I would watch it, since he made the good point that no true film critic would absolutely judge something before they ever saw the whole thing. Well, it took me a few months before I found myself looking for a 5th film at Star Trax and spotted Kung collecting dust on the shelf. Why not, I asked myself, this will be my daily bad movie that I can make fun of. But lo and behold, despite my most powerful reservations, I actually laughed quite a bit during this movie. Now, granted, some of the sequences fall horribly flat. The baby fight was just dumb, and like I assumed the cow Matrix parody failed miserably (in my opinion, they should pass a law that forbids any filmmaker for doing another Slow Motion Avoiding Objects shot). But the rest of the movie just had that MST3k quality of utter silliness and in the end I had to give Kung-Pow some props. The dubbing over of an old karate movie is just like something Mike/Joel and the 'Bots would do, and it works wonderfully. I loved the moments when the dog would bark and then four seconds later you got the sound effect of the bark, and how every fight was set against some wildly inappropriate song (although I Like Big Butts should really be discontinued at this point). All of the characters had some honestly funny lines, especially the romantic interest, whose running joke was to say something like, Oooh wee ah ooh wah ee! It may not be the single funniest thing in the world, or even a film we as a society will remember in 10 years, but God help me if it wasn't funny 90% of the time. 3/4 stars (Oh, and I thought they were kidding about the sequel, but apparently it's actually happening!) "},{"Title":"Movie Rocked!","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I dont know about you guys but I loved the movie... Master Pain was great... Funniest part was when he said you shall call me 'betty'. I hysterically laughed... What a loser i said. ANother funny part was when he tryed grabbing those diamond things off the wooden statue thingys. I give this movie an 8... But I mostly like dumb comedy so ill leave it up to you guys to see what you think. "},{"Title":"Top of the Line Comedy! A Riot!","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest movie ever made.  Only someone who has seen a bad chinese martial arts film could appreciate it, that's why some say they fell asleep.  They're not mature enough to enjoy the comic mastery we see. I was rolling so hard on some of the scenes I could hardly breathe. ...and then, he killed the dog <farts>.  If ever I need to get out of a bad moment, I think of that scene, or where Ling is lamenting Chosen One's attempt to fight Betty.  ..you'll never make it...ever...make it..never make it...don't you see you can't make it...you've got what you wanted, now go!  wee-ooo-weee-ooo-wee-oooo-ooo.  Beware the meadows...Moo Yoo..  Fighting a cow!  That was another of the funniest things ever dreamed up.  Yes!  The scene that mocked The Matrix was over the top. Kung Pow found the perfect movie to parody, it was edited so poorly it was just begging to be made fun of.  It made my year.  I can imitate the voices so good that anyone else who has seen the movie will bust out laughing on the spot.  Between the movie, the deleted scenes and the extras on the DVD, this is the best, most entertaining CD in a Comedy Genre ever put out.  Kudos, Steve.  You knew exactly what you were doing, and it shows...do you need any more voices?  Let me know.  ) O LOL! "},{"Title":"O ENTERTAINMENT presents, a STEVE OEDEKERK film, KUNG POW! ENTER THE FIST, Steve Oedekerk, Jennifer Tung, Leo Lee","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  O ENTERTAINMENT presents, a STEVE OEDEKERK film, KUNG POW! ENTER THE FIST, Steve Oedekerk, Jennifer Tung, Leo Leekung pow enter the fist. what's to say, other than it is a well thought out comedy? maybe it's not exactly what you think, but HEY. all who have seen the movie. what are you thinking? awesome, pretty good, so-so, it sucked ass? if you are thinking whether or not you should see the movie, answer these questions first do you know who steve oedekerk is? if you do, do you like his work? are you a fan of stupid humor (ex. airplane)? if you answered yes to all these, i reccommend you pick this one up. if you're thinking about picking this one up, get the widescreen format dvd (the full screen version sux badly). this was the only movie i preferred in widescreen. on the dvd is a cool feature. you can hear what the actors really said before the dubbing. it's actually pretty cool when you hear it7/10 stars "},{"Title":"This one truly is zany, madcap and a fun-filled Romp!","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'll be honest I went to the theatre with the sole purpose of seeing the worst movie I would ever see in my life.  So I had some fairly low (or high, depending on how you look at it) expectations.  But something happened-- I started enjoying it.  It was actually a really funny movie.  Having seen it multiple times I can tell you, this is the kind of movie I would have LOVED when I was 11-13.  Does that make it any less enjoyable now?  Heck no. There are standout parts (the CNN thing made me fall out of my chair!) and there are low points too (some of the annoying sounds the different characters make).  Most of my friends don't want to see it (i've got the DVD) but once I sit them down they're laughing as hard as I am!  NOTE The Book-on-tape version of the movie on the DVD is even funnier than the original! "},{"Title":"Look...","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Look, I'm not going to analyze the crazy comedic style or the lack of maturity in the film's jokes but I will say thisThis is the only movie I've seen where I almost choked half to death from drinking a smoothie and laughing at this film.This is the only movie where for 3 times, I had to leave the room to quell the stomach cramps I was getting from laughing so much.This is the only movie where I spontaneously burst into laughter whenever I think of certain scenes in the film.Yea... it's stupid... but I never laughed so hard before.  And that's the whole point. "},{"Title":"What is this???","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  KUNG POW ENTER THE FIST (2002) spoilers((( The director behind Ace Ventura When Nature Calls has made this very crazy, weird and one-man-show focused parody/comedy. With tons of funny and really lame kung-fu fighting and a lots of insane dubbing of Steve, this movie gets a whole lot funnier then you really thinks. I'm talking about fighting scenes between Steve and a cow (where they're repeating Matrix scenes), The Lion King parody and off course a lots of weird scenes as when Steve's best friends dies one after one...but they didn't, it is hard to explain.There are lunatic scenes, I really mean it. But it is very funny too, the dubbing of Steve himself is odd enough funny to watch, especially Master Pain and Ling. Great scene when Steve gets caught in a small net on a huge field, funny. It is a huge one-man-show!!! Get it? Very nice special effects, funny. Hysterical...crazy...maniac...insane...lunatic...weirdo....wiowio!!!! STARS **** 4/5 (I'm in a good mood, but it is funny. Trust me!!)  "},{"Title":"God I love this film!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, I know this movie is stupid, REALLY stupid, but I find it really funny. I saw the ads for this on TV, avoided it and then I was convinced into watching it at my friends house after he bought the DVD. I haven't laughed that hard in a long time. I mean laughing so hard I couldn't breathe laughing. I quickly went out and got my own copy, and have at least watched it 5 times in the last few months.I think what makes the film so great is that it is so self aware of how stupid it is, unlike most modern comedies which thinks we will laugh at any old thing. I actually quote this film from time to time. Whenever my friends and I are watching a movie and someone's shirt gets ripped I always yell out shirt ripper!.There is not much to say about this film either you'll like it and laugh your butt off, or hate it and think it is the death of all cinema. "}{"Title":"So stupid it's funny","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I don't really know how to give you a proper review for this kind of movie, but let me tell you this; it's so mindnumbingly stupid, that it's funny! A lot of people don't find it amusing at all, but it did make me laugh, and that's kind of the point. Check the scene with the moth, the cow, or any scene where Betty is fighting and you'll know what I mean... I gave it 8/10.... "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I have seen...","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The first thing I saw of this movie was that cow scene and I thought that was kinda funny, then someone told me it was from a movie and he said it would be crap, cuz it was an old movie dubbed with a different story then the original so I never bothered to get it. (and the low rating on imdb didnt really make me wanna see it) but then one day another friend told me it was the funniest movie he had ever seen, so I went out and got it and it was the funniest movie I have ever seen aswell, there is never a dull moment. I would really recomend this movie to everyone. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie we've seen in a very long time...","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie stunned us completely. Not knowing which movie to rent we decided to take this one. This movie is unknown in Belgium and we didn't know what to expect.Well, it was a big surprise  we couldn't stop laughing till the very end. From the first 'fighting scene' in the beginning until the last one we were gasping for breath. This movie is packed with original humor and jokes we've never seen in other movies.If you want a creative and original movie, you got to see this one ! I give it a big 10/10. Keep up the good work Steve, and we are looking forward to see the sequel ! "},{"Title":"Why Kung Pow was such a clever movie","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  When it comes to funny chop-socky kung fu action, Lord, please don't give us another Rush Hour. We want Kung Pow Enter the Fist. Based on some obscure film that no one outside China has seen, Kung Pow has been redone to include everything you could ever want in a action comedy. Kung Pow gives you funny voices on cool people, one-liners to have you doubling over in your seat, and bizarre things like an obviously Matrix-esque scene of a cow shooting milk. Just show me Charlie's Angles delivering a Bullet Time sequence of a cow shooting milk. Here's the basic outline A man (Steve Odekerek) whose only name throughout the movie is The Chosen One searches the land for Master Pain, the man who killed his parents at birth. Meeting Master Tang and his students, The Chosen One finds Master Pain (who changes his name to Betty) and confronts him in the ultimate showdown. Along the way, The Chosen One sees the distinctly Lion King-y form of Mu Shu-Fasa, the Evil Council of French/extraterrestrial descent, and a dog being killed by one heck of a fart. Once again I say, let's see Charlie's Angels beat that. Kung Pow was a clever movie because it made the director take a movie where the scenes were already done for him, and work it out from there. The result is a hilarious movie that has to be seen to be believed! AgentSmith7070 "},{"Title":"wonderful-laughed my ass off","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  My dad introduced me to this film...it made my entire family roll with laughter. The intricate hidden spoofs, the hilarity...the whole thing, while way too short, was just a gas. Sure it's not exactly the most intelligent stuff in the world, but if you give it a chance you will laugh. Soooo funny. "},{"Title":"Chop Socky Silliness","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, this is so stupid it's funny, but guess what? THAT'S THE POINT. Steve Odekerk has does something that has been done before by Kent Skov and the L.A. Connection, but has take it one step further as he put himself in the film. Perhaps that was going a bit too far. In this movie within a movie, he plays The Chosen One who must go after an the evil Master Pain, who has renamed himself Betty LOL. Like with most martial arts kick flicks, this doesn't have much of a plot. But it decides to make light of the water thin storyline. Odekerk also was able to work within a small budget. They didn't have to do much location filming, there are only three actors billed in the main credits, and a few extras were used (like the big dude and his ghetto blaster lol). Also, Odekerk uses technology today that was done in Forrest Gump (putting someone into an old film). And in the end, it earned back the money it spent to make the film so the studio didn't lose money. Next time though I would release the sequel on video.I enjoyed this for two reasons 1) I like martial arts films and 2)I don't like period films (which they were poking fun of). This is not for everyone, but give it a try. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Undoubtedly one of the best films I've ever seen.  Made me laugh from beginning to end, absolutely cracking.  It may not be totally original, but it's the first time I've seen the dubbing done to such a deliberately bad standard.  The dog sums it all up brilliantly !Any film with MC Hammer in it has to be top class ;o) "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film was an exhibition of comedic mastery. Most complaints issued to this film pertain to 'poor lighting' or 'poor dubbing', but that was the basis of the film. It was intended to be a low budget, yet highly humorous, film, and it delivered to the fullest extent. I was amazed at how good this movie actually was. "},{"Title":"Very clever & very funny","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Without doubt one that you will love or hate. This film is very clever, the way it joins two movies and adds new actors and changes the voices is just so clever. But behind it all is a great film with lots of silly gags. I don't care much for Steve's Thumb movie work but this had me in pieces. A film to be quoted over and over amongst those who love it. What do you get if you cross an Owl with a bunjee cord?LMAO!! "},{"Title":"Either you love it or you hate it","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Just take a look at the voting details. Most of the votes are either 1 or 10. I have personally seen this movie twice, and both times my eyes hurt at the end of the movie for laughing so much. I found this movie absolutely histerical. But of course that's just my opinion. I say give it 45 minutes. If by then you haven't laughed yourself silly, then call it quits. "}{"Title":"my type of comedy...","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  i like parody movies. this one was fairly good. actually i saw this movie on HBO, so i dont know if the movie wasworth paying 7 - 10 buks to see in a theatre for everyone. i thinki would. but well if u really hate this type of comedies, i have nocomment about it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious Movie for some pointless fun","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is pointless, but that's exactly the point. It doesn't want to change the world or educate you or pretend to be deep -- just some funny dubbing, splicing and sight gags to parody bad kung fu movies in the 70's. This concept is pretty original and the effects are often LOL funny. It never took itself seriously, neither should you when watching this movie. Rating 7/10. "},{"Title":"A comic gem for those open to it.","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow! is one of those few funny movies that is severely limited in it's audience. You have to be intelligent enough to get some of the more high-brow jokes that would go over the average movie-watcher's head, but silly enough to laugh at nipple jokes. Luckily for me, this describes me perfectly! Kung Pow! doesn't let a single minute go by without an opportunity for a laugh. Steve Oedekerk, as director and star, takes one of the most typical kung fu movies ever made, and with creative editing, dubbing, and added special effects launches into a spoof that manages to combine the best elements of Mystery Science Theater 3000 and Airplane!. If the commercials are what's keeping you from watching the film, don't let them ruin it for you. There are a few scenes thrown in for the infantile, and those are the ones that the ads focus on, This probably is why the movie didn't do as well as it should have; the wrong audience went to see it. Ninja cows and gopher-chucks don't constitute the entire film, so don't worry. Highly recommended for any fans of Monty Python, MST3K, or the Simpsons. You'll be swapping one-liners with your friends in wacky accents for months. "},{"Title":"Not everyone gets it","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow is one of those rare comedies that has some people crying with laughter, and others throwing popcorn at the screen. Personally, I laughed my butt off; the trick to this film is being open minded. If you're a big fan of kung fu flicks and can try to understand the gags Oedekerk pulls, then this can be one of the funniest films you'll see in a while. Otherwise, don't bother.- B+ "},{"Title":"I laughed with a furrowed brow...","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Yes this movie was very stupid. But I also laughed till tears came to my eyes. I kept thinking why am I laughing?! as pop came out my nose! I love kung poo movies of any type and was happy to see/hear all the stereotypical fights,gestures and dialog. The dog parts were good too. I gotta say I'd give it a easy 8 out of 10. This movie is not for everyone. I think most non-silly people would hate it. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie had me laughing harder than I've laughed during a movie in a long time.  It's one of the best spoof's I've ever seen.   Don't let the votes received for this movie dissuade you from seeing it.  It's much better than a 4.7!     "},{"Title":"All Right","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Not as funny as it looks (the cow scene sucked!) but still funny. Some sick humur (the one breasted chick....Ew!) and some funny funny humur (You are not ready to fight Master Pain...It's Betty now...Oh) the voices get kinda annoying some times but what the hey? If you love Kong Foo films ( I don't) you'll like this one.   "},{"Title":"KUNG FOOL! ENTER THE LAUGHFEST!","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Out of all these martial arts parodies I've seen, this one tops it all. Steve Oedekerk really puts the K.O. (KICK OUT) in Kung Pow. This guy resembles Leslie Nielsen, only younger. Since he really into the martial arts, he wouldn't dare make it into cheap comedy like other stars would. Since I'm a martial arts buff, I would have to give this move lots of credit myself. Steve did all of the dubbing, and the choreography was very cool. I laughed my head off on everything Steve did. I'm glad they are doing a sequel, I can hardly wait for that one. I've laughed at Beverly Hills Ninja, you ought to see that first before you can see Kung Pow because the chosen one rules. 3 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"A Marvel","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Even though the humor was really stupid, you really have to admit that it was quite a feat. I mean, to make an entire movie within a movie without it being too outstanding, is amazing.  It really was really cool.  Really. A for effort, which is what really counts. C- for the rest of it.  "},{"Title":"great!","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is incredibly funny. If you like absurd humor and have ever watched only 2 minutes of an martial arts movie, you will probably love Kung Pow. Don't believe the votes, arithmetic means don't represent distributions properly anyway ;) "}{"Title":"an A+ weeyoo weeyoo weeyoo B-movie weeyoo weeyoo!","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  i rented this dvd not really knowing what to expect. i had intended to rent amelie thinking the tiny neighborhood video store had it, but settled on renting kung pow along with signs (yawn). this film rocked! anyone who is expecting a real movie will be disappointed. anyone who has no appreciation for total absurdity and silliness will be disappointed. anyone with a wacky off the wall sense of humor that enjoys monty python, the far side or mystery science theater 3000 will get this film. it's the kind of film you'll either love or hate. there is no middle ground. personally, i despise home alone 1-89 but that's my taste.kung-pow's premise at first seems wrong. why spend a ton of money using high tech special effects to rewrite an old kung fu flick when you could more easily just make one from scratch? that's this movies charm. it works within the limited confines of what has already been filmed. eg. in the original film, a character coughs twice. with special effects, the creators add a moth flying in his mouth that induces the cough then another for the second cough with the narrator's (who sounds kind of like the taco bell dog) punchline what are the odds of that happening? it's hysterical!the first 20 minutes or so are nonstop belly laughs that slow down a little later in the film, but there are still plenty left. after seeing the film, i couldn't stop saying weeyoo weeyoo weeyoo, a line of dialogue that the female lead keeps repeating that is hysterical take on blahblahblah. it doesn't sound funny in print, but the way that the lead actor says it, it is. he does nearly all of the voices.sure it's an obvious choice to make fun of bad kung fu flicks, but if it's so obvious, then why hasn't anyone actually done it?the best way to see this movie is on dvd. along with a few really funny deleted scenes, you can also watch the movie with it's original dialogue intact for an entirely different take. while not as funny as the theatrical version, some of the things that are said in english are nice bonus laughs if i remember right, the movie's dialogue is subtitled in the actual language version.while this film isn't for everyone, if you like the sound of the premise, you'll probably get it and find the movie hysterical. i give it 9/10 because the laughs get thinner in the second half, but when this movie does deliver laughs, it does so in huge doses. it isn't subtle or profound, it's just fun.p.s. the film only does the obvious intentionally using dialogue that doesn't match the actor's mouth gag twice insted of beating it into the ground. i can't wait for the sequel. "},{"Title":"funniest movie I've seen in years","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I laughed so hard that I couldn't breath. I really don't understand how this movie was not a super hit. Not since Ace Ventura have I laughed like this, and not even Ace made me laugh like this. See this movie.  Steve Oedekerk is a comic genius. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I have ever seen. And I've seen a lot.","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  A friend of mine recommended this movie to me, because his brother founded a table-football club called 'Kung Pow'. Don't ask me why ) I couldn't believe what I was seeing. Relentless laughing, sparkling humour. No ugly jokes, just pure funniness. This film doesn't take itself serious, it is laughing with the audience. Really cool. "},{"Title":"Fortunately not what I expected","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I have to agree with the many previous reviews stating only fans of MST3K and similar styles of humor can truly appreciate this film.Deceived by the horrible, unfunny trailer I avoided this in the theaters. Now that I've seen it on HBO, I am once again reminded that low level editors who haven't even seen the films shouldn't produce the trailers by putting together random scenes from the movie with their eyes closed.There's not much to say about the movie itself as it's pretty black and white - like it or not. That is, like good humor, or processed pre-packaged, shallow, glossy Hollywood junk like American Pie. "},{"Title":"Better than the preview","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Although this film does basically retread ground already broken when Woody Allen debuted `What's Up, Tiger Lily?', audiences unfamiliar with the technique of melding old Hong Kong movies with modern soundtracks and in this case actors might find this movie to be a departure from the usual slapstick Naked Gunn type movies. Unfortunately, this movie was promoted as Naked Gunn-esque in the trailer, turning away many moviegoers (including myself). While a good deal of the humor is puerile, there are some really inspired bits that are worth checking out now that it is available on video.  "},{"Title":"Dumb but HILARIOUS","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  a funny, funny movie. you would have to be a big fan of the old Hong Kong chop socky kung fu films of the '70s and '80s to fully appreciate this movie. it's lowbrow to the core, but it is FUNNY. i couldn't stop laughing for the first 40 minutes. it goes downhill from there, but still one of the funniest thing i've ever seen. but of course you need to have that stick removed from your colon to appreciate it. "},{"Title":"So I liked it.....what do you want from me??","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Okay.......I was not supposed to like this......my teenager nephewtold me I must borrow his DVD and watch it.......he said everyone inhis family hated it.....he was hoping I would like it.........so I politelytook it home and popped it in........I thought it was hilarious.......ifyou do not like Airplane or the Naked Gun movies.......you will hateit......if you like those Abraham/Zucker movies....you will lovethis......funny funny funny.......and the extras are great!To Summarize.......I bought my own copy! "},{"Title":"One Good Piece of...","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I understand there's some disagreement over this movie.  But I'm here to set things straight.This is one of the dumbest funny movies I've seen.  But I liked it because sometimes dumb IS funny.  Other dumb movies don't work out quite well.  I think this movie stands out because of its parody of the two old karate movies.  Without the parody, this would be mindless and childish.  I gave it a 6 out of 10 here at imdb.com. "},{"Title":"Wee oooh Wee oooh! Need I say more?","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  **Possible Spoiler** I gave this movie a two. I only gave it a two because I did laugh at the noise the gopher chucks made. I think if I was drugged or drunk I might enjoy this movie. However, I was neither. I even gave it two chances because my cousin couldn't believe I didn't like it. I told him that if I ever do watch it again I will definitely have to be drunk. Although, I don't look forward to that. I will say however that it is better than Any Given Sunday. Then again what isn't? "},{"Title":"Stupid and funny","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It was so stupid but funny. This movie is one of the best movies there ever will be. I laughed my a** off when i first saw this movie. When people say its stupid just plain stupid. I would yell at them. This movie rocks. I didn't go see it in theater but it was awesome on video at home. Betty was the funniest birdie, shirt ripper!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The chosen one was awesome funny No not simba, Its ok NO ITS NOT!!!!!!!!! I give this flim two thumbs up. "}{"Title":"Funniest movie ever made..........","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow was the funniest movie I have ever seen and probably ever made!!!! It is used from footage from an old 70's film. It's so funny looking at how they have added the main character (Steve Oedekerk) into the old film. The writing is hilarious. I have never in my life laughed so hard!!!!!! The cow fight is a little cheesy, but amusing to watch. When I first saw the preview for this movie I thought it looked stupid. I was wrong. So don't mind the trailer, just see the movie. You will be surprised!!!! "},{"Title":"Almost the greatest comedy i have ever seen","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This humor is so good...it all about nothing and the jokes are just so dull that's what makes them so good. And the voice overs are really funny and good (accent and stuff) Cant understand why its rated so low =\. Looking forward to the next one. "},{"Title":"Tiger Tiger Tiger!","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  What a silly treat.  I kinda wanted to see it in theatres but didn't want to fork over the $14.00 (CND) to see it. (our theatres are horribly overpriced) So I waited to rent it.  I wasn't expecting too much, although I liked High Strung and Thumb Wars.  From the second I hit play and the title screen came up till the second I ejected it out of my DVD player I was near peeing myself with laughter.  This movie wasn't just a spoof of the kung foo flick but a spoof of spoofs spoofing the kung foo flick. This humor isn't for everybody but you shouldn't dock it before you try it. Just watch and make your own decision. *that is what we should do anyway* If you don't like it write a nasty review. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, if you like this kind of thing.","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  There's a very definite crowd that will hate this movie, this rant isn't for them. Kung Pow! will most likely be loved by any loyal fan of Mystery Science Theater 3000. It's also great for fans of Monty Python, Dumb and Dumber, Ace Ventura, etc. Basically, it's stupid comedy. I'm talking, /really/ stupid comedy. That's why it's so funny, and some people just won't get this.So, what's Kung Pow! all about? Well, Writer/Director/Lead Actor Steve Oedekerk basically takes an old, unknown, laughably bad 70's kung fu movie and one ups MST3K by not only making fun of it, but throwing out the dialogue and sound. They redubbed the entire thing. They digitally added several characters, including the main character, into the film. Everything is then mercilessly hacked and ducted taped together to form one hilarious story.The jokes are certainly hit and miss, but that's to be expected in this type of film. More or less, it's a great comedy with a lot of action. The story, although very fragmented, is rather entertaining as well. It does manage to keep a sense of continuality though all the random fun. The end of the film, although unusual, will be well known to any anime fan. Suffice to say it's almost like watching Kung Pow! 2 in 30 seconds. It's very entertaining.So what else do you need to know? Go rent it! Keep an eye out for WimpLo, a great MST3K style humiliated character. We purposely trained him /wrong/, as a joke! The cow scene isn't nearly as lame as it seems in the previews. The cow itself is actually quite well modeled, and animates smoothly. It's somewhere around 5x-10x the detail of the Black & White cow, if that helps anyone. Have fun, and keep the scoffing movie critics out of the room while watching. Threaten them using various WimpLo quotes, that'll keep them away for awhile.- Rirath_com "},{"Title":"I'M A MAN TOO YOU KNOW, I GO PEE PEE STANDING UP","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  this movie is a must see.  one of the funniest movies i've seen.  my friends and I constantly say lines to each other from this movie just to get a good laugh.  but this movie wasn't perfect.  i didn't like the cow scene that much and the whole tongue thing would've been better if it was his thumb. if you've seen any of his earlier films you'll understand.  but other than that master pain aka betty was hilarious.  best character in the movie by far.  Hmmm. I'll kill him. I'll kill him dead. Like with, with a, rock or something. Like a, like a stone. "},{"Title":"Stupid, but very funny","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very hard movie to give a number rating to.  It wasn't a great movie by traditional standards, yet it wasn't ever supposed to be.All in all, if you have a sense of humor and don't take things too seriously you'll find the movie to be quite hilarious.Oh, and make sure you don't stop watching after 10 minutes, as so many other reviewers said they do, the beginning is far and away the worst part of the movie. "},{"Title":"Kung Pow is Gnodab!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I was never interested in seeing Kung Pow. The trailers were a complete turn-off. When I saw it recently on Cable, I found that some idiot and marketing decided to take the stupidest scenes in the movie and implant them into the trailer. That was a stupid move. This movie actually turned out to be decent.Obviously, Kung Pow is not the best spoof ever made. Not by far. You want to go with the big name slapsticks, go with Naked Gun, Airplane, Spaceballs, Blazing Saddles, etc. Kung Pow doesn't hold a candle to those movies.This movie had some incredibly stupid scenes. I hated Toungy. The cow fight scene should have been cut out, and there was some other stuff that was too wacky for the movie's own good. The dubbing was great. The dubbing made the movie as funny as it was. What this movie lacked in visual gags, it made up for in wit.All around, I'd be willing to spend the 8 bucks to see Kung Pow. Unfortunately, it is no longer in theaters, and I have already seen it anyway. However, I WILL be paying to see Kung Pow II. Overall, not badong at all. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Pull yourself off the floor funny!!!","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is what low budget spoof comedy should be.  Steve Oderkerk has written some great one-liners and the voices are hilarious.  If you like Airplane and the such I think you will enjoy this one too.  The Chosen One is on a journey to find and kill the man who orphaned him when he was a child, but finds more than he bargained for.  Master Pain (Betty) is on mean guy with a strange liking for a good whack in the sack.  Throughout the movie Oderkerk uses footage from a 1976 Chinese martial arts movie spliced with new sets made to match and some pretty good digital manipulation (especially considering the budget).  I personally can't wait for the sequel.  Look for this at a used DVD store, I found mine for seven bucks. "},{"Title":"Pretty funny","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  ************Spoiler Warning****************After seeing how badly this movie has been run down I braced myself for the worst, expecting a Steve Oedekerk ego trip crossed with the crudest of Freddie Got Fingered.Yes, some jokes were flat or seemed the result of long writing sessions where everything starts to seem funny--like the bad guy arbitrarily calling himself Betty.  It was much cleaner than I expected--very little in the way of really offensive stuff.  We get too much reliance on funny sounds and goofy expressions, but overall it had some hilarious moments and was just so goofy you gotta love it.Choosing a seventies Kung Fu movie as the backdrop was appropriate as that was when they were at their worst and schlockiest.  It was hard to at some points to know when we were seeing the new and the original film, although a few of the digital composites mixing the two were a little easy to spot.Some moments, such as the French Aliens and the Kung-Fu fighting cow were simply hilarious, as was the gopher nunchucks. (Or however you spell it.)  There's no plot worth speaking of, but the movie is pretty much a brainless gagfest, so sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Stupidly hilarious.","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  One of the best dumb comedies I have ever seen, KUNG POW! ENTER THE FIST wasn't a great hit in theaters, but it is truly a one-of-a-kind work. Steve Oedekerk is a truly brilliant and original filmmaker. Using very careful editing, and purposely dubbing his film terribly, he created this. (Possible Spoilers to Follow)It is about a guy named The Chosen One (Oedekerk, himself) who is only referred to as Chosen One throughout the entire film. Probably only because there are millions of karate movies where somebody is named that. There is also some Chinese woman with one breast. I was very pleasantly surprised with this film. It did not deliver the loads of laugh-out-loud humor I was looking for, but it did satisfy my cravings, only because it was so stupid it was funny.This is truly one of the better parodies ever filmed and I do recommend that you see this if you are a fan. Recommendations SCARY MOVIE, SCARY MOVIE 2, AIRPLANE!, and NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE. All are worth watching.I was only disappointed in a lack of seriousness in this film, but I later realized that this wasn't a problem because the film was funny as hell. I look forward to the sequel.KUNG POW! ENTER THE FIST gets 4/5. "}{"Title":"Kung Pow Enter the Laugh!","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Brilliantly and meticulously done. Most people will rate this low b/c they do not understand the genre. However, compared to most parodies, this one is, without a doubt, detailed and well thought out.- ZafoidPS It may also be the best stupid movie ever.- Z "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow is a total spoof of the karate film genre, kinda like Pleasantville is to 50's family shows. The difference is that in Kung Pow, not only is he the character in the movie, he's part of it, no I was in the real world and now I'm dumped here and changing everythingSteve Oedederk(mastermind behind Ace Ventura) inserts himself as the main character in a 1976 karate movie. The movie includes many clips of the original movie, I'd say probably 90-95% of the movie is the old movie, yet filled with new, hilarious scenes, dubbed by the man, and of course, himself filling the shoes of the main character. It's like a whole lot of the me in other movies scenes in Forest Gump.Steve plays The Chosen One, a man who posses the power to do something or other, but his main goal is to kill whoever knocked his family. We watch as his baby self quickly takes control of the situation as his family is killed by one Master Pain( who is later known as Betty), in a truly classic opening. The visual effects are like on the internet(as in the baby will seem quite familiar), but it fits with the movie.About half of all the lines is some joke, and though it could have been better, there was really no other way to make the movie. The scenes without Steve lacked a bit, but were still funny none the less. This movie couldn't have been recreated at all. If it was an Austin Powers, it would take away from the movie. Something about serious-looking men fighting each other to Can't Touch This is funny. Something about a baby rolling down a hill is funny. Something about product placement is funny. Something about the words several various rodents and I'm no doctor, but that was like one clean chunk, man! are funny. And probably the funniest part (as the cow fight is clearly in your head and was and is advertised everywhere), is something about the dub to a real clip that worked so well a) quickly dodge and hit him with a spinning back kick or b) get hit and die(I won't give out the rest to save it for you) is extremely funny. Where it could have cut down some of the rude stuff just a little, it makes up with humor that no one can hate. There's just something about this that makes me want more.Much much more. "},{"Title":"Much funnier than I expected","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I rented this movie on advice from a friend who generally has what I consider good taste in movies, not expecting much.  I was surprised to really enjoy it! I must admit it was incredibly stupid, but that is what makes it funny.  I found it much more enjoyable than the comedic Jim Carrey vehicles I've seen, or more recent fare starring Saturday Night Live comics.  A spoof on old Kung Fu movies, the film uses footage from an old movie combined with new images and dubbing, a la What's Up Tiger Lily? And, the film manages to be very humorous despite not a single curse word, and only one woman's naked back (although there is some other sexual innuendo).  I'd highly recommend it when you are in a silly mood...it certainly has no deeper sociological or political message.  Just fun. "},{"Title":"Airplane! hits Japanese martial arts films","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Its not often that you see a comedy that treads previous waters while making for worthwhile entertainment, but KP fits the bill. The basic premise of the movie is to make fun of early martial arts movies. In case you haven't heard, KP is a film where they took an old martial arts film, rearranged the scenes, digitally added new characters, and dubbed the whole thing over. And, no, you don't have to have seen the original for things to make sense (I didn't). Yes, this is a comedy. If the idea that 'recycling' old movies is repulsive, you haven't guessed the half of it.The first 15 minutes gets off to a slow start, setting up the origin of the main character, The Choosen One (played by Steve Odekirk). After that, you are assailed by the worst low-intelligence jokes you'll ever have fun laughing to. The movie is ridiculous, and in doing so, makes fun of the martial arts genre. If I didn't laugh much the first time I watched it, it was only from the shock that something so bad could be so funny.The in-joke of this movie is that everything has been messed with, but the characters aren't in on it (well, you could argue that Steve is...). If you are good at lip-reading, you will get a few extra laughs from what the characters are actually saying before they were dubbed.My only complaint (aside from the slow beginning) is the budget-limited special effects. Some were a bit cheap looking. Then again, nobody's going to see this movie for the effects...Now don't get me wrong - this is no award winner. But it is fun. And silly. And stupid. But most of all, fun. I watched it on DVD, and will gladly watch it again.  "},{"Title":"Wanna smile, please do!","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Seeing Kung Pow - Enter the Fist was on of the most hilarious moments I've ever had. I was pretty disapointed with the low rating the film has, I guess people just don't know how to enjoy a non-sense movie. Bottom line is it's a great movie! See IT! "},{"Title":"Funny Does not BEGIN to describe this","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Some of my friends may think I'm an idiot for liking this movie as much as I do, but frankly, this flick is brilliant.  I've found that most people who don't like this flick do not like the Cow Fighting/Matrix parody scene or the opening 10 minutes.  What kills me, and what I think would amuse Odekerk himself is that no one seems to take issue with the talking tongue.  Most of the reviewers, however, agree with me, that this movie is one of the funniest things we've ever laid our eyes on.  I went to see it because I'm a Steve Odekerk fan, but the trailers seemed to focus on the weakest gags.I came to realize that is because there are so many running gags going on. You can't do justice to a running joke in a trailer, one installment isn't funny enough.  But everyone I talked to about this flick agrees that it is so much funnier than they thought it would be.  I've seen it twice in the theater then I rented the DVD.  Then I bought the DVD.The DVD has all sorts of extras ranging from deleted scenes to what they're REALLY saying underneath the dubbing to a special tribute to tonguey.  This movie has no plot to speak of, but that's hardly the point. "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie - but only if you have a brain and wit","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is positively brilliant.  I can see how many people wouldn't 'get it' - especially if they are expecting a normal movie and don't understand its background.  This is really two movies spliced together, with new voices and one actor (Oedekerk) digitally inserted in the scenes a la Forrest Gump. The result is a ridiculously funny and ingenious combination of Mystery Science Theatre 3000, Rocky Horror Picture Show, What's Up Tiger Lily, and every badly dubbed martial arts movie you've ever seen.One point of note - As the entire movie is dubbed with voiceovers, including the digitally inserted actor, it's fun to watch Oedekerk's mouth and see if you can tell what he's REALLY saying.  I tried it a few times and was able to lip-read some pretty funny comments.Make sure you watch the full-screen version if you rent it, however; I went to a Blockbuster and got a copy to watch with friends and the video was so badly cropped you missed a lot of the action, jokes, and content.  Try the DVD. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie Ever","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I have just seen this movie for the second time and it even got better on the second viewing... you will miss a lot of things on the first viewing because you are too busy laughing )If you love Martial Arts you will love this movie, but even if you have no knowledge of Martial Arts whatsoever chances are you will still love it.I think it is even funnier than the Naked Gun trilogy.I hope Oedekerk finds a budget to make Kung Pow II !!! "},{"Title":"Laughed so hard I lost my voice","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Man, I haven't laughed this hard in a LONG TIME!  Very cool movie.  A fellow reprobate called me at work and started quoting the movie, and since I have no impulse control, laughed hysterically again.  I'm still crying.  Maybe it's the allergy medication?  No, it was funny.  10/10Tiger....Tiger...Birdy...Bird.....I AM A POWERFUL MAGICIAN!!  Your clothes are red.And who DO you rule?  The large, dark-nipple people?-out "},{"Title":"Uneven, but pretty funny","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much from this movie. A friend who liked it lent it to me, so I watched it. As a straight comedy it's lacking, but as a parody of cheesy 1970's kung fu movies it's hilarious. If you're not the type who enjoys old kung fu movies then you probably won't enjoy this one either.It's at its best when it's truest to the source material. The baby and cow fighting scenes were amusing (though they went on bit too long) but the real humor is in the deliberately goofy editing (I am a great magician!) and the kung fu movie in-jokes.  "}{"Title":"The funniest film I've seen in over 5 years","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I just pray for a movie that makes me laugh so hard that I can't breath but they seem to come around very seldomly any more. This one had me coughing, gasping for breath with tears running down my face. Both of my kids (9&14) were equally paralized.There are several one-liners that we've been using all week. The one that made me cough up a piece of my lung was What do you get when you mix an owl with a bungie cord?...... I will definitely buy this one and put it in when I need to rattle my bones!  "},{"Title":"A silly movie for silly people","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is for those who know whats coming. If you know your going to see a silly movie, you probably enjoy it. If you have no idea what you've walked into, better hope you like silly movies. I'm alright with silly films and found this to be quite funny. Some moments where a little over the top, *may spoil for some* but the scene with the chosen one testing his strength by having people beat him with sticks is one of the funniest! The cow scene I didn't like, but thats for others to decide. My reccomendation is to just rent the movie when it comes out and if you like it get it on VHS or DVD. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly VERY VERY VERY FUNNY","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  At first I saw the trailer in theatres. I definately wanted to see it. But then i started to see more and more commercials, and lost interest. BUT then i saw it anyway, and i am glad i did!. All i can say is that forget what people say or think of this movie as a bad one. I was surprised, the commercials don't give the movie justice, the actual movie is very funny, and thats all that matters because it is a comedy, screw everything else, if its a comedy all it should do it make people laugh, thats all, and it did. Steve Oederk is a comedy genious, the only thing i wonder about this movie is  how much did it take to make this movie? and how much did this movie make in the theatres? I hope it made more than it took to make cause there were quite alot of special effects shots in this one, and this movie deserves to make its money back. N e way, go see it if you can, if you have a sense of humor then you will laugh and love it. -enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Survivor of the Comedies","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Steve Oedekirk could either be labeled as a comedic genius or an idiot depending on your comprehension of martial arts flicks. Not much more ridiculous than the original product, this kung-parody delivers laugh after laugh without wearing itself out. This is a movie you will want to watch again and again, because you will be guaranteed to notice something new each time you see it. If you are looking for the ultimate laugh-fest, look no further. iKung Pow!/i is the defining farce that will be enjoyed by Bruce Lee buffs and the average joe. Just be prepared to have to take a few breaths in between belly laughs. "},{"Title":"Excellent Brilliant !!! Two Thumbs Way Up!! however","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I did not see this picture in Theaters. Reason Being you may ask? That Stupid Cow bit in the movie trailers as well as the TounguieWhat the Trailer failed to do was show the real laughs of the movie which was all the chinese kung fu re Dubbed scenes. That was what got me rolling on the ground laughing.First a joke, what do you get when you cross an owl with a bungee cord?............... MY ASSSteve Odekirk what a guy !!!!!   "},{"Title":"I laughed and LAUGHED","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I just seen this movie for the first time yesterday,and it was the FUNNIEST movie i have seen in months.I always laughed at the old kung-fudubbing in the past,and they took it to the limit with this movie.The video editing was great for the most part,better than i have seen in alot of movies.I like this movie alot,but that doesnt mean it is for everyone.I could definatly see how some people wouldnt like it.You are either gonna love it,or hate it.It did the trick for me though.i give it an A++! "},{"Title":"Almost wet myself.","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I got this moving on a lazy Sunday.  I was not expecting much from it.  I had heard it was horrible.  Boy were they wrong.  I watched it with my sister.  We laughed through the entire movie.  It is one of those movies that you can not take to seriously and if you do then you need help.  This was an interesting concept for a movie.  This is a movie I watch to put my in a laughing mood.  If you want to sit back and really laugh then watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie, terrible advertising.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow was incredibly funny, but was marketed to the wrong crowd, using the weakest scenes... A Kung Fu baby... A Matrix parody... Burly guy having his clothes torn into a bikini... Well, the mainstream audience might get the idea, but they *aren't* the intended audience for the film... Perhaps if they'd included bits like (spoilers?)I'm bleeding... Making me the victor.I am a powerful magician.... YOUR CLOTHES ARE RED!!!AndWHALE!It would have had a more successful run. I didn't see the movie based on the previews... But when I finally rented it, I couldn't stop laughing. "},{"Title":"Stupid funny!!!!","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I have to admit that this film was so incredibly stupid that I laughed out loud at times. Who the hell else would come up with the guy's tongue having a face of it's own....... well I guess Steve Oedekerk would. Just watch the damn flick.... you will laugh too. "},{"Title":"Gets boring after awhile","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It certainly is a tad better than Super Troopers.  But indeed I spent an entire day watching this 83 minute long movie.  Simply because it got boring after a few minutes of time.  I've never understood this facination with dubs.  Since I like the voice track in it's original language, it was a tad annoying at times.  But some of it was good.  Many folks however probably just won't get it.All this idiot did was get some sort of budget, rather large one if you include a blue screen and over enjoyed himself.Fortunately the dvd has three useable audio tracks.  Similar to Galaxy Quest.And believe it or not, the dvd was perhaps funnier than the movie.  Wish they had more tongue's like that.  Almost game to watch the thumb movies now.5/10Quality 2/10 Entertainment 6/10 Replayable 7/10       (with three language tracks mind you) "}{"Title":"The Dumbest Movie you'll ever love !!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I can't explain the movie in any other way except that if you watch it,you will laugh, you will think, How Stupid, laugh some more, and by the end of the movie , you'll be going WEE WEE WEE, Wecewww It makes Airplane look like shakespear. Watch it, laugh, deny you watched it, and then vote. "},{"Title":"Revolutionary!!!","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was not only funny,but it stops and makes you think about yourself in life.I'm actually thinking about changing my major in college because of this.I now understand that you have a very limited number of choices in life and you can't waste them.This movie is what should inspire a person to work hard and laugh while your at it. 10 out of 10.Great Movie!!! "},{"Title":"A Refreshing Slap in the Funny Gland!","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  A man, A blue screen, An old 70's Kung Fu Flick and a few computer special effects.That's the basic concoction for this weird little movie. Steve Oedekerk the guy behind Ace Ventura When Nature Calls amongst other things, has superimposed himself into the above mentioned 70's kung fu flick as the chosen one, an orphan on a mission to find and destroy his Parents killer - Master Pain (or Betty as he likes to be called). It may be daft, it may be ridiculous but if you put your brain on the seat next to you and set your mouth to laughter mode then you will love this - however if you are prone to taking your movies a little too seriously then forget it. Watch it now and add a little Kung Pow style joy to your life!!  "},{"Title":"Give it another chance!","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I really did not expect much from this movie. The trailer made it look cheesy and awful. But, after watching it at least ten times, I can honestly say this was one of the funniest movies that's come out in a while. The dialogue is so spontaneous (you can tell he was just having fun doing the voices) and it's silly and stream of consciousness, and clever in the use of old and new footage and dialogue. So much of Oedekirk himself went into this movie. Rent the DVD and watch it with the audio book audio track, listen to what the actors are actually saying on the other track, watch the cut scenes and special features. Once you do that I think you'll begin to understand the style and humor of this great little flick. And it seems that 20th Century Fox (the distributor) doesn't understand the movie either. It seems to be their fault the movie didn't do so well in the theatres. Why do the independents always get jerked around? (See Monkeybone for another example of how Fox can ruin a perfectly good idea.) Those unfamiliar with Steve Oedekirks' personal sense of humor would be well advised to rent High Strung. But, there's no accounting for taste. One last note it seems that when you're in the entertainment industry (as opposed to Joe Blow off the street in a theatre)the way you watch movies starts to change. Once you have done it yourself and seen how much work goes into creating anything for video, you begin to see a little clearer where the director was coming from, therefore ruining any kind of pure movie experience for yourself FOREVER. That's not to say you can't appreciate movies once you've involved yourself in the background, just different things appeal to you and the defining features of a quality movie may be different than if you weren't involved in the industry. Just an interesting note (and an explaination of my point of view.) "},{"Title":"This movie shall take it's place in the great circle of confusion","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Sure, it's a great movie. It has many funny moments. But, after seeing it a few times, you start to think It's good, but confusing. The cast and crew did a good job, but the storyline should've made more sense.I give it a *** 1/2 out of *****  "},{"Title":"Get Ready To Laugh","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow is a dyno-mite movie! If you want to have a good laugh (or alot of them that is) try this movie. There is something original about Steve O. Highly recommended for nonsense humour. Can't wait for the sequel!!!!Good work Steve O! "},{"Title":"Pure Hilarity","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" To not find humor in this film you are either dead or have absolutely no sense of humor. Kung Pow is one of the funniest films of 2002. Finally, a unique film that doesn't need famous actors or previews that spoil what few jokes there may be in the film. This movie is funny strictly due to hilarious dialogues. Note Kung Pow must be seen on the DVD to fully enjoy is hilarity. That's a lot of nuts! "},{"Title":"For execution of what this movie is 8/10","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  If you went into this movie expecting to come away with something, I see how you could be disappointed.  But if you begin watching this with no expectations, and just PLAN on seeing off the wall humor that's silly only for the sake of being silly, this IS a funny movie. 8/10Simply for the creative thinking and its technical execution, this is a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Steve Oedekerk, Black Belt in the high art of foolishness","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is hands down, one of the most hilarious movies I have ever seen. We had a party the other night with 7 people to view Kung Pow, and to a one, we were hurting ourselves laughing. I don't have any deep or analytical things to say, only that this movie is simply a lot of fun. Steve O. has completely mastered the fine art of foolishness. The dubbing is genius, and be sure to see it on DVD because the extra features are just as priceless as the movie. The movie is also presented with alternative dialog where you can hear what the actors are actually saying. They get prizes for keeping straight faces. Steve O. will always show you a good time...check out his brilliant Thumb movies, like Thumb Wars and The Blair Thumb. Creative people like Steve help us get through these difficult times with laughter. "},{"Title":"Triumphant Comedy","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Brilliant fun.  Some lame gags, but for the most part this film is an awesome comedy.  Steve O. deserves proper respect. Thanks Steve. Take a 70's kung-fu flick, re-edit with outrageous, witty dialogue, and a few camera tricks. If done properly you will wind up with a masterpiece such as Kung-Pow. I laughed my ass off.  What more can you ask of a comedy? Two fingers up!  "}{"Title":"A manic delight","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  One of the most complained about movies at Hollywood Videowhere I work, tons of people didn't get it or just plain thought itwas stupid. I on the other hand really got a kick out of it. There wasone part that had me gasping for air with tears in my eyes. Stilleven fans of stupid humor hated this. One great thing thoughwas how could you predict (unless you've seen the original) whatwas going to happen next? I also enjoyed the fact that this moviewas so humorous and enjoyable without having to rely on anyHollywood star. In fact, HAD the movie had a few known actors in itlike Jim Carrey or even Bruce Campbell it would surely have beenbetter received. "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS!!!","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I don't know why I loved this movie so much. Maybe it's because they dubbed everything and made it with their own words? I think it's ingenious. It's the kind of thing that my sister and I would do. I loved the character of Ling the best...the wee ohhh wee ohhh parts had me cracking up so hard I thought I'd wet my pants!I think it's brilliant and can't wait for the next one to come out!!10/10!! "},{"Title":"Very Very Funny... At Least Under The Influence","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The first and only time I watched this movie I was heavily mood altered via  herbal substances and all I can say is that this movie was HILARIOUS. I, and a group of others, could not stop laughing. As I watched through slitted eye lids, the imagery made for nonstop laughs. Many scenes all I could do was concentrate on trying to spot the computer-modified head replacements... made even more difficult to spot while trying to unwrap the candy I was eating. Under the influence, this movie is a 9/10. Without... probably 5/10. "},{"Title":"I can't stop watching this movie! 10!","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I work at a theater and saw the trailer for this movie and thought it was going to be awful.  One of my less intelegent friends really wanted to go see it because There was a chick with one big boob.  I finally took him to see it expecting the worst and never stopped laughing all the way through the movie.  My friend on the other hand that thought it was going to be funny thought it was awful.  I then took everyone I knew to see this movie. I thought this movie was very well made and I never stoped laughing throughout the entire movie.  Most of the humor in the movie was fairly intelegent and wouldn't be understood/apriciated by certain audiences.  If you love comedies or parody shows like MST3K then you will definately enjoy this movie.  As for me I am going to go watch the DVD for the 24th time. "},{"Title":"Creative, fun, and absolutely hilarious!!!!!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I rented Kung Pow Enter the Fist just because I was bored, and it was about the only thing left in the store.  Man, did I luck out!! Steve Oedekerk does a great job with this movie, matching the new stuff with the 70's footage and the whole pantload of effects.  Plus, the dubbing is hilarious! Critics were not very favorable toward this movie, but they just didn't get it. Besides, when are critics EVER right? Anyway, be sure to check out the DVD....it's got some extras that will have you rolling on the floor! "},{"Title":"Mostly a chuckle of a film","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow Enter the Fist (2002) C-81 min. D Steve Oederkerk. Steve Oederkerk, Fei Lung, Leo Lee, Ling Ling Tse, Lin Yan, Chia Yung Liu, Hui Lou Chen, Chia Ma, Jennifer Tung. Hilarious (at times) spoof of cheesy 1970s martial arts films. Oederkerk takes the 1977 obscure film `Shao Lin hu ho chen tien hsia' (aka Tiger & Crane Fists or Savage Killers), inserts himself into the movie, and overdubs the actors' lines. The result is a movie on the similar road as Woody Allen's WHAT'S UP TIGER LILY? Some of the gags fall flat, but it is mostly a chuckle of a film. The best gags by far are the badly dubbed barking dog and the one-breasted woman. RATING 7 out of 10. Rated PG-13 for slapstick violence, sexual innuendoes, and brief nudity.  "},{"Title":"Never watch alone!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Just saw it a few days ago at a film festival and first I thought just another one of those Scary Movie-like flicks and I could not laugh. But after some time I found myself laughing and making strange noises. I think the secret of this movie is that Oedekerk just did what ever he wanted without worrying if it might be too bad. Because he knows that stupidity is sometimes funny. More stupidity is often just bad and boring (Scary Movie) but if you just go further and further with it the laughing returns again. I loved it. But I also have the impression that it might be boring, when you watch it alone. It only works, if you watch it together with people. I loved it! It's just too stupid...! "},{"Title":"Great Movie, but ending could've been better.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I love comedies with humor that is so incredibly stupid, and this is no exception. The grossly mis-timed dubbing is hilarious! I don't care if its childish, stupid, etc. As long as I LOL several times, I call the film good or great. If I ROFL, I consider it a classic. Basically, you don't have to make a huge effort to make me laugh. The unrealism of this movie is very funny, the only thing that could've been improved was the ending.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Frikkin' Hilarious","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was absolutely hilarious.  I loved Steve Oedekerk's material since High Strung and this movie is just as funny.  This movie spoofs old Hong Kong films (of which I'm a big fan as well) and does it quite well.  The voice-overs are perhaps the funniest I've ever heard.To appreciate this movie, you must understand that it is NOT to be taken seriously.  It's just meant to be a lot of good, mindless fun.  Enjoy the tongue in cheek! "},{"Title":"It gets funnier every time you watch it...","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, it was not so great at first... I thought it was awful. I bought the DVD at Blockbuster the other night, and watched it. I can see why some people feel robbed of 1.5 hours of life, because I thought it wasn't funny at all.Then I realized that this movie is not supposed to be thinking humor, but more of a take it for face value film. And it was much funnier after that. If you take the time to enjoy it, you will realize that they really went through a good amount of trouble to make it. It was quite enjoyable, and some of the lines are quite catchy.If you have seen Joe Dirt and enjoyed it, this movie will be something you will enjoy as well.Save the whales. "}{"Title":"See this movie!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  In case you haven't figured it out, Kung Pow is meant to be stupid. The jokes, situations, etc are all ridiculous, but in a very humorous way. I'm sure most of the reviews you read will either be on one extreme or the other; either you get it or you don't. In any case, WATCH IT. Personally, I thought it was great. Near the beginning there were a few dull spots. Pretty soon though, things like the dubbing had me laughing. This isn't meant to be in-depth or highly original...it's in a way very much like Mystery Science Theater on the Sci-Fi channel (if you wanna think of it that way.)For mindless fun and a sense of laid-back humor, I give this an 8/10 score. "},{"Title":"Childish and immature - BRILLIANT!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I watched this film with my mate and his girlfriend, she wasn't the slightly bit impressed with the film.  However, my mate and I absolutely loved it! Anyone who doesn't laugh at the fighting cow or Betty needs to get their head examined.  Definitely going to buy it when it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"The Chosen One of Parodies","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  First thing's first This movie is A PARODY, so if you are not a fan of Kung Fu films you won't as much out of it as the real fans will.Second thing's second This movie was made by Steve Oedekerk, creator of Thumb Films, (including 'Thumb Wars' which is by far one of the funniest movie parodies of all time), so if you like his movies you don't have to be a Kung Fu fan... but if you're both, get ready to laugh until it hurts.This film is all about one thing Camp. There is not one frame that isn't loaded with it. Oedekerk green-screens himself into an old 70's Kung Fu film and interacts with the other characters, then goes back and re-dubs the entire movie in much the same way Woody Allen did with What's Up Tiger Lilly?. To top it off, Oedekerk says all of his on-screen lines wrong so that when he dubs the voices, his voice and mouth don't match up either! Pure camp.And yes, there is a fight scene with a cow, no secret there, it's in all the trailers, but what a lot of people don't seem to realize is that it's very well choreographed! The cow does actual, valid martial arts movements. In fact. my ONLY gripe with the movie is that the fight scenes weren't long enough. The 'cool' factor was so high that the movie needed more fighting, campy or otherwise.The other aspect to Oedekerk is his approach to shock value. The shock is completely unpredictable and yet still makes a sick sort of sense, unlike the Farrelly Bros ('Me, Myself & Irene' and 'Say It Isn't So') who use shock value that has zero basis with ANYTHING and just put shock in for the sake of throwing shock in. Many of the lines and visuals leave you with that, Where the #$@& did that come from?!? but at the same time, you can not help but laugh with a sort of terrified horror.You remember Ace Ventura When Nature Calls, when Ace emerges from the back end of the covert rhino-thing? Remember how you felt? You had that, ... ... ... Oh, my god... and didn't know if it was safe to laugh or not? Well, Ace 2 was written and directed by Steve Oedekerk. Well, Kung Pow is full of those rhino-moments. And it doesn't stop there, get the DVD and you get loads more in the cut-scenes! (Little Willy rules!)In the world of movies, I give this one a good solid 6 out of ten. It was fun and creative and as original as a parody can get, but if you aren't into the Kung Fu sceen or into Oedekerk's style of humor, it won't mean as much. So for all of you who thought that seeing this movie was a waste of time, it was your own fault for going in with the wrong impression of the film. (It's like going to a Star Trek convention with your trusty plastic lightsaber at your side and wondering why you don't quite fit in.)However, in the world of parodies, this one is a 9.8, only to be beaten out by one of Oedekerk's other films, Thumb Wars The Phantom Cuticle (the greatest Star Wars parody of all time).So, if you like Oedekerk or Kung Fu flicks, this one is sure please. But if you're not, just look at it as an evening's entertainment when you don't know what else to rent.But just be prepared, Steve Oedekerk is one of the funniest men on the planet and you'll be seeing a lot more of him in the future... would you expect anything less from a guy who puts faces on thumbs? "},{"Title":"Very silly restyled kung-fu masterpiece.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I knew this would be a very stupid film from the trailers so I figured how bad can it be? I rented it last week and actually laughing through most of the film. Fans of Mystery Science Theater 3000 should love this. The voice of Master Pain is probably the best redubbed voice I have ever heard from a character. There are Some extremely funny moments in the film as well as some terrible special effects and some things that just went right over my head. I give it 6 out of 10. Watch this movie if u like spoofs of anything, it's right up your alley. "},{"Title":"Never saw this kind of stuff","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It was really cool. I liked the movie very well. It was a great comedy and i cant belive that some people call this the worst movie of 2002. there is a lot of movie worster than this.  to be honest i never saw nothing like this.I laffed my head off and i wait for the sequel. "},{"Title":"S'okay","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I rented this movie with the expectations of seeing a movie similar to the Airplane, Naked Gun and Hot Shots movies.  While the movie did not quite meet those standards, it was still pretty funny nonetheless.  Whether or not I purchase that movie for my collection is another matter.One good and bad point about the movie is how they blended the movie Kung Fu with Kung Pow.  It was so well done that I did not realize this was the case until a little later in the movie.  Why it could be termed as bad was because of the lack of current footage included in the movie (i.e., if more current footage was included, we might have had the opportunity to see more slapstick comedy).The baby and cow scenes were the best.All in all, it's a decent enough purchase if most of the excellent new releases are unavailable at your favourite video rental stores.  Hey, think about it this way  it's funnier than some of the other comedies, such as Mr. Magoo, Super Troopers, Osmosis Jones, etc. "},{"Title":"Simply amazing at everything it sets out to do","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow Enter The Fist exceeded all of my expectations, mostly because the main fodder for the commercials was the cheesy cow-related Matrix fight and the lady with one boob. That's like Orange County only showing the parts with Jack Black, trying to appeal to an audience that normally wouldn't enjoy the movie's content. I'm guessing that's why this ended up drawing the Scary Movie crowd, expecting cheesy parody and raunchy humor. They were probably sorely disappointed, like the first time a friend tried to get them to watch MST3K and they were bored to tears by the need to listen to dialogue.If you're wondering whether you'll like this movie, don't go on whether you liked Ace Ventura 2. The comedy is often subtle rather than loud and blaring, and I think people just think of it as lame sketch comedy rather than the rantings of an intelligent writer. The real humor in this movie isn't in the big jokes, it's in the building running gags and the quick incongruities that you might not notice the first time through. Watching it with friends is great, because you'll all be yelling out weird things that just happened that nobody else noticed, and quoting the lines for days. You just have to get the right crowd together. I think the best test would be whether you really like Mystery Science Theater 3000 or not, the humor seemed very similar to me. I gave it 8 out of 10 because, despite my evaluation of it as unadulterated genius, it did drag at parts. Kisses! "},{"Title":"Good, not great","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  First of all, the effects The editting is very well done, and occasionally it's hard to tell what parts were in the original and which parts were added on. The special effects were quite well done, also. Now, as to the comedy of it. Several of the jokes are (ahem) borrowed from other movies, and of course the whole thing is very similar to Woody Allen's What's New Tigerlily?. There are certainly some uneffective jokes. However, the majority are quite funny and original. Over all, it's not a great movie, but there are some laugh-out-loud parts that make it a worth-while watch. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Before I make my comments, I'd just like to say that this movie was obviously meant for teenagers, and, as most of the people making these comments are definitely NOT teenagers, their thoughts are probably not what teenagers will think.I am not some stupid, perverted teenager I am 15, have a 4.0 GPA, and hold a job at a physician's office. But when I spend time watching a movie with my friends, we want to watch something that will make us laugh. Kung Pow Enter the Fist accomplished that pretty darn well. I do admit, it is a completely stupid movie. That is what makes it so funny. Some of the voice-over work is so hilarious that we had to rewind the movie; we couldn't hear it over the laughter.This movie is great if you want to watch something so stupid you will be rolling on the floor, Kung Pow Enter the Fist is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Another hysterical parody from Steve O.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Steve Oedekerk, you nut! The man who gave us the funniest Star Wars parody of all time, Thumb Wars, has returned with a wonderfully cheesy parody of the whole kung fu movie genre. You know bad dubbing, villain who killed the guy's family, hero out for vengeance, random magical characters showing up to help him or fight him, etc. etc. Kung Pow takes the 76' Jimmy Wang Yu vehicle Savage Killers and replaces Yu with Steve Oedekerk, in a stupid wig and old-time Chinese clothes, and dubs the whole thing over with really weird dialog in a huge array of goofy voices. And there's a CGI cow, too, which you might remember from the previews. Oedekerk's interaction with the movie's original characters is probably the funniest part of the movie. DVD extras include a couple really funny alternate soundtracks to the dubbing, a books-on-tape version (I could swear the same guy does Harry Potter books on tape) and a version that lets you hear what they're really saying. Some of the deleted scenes were a trip too. I liked the movie enough to buy the DVD, and I wasn't sorry. My girlfriend even thought it was pretty funny, and she refuses to watch real martial arts films with me.  "}{"Title":"A fantastic spoof movie - just don't try and take it seriously","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I think this film has been given a bad rap....The people who have been slagging it off on here obvioulsy have watched it in the wrong context. Perhaps they were expecting challenging plot twists or an indepth story line (god knows why with a title like Kung Pow)Anyway... the correct way to watch this film is with a lot of friends and to comment, joke and generally mock the film at every oppertunity. (often a couple of drinks first will help)First time I saw this film was with about nine or ten friends and within 20 minutes my ribs were hurting from laughter.Some of the special effects are amazing (do bear in mind that most of the actors didn't actually take part in the making of the film as it has been compiled together from a couple of other kung fu movies... altered...re-dubbed and other people superimposed on top.)This film takes the standard Bruce Lee style martial arts film, knees it in the groin, pokes it in the eye and generally swings it round by the ears.Don't watch it seriously and you'll love it. "},{"Title":"For comedy lovers, HK fans and special FX freaks only!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Unlike movies like Scary movie or Not another teen movie, Kung Pow show great respect (and knowledge) for (of) the genre its making fun of.Although its often pretty stupid (but in kind of a good way), the movie is, thanx among others to great special FX, truly funny.But the great idea in Kung pow is the re-editing of a classic film realeased more than 20 ago, the result is pretty amazingthe original hero is now the local dummy trained wrong as a joke, the old sick master is now a pervert and the terrifying bad guy is now called Betty.As special FX are more and more often used to fill a senaristic void, Kung pow uses FX with great creativity (like in Hong Kong films but for comedy purpose).It might not be as clever as a Farelly Bros or a Blake Edwards film,but i'd recommend this one to any comedy lover and to all HK fans.  "},{"Title":"great!!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I regret not seeing this movie in a theatre. It was a great distraction from reality. I bought the DVD just by watching the trailer on imdb. The director's view of this genre of movie was hilarious! I could not reccommend this movie more. All in all it was a good movie. I hope there is a sequel!! "},{"Title":"this movie was crazy","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  this movie was crazy. it was so funny. Lets just say its funny in a stupid way. If you like movies like Not another teen movie, or Scary movie you'll love this movie. The movie was just crazy. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves an awesome spoof. I loved it! "},{"Title":"People can be cruel","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I though that Kung Pow was an excellent movie. True, it will never win an Oscar, but most Oscar films are boring as hell anyway (Ex The English Patient and A Beautiful Mind, Now I felt like I was robbed hours of my life.). Kung Pow is aimed at audiences that like movies like Airplane and The Naked Gun series. These movies arn't suppose to make you smarter, there just there so that you can get a good laugh without some Highly sophisticated jerk making jokes like, What did one proton say the other? It's purpose is just like every movie's purpose should be, to entertain an audience. If you want (In a bad British accent)High Quality Comedy(which usually isn't funny but labeled comedy anyway) go see Waking Ned Devine or a Woody Allen movie. Now that's some boring crap! At least it isn't Rollerball (aka the sorriest movie ever made). I would never compare this movie to Freddy Got Fingered because we all know (even Airplane people) that movie really sucked. Kung Pow is a good movie to watch and put you in a good mood with (unless you are an inconsiderate chump you picks and nags at things). I own it on DVD and I never buy DVD's unless I plan on watching it more than 3 times. My rating= 10 out of 10, though you would have to see it for yourself. "},{"Title":"So stupid that I loved it!!!!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I am a sucker for stupid, off the wall comedy like this one.  I love send up movies, such as Hot Shots and the Naked Gun movies.  This one is just as great as any of those.I must admit though, when I first saw the previews, I had the same look on my face that my dog has when I make a weird whistling noise.  It's the same look that says the...hell??  I saw scenes of him fighting the cow, and I remember thinking that the very concept of a man fighting a cow was udderly ridiculous.  But it was a great fight scene anyway, and they certainly milked the joke to its fullest.  Ah...please forgive the 2% puns...Anyway, the movie is definitely worth a watch, especially if you like MST3K style humor mixed with send-up humor. The concept of adding scenes to an older movie and making it funny is a great new concept, and hopefully we'll see more like this one in the future. "},{"Title":"I was told I would write a review.  It would be significant.","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I rented this last week, and then had to pick up the dvd this week because I found myself quoting the dialogue and couldn't help snickering while simply thinking about the scenes they came from.  This movie is so stupid, purposefully so, that it was hysterical.I was kind of surprised when I went through the comments here to see how much it was despised.  Although films like this are not for everyone, I can't help but think that most of the bad reviews here missed the point of the movie.  With that in mind, I think I'll recommend some prerequisites before viewing this movieFirst, if you don't like Mystery Science Theater 3000, you will certainly dislike this movie.  Dislike might even be too polite of a word.  Kung Pow is MST3K taken to the next level.  They've taken a corny kung-fu movie, and instead of making fun of it and adding dialogue and comments as it runs, they've re-edited it into their own storyline and dialogue.  Frequently during the movie, they even have scenes and jokes that knowingly acknowledge this fact.  The ventriloquists' scene being a prime example of this, and quite funny too.  What they've made is designed to be a spoof of the movie it was based on, and it's hard not to laugh at the absurdity of it all.Secondly, a knowledge of kung-fu flicks that would air Saturday afternoons on your local tv station years ago will fuel your enjoyment tremendously. From the bad dubbing, to the over-used revenge storyline, to the marked hero, to the needless face-zooming, to the training camp being run by an elderly master, all the staples of those kung-fu flicks are parodied here to great effect.If you don't like or have possession of either of these aforementioned prerequisites, you're most likely going to have a painful viewing experience while watching Kung Pow.  For those of us who do, the experience is 80 minutes of pure comedy that you'll quote for some time to come.  Everytime I think of Wimp Lo and his squeaky shoes, or any of his dialogue, I can't stop laughing  Look at me!  I rule, baby!  I rock.....and roll.....all day long!THAT'S ALOT OF NUTS!!!  "},{"Title":"A treat for fans of martial arts, silly movies","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Karate Kid was the first movie I ever saw in the theater. Since then I've watched every martial arts film I could get my hands on, and I even took kung fu classes for a few years until I realized I'd never be Bruce Lee, even if I practiced every night. Having ingested as many kung fu flicks as I have, I can really understand what Kung Pow is parodying, and I recommend it to any fans of the martial arts genre. Unless you take it dead seriously, and secretly wish someone would kill your teacher so you could revenge him. Then you'll probably hate it. But anybody who laughs at the bad dubbing and impossible, complicated magical moves will definitely enjoy this. As will anybody who tends to enjoy parodies and dumb funny movies. I liked it enough to get the DVD, which has some special features even funnier than the movie itself.  "},{"Title":"Propably one of the most original spoofs I've ever seen","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I first saw a few parts from the movie and I checked around where I might be able to see this movie... And I must say this is one of the best comedies I have EVER seen. If you don't like this movie there is definately something wrong.First of all I like movies where you don't have to think to much to laugh. It's funny just admit it and laugh.  The fact is that some scenes are just so ridiculous you just have to laugh and if you don't, you need professional help.Basically it comes down to this in a time where comedies are extremely rare you can't stop yourself from falling on the ground of laughing, except with movies like Scary movie or Not another ten movie. "},{"Title":"good job, steve","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Being in television production (i work in the best high school studio in the state) i can appreciate the work that goes into a movie like this. also is one the funniest movies of all time, and if you can't understand, i feel sorry for you. "}{"Title":"The PERFECT Saturday afternoon movie!","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  In the line of Whats Up, Tiger Lily' and to a certain degree 'Mystery Science Theater 3000'. Every time I watch 'Kung Pow' I catch something that I did not see before! Fantastic use of sound effects and narration. Mr Oedekerk's facial expressions ALONE would make it hysterical. Add to that, the use of the absurd, and it made me laugh more than I have in years at ANY comedy!My only wish is that there would be a soundtrack released. Robert Folks' use of both grand musical themes and more modern styles fit the ebb and flow of the story wonderfully. He also uses  rich textures of strings in conjunction with classic Asia styles of orchestration. The transition from that style to the modern, with both modern electronic orchestration and hip hop, is always smooth and never out of place.Lets hope there IS a sequel!!!And remember... whee-o  whee-o   whee-o!!! "},{"Title":"This is a funny movie","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was funny as sh*t.  I laughed through the whole thing.  Whimp Lo is the best, with lines like I rock and roll, all day long, I mean come on that is just some funny stuff.  All you peeps that think this movie sucks can kiss it.  And evil Betty is the man with such lines as The name is Betty, you son of a pig.........Betty  I mean that was priceless, all you people that think this movie was terrible can suck it hard. "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I heard alot of bad things about this movie, so naturally i had to check it out.  What i was expecting was a stupid movie and thats what I got.  Yet, i couldn't stop laughing.  If you go into this movie expecting Pulp Fiction, then you'll be disapointed.  Overall, if you have an hour and a half to kill, rent this movie.  Oh yeah, the taco bell song was hilarious "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny. Never meant to be serious!","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Sure, Kung Pow!Enter the Fist did terrible in the box-office and critics alike, but the one misconception of the film is that it was never really meant to be serious. Its a movie of just having fun and a load of laughs, which it did for me. Always remember this question after you watch a comedy film before you make judgements about it, that question being Did it make me laugh? Answer it truthfully and some films suddenly wouldnt be so bad. In conclusion, relax..be goofy sometimes, the world is serious enough without you in the picture for 80 minutes. "},{"Title":"Wee-Ow-Wee-Oh-Wee!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  People reviewed this movie like it was up for an Oscar nomination!  It is a very unique film that offers great entertainment to anyone who has ever watched bad Hong Kong Action, and enjoys MST3k type humor. Its better to watch with a group, as with any comedy. I rented it as a joke, and laughed from beginning to end.  The only thing I didn't like was the Matrix cow scene.........how many times are they gonna milk (get it milk haha) that stupid bullet scene. "},{"Title":"I laughed to tears!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is very strange, not anyone will like it.  But i love it.  It is so funny! I think it is the funniest movie I ever watched. GRADE 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The natural progression of MST3K-style humor","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" A lot of people don't have a sense of humor. This is true. The rest of us LOVE Kung Pow Enter the Fist. It's taken the Mystery Science Theater 3000 idea and advanced it beyond anything that's been done before. This is high comedy! And the effects! You could play Kung Pow on mute to a new viewer and they'd never know 30 years separated the star and his co-stars. Kung Pow is a stunning achievement, making the most of today's digital effects with a sharp wit. Kudos, Mr. Oedekerk! I can't recommend this film enough, and particularly on DVD! The What we're really saying alternate audio track is hilarious! Once you've seen that, there's no going back!PS. Also check out Super Troopers! (though not as funny as Kung Pow...) "},{"Title":"Relentlessly hilarious ... shamelessly silly","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Take one part What's Up, Tiger Lilly? and two parts Airplane! and you have this wildly funny effort by director/writer/star Steve Oedekerk (Ace Ventura When Nature Calls).Oedekerk has removed the original soundtrack from a 70s chop socky film and inserted new dialogue and scenes to tell the story of The Chosen One, a master martial artist destined to avenge the murder of his family.  The result is always amusing, sometimes tacky and frequently gut-bustingly hilarious.If you want intelligent, sensitive comedy, see a Woody Allen film.  If you want to laugh ... HARD ... see Kung Pow -- Enter the Fist. "},{"Title":"Hilarious - Not for everyone -- Just the intelligent","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Ouch... some people just don't know how to appreciate humor..We'll, I do.  This is truly a funny movie.  When you consider the work that went into this movie...the film evolves to amazing.**NOTE FOR THOSE OF YOU THAT DIDN'T FIND THE FILM FUNNY --- go look up another film...because you weren't bright enough to appreciate the film! --Now, as for the rest of us....Steve and his team did an outstanding job of melding 3 films into one newer, brighter, and freakin' hilarious movie.  This movie does for old kung fu flicks what Hot Shots did for Top Gun.  I'm sure those that trashed this film also trashed Hot Shots.  Well, that's too bad.  Those closed minded individuals certainly do not recognize humor and dare I say&#133;genius.  It's too bad people can't just relax and appreciate the little things in life.Anyway, back to the film.  The dubbing job was wonderfully done and was filled with irony and wit.  Of course, there are a few obligatory cheap jokes but what comedy doesn't have one or two of those.I challenge anyone who enjoys *real* humor and not just the manufactured typical Hollywood schlop to go get the DVD of this film and enjoy it... over and over...  This film is a MUST SEE with friends&#133;.guys invite your poker or football buddies over and get ready to pee your pants while laughing like 12 year old girls&#133;.My wife absolutely hated this film but now WANTS to watch it with me.  We laugh until our stomachs hurt.  We even laugh about it while trying to sleep... you'll enjoy it if you open your heart and then your mind.Don't listen to others&#133; go watch it and make your own decision.  "},{"Title":"geez, it wasn't THAT bad!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  If you like the silly movies, perhaps Airplane/Naked Gun/Dumb and Dumber/Loaded Weapon 1 stuff, than by all means, take a chance on this one. I rented it, so I am glad I didn't waste theater money on it, but I liked it, and would probably buy it when I see it used at Blockbuster. Kung Pow Enter the Fist will never be confused with Braveheart, The Godfather, or anything spectacular. I watched it with my 7 year old and his friend, and they were laughing hysterically, so maybe that is what made me enjoy it all the more. There were some really funny scenes, and the voice-overs were very funny. The dubbing was so bad that it made the movie funnier. There is nothing really truly offensive, except for some mild vulgarities (the kind that I wouldn't want my kid to use, but doesn't totally bother me if he hears), along with a one-breasted woman (funny).The movie is just a funny take-off on the martial arts genre that many 30-somethings grew up with in the 70's. If you go into this movie with the right attitude, you might be surprised.Actually, Steve Odenkirk reminded me a little of Kevin Nealon.  "}{"Title":"One of the funniest movies lately!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  When my friend and I needed a movie to rent, at the bottom of a pile, we found the Steve Oedekirk flick, Kung Pow - Enter the Fist. it looked okay, and we took it home. We cracked a bag of chips, and by the time the movie was over, the bag was still almost full. Why?, because we couldn't stop laughing. The movie was absolutely hilarious. We watched it twice, and it was even funnier the second time. What made us laugh the most were some of Oedekirk and crew's use of a 1976 Chinese martial arts movie, and the camera tricks used (Oedekirk being digitally inputed in to the movie; th reuse of footage repeatedly).But when I decided to do some research, some on this very site, I found out that there were a lot of people who didn't like it. I know every one has there own taste in movies, but I seriously thought there would be more people on the band-wagon. I'm disappointed people aren't giving this movie a chance, and even though the flick 'bombed', I'd very much like to see a sequel. Good job, Steve-O! "},{"Title":"I've seen worse...","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Well I was thinking this movie would be great, it wasn't. It was funny at times but at other times just too stupid to even be anywhere near funny. The parts where they fight to crappy rap music is pretty funny, which proves rap is a joke anyways. The movie could have been better if they didn't make so many stupid noises and if it was a little longer, overall I'd probably have to watch again to make a fair overall decision, but it was disappointing but I've still seen worse such as fast and furious and mission to mars heh.  "},{"Title":"FUNNY AS CRAP","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  After reading all the reviews, I was not expecting this movie to be as funny as it was. I was laughing after the first three minutes! I was on the floor after the bit where the narrator ponders whether or not it's physically possible for the lead character to have taken out a clean, bloodless cylindrical chunk of another man's torso. I had not laughed that hard in a long while. I watched it two more times and it was still just as funny.All the people who say this is bad and compare it to Freddy Got Fingered are crazy. THIS IS FUNNY AS HECK!!!Go rent the DVD as soon as you can. It has alot of special features and it's much better in widescreen. "},{"Title":"Very, very funny movie!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was very funny, most people who rate these movies have no sense of humor.  There are a ton of people I know who like this movie as much as I do.  I recommend you rent it first to see if this movie is your type of humor, then perhaps purchase it as I did.  Tonguey is my favorite, then probably Ling, her noise she makes is freaking hilarious. Wee-oh, wee-oh, wee-oh, wee-oh........Whayh!  Watch it, and hopefully you will own a great movie like I do.C.j. "},{"Title":"Funniest film I've seen since Orgazmo","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung-Pow Enter the Fist is, without a doubt, one of the funniest movies I have ever seen, and I've seen a lot of movies... really, there aren't any superlatives that can do justice, I can only give you other similar films that evoked the same gut busting laughter and incredulous exclamations of 'WTF?' while watching... South Park Bigger, Longer and Uncut, Cannibal! The Musical, and Orgazmo came close, but for the sheer technical achievement, which was something like they attempted for Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid (Steve Martin, 1982) but completely realized with todays digital technology. This film expands the bounds of comedy by utilizing CGI for comedic effect better then any other film to date. The DVD release features a disclaimer at the start of the film, saying that yes, we know the dubbing is bad, that is intentional, and what the characters are saying may have nothing to do with what's on the screen. I think the people who didn't understand this film may have needed that disclaimer, and it would have possibly increased their enjoyment of this film, much like the 'arty-film' disclaimer at the start of the '3 Kings' DVD. "},{"Title":"Funny all the way","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  At the opening of the film, you can not help but find it funny, unlike so many films, the laughs don't stop from start to finish. It plays of so many levels that you have to keep up with all the hidden jokes, like a flying saucer on the horizon, when you least expect to see one?????? and the fighting cow was just brilliant. If you just want fun, watch this film "},{"Title":"What a stupid movie.  Let's watch it again!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I think my girlfriend summed it up best with her comment just after we watched the movieWhat a stupid movie.  Let's watch it again!If you're looking for a cinematic masterpiece, this ain't it.  It's a base, low-level spoof that at times leaves you thinking, WHY? FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, WHY? but overall is an enjoyable way to kick back and waste an hour and a half.  And after all, that's the reason we all watch movies, right? To be entertained?And if you want something more for your mind to do while you watch the movie, watch the two movies it was based on first and marvel at how they cut them together into this separate narrative.A stylistic masterpiece and a hit-or-miss comedy.  6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A top notch martial Arts spoof..","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  When I first heard of this movie I thought that it was just a standard spoof.  When I realised that it used an old movie from the 70's this added to my enjoyment.  I love this kind of stuff and if anyone has seen thumb wars or any other movie from the thumb series, they know what to expect.Great stuff "},{"Title":"Don't expect this movie to be serious at all","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow was one of the funniest movie I've seen the past time. It takes fun of the martial arts genre and especially the very bad dubbing most of those films still get. If you've never watched old martial arts film like the one Oedekerk uses, I don't think you will find this very funny. But if you do you will love this movie.Yes, yes, play me like a drum "},{"Title":"Ridiculous, Funny, and Stupid all rolled into one!!!","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Before I rented Kung Pow Enter The Fist I had no idea what it was really about. I rented it thinking it was just a modern day spoof on the kung fu movies of the 70's. What I didnt know was that the movie was actually an old film from 1976 called Savage Killers and Steve Oedekerk just digitally placed himself in the film, added a few special effects scenes, erased the entire soundtrack from the original film, and dubbed everyone of the character's voices (including his own). I think the idea alone for this movie is something many people (including myself) would love to do I mean it would be pretty fun. However the real question was the movie really worth the money? Yes and No. If you are a big fan of Kung-Fu type movies you will probably love this movie and understand a lot of the jokes. Also anyone who just likes mindless comedies (a la Freddy Got Fingered) you will also love this film. All other people will probably despise this movie and wish it was never made. As for me I didn't think it was that bad. Don't get me wrong this is in no way a film that will ever make it to the IMDb Top 250 and it won't be getting any awards either (except maybe a razzie. However the idea behind the film is basically clever and funny and there are some pretty humorous scenes. The biggest flaw in the film is the OverDubbing after a while the character dubbing and voices became very annoying (especially the girl)however the film is not very long at a mere 80 mins and it's good that it's a short film otherwise all the jokes would be killed due to be played out. Overall the film was not great but not horribly bad either. For people who really hated this movie and had no idea why it was the way it was you should watch it with the commentary track on the dvd which explains everything in the film, there is also an alternate audio track in which it tells what the people were really saying (which I found hilarious). So like I said this movie is really for a select few. OVERALL 6/10 (originally a 5 but the idea of the film deserved an extra point) "}{"Title":"i almost wet myself... whoops, i did wet myself!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Honestly, the movie slows down in the middle and end, but the first 30 minutes make the movie great. the creator looked through tons of 70's Kung Fu movies to find the right one. He came across a terrible (therefore brilliant) film, rearranged it, inserted himself and a few other actors and new scenes in, dubbed all the voices (including his own) and made a halarious new movie. Guided by Whoa, the unibreasted, mysterious woman, The Chosen One must fight Master Pain (who strangely changes his name to EVIL BETTY!) and overthrow an evil councel.  and the crazy adventure begins!and the DVD is beautifully packed with TONS of stuff photos, notes, deleted scenes, commentary, the original film track, the original dialogue track (remember they dubbed the original actors and the new ones), and a lost book on tape audio track that can be played over the film (its an english man reading everyone's dialogue), and lots more.dont expect the greatest movie ever. just let your mind go and laugh.  "},{"Title":"never laughed harder at Oedekerk's films!!!!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  holy crap... this movie is great! I wouldn't listen to anyone that said otherwise--unless, of course, you thought Patch Adams and Nutty Professor II were gems.if you're like me and you loved High Strung, Thumb Wars and Mystery Science Theater 3000--this should be right up your alley. first of all I will point out that this movie is so dumb it's clever. as a fellow film maker I was in awe of his blue-screen inserts and alternate script (he used one for the mouth movements and the other for the real script--which is a wicked spoof of stupid dubbing). being a fan of cheesy martial arts movies I can tell you that this is something special, Oedekerk brings his love for kung-fu movies and redefines it all in one movie. this is the 'O'-version of Kung-Fu.for all of you that didn't know, he inserts himself into a classic chopsocky film with new dialogue dubbed by him with different voices among other crazy gagsnot sure where all this smack talk is coming from about this movie, but obviously it's not their style. bad reviews? they wouldn't understand! the least you can do is rent this one before it becomes a cult classic.I have some idea as to where the bad reviews are coming from. here goesone main thing people should keep in mind is that the DVD contains so much material... you'll wonder why you even went to see it at the theater in the first place. the DVD features 4 different audio tracks, after seeing the film--it's like a whole new film. invite your friends over for this one! revel in the sheer camp. two thumbs up!HEY! THAT'S A LOTTA NUTS!  "},{"Title":"one of the funniest movies ever made","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  when i went to see this movie in theaters, i was reluctant (as a matter of fact i only saw it because mothman prophecies was sold out), the preview looked like it was going to be mainly stupid. from the beginning to the end, i laughed NON STOP! only 2 other movies have made me laugh like that before BASEketball and SOUTH PARK BIGGER, LONGER & UNCUT. the voices were on point w/ what tickled my funny bone. i definetly recommend picking this up on DVD because it is very well done and has many funny extras!  "},{"Title":"Great! (if you like Mystery Science Theatre)","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  A friend lent me a copy of Kung Pow Enter the Fist, so I'll acknowledge right off the bat that I didn't have to spend money on the film. Maybe that would partly explain why I liked it. (One has to be careful rating a movie like this with anything higher than a 5--credibility is on the line.) What's important here though is the fact I didn't regret spending time on this movie, in fact, I've watched it a couple of times now.Kung Pow is Mystery Science Theatre taken to the next level. Instead of making fun of a bad movie from the outside, Steve Oedekerk digitally splices himself INTO a bad movie, and then makes fun of it, himself, and the entire Kung Fu genre by dubbing over every single line with his own voices and narrative. The dialogue is horrible, nonsensical, meandering and brutally dubbed, which, in this context, makes it maddeningly funny. You should be disgusted, but you can't help but laugh.The comedy improv show Who's Line is it Anyway? has a skit where the comics improvise dialogue over a sketch of an old movie. The ridiculous stuff they come up with always makes me laugh (maybe I'm simple...). Kung Pow is an hour and a half of this kind of humor.I'd rate this movie with something higher, because I think there's some kind of strange genius at work here, but there are some completely stupid scenes which are too much of a stretch even for me. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good Ol Slap Stick Humor!","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  If you watch this movie looking for classic humor you have come to the wrong place. This is good ol slap stick humor which in my opinion is even funnier and more imaginative in its own way. This movie follows humor that is defined in movies like the naked gun or Spaceballs. This movie embodies what my friends and I do to movies anyway and that is add our own funnier lines. This is a Mystery Science Theater 3000 type of dialogue played out on screen. Even the digital work involved in this movie is great. It makes me want to watch the original movie used. Some people will not enjoy this film but who cares. If you love old cheesy Kung Fu movies you'll love this extremely funny spoof. Don't analyze everything in this movie just sit back with some friends and have fun watching and for all those critic's out there with a harsh word, I'd like to Kung Po you in the head. "},{"Title":"Great sick humour!!","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  When I watched this movie I had several laughattacks.. This movie makes a great parody out of old chinese movies.. If you have watched chinese kung fu movies you will recognize the bad sounds but in Kung Pow they take the sounds to a worse level and overdoes everything.. I love this sick humour.. I think it is the best parody ever done! Either you will think this is the worst movie you have seen or you will say it is one of the funniest.. Really depends on your type of humour.. Sick humour Great movie, Dull humour bad movie... thats all.. "},{"Title":"ATTN Kung Fu film fans--this one's for you","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung Pow Enter the Fist is a send-up and a celebration of what I love best about kung fu films. It takes scenes from old Hong Kong flicks, replaces the main character with this jackass Steve Oedekerk, who wrote and directed the whole thing, and mixes it up with new scenes. The whole film is dubbed, even the main character, aka The Chosen One, who's an American. The voices are all funny, and the timing's a little off, just like in an authentic kung fu movie. Where old HK movies have bizarre magical characters who swoop in to battle or advise the hero, Kung Pow has a mysterious woman with one huge breast in the center of her chest and a Disney-rip-off lion in the clouds who speaks in riddles in a suspiciously James Earl Jones-ish voice. And of course there are some fun fight scenes. Not Bruce Lee or Jackie Chan, but they're fun.I think any fan of kung fu who has a sense of humor about it will really enjoy this. It's well worth checking out. I liked it so much I've already ordered the DVD.  "},{"Title":"NOT BAD SPECIAL EFFECTS","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Some people will hate this movie. Some will love it. If you come from being a lover of martial arts movies and like the breakdowns of how fight scenes are created and faked to make them look better there is a lot in this movie that will give you clues as to how the scenes are made up. A lot of what you will see in this movie is cheap and nasty but the blue screen matte work is second to none. They replaced the original movie characters with the new ones and put characters into scenes that weren't there in the original movie. This seamless working of blue screen effect is evident throughout the movie. In fact the only time you know they are doing this is when they want you to know they are...There are some very funny CGI characters in this movie and references to Matrix and other movies are present also.I like the cheek, the overdone out of sync voice gags and the cheeky way one person does all the voices. Its a real love it or hate it movie. I loved it. Thank god someone in Hollywood has the balls to make a movie like this even though it is bound to be unpopular with many. Quack quack. Weee ooo weee ooo weee. You have to see the movie to understand why this is funny.That said, spending major amounts of money on blue screen, cgi and matte work for a take a chance movie might seem like madness to some, but perhaps this movie will gain cult video release status.  "},{"Title":"It Made me Giggle","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  What a stupid movie!  It sure makes a difference when a movie is supposed to be stupid, though.  A bad movie can be much, much worse if it takes itself seriously (i.e. Battlefield Earth).  An intentionally stupid movie with no pretense of being otherwise, however makes it a whole lot better.  Kung Pow could be the definition of unpretentious.  It makes people smile and laugh when they walk out of the theater and say what a stupid movie instead of disappointed or angry or feeling like they've been fleeced.(grin) What a stupid movie! (grin) "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I took my niece to see this movie, not thinking that I would like it at all. Boy, was I wrong.  This was one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. I saw it again three days later, and I laughed just as much. Sure this might not be highbrow humor, but who cares?  Writing and creating dialogue for an entire movie takes a lot of talent, which Steve Odekirk has plenty of.  I can't wait for this to come out on video. "}{"Title":"Fantastic movie )","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  As a long time fan of old Hong Kong Kung Fu classics, I really really appreciated this movie. For the uninitiated it may seem stupid, but if you like and have seen some old school Hong Kong flicks, you will love this one. It is a great parody that catches the Hong Kong movie style spot on.If you have seen old movies like Jackie Chan's Fearless Hyena and the like, you will see many of the same elements in this one WEIRD voices used for dubbing, crazy moves and action, crazy plots. Everything about it is just WEIRD!Me and my pals laughed for two hours straight... "},{"Title":"This Is So Funny!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest movie I have ever seen since scary movie 2.I loved it.It was so wacky and stupid those are the movies that people with a very great sense of  humor should have!.If u have a very good sense of humor rent it next month or maybe just buy it!.I give this a 10-10!  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Seriously, this movie was one of the most underrated movies I have ever seen.  Maybe I was sitting with the right audience, but they were finding the movie just as funny as I was.  The shots that this movie takes at the martial arts genre are right on the money and the sheer craziness of the dialogue and the noises are hilarious.  The film grabs your attention in the opening moments (I won't ruin it for you, although according to most people, there isn't much to ruin, I disagree), and hopefully keeps it. "},{"Title":"what can i say, i'm a b-movie fan straight down the line","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  this movie has the potential to become a great cult classic... more clever than anyone would ever give it credit for. yes. it's a stupid movie... but. i didn't go to it expecting to be enlightened on the meaning of life (lighten up a bit, guys)...this movie was such a guilty pleasure for me... and, if you are into silly b-movie type guilty pleasure movies, this is for you... the same guy does all of the voice overs, so it's quite amusing... it's as if some buddies were sittin' around, drinkin' beer... watching an old asian movie... when someone hit mute... and one guy started to supply the voices.... vaguely reminiscent of Mystery Science Theater.so. leave your preconceived notions at the door and sit down to enjoy. (when i saw the movie with my now-boyfriend, NO ONE else was in the theater... we were free to laugh and joke loudly, i suggest you do the same)  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious film!","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  See these guys' reviews?  Don't listen to them.  They're probably not smart enough to grasp 80% of the hidden jokes placed within this film.  I love it! I have recommended this movie to everyone I know and many of them bought it(They were all satisfied too).  This film has been made so well that every time I watch it again, I see a new thing that I never saw before.  I think as a Kung-fu film lover, I enjoyed this film even more.  EVERYBODY WATCH THIS!!!  It's really good.  I laughed my lungs off throughout the whole movie.  From Betty to Wim-Pow with the squeaky shoes, to the one-boob chick and Ling.  Watch it, you'll enjoy it!!! ) "},{"Title":"I laughed, I cried","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kun Pow Enter the Fist is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  I saw it in an audience of about 200 and every person there left with tears in their eyes and a split gut.  I have read far too many reviews that trash this movie and I am sick of it.  What is so emotionally wrong with these people that they can't enjoy a good parody?  I bet when The Naked Gun came out they were first to dog that as well.  This film is a classic laugh-riot from start to finish and I will definitely be buying this on DVD or video when it comes out just to spite the countless thousand of you out there without a sense of humor. I give Kung Pow Enter the Fist a 10 out of 10! and is now on my all-time top ten comedies list. "},{"Title":"THE FUNNIEST FILM EVER...","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" ...if you actually have seen any REAL martial arts films! the people who claim this film is rubbish are those sad people who call The Matrix a martial arts film, or think that Romeo Must Die is Jet Li's best film...obviously because they have no real brains. or maybe the people tho claim Rush Hour 2 is the best jackie chan film ever....! you people need a good slap!this film is only truly funny to the audience it was aimed at, and that is the people who watch or have watched classic kung fu/martial arts films of old! the pre-Bruce Lee days when there was usually a chosen one somewhere in the plot. this film really did crack me up. i have never laughed so much in my life!! me and my brother were almost wetting ourselves laughing!!!ok but to be fair, i can see how people didn't find it funny, but thats only because you have no idea what it is mocking! and comparing it to Scary Movie?? what on earth are you on about? Scary Movie was rubbish, all the jokes were predictable AND not funny, at least in this the jokes are predictable but also funny! and its so funny because its just so stupid!!! its classic!!!! "},{"Title":"Spoofy","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  While I do admit that the intelligence required to watch this movie could easily be matched by your various grade-schooler, I highly doubt that the creators of this film had the usual high-end motifs so usually found in martial arts movies (epic fight scenes, love story, etc.) in mind...or if they did, it was to spoof, spoof, and spoof some more.It's about a group of people who had fun with a movie, taking the narrative of the movie and turning it back on itself.  Some scenes in the movie were quite classic, especially the pokings of humor at effects commonly seen in misdubbed, mistranslated, or hackneyed flicks.  While I wouldn't call this a movie that will suck your brains so dry you'll drain a pool just to reconstitute your brains, well, maybe sometimes...but the good part is, at least you'll laugh the whole time while the process is going on.And the movie is especially fun if it was just you & a good friend in the theater (as it was when I went to see it after the third week), and you can Statler/Waldorf or MSTie your way through it.  (When the movie's not taking care of it for you, that is.)  Overall...3.5 stars for funny ha-ha, and 7.5 stars for funny ho-ho.-DS "},{"Title":"Misunderstood work of genious","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow Enter The Fist is maybe the funniest movie I've seen in my life. I've read through the other reviews on this page, and I must agree this movie is NOT for everyone. I guess most people will find this movie awful and that's okay - they can go watch The Piano or discuss the latest news from BBC for all I care. But for me and my friends, who all share the same sense of sick, black humor, this movie was like a sign from god (saying Watch this again - and we did).I remember the first time I saw it - the friend who convinced me to see it hadn't told me anything about what this movie was about, so I just sat down and watched, not knowing what was to come. The intro was nothing out of the usual... just some baby that had to be killed for some reason, so it's family had to die too. However, after two minutes I suddenly got ripped out of the usual japanese samurai universe and thrown head-first into Steve Oedekerk's sick world of low quality humor - and I was literally crying with laughter from the moment Master Pain / Betty opened his mouth.For the next 80 minutes or so, I was in heaven. This movie managed to use every single kung-fu cliché in existance and make it all seem so ... uhm ... natural? It all fit together so nicely, and because the movie itself has the intellectual level of a 3-year old, you can laugh your way through it all and still follow the story. And I did.The visual effects in this movie are not exactly at the heights of I.L.M., but they serve their purpose. The really impressing part is how the crew managed to put Oedekerk into so many scenes from the movie Kung Pow was based on, and connect these scenes with the rest of the movie.The audio in this movie is, of course, the main reason to see it. Even though the movie is about various martial arts and a poor guy's quest to rid humanity of the Evil Council, the dubbed voices are just hilarious. Oedekerk has not only written perfect dialogue and quotable one-liners for each person in the movie, he has also taken advantage of the things the actors do, and made up lines to go with them - like Wimp Lo's Hmm... my finger points which made me fall from my chair, screaming with laughter.All in all, this isn't a high-budget blockbuster extravanganza of realistic effects, clever, surprising plot-turns and brilliant Academy Award-winning directing/acting... but it shouldn't be considered as such either. Kung Pow should be seen as the freakishly funny spoof all people with a strange sense of humor have been waiting for. Nothing more, nothing less. I thank Oedekerk for making this movie - it's the ultimate comic relief you watch at 4 in the morning when you just have to laugh.Ooooopeeeen the moooouuuuuth! "},{"Title":"you guys are crazy","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I saw previews for this movie before it came out, and I must admit that I had no interest in paying money to go see it.  As luck would have it, Ohio State ended up playing the movie on their campus movie channel, and I decided to give it a try.  It was one of the most funny movies I've seen. Certainly, its not as brilliant as Airplane, Hot Shots!, etc.; but its still hilarious.  Those of you who say that you didn't like it or its like other stupid parody movies just need to open your mind, and not hate a movie to death so that by the time you see it, you can't enjoy it. "}{"Title":"Best Movie I've Seen for a While","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Me and a friend of mine went to see this movie, hoping it would be a very good movie.  We were wrong, it was a great movie!  The audience that was around us were idiots, stupid adults that took their kids of 7 years to see it.  The movie wasn't targeted for most adults, because they have no sense of humor, and not kids that young, they don't understand anything in the movie, jokes or not.  It was targeted for teens that have a sense of humor and don't care if it's totally stupid.  It seems as if a bunch of guys that were good friends got together, and just messed around, something I would do.  It might get bad ratings in the newspapers, but, if you look at the people who rate them, they are old!  So all you people who say it sucked, thats great, it did, to you.  Leave the movie alone, it lets us have fun. "},{"Title":"This is one of the GREATEST MOVIES EVER!","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I have read bad review after bad review about this movie.  One question for you reviewers  WHERE IS YOUR SENSE OF HUMOR?  Steve Oedekerk is one of the best writers and directors that this country has seen in a long time!  Most actors and directors today turn dramatic on us.  I have a feeling Oedekerk will not.  I think he understands that everyone needs a laugh every now and then.  This movie is coming out on dvd on July 23.  I have chosen this dvd to be added to my collection  And Steve, if you are reading this...are you really doing a sequel?!?!?!  You should!   "},{"Title":"Totally shocked - this is a GREAT movie","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow is absolutely brilliant. A lot of people will go, see the movie, and won't laugh once. That's okay, it wasn't meant for you. Kung Pow is neither a movie totally based on gross-out gags (Freddie Got Fingered), nor is it another in a long line of recent comedies that were devoid of any creativity or intelligence. Kung Pow's humor is on a more obscure, more peculiar nature, and is on the same level of movies such as Airplane or Better off Dead where a lot of what is funny will fly over the heads of most people. I went to see this show with a few friends at a dollar theater on Bad Movie Tuesday (a little tradition we have). I went in expecting the movie to just be terrible, but we found ourselves laughing so hard through most of the movie that our stomachs were actually hurting.There are a few parts where the movie tries too hard to be funny, and fails miserably - mostly these scenes are the ones you've no doubt seen in the trailer for this movie. The real humor comes in in the way Oedekerk and company have taken the old movie Shao Lin hu ho chen tien hsiaand reworked it into a downright bizarre new storyline.Honestly, as bad as it may seem from previews, Kung Pow is neither another so stupid it is insulting Hollywood comedy, nor is it filled with endless bodily or sexual jokes you'll be embarrassed to watch. If you have any appreciation for weird humor, I can't recommend this movie enough.  "},{"Title":"A BIG JOKE","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung pow is just a big joke for a huge laugh . Many people didn't like this movie,but they don't understand it's just for a laugh.A great kung fu parody that pulls all the stops.Steve O is a comedy madman who delivers the laughs. "},{"Title":"this is great","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  how can people not like this film, its fantastic its a really good martial arts spoof, with some scenes admittidly stupid but hilarious, like the gopherchucks, and betty being camper than a row of pink tents, and the great line of i emplore you to reconsider, the ventriliquists, betty's henchman with the ghetto blaster, this is a quality movie, i'd give it......about 7-10, just for the baby rolling down the hill at the start it just gets better and better "},{"Title":"A Triumph For The Knowing Ones","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  There's nothing elitist about this, but -- this is a movie that some people will get and some people won't.  Plain and simple.  It's a satire aimed at a specific audience.  People outside that audience may, or may not, find parts of the movie funny, but most of it will go over their heads.For people who do 'get' it, it's a very, very funny movie, often hilarious, clever, and well-constructed.  For people who don't get it, it will probably seem pointless, dumb, and, at times, probably offensive.I enjoy a wide range of kung fu movies, from Shaw Bros classics to Golden Harvest's range to modern fusions like Jet Li's The One.  Kung Pow knows what it's doing and does a heck of a good job.  Not every joke is a winner, but there's plenty to like -- if you understand the movie in the first place.  If you don't, you're probably not going to like it, and you're probably never going to understand why you weren't laughing. "},{"Title":"Kung-Fu meets Monty Python","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Man when i first saw the previews I thought man this looks good. When i saw the movie i couldnt stop laughing. I watch alot of Kung-Fu movies and i thought that the movie did a great job as a parody. Though for some reason many people weren't fond of the movie. But if you love Kung-Fu and Monty Python then you will love this movie. "},{"Title":"A misunderstood classic!","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Steve Oedekerk is a genius, and it is a shame his movie got such a critical lambasting upon its release - it definitely didn't deserve it.Kung Pow is hilarious, from the beginning to end, with its many absurdities, including the baby rolling down the hill, all the way to the intentionally awful dubbing. Oedekerk has spliced himself into an old Martial Arts film and interacts with the existing characters, altering dialogue and voices all the while.The film parodies such things as The Lion King and Star Wars with a knowing wink, and the background, off the wall dialogue is freaking hilarious - I constantly find myself quoting Master Betty and the 'Taco Bell' bit.Great stuff. Hope to see more Oedekerk madness in the future! Bring on Kung Pow 2! "},{"Title":"Cinematic Gold","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Unlike many other comments, Kung Pow is pure gold.  It's genius is that of parody not of technical or dramatic achievement.  Those who love the Martial Arts genre will love Kung Pow, it makes fun of all that happens in Martial Arts flicks (classic of course).The movie does start out by saying that it borrows footage from older Martial Arts movies and it lives up to that.  Steve is in many of the clips and blends right into the scene.  Steves' acting is superb and his directing even better.Perhaps the greatest parts are the dubbing and the cow fight scenes.  Both question everyday concepts of reality.  In the dubbing instances, they question whether the translations are actually real?  Of course we only hear some very memorable dubbing (my friends and I continually chant the Taco Bell lines) that add to the eclectic blend of genius and comedy.Without a doubt every Martial Arts lover should see Kung Pow. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone, but...","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Another reviewer asked the question of what the target audience this movie was for. And the answer would be me and some of my friends I guess! I found it to be awesomely funny and clever, but (and that's a big BUT) you have to have seen a couple of thousands of old Shaw Brothers movies to really enjoy it. I gave it an 8! "}{"Title":"A funny and witty film that beats the rest of 2002","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I dont know how any body can say this movie is tripe. I have just recently seen it and so far it has got to be the funniest movie i have ever seen, allthough i do have high hopes for austin powers 3. It is a funny and witty film that deserves some sort of award for beating the rest of the comedy films of 2002. The jokes are all modern, origional and especially funny and any one who can sit through this film and not laugh so much it makes them cry deserves to be in the guiness book of records. The job they have done piecing the 2 movies together was excellent and the way the new actors and dialogue have been put in are first class. I must admit the actors are not very good but the jokes take away your concentration from this fact. So all in all this deserves at least  an 8 out of 10. A MUST SEE FILM PEOPLE!!! "},{"Title":"For anyone who has been subjected to old kung-fu movies","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was funny funny funny.... if you understand what it is the movie was making fun of!  Otherwise, forget it.  It won't make any sense.  But if you remember the horrible dubbing, the outrageous moves and funky camera work, this movie is for you! "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud funny","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, it's one of those films where you have to not think, but to be honest it is one of those films that I laughed myself out. but to be honest, if you don't like films like Hot shots or The Naked Gun, then this may not be your cup of tea. But if you enjoy films that have you  laugh, and that are, in essence, well done, and laugh out loud funny, then this will make your day. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Kung-Fu comedy !!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movie's I've seen, Although I dint really like FREDDY GOT FINGERED or found SCARY MOVIE very funny.I think this one's definitely funny, I laughed so much throughout this movie it reminded me of when I first saw `Meet the Parents', though not as much.If you're got a funny bone and definitely not too serious... then this will bring home the giggles... "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Funny!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Steve Oedekerk, what can I say?  He's made some really good ones, Ace Ventura When Nature Calls, and the Thumb shorts (Thumb Wars, Thumbtanic, The Blair Thumb).  He's also made some stinkers, but even the greats do.  This however was extremely funny, I couldn't stop laughing.  Also the whole idea behind re-dubbing a movie and making it funny is very clever, I've never seen it happen before.  This film takes movie heckling to a whole new level. For fans of Mystery Science Theater 3000 this is a must see.  The jokes just keep coming throughout the whole movie.  See this one for yourself and decide. "},{"Title":"Duh?","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Okay when I saw the movie and when others I know went a different times the theatre roared with laughter.  You have to be a fan of Kung-fu movies to enjoy this.  Rather an airplane like experience or I Still Know What You Did Last Friday the 13th.  It's meant to be pure escapism.  In that it hits 100%.  If you don't enjoy outrageous slapstick or smartmouth aka MST3K then skip it.  The DVD should be a blast for this one.   "},{"Title":"out of breath laughing","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  You have to have seen AT LEAST one old (70-s) kung fu flick in order to appreciate it.  If you have not, but you are exposed to martial arts in some way, then you also get a chance to enjoy it.  But if you have both, like me, seen many old kung fu movies and are studying a martial art, then PLEASE SEE THIS MOVIE.  At least give it a chance.My face was wet from tears.  I haven't laughed that hard since... don't remember when. Extremely innovative, full of silly unexpected twists... The trailer parts are NOT the funniest parts at all.See it.For what I expected it to be (a good silly laugh), it gets 10/10 from me. Excellent work!  "},{"Title":"A Truly Unique Comedy","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow Enter the Fist is truly unique.  An older martial arts film has been re-edited to contain Steve Oedekerk as a main character and everyone's voices have been done over by him.  It is by no means an Oscar contender, but if you go into the theater open-minded it can be very enjoyable.  I have seen it twice with two groups of friends, each group found it genuinely amusing.Those who can do, do and those who cannot review.  I offer that to those who find themselves worthy of judging and criticizing art.  Who is to say that this movie is not good, it is purely opinion, and there is no reason to write online about not liking a movie, your sole purpose is self promotion at the expense of the movie industry.  For those gullible enough to follow your advice, they may miss a movie they would otherwise view and enjoy. Have you no shame.  "},{"Title":"Kung Foolery at it's best!!!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I've read a lot of mixed reviews so I was a little hesitant about running out and spending 5 bucks on a possible dud. Me, my wife, and 3 of my friends went and we were rolling! About 90% of the jokes worked (and that's pretty good considering every line in the movie is a joke!). You really have to be a fan (or at least familiar) of the 70's classic dubbed Kung Fu movies to enjoy the most parodies. Most of it is blatant-in-your-face type of humor, but there is some subtle Monty Python-esque humor as well.What I really liked about this film was that it was a lot like Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid, the classic Steve Martin flick which incorporated his footage with movies from the 1940's. I was surprised to see the type of people who were in theater when we walked in, and I was even more surprised that no one walked out!!! I didn't have much expectations before seeing this. It was just a sit back, relax, and enjoy type of movie. "},{"Title":"one word baddong","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  if you liked any movies made by monty python, david zucker or anything off the wall, this movie is for you.  It's filled with stupid kung movie cliches (bad dubbing, bad fights, etc.), cheesy concepts and really stupid dialogue. but hey, I loved those kinds of movie. "}{"Title":"Well-executed spoof if you know bad kung fu movies.","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow is certainly not a masterpiece of American cinema, but it does not deserve the uncompromised roasting it has gotten here.If you know the Kung Fu movie genre fairly well, then you are likely to recognize several of the actors that were in the original movie that is spoofed here, and you will also be far more likely to recognize some of the spoofing that otherwise comes across as annoying.The wimpy guy with the styles that make no sense, such as my face to your foot is not a bad representation of the typical kung fu idiot that is a staple of Kung Fu movies.  At the same time, things that are probably very annoying to most people, like the girl constantly making that inane weeooweeooo sound are also well targeted, as women in older Kung Fu movies often do make inexplicable weird sounds and this ridicules it by taking it to excess.  That doesn't mean the joke doesn't eventually get tired though.  The bowflex CG'd into the courtyard workout makes perfect sense as a machine that actually works if you are used to watching kung fu movies where the training scenes ALWAYS show exercises that wouldn't improve conditioning.  Similar attacks, like the insane advice of the old man, are also well placed against the genre, but are probably just stupid to viewers who don't know Kung Fu movies.I think you have to expect a certain type of performance when you choose to go see any sort of spoof comedy.  They are very rarely Good movies in the classic sense of having a coherent meaningful plot and convincing dramatic performances - Steve Martin's Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid being an exception of sorts. But there is nothing one can do with a Kung Fu movie to make it good, by definition Kung Fu movies are just bad.  The fighting is invariably nonsensical and impractical (not to mention impossible in most cases), the stories sometimes don't even exist (the 36 Deadly Styles being a good example of this), and the acting is bad or annoying.  A spoof cannot possibly spin straw into gold while also trying to make fun of the straw.But if you can appreciate the film, or films, or genre that the spoof is attacking, the lack of coherence is only a side note, and you can appreciate the skill and accuracy with which the writer and director skewers individual aspects of the source material.  In the case of Kung Pow, I think it is done quite well. "},{"Title":"Hilarious one-off comedy","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was absolutely worth seeing in the theater.  I thought the idea was great and the scripting was outstanding.  The movie is about a guy indentified as the chosen one who is on a quest to avenge the death of his parents.  The movie was actually made in 1976, but it was cut up and redubbed/edited to put Steve Oedekirk in it as the chosen one.  This movie is the opposite of intellectual comedies like Rushmore or The Royal Tenebaums, it is a silly, outrageous, nonsensical production that will leave you laughing.  It's good to see a movie that is different than all the rest, yet remains entertaining.  Go see it if you want to have a good time and don't really care about content....Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Ha ha ha (Haai-yaarhh) #¤% Pow @£$ Puff","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film is soooooo funny. Better than Scary Movie and all of its look alike. Maybe it's because I like martial art movies, like the ones with Jackie Chan & Jet Li etc. So it's was a thrill to see a parody of these mostly dubbed movies.I know for a fact, that there is a lot of people who think Kung-fu movies is a waste of time, for those people I wouldn't recommend this film at all, as they won't see the humor in this film, but for all of us kung-fu movie fans, I can only say! See it, it will blow you out of your seat. Haai-yaarhh!!! (or something like that)This film has also a really nice scene with a Cow?!?...hmmmmm!!! "},{"Title":"My name is Pablo and I liked Kung Pow","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Every generation has an event that neatly squashes its core significance and wraps it into a small paper-saliva wad and blows it, hurling it across the classroom with a hollowed out Bic pen. Kung Pow is that Wad. That saliva is my event. That classroom is my life, and that substitute teacher's head is the depths of my soul, that glows brighter with its cheers and or jeers.Let's go ahead and toss this film on the Mt. Fuji that is `the stupid film' like all the rest, or we can do something crazy an first look at it objectively, with no prior image of what a film is suppose to look like, huh? How about that? Let's look at it like the Homo sapiens that started off in the arts way back then in drug-induced ecstasy, spitting paint onto a stone canvas in France. Not in their wildest trips could they have hoped we would have reached the levels that `Kung Pow' has reached, above and beyond. This film if funny like a mofo, that's is, enough said, end of story, finito, done, bye bye and take it. France, is that not where Jerry Lewis is loved and admired with no shame? Think about it.This film is a simple miracle of the ways of nature, God makes Adam, God makes Eve, God makes `Kung Pow enter the fist' and on the seventh day he laughs. That's paraphrase from the book of `Ha,' Chapter `lighten up,' verse 2.I wrote this review cause I'm some dumb film school geek, that doesn't understand why `i' before `e' except after `c' is, but understands that mother earth and its little spawnlings would be a lot better off if proper demonstrative instrumentation of a Whoopee Cushing was required to get into third grade. I strongly urge a sequel to the makers to this film, that in short words can be like described as staring into the face of God while he's wearing one of those silly plastic mustache thingies that clips onto the bottom of your nose that cuts it with sharp plastic edges. But why does God wear it, cause its funny.If u don't understand that every once in a while a brain cell or two billion have to be sacrificed for the good of the many and in order to have time, then you don't need to be inside of my theater featuring `Kung Pow,' cause there's prolly a plate of tofu at home starting to turn, don't worry, I'm willing to stake your black Jetta that the dolphin safe tuna will keep much longer.Check your brain at the door, but trust me, your not gonna miss it till the credits are long done rolling.on a scale of 1 to 10, this film is a 64 juhbillion. "},{"Title":"Very...Interesting Movie...Very Bizarre","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I can't really say this was a great movie, and I can't really say it was a bad movie.  But I will say that I did laugh a lot.  There is only one word for this movie RIDICULOUS!!!  But I sure liked it.  I can DEFINITELY see how a lot of people would hate this movie, but I have to say they deserve it if they thought it was going to be a great movie from the trailers.  I mean, c'mon, there's a guy fighting a friggin' cow!  I went into the movie expecting a very odd and fairly funny movie, and that's what I got.  I wasn't disappointed.In retrospect, it's actually really impressive how they inserted Steve Oedekerk into all those shots from the movie it was edited from (I forgot the title of the movie, but I want to say The Savage Killers).Like I mentioned earlier, the comedy in this film is very odd, and quite gratuitous. So just sit down and understand that it is supposed to be ridiculous, and it's a pretty funny film.  Like I said, I thought it was funny, and I wasn't disappointed, but this is definitely NOT for everyone.  If you didn't like the trailers, there is no way in HELL that you are going to like the movie, so don't even bother.  But if you thought the trailer looked pretty funny, then by all means, go see it.Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Kung Pow What I'd make if I had 500,000 bucks!","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Have you ever seen a really bad movie and wanted to make comments and make up your own twisted plot just to entertain yourself?  Well that's what Steve Oedekerk did in Kung Pow.  Where as Scary Movie just has a bunch of stupid parodies from a lot of movies, Kung Pow edited one previously made movie. If you see only one spoof (which you probably should), see Kung Pow Enter the Fist "},{"Title":"You just don't get it","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Most people I ask declare this movie to be unfunny and A-Grade trash in the first degree.  As much as I'd like to say that something isn't in a degree but to a degree, I will not because it's not the point...The point here, my dear friends, is that they (being the critics/reviewers) don't understand the movie.  This movie isn't based on a 1976 one, it's actually a redubbing of one.  That's why certain scenes don't seem to make sense (I am a great magician!  Look!  Your clothes are red!)  This is basically what university students do while they watch these fighting movies.  Of course, if you didn't understand that little concept, you might as well dish the whole movie.  And if you don't believe me, watch the credits.Rarely have I seen a movie so well made and so funny.  Some scenes that are directly ripped out from the original movie and redubbed for their own purposes don't make any sense and aren't really that funny on their own. But when you understand the aforementioned paragraph, it becomes very funny.These are comments comming from a fourteen year old.  Interpret them as that.I realize this isn't much of a review, but I'm not much of a reviewer myself.  I beg you to see this movie at all costs.  You will not regret it.My grade would have to be 13 on a scale of 5 to 14,2. "},{"Title":"For Martial Arts Fans","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie with 5 Adults and 20 kids under 15. The 5 Adults including myself laughed hysterically and the 20 kids kept yelling at us to shut up. This is the kind of movie that hardcore martial arts fans can get a kick out of. I've been watching them for years and this movie truly takes the dubbing aspect to a higher degree. This isn't the kind of parody movie a youngin can appreciate. If you love classic martial arts and have a sense of humor about it you will get a kick out of this film. 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Not a good movie, but a funny movie","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I would never call Kung Pow a quality film, however it IS a funny film. The premise is not orginal or clever, but it beats you to death with contant stupidity to the point where you laugh. Laugh a lot. Maybe I have the same warped sense of humor that Steve Oderkerk has, but at times Kung Pow made me laugh so hard I cried. Stupid, yes, but intentionally so. I would not recommend this film to anyone unless I knew what their sense of humor is like first, less I get beaten. Any comedy that makes you laugh a lot, even against your better judgement, did its job. 8/10 "},{"Title":"That's entertainment!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  KUNG POW surprised me a lot. I had used KUNG POW as an example of bad movies that recently have been made by the large studios. But this film is funny 70% of its running time which is pretty good for a movie like this. It is so silly that it is impossible to stop laughing. They make fun of the bad sound in Hongkong movies and some of the voices and SFX in the film are hilarious. For instance, a dog who barks and we hear the sound 2 seconds later.If you want to laugh, check out KUNG POW ENTER THE FIST.  "}{"Title":"Great Movie! Good Comedy with Excellent Special Effects.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Last night I saw Kung-Pow. What can I say except it was a great flick! It's not that this is a movie that's not for everyone, it's just that you have to be in a certain mindset before you watch it to truly enjoy it. The film is basicly a parody of many bad kung-fu flicks. The Jackie Chan action films of today are nothing like the ones from back in the 70's. You had special effects that not only looked bad, but defied common sense. On top of this you also had poor camera angles,  improperly focused camera lenses, mediocre acting, and film editing from hell. That of course is what makes these films so great to watch. Kung-Pow takes these elements, and rather than blowing them out of proportion, it focuses on them to show how bad they really are. This is where the humor comes from.Example Everyone has seen the trailer with the cow scene. This fits perfectly in with the kung-fu genre. No matter what kung-fu flick you watch, you'll always see the hero have to batte some odd foe. Wheather it's some morbidly obese guy, a powerful old man, a superstrong cripple, or some sort of off the wall creature/monster, you will see it because it is staple!What makes it all the more funny is the fact that you can relate to it, in as you've seen really bad movies that have bad scenes/effects like the one you've just seen on the screen. I honestly can't remember seeing a movie where I laughed this hard! The special effects in the movie are quite spectacular, and are done with a nice touch. There is no way they could have made a spoof film by itself without including any of the original footage. And the footage from the old movies were fused together with the new footage seamlessly. In fact, there were a few scenes where I couldn't tell what was old, and what was new. Unlike other movies that have used this trick, Kung-Pow pulls if off unbelievably well.When I saw Forrest Gump, the effect there looked choppy and out of sync. In Kung-Pow, the footage is perfectly matched. The CGI effects were done quite nicely as well. Nothing looked cheap, and more importatnly, the movie used it sparingly for the most part.Overall, Kung-Pow is a great movie. But like I said, to fully understand it, you need to get a few low grade kung-fu flicks under your belt first. And usually to do that, you need two things 1. An old video store that carries old school kung-fu flicks. & 2. A Betamax player to veiw the really bad ones!In the middle the movie has a tendacy to slow down. But it's not because of bad writting. You just get tired from all of the laughing that you do! The first thing that I was worried about when  I saw this film was that the best scenes were all included in the trailer. To be honest, the trailer does not do the film justice at all! A sequel would be nice, but it would be quite hard for the writers to top the first.A great movie to see if you need a good laugh. You just have to go in with the knowlege that it is a direct kung-fu parody to truly enjoy it. If it only gives you a few chuckles, that's ok. But if you start breaking things down to analyze how silly it is in spots, you're takling it way too seriously... "},{"Title":"SWEEEET!!!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" OH MY GOD!!  This was the funniest movie i've ever seen!  Im still laughing! This movie shows just how great spoofs can be.  Awesome sound track too. (baby got back, hammer time, etc.)  Even weirder was the fact it was so funny and still stayed pretty clean...kind of like Sinbad.  I hope everyone gets the chance to see this movie...really...what are you still doing here! GO SEE NOW!!!!!fav quotes- THATS ALOT OF NUTS!!!! I am king of the brown nipple people, your nipples look like milk duds. OOOWWEEEEYYYYOOOWWWEEEYYOOOOO!!!!! "},{"Title":"If you grew up on Kung Fu movies, Kung Pow is pretty funny.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  An enjoyable spoof of low-grade Kung Fu movies.  Kung Pow has all the stock villains, bad dubbing, ridiculous voice characterizations, and cheesy plot of the original Hong Kong action films.  It's really stupid and really fun. "},{"Title":"silly, mostly effective, and funny spoof","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was actually pretty good.  It was funny.  Don't expect an academy award winner when you go to see this movie.  Some of the parts are downright ridiculous and silly and make you think what?! but that's the charm of this movie.  (By the way, the star of the movie is pretty cute.)  "},{"Title":"An entertaining bit of bizarre film making","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  About every 10-15 years, somebody gets the idea to take an existing film, lop off the audio, and add a new, humorous audio track.  Woody Allen invented the sub-genre with WHAT'S NEW TIGER LILY.  The Firesign Theater did it to King of the Rocket Men in their J-MEN FOREVER.  And there was that shortlived MAD MOVIES syndicated half hour series about a decade back.Of course, nowadays you can do more than just add your voice.  Steve Oedekerk showed how his CGI coworkers could put him in the movie too.  Again, it goes back to a Woody Allen project, in this case ZELIG.Enough of the Film History 101 stuff....    I enjoyed the movie for the most part.  Okay, I think I started to snooze a little in the middle of the film (I have no idea what happened to Limp Wu or whatever the whiny guy was called) but the rest of the film was pretty entertaining.You don't have to check your brain at the door.  If you do, you'll miss half the stuff Steve Oedekerk is doing in this idiosyncratic project.  But you do have to check your arrogance at the door.  This is not a movie for professional elitists or whiners.  This is a movie for people who want to see a different kind of comedy.KUNG POW  shares something with Mel Brooks' HISTORY OF THE WORLD, PART ONE--  a truly hysterical trailer for a sequel film that will probably never be made.Oh, if you get the chance, see Steve Oedekerk's other flick, JIMMY NEUTRON BOY GENIUS.  These flicks and his earlier SANTA VERSUS THE SNOWMAN suggest he has the potential to outdo the Zucker Brothers for comedic invention and creative parody.  "},{"Title":"Minor Guilty Pleasure","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  As I enjoy some Hong Kong films, Woody Allen's What's Up, Tiger Lily?, and MST3K, I figured this movie would provide some entertainment.  It did succeed to be funny on many levels, but over-all could have been much better.  The product placements were very well done and the CGI effects quite clever.  The concept and themes were well executed, but the actual dialogue and most jokes were off target (low).Enjoyable for a mindless experience if you enjoy this type of humor, nothing more.  Make sure you stay until the end of the credits!  "},{"Title":"Kung-Foolery","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Let's face the facts Kung Pow Enter the Fist is a stupid movie.  But just because a movie is stupid doesn't mean it's not enjoyable!  And I enjoyed this one very much!  Of course, it looks like a badly dubbed, badly edited Hong Kong action movie.  But, then, that's how it's supposed to look!  A lot of laughs come from the silly voices dubbed to certain characters.  There are also a lot of sight gags that catch your eye, such as the Titanic next to a waterfall, or an alien creature glanced during a panning shot.  Director and actor Steve Oederkirk works magic with digital effects here, as he did with his thumb films.  He works hard to make a good movie that looks bad! "},{"Title":"Adjust your sense of humor to low taste and get ready to laugh","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  it's not as good as a first time viewing of What's Up Tiger Lily but it's close.Funny, very, as long as you aren't too serious about your humor.  Got a little tired of some of the voices, but there were enough chuckles to keep you going. Not worth the investment in a night out at the theater, but will be good on video.  I only went because it was the only movie that was starting when I walked in the door of the theater on a whim. "},{"Title":"One of the stupidest movies ive ever seen, which kept me laughing from begin to end","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'd have to admit this was not well done and probably something me and my buddies could make but i laughed the hardest i have laughed in a while.  I was crying i was laughing so hard and i can't really explain why.  It's not a movie for everyone, i hardly watch comedies but when i was dragged into this i thought i was gonna see brainless much.  Boy was i right, probably a total of 10 minutes of the movie i wasn't laughing the hardest i have in my life.  Sure some parts are really stupid but it sure makes up for it with moments of hilarity.  If you like stupid comedy or shows like family guy and the simpsons, i recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"It really depends on the audience...","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  First off, there's a big difference between people who liked this and people who didn't, as you can see by Kung Pow's average rating.  I think I can tell why.This new kung-fu spoof interestingly combined a 1970's kung-fu flick with a new soundtrack, new voices, new sounds, and actors inserted by green screen. On my reaction, this method'll probably get pretty popular sometime or later, and that's good in my book, but it means only doom for the despisers of this movie.About the comedy Well, there's all sorts.  Intelligent, gross, romantic, spoof, bizarre, etcetera.  Kung Pow is one of my favorite types of movies weird, bizarre, and never taking itself seriously.  For most, this is a bad thing.  But by the (extremely limited) trailer, were you expecting much brains?Probably not.  I liked it because the comedy was simple, and enjoyable.  In fact, I was laughing so hard, I nearly sprayed my two water bottle and medium soft drink's worth of urine on the floor.  Want witty?  Go watch something else.  Stand aside, for Kung Pow takes its place as one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time. "}{"Title":"a really totally whacked out movie","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  this is one of the most whacked out movies i have ever seen. but it is so great. i absolutely loved it. i couldn't stop laughing the whole time. i missed a lot of the movie from laughing so hard. i'm going to warn anyone who goes to see this movie-DON'T TAKE IT SOOO SERIOUSLY!!! it's not meant to be a Masterpiece Theater movie, it's just fun. it doesn't really have a plot.. who cares??? it's full of slapstick humor... that's what's so funny!!! and you pick up some great one-liners from it. so if you want a hilarious movie that will put you in a great mood go see kung pow.  "},{"Title":"Dumbest Movie EVER (that's what made it funny)","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  People should do some research before they blow their money on a movie. If you were expecting an intelligent comedy than you probably hated this movie. I liked it.Example of a stupid line in the movie that had me cracking up-What is the evil councils plan?Evil Betty- it is evil! Maaah! It is so evil! It is a bad, bad plan that will hurt many.....People!....that are good! I think it's great...cuz it's so bad.-I see. i think.  But what of the chosen one?Betty- I'll kill him. I'll kill him dead! Like with a.... with a rock or something. Like with a stone. "},{"Title":"Get ready for something unique","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Not really sure what was wrong with the other reviewer writing another comment I read.  0 out of 10!  Were you even watching this movie? Kung-Pow is positively hilarious and also very very stupid.  It's stupidness also made it funny in a very special way.  It's clear that the film makers were observers, if not all out fans, of Mystery Science Theater 3000 because the influence of that show is clearly felt here.  The juxtaposition of silly and bizarre voice over in falsetto male and female voices against the Shogun-esque look and feel of this movie was something to behold.  Many lines were just silly noises make to fill up the time in dialogue shots.  This if very funny to anyone who has seen badly dubbed Kung-Fu movies and marveled at the lousy translations.  I swear at times I was sure I was going to pass out from laughter.  You'll just have to see it to see what I mean, because I can't adequately describe the mood here.  Just keep in mind...It's just a silly movie, try and enjoy yourself.  Remember, a cheap laugh is O.K. once and a while. "},{"Title":"It's About Time!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"       A comedy this mindlessly funny hasn't come along since Reposessed and the Naked Gun trilogy.  I can't believe people are harping on this movie for its goofy, slapstick humor.  Look folks, this isn't Howard's End here, this is a COMEDY!  If it's too funny for you, stick to your charming little Steve Martin films, and leave alone those of us who still haven't been cruelly assimilated to android conformity and de-sensitized by evolution.  Personally, I was getting sick of Hollywood being dominated by misandrist chick-flicks and witty sophisticated martini-comedies anyway.  Finally, Kung Pow has done something I almost thought could no longer be imagined.  It brought back funny.  I mean real funny, like Three Stooges/Laurel & Hardy funny!  This movie was so refreshing to see.  It totally renewed my faith in Hollywood to produce SOMETHING worthwhile now and then.  The funniest aspect of this film is definitely its hysterical satire of the traditional Kung Fu movie.  The old master with his poignant diatribes that are really just crazy ramblings, and the macho kung fu kingpin who insists on being called Betty.  This isn't a brainless comedy in any sense of the word.  It's just a down-to-Earth, hearty-chuckle, laugh-a-minute slap-fest!   "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I expected but still pretty bad","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow Enter the Fist is definitely a movie that will make you laugh for the first 5-10 minutes and then it starts to become a how stupid is that movie. I couldn't help but notice how the laughs seemed to get less and less as the movie progressed. But what martial arts movie is good without outtakes at the end. Yep this movie has them and they are lot funnier than most of the jokes in the movie. This has to be at least the third or second worst movie of the year but that can change.3/10 "},{"Title":"Instant Cult Classic!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  What I really want to know is, to anyone who gave this film a bad review What were you expecting? Did you even see the commercials or are you just some twit who accidentally wandered into a movie theater expecting Gosford Park?This movie is awful - but it's supposed to be! This was not some lame Oscar plea like `I Am Sam,' this is a fun movie that doesn't take a thing seriously.  Of course the jokes are sophomoric and the sfx are bad (although I think some sort of award should be given out for the seamless editing), but again people, it is supposed to be that way! It totally mocks the kung fu genre and that's what makes it hilarious.  I couldn't believe my eyes reading another reviewer's complaints of the `voices being overdubbed and repetitive camera shots' that annoyed them.  Do you not understand the concept of funny or have you never witnessed `Riki-Oh the story of Ricky'? I will agree that the ending was dragged out and some scenes in the middle such as the cow fighting scene weren't as funny, but the beginning was hysterical.This is not a movie for elitists who enjoyed `Mulholland Drive,' and I don't believe this is a movie for the average moviegoer either, but if you were a fan of Mystery Science Theater 3000 or USA kung fu theater you're in for a real treat.  I am positive that this movie will become a cult classic and favorite among college students.  After you see it you will laugh just thinking about it.  "},{"Title":"if you like 70's kung fu, and you like MST3K...","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  i definitely agree.... this movie is the worst of 2002! i loved itif you like cheap old kung fu movies, and you like MST3K quality movies (such as Pumaman, and Werewolf) you'll love this.I think the editing was fairly well done considering it is just an reassembly of a 70's kung fu movie with a couple new actors thrown in.i rate this as a 0.1 out of 10. Horrible, rotten, cheap, and REALLY good stuff!!it made me laugh so hard...especially when half the theater started walking out in the middle =) "},{"Title":"ECCCCCCHHHHH","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Ok, I haven't seen a slapstick in a while, so I decided to check out Kung Pow.  What a mistake!  I tried to give this movie the benefit of the doubt over and over and over again.  Even if there were moments that were remotely amusing, they have lost their originality and wit after being overused throughout the film.  Now, only an hour after the movie ended I remember the gross out scenes better than the rare funny moments.  It could have been a better film if the director/writer had defined his goals clearer.  Poking fun at poorly dubbed martial arts movies, sci-fi, the MATRIX (of course), and even, I think, porn flicks (I don't know), this movie misses the goal. I can't imagine that spoof movies will become a genre of its own and we will be subjected to such creations over and over again.  Each new one out loses more and more appeal and Kung Pow is no exception.  I can only say sorry to my friend who rarely spends $9 to see a movie in a theater and I think she will remind me about this experience for a long time.  May be DVD will be cooler, at least you can do more than just sit there and wait for it to end. CIAO "},{"Title":"MST3K Fans Will Enjoy This Little Gem","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It was dumb and smart all at the same time.  Although a good deal of the gags were cheap, and the laughs the same. Steve Odekirk has put out a film that will probably be just as funny years from now as it is today. The film takes footage from two martial arts films from the seventies and digitally (and cleverly) puts a few new characters in them.  At first I spent a good deal of time trying to figure out which characters where from the original movie and which were added.  Yes, in some scenes it was completely obvious, but in others it required careful viewing.  The combined footage, plus new matieral and dubbed voices (all privided by Odekirk) gives us the story of The Chosen One on a quest to avenge his parent's death at the hands of Master Pain (who on a whim decides to have everyone address him as Betty. Don't ask.) There are a ton of cheap and obvious jokes in the movie, but ther are also plenty of very clever little bits of dialogue that I didn't expect. The only time I was truely disappointed was a Matrix scene involving a CGI cow. It's been done. Of course, this is the first time with a cow, but I've seen several Matrix parodies in other movies and I think it's time for them to be put to rest. Hopefully this movie will find an audience with those who enjoyed Mystery Science Theatre 3000. Several times I felt like I was watching one of those great old shows seeing how charaters in the movie were commenting on the movie itself.  Of course, I was also reminded of Woody Allen's similar venture, What's Up Tiger Lily which spoofed James Bond-esque movies by replacing dialogue in a Japanese spy picture.  I was also reminded of Mad Movies, a series that was on, I believe in the mid-eighties on Nickelodeon which was based on a similar concept, taking out the old dialogue to obscure old movies and replacing it with hilarious new words. Overall, I would recommend Kung-Pow to those who don't mind the occasionaly guilty pleasure.  Leave your brain (or most of it anyway) at home and don't worry about laughing at the dumb jokes...it's dark in the theatre...no one can see you!  "},{"Title":"I Nearly fell out of my chair laughing! (Minor spoilers. You have been warned!)","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Oh. My. God. I haven't laughed this hard in as long as I can remember.I went into the theater expecting a cheesy martial arts spoof and I was not disapointed. Let's face it, this movie makes no pretense at being the next 'Titanic', but it does promise to be a very funny -if strange- rip-off just about every big movie in the last two decades. Boy does it make good on that promise!The comment I heard most frequently from all around the theater I was sitting in was What the hell was THAT all about?!, Followed in a close second by Oh, no, they did NOT just do that!, but of course they had.From the cliched opening scene of 'Evil bad guy kills a whole family just to eliminate one child' with the bizzare twist of the young child beating the everloving crap out of the bad guy, to the hilarious 'Cow fight' from the previews, it was like a crack dream on the big screen.They managed to parody great films of the genre such as 'Monty Python and the Holy Grail', to films from the more serious side such as 'The Matrix' and even 'The Lion King' with out giving offense to the originals.And I loved every minute of it.I can not think of one single time I stopped laughing, and there was actually someone who fell out of their seat they were laughing so hard.If you want to see a movie that dosen't take it's self (or anything else) to seriously for a change then this movie is definatly worth your time and your hard erned money, if you want to see a grown-up movie then go see one of the other fine films out now, but in my humble opinion this one of the funniest movies ever!      "}{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I took my wife to this movie, and we both laughed from beginning to end. There was just so much in it to find amusing. I won't ruin it for you, but it was the little things. Nametags, store signs, and back handed comments made this movie. The reuse of reused scenes was also very amusing.If you're the sort of person who looks for little jokes in The Simpsons and loves the bizarre thinking of The Tick or Invader Zim (okay, so I watch a lot of cartoons), you'll love this movie.From the little breakdown on the voting, it looks like you'll either love it or hate it. We loved it! "},{"Title":"Not for everyone, but grab your goofy friends and go.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I had looked forward to seeing Kung Pow with my friends all week before I went, thinking for sure that the commercials were too funny to testify to a really all-around funny movie.  Boy, was I wrong!  I honestly haven't laughed that hard than when I saw my first Jim Carrey movie.  And actually, I laughed more and harder.  The fake (and real) dubbing is hilarious, the plotline is near-nonexistent, and jokes are packed in till the movie is bursting at the seams with them.  Only about three times in the  movie did I actually relax enough from dying laughing to stop smiling.  The barrage of jokes and gags is just absolutely relentless.  My friends and I agreed that we couldn't see it again for a while because it's just exhausting, but it was just so hilarious I can't stop recommending it to people.  I thought I was going to puke from  laughing.  Highly recommended to see with a bunch of goofy friends; the first ten minutes alone are worth the price of admission. Also a late night show on a  weeknight is good; you can get as noisy as you want.  do not see it alone or you won't like it as much.  Steve Odenkirk is a genius.  Everything in this movie is funny.  Everything.  I can't recommend it highly enough to people who dig physical comedy. "},{"Title":"Enter the fist rocks!","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  at first i didnt get some of the jokes, but then when i let go of thinking, this movie became one of my all time favorite movies.I work for blockbuster, and all the other employees that saw this movie thought the same thing....dont follow it seriously. think of it as it was meant to be followed....a hillarious update to an oddball 70's kung fu movie spoofed very well.like i said if your looking for a real movie then this isnt for you. but if your looking for a very oddball comedy, then this is for you.I give it a 8.5 outta 10! "},{"Title":"Great if you're willing to embrace your stupid side","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I went into the theater expecting to see a terrible movie with cheesy jokes, and that's what I got.  I enjoyed it, too.  I'm sure most viewers did not like this movie at all, and that's quite understandable.  Kung Pow is not a good movie by any means, unless you're expecting something stupid and can live with that.  If you're expecting something stupid but can't live with that, Kung Pow is not going to be enjoyable at all. "},{"Title":"Kung Pow is an original and comical spoof of 70s kung fu movies.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I really thought this movie was a great way to kill an hour and a half.  I didn't expect much from it, but it was better than I thought.  You can tell Odekirk and perhaps some childhood friends of his really put a lot of time into thinking up the most humorous kung fu spoof they could produce. Plus, if you thought they put all the good parts from the movie in the previews, you would be wrong. I found most of the jokes they couldn't have put in the previews much funnier.If you enjoy an occasional dumb comedy, this is right up your alley.  If you ever go to late night showings of Kung Fu films at obscure theaters, or rent chop-sockey flicks because they look particularly bad, then you'll love this.Steve Odekirk basically takes an old kung fu flick from the 70s and interjects himself and a few other characters into it with modern computer technology.  None of the original voice acting is preserved, and it is replaced by Odekirk and his friends in a manner I found hilarious.  If you like Triumph the insult comic dog from Conan, you'll also find the dialogue humorous because the same guy does many of the voices for this film.If, however, you are looking for a masterful plot, don't look here.  It isn't the kind of film any aristocratic, high-minded person would enjoy. If you find yourself scoffing at how dumb a lot of sketches on Mad TV and SNL are, then this is not the film for you.I registered with IMDB with the sole purpose of giving this film a decent review.    If you found yourself looking at previews for Kung Pow and thinking, that looks kinda funny, you will enjoy yourself.  If, however, you scoffed at how dumb it looked, you'd be better off spending your time eating caviar and watching Masterpiece Theater ( an activity I also enjoy).  "},{"Title":"A shaolin gut-punch of comedy","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  VIEWER BEWARE  If the only two Kung-Fu films you've ever seen are The Matrix and Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, then Kung Pow Enter the Fist is definitely not for you.However, if you're familiar with (and actually enjoy) the flavor of film which Kung Pow draws on for source material, you're going to get a major kick out of this film.  Check your brain at the door, though.  You won't find any semblance of plot or believability... which of course isn't the point.  Steve Oedekerk takes a genre only mildly parodied in the past (What's Up Tiger Lily, Kentucky Fried Movie), adds what really amounts to merely cosmetic alterations, and uses it to slap you silly.  Rather than rewriting a naturally absurd plot (your archetypal shaolin monk vs. iron claw baddie tale) into a comprehensible story, Oedekerk chooses instead to amplify the intrinsic silliness of the Hong Kong film he redubbed.Kung Fu, like any well-established genre, has clearly defined conventions, many of which have gone untouched in previous send-ups.  While Woody Allen's What's Up Tiger Lilly? and the short Fistful of Yen in Kentucky Fried Movie relied on out-of-sync dialogue and sight gags for comedy, Kung Pow reaches much further into the shaolin hero mythos, lampooning each step of Oedekerk's consummate straight man, The Chosen One, on the path of 'ultimate training'.  Garnering wisdom from the likes of the crotchety old master (who's a little too eager to feel out his pupils' pressure points), a mono-mammiacal girl ninja, and, of all things, the Lion King, our hero journeys from butt-kicking babyhood into kung fu mastery at the side of a hairball-coughing heroine, displacing the usual angry ex-boyfriend (aptly named Wimp Lo, he runs about with squeak-toy shoes and employs an invincible 'my nuts on your fist' technique).  Along the way, the Chosen One battles an assortment of anatomically incorrect baddies with nutty voices and licks an armada of French-speaking pyramid saucer aliens.Are we making sense here?  I hope not.  Kung Pow Enter the Fist is a delightfully retarded romp, and if that's your cup of tea, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"I was laughing so loud. People told me to tone it down","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Okay im gonna go out on limb. Kung Pow was the funniest parody I've seen in years. Steve Oedekerk was funny as actor and directer. I mean I could not stop laughing. If you are looking for just a big laugh. See this movie. The funniest martial arts scenes ever. It's no Freddy Got Fingered. Im glad about that. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of 2002!!","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I am sorry to disagree with everyone but Kung Pow  Enter the Fist is the best movie of 2002!!  I have never laughed so hard at a movie within a movie before (actually, I couldn't stop laughing).  This movie is an absolute genius.  I think Steve did an excellent job with the voices and the overall making of the movie.  I encourage all people to go see this movie because you will enjoy a great movie. "},{"Title":"My stomach hurt from laughing so hard!","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, it's a stupid movie, yes it's been done a million times (the spoofing of bad kung fu flicks), but if you just want to laugh your ARSE off, go see The Chosen One digitally inserted into cheesy Asian movies.  I loved this movie. I reluctantly went with my teenage son who was BORED that night and wanted to see it but all of his friends were unavailable.  Well, we ended up having such a great time, we're recommending it to all of our non-serious friends.  It was hysterical, maybe a little drawn out toward the end, and the French armpit hair joke is way too tired (they do shave their pits now, you know), and the cow scene was a little gross for me, but other than that, it's a winner.  Will definitely be a cult favorite, mostly among teenage boys, or anyone who loves silly stupid stuff.  By the way, I'm the MOM )  I give it 8/10 "},{"Title":"funny if you like parody","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is like Mystery Science Theater where its funny because its witty, silly, kooky and mocking. This is parody it's ridiculing something. Some people don't like humor at someone else's expense and are offended by it and don't see the point of it. Maybe they're just too nice, maybe they lack a mean streak. As far as being stupid Police Academy movies are stupid, this is not stupid. Nor is it as inane as Airplane! or Police Squad. Hey, it's not as inane as watching football. The added special effects, such as the fight with the cow and Tonguey break it up a bit, and are pretty well done. It is not mindless, though it may be intellectually and emotionally worthless, but that's different. If you go to the theater, don't take a sourpuss with you, they'll rag you all the way home. For what it is, it's 7/10. "}{"Title":"Very Funny.... most of the time","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film at a matinee. I got my money's worth. Not worth the full price but good for a matinee price. I may like cheesy movies but even I have standards of bad taste.Yes this film is incredibly stupid, but that is where it is funny. I like silly zany comedies. I'd rather watch something like this rather than real disgusting humor like American Pie. This film is pretty cool. Steve O. is digitally inserted into each scene seemlessly. The new scenes do stick out a bit, but over all it is still pretty cool. They even added an effect where the master acciedentally swallows a bug flying around.Some gags do fall a little flat such as the girl who says whee-ooh-whee-ooh a lot. It just gets a little irritating. Others are quite funny. Such as the following scene (not as funny on paper as it is in the film)Master A friend of mine once told me that someday there would be a chosen one. flashback Guy Someday there will be a chosen one... end flashback Master Then he told me the chosen one would have great powers.. Flashback Guy He will have great powers.. end flashback Master Then he killed a small dog... flashback Guy has strained look on his face and then a loud fart SFX, dog whimper, then a loud thud. end flashback Chosen One That was a little more than I needed to know...This wasn't a laugh out loud belly laugh type funny but I was chuckling and smiling through the whole thing. I smiled and chuckled so much my cheeks were hurting till later that evening.I can't wait to pick this film up on DVD. This may not be a mainstream comedy, but it will be a cult favorite. 8.5/10Also stick around till all the credits are over. You can see how they made the film, a few outtakes, and after all the credits a hilarious surprise. "},{"Title":"I laughed soo hard I pee'd all over the theatre...","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow Brilliantly takes two 1976 movies, and incorporates them into a delightful concoction of comedy! Steve Oedekerk did ALL the dubbing, and made it a classic spoof. Just when i thought spoofing was going to be overdone, Steve proves me wrong. Anyone whose seen a martial arts movie from the 70's will NOT regret seeing this movie. WHY ARE YOU STILL READING THIS, GET OFF YOUR COMPUTER AND SEE THIS MOVIE NOW! "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud till' it hurts funny!","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I have to say when I was leaving for this movie with me and the guys, I thought that it would be really stupid, but be funny at moments. I was in for a shock! I never through the entire movie stopped laughing! It was EXTREMELY funny, Steve O. did a wonderful job with his blend of settings, characters, and just his whole spin off Japanese movies. This is one of the funniest spoofs I have watched since Airplane!, I highly will tell any one to see this movie! A+ "},{"Title":"Spectacular - but you need to pay attention.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Believe not all you read.  Kung Pow is a great comedy in the vein of Airplane!  However, I will add that this movie is not for everyone.  This movie is best suited to a person who can pay attention and has seen enough movies to appreciate all the spoofs contained herein.  (Paying attention is particularly important, as there are several reviews of this movie that talk about scenes that were not IN the movie - several of the supposedly horrifying jokes never took place).  Many jokes are shown vaguely in the background or are so small they are easy to miss (watch for a name tag). Shakespeare it isn't, but if you enjoyed Airplane!, Hot Shots!, the Pink Panther movies. . . well, give Kung Pow a try. "},{"Title":"6 thumbs up","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  My sons and I went to see Kung Pow Enter the Fist not knowing what to expect.  The explanation at the beginning of how they were using an old movie as the basis for this film, was not fully understood until later. The comedy is sophomoric,repetitious, annoying..and quite entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyed the movie, but not for everyone","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is an acquired taste, if you know what Steve Oedekerk is all about you would understand this movie.Steve took 2 cheese fighting movies and digitally put him self in almost every interactive seen, all seamlesslyIf you walked away from this film, its not because it was bad (the original movies were bad), it because you didn't get it. That's nothing to be ashamed of. It's not for every one.If you are looking for a review of this movie to rent or see it in the theaters. I suggest you look at his other work such as Thumb Wars, Nothing to loose, The Blair Thumb. all funny but different.As a final not I truly enjoyed this movie and everthing about it. It more then met my expectations.8/10  "},{"Title":"the most delightfully idiotic thing I've seen in quite some time","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  To those of you knocking this movieThe trailer showed a man fighting a cow.  You saw the cow squirt milk from its udder at the man.  You saw the man using gopherchucks.  What in the name of Shaft were you EXPECTING?!?!?!?  Did you think this was going to be a great triumph of the human spirit or would ask a stirring, provocative question about society?  HELL, NO!This movie was intended to be and advertised as just a completely stupid comedy.  If you were expecting anything deeper, you were sorely fooling yourself.If you like comedies like what Trey Parker and Matt Stone do or Mystery Science Theater 3000, you should love this movie.  It's brilliantly moronic. "},{"Title":"Grade A Top sirloin movie","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I laughed so hard I nearly cried.  Really I did, really!  GO SEE THIS MOVIE or I will cry tears of sorrow.  Honestly though, it was real good and I recommend this movie to anyone who finds randomness funny.  If you do not find randomness funny, you probably won't enjoy the film.  I liked it so much that is going to be a movie that I own on DVD when ever it is released! "},{"Title":"Not a spoof.","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  When you watch Kung Pow Enter the Fist you expect a spoof like Scrary Movie and Not Another Teen Movie. But you don't get that, instead you get a movie that uses an old kung foo movies and with the combonation of 21st Century technology and the end result is a hillarious movie that is extremely fun to watch. It was genious of Steve Oedekerk to not only come up with the concept but also to use the ability of the voice over to use to his advantage. You don't expect have of the stuff that is either said or expect anybody to do anything but it does happen. Like for example; when the chosen one asks for four pounds of nuts, one you can see cans of pringles in the background and two in a loud voice you hear the vender almost scream THATS A LOT OF NUTS. No one expected that one coming. The best thing is that everything is over done. Again and Again and Again. The recomend this funny as heck movie for you and even the family.  "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I was laughing so hard I thought I was going to burst a vein.  It got a  little slow in the middle, but it picked right up again in the end.  The digital effects were really funny.  Great fun, don't expect to need your brain for this one. "}{"Title":"Hilarious Idiocy that Rings Your Bones and Tongue","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  *Slight Spoilers of Great Jokes and Minor Plot Points Ahead*With silliness that lasts from beginning to end, and a streamline of hilarity that sent me gasping for air and drying my eyes every five seconds literally, Kung Pow Enter the Fist is the dumbest, and funniest movie I've seen in a while.  Sure, it doesn't have as much intelligence as MST3K, or as much witty dialogue as a Kevin Smith movie, but Kung Pow resonates with tear jerking insanity.Taking and old kung-fu movie, re-editing and re-dubbing it, Steve Odekerk (Ace Ventura When Nature Calls, Thumb Wars) creates a light hearted, well meaning, silly film.The plot (if you want to know) concerns The Chosen One, played by Odekerk himself.  Born with the mark of the Chosen One (his tongue), Chosen's family is killed when he is a baby by the evil Master Pain (a.k.a. Betty). However, when Pain attempts to kill the newborn, Chosen jumps out of his cradle and unleashes major CGI assisted butt.After escaping Pain and being raised by rodents in the wild, Chosen continues to run into random people who want to kill him.  So, he goes to a Temple to learn how to defeat Pain.  He meets and falls in love with local babe Ling, gets annoyed by Wind-Blows and his dubbed squeaky shoes, and endured the oddities of the dubbing of his trainer (Taco Bell, Taco Bell, product placement for Taco Bell!)Chosen goes on to fight Pain, evil henchmen, a CGI cow (in my opinion, the movie's one slow spot, what with an outdated, but silly, Matrix parody), and other weirdness.The filmmakers were smart enough to know how far silliness can be taken. After starting off with some funny dubbed voices, they keep the voices, but add on to them, with funny dialogue (not K. Smith quality though), weird characters, and other things that just wring humor out of every possible aspect (The Ventriloquists, Ling and her weird noised, Wind-Blows and his squeaky shoes).  The filmmakers even use bad editing as a joke!Another good thing about Kung Pow was it's good hearted nature.  It is never vulgar or obscene, or use gross-out jokes as a crutch like many other comedies, and is not trying to be mean to its audience or the films it parodies.  The filmmakers obviously have a love for kung-fu and action movies, and it shows through this good natured parody.  While not really appropriate for younger kids, this film is great and not very offensive.And for anyone who says this movie is offensive intellectually, remember another movie with just as much silliness called Monty Python and the Holy Grail?  This movie is silliness on a grand scale.   And I laughed almost as hard during this movie as I did in Holy Grail.So if you're one of those people who hate a movie for just trying to entertain and be silly, laugh at your own seriousness and lack of lust for the idiocies and of life.  I agree that stupidy can reach annoyance (see Fast and the Furious), but for me, it sure didn't happen here. So c'mon and laugh!  Or better yet, go watch How High, and realize just how mean spirited, talentless, and unfunny a comedy can be.But for anyone who loves Monty Python, Ace Ventura, MST3K's sillier moments, and Kevin Smith's works (especially the Clerks Cartoon in the case of a movie like this), Kung Pow Enter the Fist is for you.  "},{"Title":"Silly Fun","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie takes the idea of What's Up Tiger Lily? and brings it farther by putting actor/writer/comedian Steve Oedekerk into the movie.  It sounds like an idea that someone just thought it would be amusing among a bunch of friends, but the achievement of not knowing who in the movie is an original actor (unless you saw the original movie that they took the scenes from) and who is from that movie brings you to playing a guessing game until you watch the credits where they show you how they did it.Joke-wise, it's hit and miss.  But I do recommend it because there are parts that are just hysterical, and for the technological achievement of the movie. "},{"Title":"If you just want to check your brain at the door...","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Hey, this is not PLATOON.  If you want to laugh your ass off, just like a junior-higher, then go see this movie.  I swear, my stomach hurt, from all the stupidity!  My son and I actually BONDED because of the retardedness (sorry, couldn't think of a better adjective) of this film.  Yes, it's What's Up Tiger Lily and yes, it's been done a hundred times, but dammit, I had a good time, so I'm telling all my pals who are stuck in junior high to go, pay 7.50 and and forget their disappointing lives for 80 minutes. "},{"Title":"I laughed till water come out my eyes!","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  So, I've finished reading a few reviews for this film, and already I'm disgusted. Every self-proclaimed Movie Critic is calling Kung-Pow the worst movie of the year. First off, we have eleven months to go... Don't tell me that the new Britney Spears flick is going to be absolute gold. In any case, I'm tired of so-called critics getting out to the theater to grade everything as if it were in contention for an Oscar. Kung-Pow is NOT Oscar material. The makers of Kung-Pow were not hoping for an Oscar. There is no reason for anyone to give this a serious review. Instead of calling the film complete crap, maybe if we offered some insight and suggestion, the right people will get to cry their eyes out with delight. Kung-Pow is a film which has a distinct MST3K feel to it. If you abandon all expectations, relax and just try and have some fun... Kung-Pow will have you rolling in the aisles. Not everyone will get the same thing out of this movie... Just remember, you're going to see a movie that is bad, very bad... Just roll with the punches and you'll have a laugh for every penny of the admission cost. "},{"Title":"Stupid, but the funniest movie I've seen in ages","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  All right, this movie is stupid, but it's SUPPOSED to be. For people who were disappointed in it What were you expecting, Citizen Kane? This was the first time in years that I've actually laughed out loud in a theater this much. It's a really good dumb comedy to see with friends. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"I come to defend","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow was not a good movie.  In fact, it was a terrible movie.  But I am happy I saw it.  I may even force my wife to watch it, thereby, technically, watching it a second time.  Why?  Do I enjoy terrible movies? Sometimes, I guess, I do.  But only if they are terrible enough that you just have to wonder incredulously how they were ever let out into the world. The best parts in Kung Pow are the parts that make no sense at all, to the point of inspiration.  (And the worst parts are the conventionally funny ones, the straight spoofs of modern films, i.e. what was in the trailers.) Why does the love interest make horrid high-pitched noises at the end of each sentence?  And when that joke tires (after the 400th time), why do they have her start snorting?  Why is the editing so bad that it could only have been deliberate?  Who came up with the CNN joke?  Was it Steve Oedekerk?  Why did anyone ever think to let Steve Oedekerk appear on screen? And what do you get when you cross an owl and a bunjee cord?  It does drag in the end, in the way that only transcendentally bad films (like Rocky Horror) can, but we forgive it that and so much more.  If, like me, you've been looking to see a solid, old-fashioned bad movie in theaters, the kind they always ruin these days with some sort of horribly preachy self-awareness (what happens when filmmakers are insecure or bright enough to think we won't believe they're in on the joke), I have few reservations about recommending this.  On a scale of 1 to 10, a -7, no small feat. "},{"Title":"A-Grade Trash? More like A-Grade Comedey!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  In the great tradition of Airplane!, Naked Gun, and Hot Shots! comes Steve Oedekerk's (Ace VenturaWhen Nature Calls, Patch Adams)spoof of martial arts (i.e. Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon) films. while I admit, this is no Airplane! or Top Secret!, and some jokes just dont hit the spot, there is plenty that do. The dubbing jokes are quite funny, while theres plenty of sight gags to go along with them. From an unexpected jokes, to funny spoofs of The Matrix and The Lion King Kung Pow! is a film that is stupid yet funny, my kind of film. What I look foward to in a comedy is spoofs, parodies, sight gags, one-liners, slapstick comedy. This movie delivered in all those areas. And whats so bad about the unibreast joke? No, its not hilarious, but it gets a quick 'thats messed up' laugh. And the mini-trailer of Kung Pow 2Tongue of Fury looked good. I hope Oedekerk goes ahead and makes the sequel, if its as good as the original it will get many laughs. I give it *** out of **** stars. (On a comedy scale) "},{"Title":"Hysterically funny movie but obviously not for movie snobs","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  OK, I feel compelled to write a review of KUNG POW since the only reviews I have seen of it here on IMDB and in newspapers have not been kind. The Chicago Tribune gave it 1/2 star and the previous IMDB reviewer lambasted it and I hestitated whether to waste valuable movie time with it. I am a movie lover. I go see films ( I mean movies) 2 to 3 times a week and I own 2500 laserdiscs and 800 DVD's. I love everything from DR ZHIAVGO to WHERE EAGLES DARE and my Likability Criteria is simple Would I buy the DVD? I saw KUNG POW twice in one day if that is an indication. There have been so many sub par comedies recently (meaning I hardly laughed). These include ROYAL TENNEBAUMS, ORANGE COUNTY, NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE, etc. I want to laugh like when I first saw MEET THE PARENTS, SOMETHING ABOUT MARY, LOST IN AMERICA, YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN. KUNG POW is not in a class with those giants honestly, however it has jokes galore, Steve O. does almost all the dubbing in hilariously bad voices and it nails the whole bad kung fu movie to the wall. Although I groaned at yet another MATRIX parody, the bit with the cow brought down the house. It reminds me a little of an audience participation in the MYSTERY SCIENCE THEATER 3000 vein. This is a frathouse kind of movie and like AIRPLANE not every joke is going to be funny to every person in the audience. I love the technology that inserts Steve perfectly into a cheesy 70's kung fu flick and he even parodies Jackie Chan's legendary blooper reel during the end credits. Check your intellect and your movie snobbery at the door and laugh your head off. By the way, can't wait for the DVD. "},{"Title":"Kung Pow was a very funny movie","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I don't know why people are bashing it so much, geez it's just a comedy movie. I thought it was a very funny movie and i wasn't the only person crying on the floor full of laughter. Everyone else in the movie theater was enjoying it as much as i did. The movie is just plan outrageously funny, and i think if you guys want a good laugh, (I mean a really good laugh that will keep you crying for days) go see Kung Pow. "},{"Title":"Kung Pow was a very funny movie","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I don't know why people are bashing it so much, geez it's just a comedy movie. I thought it was a very funny movie and i wasn't the only person crying on the floor full of laughter. Everyone else in the movie theater was enjoying it as much as i did. The movie is just plan outrageously funny, and i think if you guys want a good laugh, (I mean a really good laugh that will keep you crying for days) go see Kung Pow. "}{"Title":"Laughter is the best medicine","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  After an entire year of disappointing movies that didn't meet my expectations, Kung Pow finally delivered on what the previews  promised... A ridiculous send up of an already ridiculous genre...the corny 70's kung-fu flick.  While I admit the dialogue in this movie was sometimes lackluster, I must also say that I haven't laughed so hard at a comedy in a long while.As a fan of satire, MST3K, and other corny spoofs of kung-fu (a la the Kentucky Fried Movie), I can honestly say that Kung Pow was refreshing, humorous, and at times Ridiculously Clever.I won't claim that this movie was great when ranked among the truly brilliant comedies (i.e. Royal Tenenbaums, etc), but when you compare it to the crap that has hit the screen in the past year (Freddy Got Fingered, Scary Movie 2, etc.), you'll have to admit that Kung Pow has its charm. If nothing else, this movie illustrates that ridiculously funny comedy can be achieved without being incredibly raunchy or tasteless.This is easily the first rolling-in-the-aisles-because-I-was-laughing-so-hard-for-more-than-sixty-pe rcent-of-the-time movie I've seen in the past few years.Kudos to Steve Oedekerk for showing us how funny a spoof can be.  "},{"Title":"This movie is not to be taken seriously...all around fun!!!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I got to see this movie this afternoon being a kung fu fan. Now, I knew what to expect from the trailer and personally, I think Steve Oedekerk is one of the most underrated comedians out there. This movie proved it...He stars, wrote, directed, and provided every single dubbed voice in the film. I came out of the theater crying from laughing so hard.This movie is in no way meant to be taken serious, so if you don't like it...oh well...but I enjoyed it as both a comedy and as a kung fu film fan. "},{"Title":"What were you expecting?","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is what I don't understand people going into this movie not expecting slapstick comedy.This movie is *meant* to be stupid. It's *meant* for you to laugh, then groan about how lame it is. This isn't a literary classic.Check your brain at the door? Wrong - leave your brain with you and you won't miss half the jokes. Some of the best parts of the movie are things that are going on in the background, stuff the average person isn't paying attention to.This movie is so awful it's funny - like Scary Movie or Godzilla 2000. It did exactly what it set out to do - and for that I give it a definite thumbs up!I wanted a laugh, nothing more... and I got it. Fans of Mystery Science Theater 3000 will love this movie. "},{"Title":"True Comedy","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Like most movies, or pretty much all movies they all try and emphasize as much whatever, of whatever the genre of the movie is. Example, Lord of the Rings, doesn't that emphasize Fantasy, nothing accidental about that. Titanic, Doesn't that emphasize Drama? People drowning.etc. What about Hannibal, didn't that try to emphasize creepy parts to it or so. I could go on and on and on and on, with every movie ever made. Thus Kung Pow trying it's hardest in making a comedy movie, made a beautiful wonderful funny movie. I must admit I felt a bit awkward watching it at first, thinking it wouldn't get as serious as I thought it would be. By serious I mean not a children's comedy type of movie. Which snapped out of after the first five minutes or so. The rest of the movie is pure comedy. I couldn't stop laughing at how well everything was made. The translations of the voices coming in so late. Gosh, this is just such a funny movie. I'm sure having seen this movie to have it's memories will make even my saddest of days happy just thinking of how funny everything was made. I'm so happy. 10/10 from all my heart to every one participating in making this movie. "},{"Title":"Where an open mind is appreciated...","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I just went to see this film after being quite discouraged by the comments I've been reading about it. Then I went to see it and... I actually had a lot of fun! There were points in it that were down right crappy... But NEWSFLASH!!! Remember those old Kung Fu films that came out of china in dozens by companies like Golden Harvest? THOSE WERE CRAPPY TOO! (Save The Drunken Master. But I am a big fan of those old kung fu flicks anyway.) Now for those of you that understand the concept of parody, let's move on. I thought the beginning was hysterical, and I'll agree by the middle of act 2 there were parts here and there I found a little annoying, (The love interest of The Chosen One constantly going off like a siren WEEE OOOO WEEE OOOO!) but I thought the film was good because it showed how absurd dubbed audio tracks can get (slightly exaggerated, of course... That's why I always read the subtitles in films like Life is Beautiful and Crouching Tiger.)All in all, I'll leave you with my educated opinion on the matter... If you know the ways of the cheesy kung fu flick well, and are familiar with all the comedy those films have brought while trying to be completely serious, I think you'll have fun with this film. If you have always hated Kung Fu flicks in the first place, and you can't enjoy an hour and a half of fun absurdity, don't go, stay home, spare the movie what dignity it may or may not have. In my own opinion, AND NO ONE ELSE'S MAY I EMPHASIZE!!! I give this film a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Goofy Fun for pre-teens and early teens...","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I took my 11 year old son to see this today. We laughed our heads off. The humor is very goofy and immature. Another reviewer who slammed this movie reviewed it totally out of context. This movie is not gonna win any academy awards, but I am certain it will become something of a cult comedy hit. If you have not seen many movies this season, there are higher quality choices (Neutron/Harry Potter.LOTR), but as long as you are not hyper critical and just want to laugh, this is a good choice. I'd put this movie in the same vein as Airplane!, Top Secret and the Naked Gun series. 7 of 10, highly recommended within context....  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly very funny!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I went to this movie because my friends were obsessing over it, and because...I was the driver.  From the very beginning, I soon found out that this movie was going to surprise me.  You have to like Steve Odekerk's humor to like this movie.  If you liked Thumb Wars, you will love this.  I had tears streaming down my face during a certain face in the clouds scene. Give this movie a chance if you like very, very wrong parodies.  My grade 8/10  for the humor. "},{"Title":"Meant to be stupid!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I took my teenage son to this, expecting a lame film.  It was his idea, obviously.  Anyhow, I was surprised that I liked it so much.  It was so funny, my stomach hurt from laughing so hard (mostly during the first half). Toward the end of the film it drags a little, but oh well.  If you just want some silly sophomoric, junior high laughs, go see Kung Pow.  It's meant to be stupid and silly, and it never veers from that end. "},{"Title":"a silly movie with some serious background work.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a reworked comedy made from the original movie Tiger and Crane Fist. The twist is that this version is a comedy that makes fun of the old chosen one story line in every conceivable fashion. The plot is simple and easy enough to follow since its been done a thousand times, but the humor comes out of left field on a regular basis.What impressed me was not the story or the acting or the humor but the near seamless blending of new and old footage. This movie deserves to win every special effects award that anyone gives out.  "},{"Title":"Good for a genre fan.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I have always been a big fan of the kung fu genre, so when i learned it was being spoofed, i didn't quite know what to think.  The film could either be a winning spoof (like Hotshots) or another cheap gross-out fest (in the form of Scary Movie.)  I decided to see this film with a clear mind, and I, as a genre fan, was not dissapointed by it.  The film provided more laughs than i expected and the concept was almost ingenius.Steve Oedekerk, writer, director, and star of this film took footage from an old kung fu film, and with special effects and new footage, added himself into the film.  The voices were all redubbed by Oedekerk and the result is hilarious!The story follows The Chosen One (Oedekerk) as he searches for the man who killed his family when he was a baby.  Thats pretty much the plot, but there are many little features that make the film cool.Because some of the gags seem to run on a little long (the cow fight,) i would say that any fan of the kung fu genre will most likely get a kick out of this film. (pun intended)My Rating 8 out of 10  "}{"Title":"ARE YOU GUYS NUTS?  THIS IS FABULOUS!!!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The greatest movie of all time?  Not a chance.   The best martial arts movie of all time?  Uhhhhh, nope. Mostly likely to pick up some awards?  Some Razzies maybe. Is this a future cult classic?  YES!   While all they did was take Steve Odekerk and put him in the 1975martial arts movie Crane and Tiger Fist,  and dub ALL thedialogue to make it a comedy, it is still a fun movie to watch. My brother and I were laughing hysterically.   Yeah, some people walked out, but they probably didn't get itanyway.   Steve Odekerk is very talented (remember Thumb Wars and theshort-lived TV show steve.odekerk.com?)  He has a bright future. This may sound crazy, but I would see it again.   Even crazier If I compile a top 10 funniest movies of all time list, I'dput this one up there. (with Airplane, Blazing Saddles, and MontyPython and the Holy Grail taking the top 3 of course) Yes, they trashed a martial arts movie, but nevertheless, theymade it more interesting.  Check it out.   *Spoiler alert* If they decide to put out a sequel, they shouldproceed with caution.   Otherwise, this is a CULT classic just waiting to happen.  "},{"Title":"You've got to know the Oedekerk Style","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie last night and was very entertained.  But you have to know what you're getting into.  You have to go in knowing the classic Oedekerk style or you'll be gravely dissappointed.This is not Patch Adams or anything close.  You have to think back to Ace Ventura with a smaller budget. Oedekerk has made a movie where there's humor just for the sake of being funny.  It's a B-Movie that KNOWS it.  Like a Live action MST3K.  You know he's laughing right along with you at how bad the special effects are.  In the first scene with the baby, he's not trying to hide that it's just a plastic baby doll they're throwing around.  It's got the charm of a home movie while treating you to a hell of a funny story if you let it.This isn't epic material we're dealing with here, and everyone involved with it knows that.  If you go in expecting anything more, you'll come away disgusted.   "},{"Title":"Movie Of The Year","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was absolutely brilliant, my life up until seeing this movie was complete rubbish! This movie should certainly win an academy award, for its excellent acting, cinematography, and musical score. This movie is painstakingly beautiful, and truly brought tears to my eyes, see this movie, and your life will be complete.  "},{"Title":"Great fun for all","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Saw this movie and didn't have much expectations going in, but this movie pleasantly surprised me.  There's a bit of the juvenile lowbrow humor, but most of the movie is actually quite clever.It's definitely going to be a movie that people love or, well, don't.  I think it'll have college dorms laughing for a long time.  I especially enjoyed the part of the movie featuring Betty's magic skills.  Truly inspired. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the critics...","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow is a special film. Okay, it's stupid. Check your brain at the door and prepare to laugh. If you enjoyed Scary Movie and Dude, Where's My Car, I bet you'd find that this movie is a fast-moving, funny, and downright hysterical film that'll make you laugh-till-you-puke!Listen to critics who'll dismiss this as kiddie fare and funny to twelve year olds! After all, it's fun to be twelve!  "},{"Title":"Unique and Hilarious","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This Movie was really suprising. I actually thought it was one of those movies where all the funniest parts were shown in the preview. I was horribly wrong. This movie was pretty funny, aside from the really annoying voice overs. But the editing is neat and smooth, and the acting was correctly bad! Pretty funny! "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  While this movie may not suit everyone's taste, I thought this movie was one huge, ridiculously hilarious romp through a parodied classic Kung-fu movie (using its original footage) and taking wild jabs at pop culture to boot. It's so bad it's good, and I could tell the actors and actresses had a ton of fun making this flick. I recommend this to anyone who has a lowbrow sense of humor. The Chosen One-cow fight alone is worth the price of admission. 9/10 for humor and out-and-out messed-up (in the good sense) goofiness. "},{"Title":"Funny!!!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I am not easily humored, but man this movie is probably the most hilarious movie I have seen in the longest time. The writer and director from the Ace Ventura films took some old Hong Kong fighter flick from like 1979 and put himself in it and redubbed EVERYONE with very VERY hilarious voices. Trust me, this movie will be the funniest movie you have EVER seen. Yes, even funnier than Dirty Work! I laughed so much I even cried at one scene. It has a very cheesy storyline, but that is expected in a comedy, so don't go seeing this expecting an Oscar-winning performance, yet rather expect a funny movie that you would never expect to be so hilarious "},{"Title":"Disturbingly Funny","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Not everyone has the same humor, but if you like classic Japanese movies with kung-fu cows, then you have yourself a winner. This movie takes the so-stupid-it's-funny approach without the toilet humor. So with a little bit of The Matrix, Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, The Lion King, and a hilarious guy who looks like the Fonz from Happy Days, you can't help but laugh. So get off the computer and go see this movie. Oh, and one more thing; avoid the valley... you'll find out. "},{"Title":"What the...","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  What's the deal with this flick?  First of all, it was sickening to see a cow's tits squirting milk.  Second, why don't any of the characters have a real name.  The flick had some funny parts to it but nothing to go crazy over.  I really don't recommend this flick to anyone who has a sense of decency "}{"Title":"Funny as hell!! Best movie of the year!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest movie of the year! I didn't think this would be an entertaining film, but when I saw it I was shocked by the performance of the crew.  It's one of the movies where you don't move for 5 minutes after the credits are over and you just sit there wanting to see it again and again. This film is hilarious!!! One of the best movie of the year so far. "},{"Title":"Pity...","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I can't understand those people who happen to like this movie. If I'd be the director of the movie they got the footage from, I'd sue the creators of Kung Pow for ruining it's image. I mean, this whole movie is nothing more but a huge insult thrown in the face of anyone who sees it, just that a lot of people out there ain't getting the idea (and this majority, I pity). Calling this a parody is definitely not an excuse at least a parody is entirely re-filmed with different actors and sets, to differentiate it from the original. I can't even call this movie a bad joke. A bad joke may end up bad unintentionally. This movie is plain evil done completely conscious.As about a sequel... I pity people who would ever request that. "},{"Title":"All I can say","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Weeoooo Weeoooo Weeooo. Weeoooo Weeoooo Weeooo.All I can say is, I need gopher chucks. Now!What a good movie. I really enjoyed it. There were so many funny lines. The dialogue was really good for a make-over kung-fu movie.There were some really great moments, however, there were some moments that were left to be desired. What I mean is that they were a little lengthy. I realize now that this was a complete write over of another movie, so it makes sense. I really think that the English voice overs are really funny. They really match the action going on in the movie. I laughed a lot. Mr. Oedekerk is a gifted comedian. Nice work. Thank you. "},{"Title":"You either get it or you don't.","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" One of the funniest movies ever. Really. I think the distribution of votes for this movie is very telling. The highest percentage goes to 10/10 whereas the second highest percentage goes to 1/10. If you're one of the people who thinks it's one of the worst movies ever, I will pity you, but I will not judge you. No, that's wrong. I will also judge you. Your sense of humor is defective. I'm sorry.Seriously, I can't even read quotes from this movie without laughing. And I've seen this movie several times! I didn't want to see this movie from the trailers (the kung fu cow, etc.). The cow and all the other added CGI stuff are the worst parts of the movie. The rest is gold. Chosen You broke a thermometer in my hand. Ling Rub it all in my hair. Come on, people. "},{"Title":"Wet Your Pants Funny!!!","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is not meant to be serious. It's purely silly entertainment. My husband rented it and we laughed so hard that our ribs hurt the next day. We bought the movie the next day! Steve O is a genius. I won't ever look at peanuts the same way again. If you don't have a sense of humor or don't like comedies that aren't mainstream, then you should skip this movie. If you like Airplane and laugh every time you see it,then you should watch Kung Pow! Betty is absolutely hilarious. I sing the Neosporin song every time I pass it in the aisle at the grocery. Technically, this movie is amazing. The green screen work is nearly flawless. It is hard to tell when Steve O is working in front of it. "},{"Title":"Ummnn","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" An American sendup of those creaky 1970s HK kung fu quickies, this combines footage shot in the U.S. (including in the director's backyard, apparently) with footage from a real 1970s HK kung fu flick. If you were expecting another DEAD MEN DON'T WEAR PLAID or ZELIG, forget it. The film is absolutely terrible, with nary a joke in sight. If you want to see a truly funny kung fu comedy, watch either SHAOLIN SOCCER or the more recent KUNG FU HUSTLE, which is absolutely amazing. Hell, watch any number of Jackie Chan movies for some genuine laughs. Just don't watch this incredibly dumb flick that should have been relegated to a late-night, 10-minute segment on COMEDY CENTRAL. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, underrated. Ouee-ouee!","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I have to say I had low expectations of this movie, I was not looking forward to seeing it, because I'd heard you had to be in the right mood for it. Based on that, and the rather unfunny cow scene which I'd seen before (internet clip), I was pretty convinced this movie was going to stink and leave me cringing in my chair.Turned out, I ended up laughing a lot throughout the movie. It has aimed at the very silly level of humour you've seen in Monty Python etc, then gone up a notch from there. I've been snickering all day thinking about the female character who goes ouee-ouoee-oouee every time she gets agitated. xD Kung Pow isn't perfect, but luckily the movie is only just over an hour long, a perfect size for this kind of humour. Recommended for those who prefer their humour served over the top silly. You know who you are. "},{"Title":"About as funny as an inoperable brain tumour...","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The concept of Kung Pow could have worked rather well, and to be truthful, it does work in some places. Simply take existing footage from a Kung Fu film, re-edit it, add in some pickups, redub the entire soundtrack, and voila, instant comedy. The chants the students make as they do their kata are an example of where this approach works. Most of the rest of the film, however, is not.It seems to be a rising trend in America today that comedy equals jokes about bodily functions. England and Europe got past this phase at some point in the 1980s, while Australia never really went through it. The problem, in a nutshell, is that while this technique might be funny once or twice, the makers of Kung Pow insist upon using it fifty or sixty times. And let's face it, do we really need to see another weak satire of the bullet-dodging scene in The Matrix? They got it right the first time in Scary Movie - let's move on, people.Another phase of British comedy that this turgid effort gets stuck in is the belief that stars acting like buffoons without any proper setup, or grounding, is funny. Sorry guys, but it isn't. It's annoying, even boring. The main problem with it is that it assumes that there is a uniform sort of humour that everyone will find funny. Even when you're this low-brow, that is not the case. Sure, people who've studied martial arts, however briefly, will find the ridiculous chants during the morning kata funny, but when one subjects us to bad editing jokes for the fifth time, we have to scream that we get it already, move on.In all honesty, this would have worked much better as a half-hour short, or perhaps even a seven-minute featurette. There is enough here to keep the audience laughing for those lengths of time, but little else. And really, do we need another French-bashing joke? I can't stand the French language myself, but that doesn't mean I need to insult the French people every day. I have plenty of other sources to draw material from.In short, Kung Pow is another example of a film that tries to appeal to the lowest common denominator, and winds up as the sort of drivel that only an idiot would want to watch as a result. I gave it a one out of ten. I felt I was being generous.  "},{"Title":"The funniest thing I've seen in ages.......","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film is hilarious from start to finish. No one could sit through this movie without laughing - it is pure genius. It is an ironic take on an old marshal arts movie but you do not need to have seen it to find this amusing. It has loads of brilliant running gags in it and great fight sequences that will have you laughing so hard you will be sick. The special effects in the movie are done really well and the dubbing is done so badly (deliberately) that you will laugh from the first scene onwards. I've watched this movie three times so far and it doesn't dull from repeat watches. A great comedy classic and a one of a kind, well, two of a kind now with the new movie. Well what are you waiting for? Go and watch it!  "},{"Title":"another great Oedekerk movie","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  You've got to like the kind of humor to like this movie, but Steve leaves me laughing on the floor every time I watch Kung Pow, I can't wait to see the sequel!Every time I watch Enter the Fist I see new things, for instance the 'Hooters' sign on one of the buildings, the (spoiler!) alien ship flying in the air in a shot where you see the Chosen One walking away from the camera, or the pringles in the back when Chosen asks for nuts.Well done, Steve! I hope the sequel will be at least as good as this slapstick masterpiece. "}{"Title":"A good stupid humor movie.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"    After seeing this film, you think What kind of loser made this? It's practically a one man show, being Steve Oedekerk dubbing his voices over many characters. It's really quite sad when you think about it. There's some woman talking to the chosen one and it's Steve Oedekerk doing the woman, chosen one, and 'Betsy.' But that doesn't mean it's not funny. Have you ever seen a low budget comedy, or just your average citizen goofing off and being funny? Then you've got yourself Kung Pow -    in the same tradition as mystery science theater 3000, just a few voices (in this case one voice) dubbing over others, and messing around with a few scenes. Also, Steve Oedekerk kind of Copy and pasted himself into this film. You see they take Steve, and put him in the scene as the chosen one by computer effects. I'm quite surprised this film had a big enough budget to even USE computers -chuckle chuckle- It's quite funny, and you've got to give the man some credit for writing, directing, acting, and producing this film. That's got to be tough. So have yourself a good, silly time and see KUNG POW ENTER THE FIST. It will keep you entertained on a Friday night. 3.5/5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I remember catching a bit of this movie when it first came out, and immediately i thought i was witnessing movie history. This for sure must be the worst movie ever made. I don't throw that title around like it's nothing, this literally is the worst movie ever made. Anyway, i stumbled upon it again on cinemax a few moments ago and was curious to how awful the movie was rated on here. To my surprise it received over a 5 and im still in shock at the reviews im looking. Some of these people must have an iq of below 50, because i really cannot see how you could enjoy it otherwise. Awful and embarrassing and the fact that i see a new one is production has literally dumbfounded me. C'mon people, c'mon Hollywood, this trash doesn't deserve to be made. Well i said my piece and will go back to crying for humanity as i read another good review. Shame on you people for making this garbage, and i feel so much pity for those who are entertained by this unfunny, stupid, and awful movie. 0 out of 10 stars for sure. "},{"Title":"An average film with some good moments","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  While many people despised this film,  people who know how to analyze the  putrid technical aspects of an old school  martial arts film will find this movie hilarious.  Sure, the bad dubbing became dull in  some areas, the funky cinematography  and ludicrous dialogue made for a great  parody. Steve Oedekerk created a film that  is really hit and miss, which explains why  so many people probably disliked the film.  However, the opening and closing sequences  are some of the most hilarious moments  in the movie. This is purely a film for people  that like parodies and can look at a film  much closer than the average film goer. "},{"Title":"one of the funniest movies of the year!!!!!!!","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  this was a VERY funny movie. The dubbing is intentionally made bad, the comic humor is funny and inventive, and it throws in every thing....... THIS MUST BE SEEN!!!!!! I guarantee you will be rolling on the floor laughing. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"It took me a while to come to this decision, but...","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" ... Kung Pow is terrible.What a huge disappointment from the genius behind Thumb Wars. This is low-grade, low-budget humor edited from a nightmarish martial arts flick. In the comic version, hero Chosen One goes up against kung-fu cows, gets advice from a one-breasted woman inserted purely for shock and giggle factors, and names his mystical tongue Tonguey.Um....Why is this billed as entertainment for the Mel Brooks crowd? It's not! I love spoofs, but this should be chained away in a dark basement with Scary Movie (which is worse) and Hot Shots! (which is better, but not by much). Its attempts to look funny look more like outtakes from BloodRayne, and some images (like the baby rolling down the rocky hill) are just *sick*.The only potentially funny moment of this flick One... of us... is wearing... a push-up bra! "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung Pow is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen in my life. It's satire of old Chinese films is done perfectly. Steve Oedekerk is genuinely funny and all his jokes are simple and quite easy to laugh at. The battles, especially that of The Chosen One and Betty are hilarious. I like the way they put in an intermission sequence too. Although some parts of the movie are quite annoying (like a song about Neo-sporin), the good parts tend to outweigh the annoying (like Wimp Lo's squeaky shoes). Anyone who hasn't seen it really should. The acting is good and the jokes are hilarious. Overall, it's an all around fantastic film. "},{"Title":"Kung Pow Enter the Fist has to be the best movie........","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung Pow Enter the Fist has to be the best movie ever in history of histories. It's like the perfect movie. I know somebody said that the cow scene and the baby fight was the worst parts and Steve Oedekerk should take out those scenes. Well Guess What? No! He definitely shouldn't take those scenes out. For me those were two of the best scenes in the movie. Why? Well probably because it's not only to make you laugh, it could also teach you some moves. Right? If you comment bad on this movie you are so evil like Evil Betty. Besides I can't wait for the second part where the cow re-unites with his farm friends! Ha,Ha,Ha! That will be a gut bursting movie. I'm already looking forward to seeing it. One more thing I need to add.....I LOVE YOU, STEVE OEDEKERK. YOU'RE THE BEST! "},{"Title":"A real winner!","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie will stand the test of time as an insightful romantic comedy. True to screwball-documentary form, it uses real archival footage, craftily photoshopping the protagonist into Kung-Fu history, albeit with a fabricated past.  In the grand tradition of Zelig, Forrest Gump, The Unbearable Lightness of Being, and Kurowsawa's Ran, Kung Pow Enter the Fist surpasses them all.  Like Zelig, the main character is fundamentally insecure.  Like Forrest Gump, he is unselfconscious.  Like Milan Kundera's Czech victims of Russian aggression, he quietly rebels.  Like Lord Ichimonji, he confronts fundamental human dilemmas.  I am proud to announce that I have already made Kung Pow part of the required canon for undergraduates planning to major in film at Columbia University. "},{"Title":"That's a lot of nuts (and jokes)","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie turned out to be really funny.  Definitely one of the funniest ones I have seen lately.  I loved the idea of dubbing over an old kung fu movie. And some of the voices they used were hillariously. The girl, Ling, sounded like Miss Piggy, one guy like Ren from Ren and Stinky and another like Gomer Pyle.  And all the hummm and wee ohh wee comments were so funny.  I am a fan of the cow scene. I didn't know one could do so many things with cow utters. However, the Matrix joke of dodging flying milk is getting old.  And I liked the opening with the crazy baby. It was funny when Master Pain pulls his diaper off and gets peed in the face.FINAL VERDICT  Funny parody of a kung fu movie.  I recommend it for anyone who likes silly comedies. "},{"Title":"Certainly not a bad movie","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Now, I have seen my share of worthless and stupid movies;  and, I was fully prepared for this to be one of them.  It wasn't, however.  It was a brilliant parody of Chinese martial arts films.  I don't think that a minute went by when I did not laugh out loud... I won't provide any spoilers here.  The technology involved with this flick is of a high order.  The jokes, sometimes stupid, come at you so relentlessly that you have to give up and laugh.  Kinda like Airplane... If you aren't laughing to the point of suffocation at the initial baby kung fu sequence, I'd turn the movie off and watch something else;  however, if you enjoy that, there is sixty five more minutes just like it. I'd give it a nine out of ten (for a comedy). "}{"Title":"Very Stupid","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Probably the dumbest movie ever made, however, this is what you expect when you watch a movie of this nature, so just relax and enjoy. I am sure that no one thought this would win any OSCARS when it was made. It is very stupid humor, but once in a while a movie like this is fun. Like watching SNL or MAD TV you get what you expect from it.  "},{"Title":"Kung Pow Simply Hilarious","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" It is a pity that this film did not receive any kind of publicity in Brazil. It is the kind of movie that really makes you laugh, the kind of film that makes you forget your problems when you're watching it. Steve Oedekerk seems to be a guy that does not takes himself seriously, a guy that makes movies simply because he loves cinema, achieving some really great momentos ( as Master Pain used to say...), creating in these terms a film that is has his signature. This movie will not please theses people that consider themselves as movie critics, however. I simply love this film. It is original, hilarious, joking about those 70's kung fu movies from Hong Kong. "},{"Title":"Very original and creative, not just stupid","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung Pow enter the fist was a movie I wanted to see for sometime for a cheap laugh, but never got around to. I recently rented it along with several other movies that fit that category and gave it a whirl. The results were at first confused, but then once I got used to the humor I loved it. This is a stupid comedy, it's not witty or smart like the kind you find in Pulp Fiction or Fargo, but it's a damn good stupid movie at that. I laughed my hardest at parts that just didn't fit the story. Just a random quirk Oederek had and wanted to put in for kicks. Aside from taking two old kung fu movies and doing them over, the film does have other neat niches that haven't been filled before. Such as the dialogue, example; you meet a character and expect him to say something funny or out of context, but the character instead responds with a logical thought that stupid and is said in a manner to make anyone laugh. The ending was a little disappointing but what can I complain? I got my copy for free. Overall a solid B "},{"Title":"Fun,Fast,and Absolutely Hilarious!","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Steve Oedekerk is at it again and this time I actually like it! This is definitely the funnest movie I have seen since DodgeballA True Underdog Story! The jokes with his nasty sense of humor are enough to make you die laughing. The best part is when Steve is fighting this evil cow that guards his worst enemy Evil Betty. The film might be ignorant but I still love it. It's creative and nobody could have made it better. I hope Kung Pow 2Tongue Of Fury comes out soon. The best thing about it is the voice overs! They were goofy!!! My favorite character was tonguey!He Rules!Many people hate this film and I can understand why but jeez, it's a Steve Oedekerk film and that's how it's supposed to be!!!It's a must see! "},{"Title":"A gem in the bargain bin.. woot!","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I have to admit, this could be a ripe stinker like my daughter's diapers. But you know what. It isn't it is a pleasant spoof. Amazing what he did with the timing and such. I am not well versed in his previous works, or at least know what they were. One thing that gets me, not in a good way is their need to make stupid sounds to match with the lip synch. BUT the best part IMHO is the stave test. LOL.. I laugh when I think of it, and if you laugh even alittle he did his job. I do pity those who did buy it new at regular price, tho it is worth the bargain bin price.I am wondering if there is going to be a sequel.. hmmmm. Well again will see it when it hits the video scene.I give it a 8 out of 10, Lol.. great joke.. ;) "},{"Title":"Most Quotable Movie Ever?  Possibly!!!","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Okay, here is the lowdown.If you like dumb humour, you will love this, as I did. This film is *meant* to be stupid and if you like it that way you will love it. There is nothing to get. You don't get comedy, you find it funny or you don't . . . it's not a good or bad thing, it's just the way it is. I also don't mean dumb humour like Scary Movies or American Pies which fail almost every comedy test available.I saw the trailer and I thought worst movie ever, however, seeing it with some like-minded mates and it was beautiful. Why? Because of the number of absolutely golden-fried comedy lines sprouted.If you didn't like Dumb and Dumber, don't watch this. You should know by now what kind of things you and your friends find funny. Like D and D, it takes repeated viewings with friends to truly shine.If you think Friends is comedy genius, don't watch this movie. If you think Everybody Loves Raymond is the pinnacle of humour, again, bypass. If you think White Chicks is a laugh-o-rama, it's skiparoo time.Take it for what it is and enjoy it4/5 "},{"Title":"This movie rules!","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is the greatest film of all time. This movie will make you laugh from start to finish(Especially the last scene after the credits) The movie takes a 1970s kung fu movie and re-dubs voices and digitally replaces the main character with Steve Oedekerk. All the characters and scenes are funny (with the exception of the one boob chick, that humor is too low), there is really no dead time. A lot of movies spend way too much boring time setting up plots and developing characters, but this movie doesn't waste any time, its non-stop comedy and action. A lot of unintelligent people have been saying the cow scene was stupid and a pathetic attempt of copying the matrix. Thats what it was supposed to be, it was supposed to be a parody of the matrix.Most people either love this movie or hate it. The fun, happy people who are full of life and like laughing will enjoy this movie and its stupid humor and satire while those who are stuck up, overly-serious jerks with low self-esteem will not enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'm a college student and this movie is a huge hit here. And you don't even have to be under the influence of anything for it to be funny. This movie is just so off the wall, crazy, and quotable. So many quotes that we students use in everyday life. Can't wait till he finishes the trilogy and puts out 2 more of these. I can't tell you how good this movie is. If your into movies that have off the wall comments, men with milk dud nipples, or crazy psycho... women, then this is for you. FYI, the whole movies used to be a old 1970s Hong Kong film. Steve O. put himself in instead of the main character, changed all the voices and left it like that. You know how bad those old Kung Fu movies are, he takes that and adds stuff that shouldn't happen... great times when watching this with friends  "},{"Title":"Takes a lot more abuse than it should","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Alright, I can see why some people don't like this movie. Its sense of humor doesn't appeal to everyone, and that's understandable, but how anyone could slam this film the way I've seen it slammed here is beyond me. It doesn't appeal to your sense of humor? That's fine by me. It just doesn't make sense for someone to rattle on and on about how lame the jokes are. If you don't like it, that's okay. There's no reason to repeatedly rephrase the statement this sucks into about 50 different forms and try to pass it off as a review.That being said, I love this movie. It is a wonderful parody of classic martial arts films, with Oedekerk being placed into one such film and dubbing all the characters, with a few new scenes to add to the humor and nonsensical plot.I, personally, find Kung Pow Enter the Fist to be one of the most quotable movies of all time. It doesn't matter if you like the movie or not, you're not going to forget a line like At that moment, the Chosen One learned a valuable lesson about iron claws...they hurt like crap, man!Sure, it's immature and often doesn't make much sense. But like I said, it's not a movie that everyone will enjoy. If you don't like it, tough. I do, and no amount of variations on this sucks is going to change that.  "},{"Title":"Stupid + Hilarious= Stupid Hilarious!","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  KUNG POW ENTER THE FISTStarring Steve Oedekerk, Jennifer Tung and Fei LungGenre Action/ComedyRated PG-13 for Comic Violence, Crude and Sexual HumorStar Rating ***** out of 5Kung Pow Enter the Fist is a movie within a movie, created to spoof the martial arts genre. Writer/director Steve Oedekerk uses contemporary characters and splices them into a 1970s kung-fu film, weaving the new and old together. Steve Oedekerk plays the Chosen One who traveled a long way to get to Master Tang's martial arts school where he is training to fight evil and stop the forces of darkness and to fight Master Pain (well he then changed his name to Betty) who killed his parents when the Chosen One was a baby. One of the most craziest parts in the movie was when the Chosen One was fighting a cow in the meadows and I was like what the heck! The most funniest things about this movie is that they have lots of jokes that are just fish out of the water jokes that sort of don't make sense but are funny anyway! Another funny part is when the Chosen One was fighting Master Pain's henchmen and one of the henchmen is a blonde girl with a dotted swimsuit and I was like she isn't apart of the army! Another funny thing about this movie is this one stupid character who is a wimp and wears these sqeaking shoes. Also another thing that is funny is when these aliens that come in the final fight they are French aliens! I laughed until I cried!BOTTOM LINE THIS MOVIE WAS STUPID BUT YET FUNNY! STUPID FUNNY! "}{"Title":"A straight-to-video gem","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsA highly inspired parody of trashily-made,poorly dubbed Bruce Lee kung-fu movies from the 1970's,Kung Pow delivers the laughs in riotously funny mode.From the title to the premise,this is a film that works.The laughs,are,in fact,zany and utterly mad,and therefore all the more funny for it.This plus a sensibly compact running time,ensuring the jokes never get repetitive or tiresome.With results this successful,it's just surprising Jerry Zucker wasn't involved in any way.**** "},{"Title":"stupid 2 out of ten","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  **** WARNING MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS !! ****Of the people who have seen this stupid film, why do you think it was funny? Many parts of the film are borrowed from two other films and at least one TV show ( remember Miss Piggy from the Muppets?) Couldnt Steve or the film makers afford to hire low rent actors instead of recycled film clips? Couldn't they be original ideas spoofing the Kung Fu genre? I didnt find the movie spectacularly funny at all, with exception to the cow scene and the goofy credits. You want truly defining comedies? Stick with Laurel and Hardy, Three Stooges, Naked Gun or the WWF--which has gotten outlandishly silly in the past decade  or so. I saw at least one case of child abuse and one case of animal cruelty in this film, and it was a reason I walked out of movies like Scary Movie.  But please, stay away from farces like this one. Waste $15 on renting old Buster Keaton or Bruce Lee films.  "},{"Title":"Stupidly funny","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" It doesn't take a genius to see the stupidity if the movie but then again that's what it was ment to be. Taking a movie and adding dubbed voices isn't new but nor is it worn out. Unlike completely pointless attempts at humor (such as Scary Movie's or American Pie's or any of the Wayan's brothers works) this movie falls under its own target and really points out the comedy in the old classic martial arts movies. Except for the french aliens and the one-boobed chick, the entire movie is damn hilarious and quite well-tought (I wonder how many people noticed the Free Willy and Titanic implications there - the Titanic appears in a lake, making it look like Evil Betty swings at the ship, and the whale falls in a water fall). "},{"Title":"Very funny, especially if you like Martial Arts Movies","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I love this movie, I have watched it several times and am still laughing out loud at it. I think it is funnier for people who do martial arts or who have seen a lot of martial arts movies. It is Monty Python-type humour, appealing to those who like the ridiculous. It is a spoof on all the great martial arts movies, things like the bad dubbing, ridiculous fight scenes, nothing is sacred. My favourite character is Betty (Master Pain) - the dubbed voice is hilarious. Wimp Low is also funny, these two have the best lines in the movie - I hope they can somehow include their characters in the sequel. Some of my friends have seen Kung Pow and didn't find it as funny as me, it is not the sort of movie for people who take things too seriously. But my advice is buy the DVD, put it on whenever you feel like a laugh, I never get sick of it. Can't wait for the sequel! "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Me and some friends, we produced one slightly similar dubbing work with Victor Mature's Samson and Dellilah. It was very amateurish, but we leaned something from this experience dubbing pictures is an art by itself. A different genre. You can't judge one dubbed film with one regular viewer eye.Said that, King Pow is a masterpiece. I watched a long time ago What's Up Tiger Lily, Woody Allen's own dub work. It was funny, but just that.Steve Oedekerk made much more than this in Kung Pow. He made a full scale intervention, not just fill the actor's original lines with funny frases, like Woody Allen did. Oedekerk had the technological factor in his side. He was able to do digital intereference. Sometimes worked, sometimes not. I, personally, don't like the Cow X Choose fight. (But its digital planning, included in the DVD extras is very interesting). One of the best things in Kung Pow is the use of edition tricks to make humor. I can't wait for the sequel. "},{"Title":"Smarter than your average dumb comedy","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Occasionally, you come across a film that you know won't appeal to everyone. Take 'South Park Bigger, Longer & Uncut' and 'Yentl' as examples. Both seem to divide viewers into two groups; the group that thinks the film is the greatest thing ever committed to celluloid, and the group that thinks the film is a great way to torture prisoners before execution.'Kung Pow Enter the Fist' is an incredibly entertaining film, if you know what you're seeing. The film has been shredded by film reviewers that saw its ultra-lowbrow humour and nothing else. Truth is, this one of the smarter dumb comedies floating around Hollywood.The premise of the film is extraordinarily simple, as was the style of 70s martial arts films. A man (dubbed the Chosen One, and dubbed by Steve Oedekerk) seeks revenge on an evil villain (dubbed Betty, aka Master Pain, and also dubbed by Steve Oedekerk). With the plot being so simple, more jokes can be crammed in.Perhaps the most intriguing aspect of the film is the fact that, with the exception of a small handful of scenes, the whole film is actually a 1978 flick titled 'Tiger and Crane Fists', with the soundtrack and voices removed, and replaced by Steve Oedekerk. The guy's voicebox must have looked like a haemorrhoid on an elephant by the end, because with the exception of Jennifer Tung's Whoa (aka The One-Boob Chick), Oedekerk dubs the whole film.The result is a dumb comedy that reinvents the dumb comedy genre in a way that very few dumb comedies are capable of. It pokes fun of a genre, not by creating a new film, but by using an old film in the new way. Think 'Mystery Science Theatre 3000' but with new actors and scenes in the film itself, and you have what 'Kung Pow Enter the Fist' is.While it's a hilarious film, some parts do tend to drag on a little, and a few of the jokes don't quite hit the mark that makes people laugh. Still, it's a good way to spend 85 minutes.--Hand8/10  "},{"Title":"Movie Review of Kung Pow Enter the Fist","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Kung Pow!!!!!!!!! If you have already seen the comedy Kung Pow Enter the Fist then you know it's a new kind of movie. It's a dubbed version of an old Japanese movie inputting voices and replacing the main character with the director Steve Oedekerk. This funny karate movie parody shows us the life of a young child (the chosen one) and the doom of his family, and how he grows up to avenge the death of his parents. With his ability to talk to animals and his extreme kung fu moves the chosen one is one to be rivaled with. We see him run into a town where the killer of his parents (Master Pain, formerly known as Betty) is living and intends to get his revenge. Using wood-chucks (knun-chucks) and getting advice from Mufasa this movie sure is a strange one. If you like funny movies or 'stupid funny' movies, then this one is for you. This movie truly raises a new bar of comedy. Woody Allen did a similar movie years ago with 'What's up, Tiger Lily?' Although it could never have the dumb humor as in this movie. Steve Oedekerk truly shows the humor in old kung-fu movies. It makes the most obvious things stand out even more, the strangest things seem stranger, it makes things from old movies stand out in this one and it shows the humor in serious kung-fu movies. This movie is bound to make you burst out in laughter. Where it lacks in plot and in reality it makes up with its slapstick humor. This short eighty-one minute movie wasn't meant to have a meaning to it, just to get out some laughs. Its one of those movies which you like or you don't like. That's up to you. If you are looking for some senseless laughs watch Kung Pow Enter the Fist. Written by Ray Miller  "},{"Title":"Good idea, okay execution","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Using japanese footage for a new film isn't a particularly new idea. Woody Allen did it all the way back in the 60's with What's Up, Tiger Lily?  Haim Saban has made a career out of it.  Anyways, our hero the chosen has taken an existing martial arts movie and dubbed himself in using Bluescreen with humorous intention.  The result?  A goofy seventy minutes. Some jokes fall flat, and some are funny but quickly wear out.  (Some jokes appear deliberately stretched out to pad the running time.  Not the best idea in the world.)  Nonetheless, I did laugh, about half the time.  Steve O. has some good comic instincts, and while sometimes he can spend a lot of time building up to a ho-hum gag, he can also elicit some very powerful cheap laughs.  I can't justify someone paying full-price for this movie (70 minutes isn't my money's worth), but I imagine this will have a healthy life on home video.  "}]