[{"Title":"Life, Death, Grieving , Loss and Coping","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" François Ozon is a rare director, one who takes a simple story, places it in the eyes and bodies of his cast, and simply lets the tale tell itself. SOUS LE SABLE (UNDER THE SAND) is an unforgettable film experience that probes deeply into our psyches, hearts, and reason how do we cope with sudden death? Opening quietly in the French countryside, a loving middle-aged couple begins a brief vacation in a family house, quietly and lovingly going about removing dustcovers, opening shuttered windows - settling in for a time of being alone together. Marie (Charlotte Rampling) is a professor of English in Paris (her specialty is Virginia Woolf) and Jean (Bruno Cremer) is her retired husband. Their long-term love is palpable Ozon provides almost no dialogue, as none is needed to establish this special relationship, so powerful is the non-verbal communication between Rampling and Cremer. They visit the beach the next day and while Marie is sunbathing, Jean goes for a swim - and never returns. Marie searches for him, engages lifeguards, and ultimately returns to Paris, trembling but intact. Months later, while Jean is never found, we see Marie reacting as though he still exists. She visualizes him in various situations and the two actors (yes, Jean is present in these scenes) interact as though nothing has changed. But Marie's friends note with great concern that she is 'delusional' and make various attempts for her to seek professional and emotional help. When news eventually arrives that Jean's body has been found, she internally denies this possibility but eventually returns to the vacation house town to identify the bloated corpse. Even at this point, though obviously in shock, she denies that the corpse is that of her beloved Jean. She walks back to the site where she last saw Jean and in the distance a figure rekindles her hope...Charlotte Rampling delivers a performance wholly committed. She communicates the spectrum of feelings of this challenged strong woman with her eyes, her gazes in the mirror, her interaction with her class of students, her friends, her admirer with such power that makes her Marie a wholly credible creature stricken by loss yet surviving in her chosen manner. It is one of the great performances of cinema. The entire small cast of this film is perfection. Ozon is a magical director and continues to prove he is one of the most honest and quietly powerful figures in today's cinema. Highly recommended.Grady Harp "},{"Title":"An honest but uneasy depiction of a woman's yearning for her dead husband.","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Many film fans run screaming for the door when confronted with French film drama. It is true a lot of them tend to be over-talkative and self indulgent. François Ozon's Sous le sable is a worthy exception. Carried almost entirely by Charlotte Rampling, this story of a woman unable to face the loss of her husband marks the return to form of a great actress. Through her sensitive handling of her character one tends to forget the effort that must have gone into depicting an intelligent woman slowly going to pieces. Ozon managed to capture the special sensuality of an older woman especially well in the erotic scenes; imagined or otherwise. It is not an easy film to watch, the subject matter too painful, but its unflinching honesty coupled with Ramplings moving performance make it more than worth-while. "},{"Title":"Charlotte Rampling, mostly","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Under the sand is Francois Ozon's last picture in the 20th century (not the motion picture company), preceding his more recent work of 8 femmes (2002), Swimming pool (2003) and 5x2 (2004) going into this century.The first 15 minutes say more than meets the eye. The relationship between husband and wife is depicted in the blandly uneventful annual ritual of going to the summer cottage. Yet, during the rest of the film, you keep thinking back to these first few minutes, looking for clues to explain what you see. You recall how at the service station break she draws a puff from his cigarette and then almost playfully puts it in his mouth, and how he does not seem to respond much. You recall how before going to bed, she is visibly happy (though not excited, as they must have done this for years) at finally getting to the vacation and how he does not seem to respond much.When he vanishes from the beach, presumably drowned, it gradually becomes clear that the film is a psychological study of the woman, a detailed account of how she gets on with her life &#150; career, friends, romance &#150; as if he is still around, at least in one corner of her mental existence. Without the details depicted in the first 15 minutes, this would have been it, a refusal by someone who is bereaved of a beloved to recognize the tragedy. (Ozon, I understand, interviewed grief counselors to study bereavement to prepare for the film). The first 15 minutes however add another layer, of doubting whether he simply disappeared because she has bored him so, as suggested by the mother-in-law.Words film critics used to describe this film include unsentimental, restrained, simple, ruminative. Charlotte Rampling's performance has been universally hailed by critics as one of her best. They are right. Watching Rampling in this film is quite a mesmerizing experience. "},{"Title":"Classy, understated drama","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Charlotte Rampling's marvellously judged performance as an Englishwoman whose French husband disappears whilst swimming is quite simply excellent. This is a perfect vehicle for Rampling as she is now, a beautiful mature woman who just oozes class. Without histrionics, she conveys the total sense of desperation at the loss of her husband, something which she will obviously never come to terms with. In terms of plot, this film is quite thin, but it is well worth watching for the central performance, which is thoroughly moving. Could be very bleak and depressing as a subject, but actually isn't at all. The time passed very quickly - my ultimate test of a good film! "},{"Title":"If you think you might like this you probably will.","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I disagree with a few comments below first, I believe it 'is' appropriate to switch back and forth between French and English because the character is an english literature professor in Paris and has bilingual friends; second, I feel it is unfair of anyone to characterize the main character as elderly, she is sensual, attractive, and tentatively has a good life to live in her future.  I think the loss to the woman of her husband is like suddenly confronting the loss of the last 25 years of her life. To be able to cope with this changed reality she must cautiously explore a new experience; she is afraid to let go of her past and afraid to take hold of a future. I believe at the end of the movie we are shown that she will continue to refuse to relinquish the past, yet, invariably, it is shown to her that she must go on, embracing the present, as must we all.   "},{"Title":"Charlotte Rampling can't be here now","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Before the very-acclaimed 8 femmes, François Ozon drew the attention with this beautiful but bleak movie. Indeed, the main topic is the disappearance of a human being and the close relatives' behavior faced with this situation.The disappearance of a loved person is something very painful for his (or her) close relatives because we don't know the truth about this disappearance (look at the Manic Street Preachers with Richey Edwards' disappearance on the 1st of February 1995). To tackle this delicate topic, François Ozon chose a sober making. There aren't many dialogs and Ozon's focusing especially on the expression of the actors' faces and gestures. He also achieved a feat he never reveals the truth about Jean's disappearance. On the contrary, the characters' opinion are diverging and creating a confusion in the spectator's mind. Even the relationship between Jean and Marie remains ambiguous they never communicate themselves signs of love.Moreover, I think that Charlotte Rampling's behavior is like Joe Dallessandro's one in Walerian Borowczyk's movie la marge (1976). It means that at the beginning, she wants to ignore the drama and decides to carry on living as if Jean were still alive. But little by little and in the long run, she realizes the bleak truth.As for the last sequence, it isn't here to relieve the spectator. It ends a sober and moving movie that shows Ozon's talent.   "},{"Title":"Requires settling in and brooding, and watching Rampling slowly adjust and consider love and death","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Under the Sand (2000)The plot is simple, almost too simple, and because very little happens, it depends on mood and deeply serious thinking about death to survive. And on Charlotte Rampling to have the nuance and range to pull it off.And it works, overall, because of just those two things heavy subject and Rampling. There are issues (and tricks, cinematically) with ghosts and memories, but these play small against the bigger strain of the lead woman dealing with this sudden trauma in her life. Even though the main event in the movie happens at the start, I don't dare mention it because its surprise is important (I didn't know it was coming, and liked the way it was handled very much). Director Francois Ozon never seems to quite nail down the pace and editing of his films, at least for American sensibilities. Even the sensationally complex Swimming Pool doesn't quite use its material to propel us in every scene. But let's turn that on its head and say that Ozon uses emptiness and gaps in the action to give his movies breathing room, or maybe, in some old fashioned sense, the make them serious. When nothing is happening you can only start to think and dwell on the events, along with the characters. In Under the Sand there is nothing else to do and yet it's exactly what Rampling in her role has to do think and dwell. It's slow at times, yes, but only if you don't let yourself relax and get absorbed.And, like the character, confuse what is real from what is chimera, and what she needs with what she once had, and even one man from another. Even her fluid bi-lingual abilities add to the duality. By the time you get to the final scene you are left wondering what true love really is, and whether it's worth it. Because maybe it is. She has something most people do not, and it seems like a sickness and a gift at once. "},{"Title":"realistic, but magical - a masterpiece","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't quite understand comments about the movie being slow. To me it was quite unpredictable and it maintained suspense throughout. The acting was very good and what struck me the most was how the movie was able to strike a realistic balance in everything, that was almost eerie. Indeed that is what made the movie so convincing to me. What also fascinates me is that even though the movie was realistic it was magical . I guess the real world is a magical place -)Bottom line go see it! "},{"Title":"Scratch the Surface","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" A surprising change of pace for (up to that stage in his directorial career) shock auteur François Ozon in the wake of bourgeois facade-ripping as REGARDE LA MER and SITCOM, this minimalist masterpiece deals with love, loss and grief yet never becomes heavy-handed.Middle-aged Marie (luminous Charlotte Rampling making a belated but extremely welcome return to leading roles), an English literature professor at a Parisian university, quite literally loses her husband (hauntingly sad-eyed Bruno Cremer) while on seaside holiday. She takes a nap on the beach as he's out swimming. When she wakes up, he has disappeared. Accidentally or voluntarily drowned ? Hiding perhaps from a stifling marriage ? Ozon offers no solid answers but focuses but focuses on Marie's stubborn denial of her husband's departure as she resumes her professional and social life as if nothing had happened. While those around her assume she's slipping from sanity, the truth proves considerably less tangible and far more nuanced. A tentative affair with the friend of a friend seems doomed from the start, leading to the shattering final scene, all the more heartbreaking for being open to any number of interpretations, none of them particularly cheerful. Even though the filmmaker has reigned in his wicked humor and morality-defying shock tactics, this fortunately doesn't mean he has gone all solemn on us. The general lightness of tone might indeed startle in light of the subject matter, plus there's even an astonishingly erotic moment when Marie imagines herself being groped by both husband and lover in an elegant masturbatory fantasy. Ultimately, this is very much Rampling's show and clearly intended as such. Rarely out of frame for more than an instant here, she delivers the type of performance &#150; both subtle and sensuous &#150; that has been her stock in trade since she started enchanting movie audiences worldwide back in the '60s, her mysterious beauty undiminished (if anything, augmented more like) by the passing years. Contrary to her personal code of conduct (she will rarely work more than once with the same director, always looking for new experiences to further her craft and personal growth), she went on to star in Ozon's deceptively upbeat SWIMMING POOL and took a supporting role in his first failure to date, the atrocious ANGEL. "},{"Title":"Mental illness as a lifestyle option","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Mental illness as a lifestyle option seems to be the theme of this work. Very potent in examining the reality and meaning of loss and acceptance (or lack thereof). The always captivating Charlotte, (great to see Dirk Bogarde's little girl all growed up) looking elegant as a woman of a certain age in a very Anglo-Parisian sheath dress-wearing kind of way, is wonderful in her ability to convey contained confusion struggling to make sense of a pain too great to bear. Also noteworthy, stylistically, is a rare instance of unease being effectively evoked in spite of sunlit sets and daytime outdoor shots. No doom and gloom here, she gets to suffer in the light of day. A film that will remain with the moviegoer long after viewing because of its painful emotions and its visually powerful final shot. "}{"Title":"A Lesson in Not Getting Real","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Probably the best thing about director Francois Ozon's Sous le Sable (Under the Sand) is the re-emergence of sultry British actress Charlotte Rampling in the film's lead role. Having started out in the mid-60s, Rampling was beginning to appear in some rather offbeat, kinky films by the early 70s, such as the incestuous Tis Pity She's a Whore and the sado-masochistic Night Porter. And though she's worked steadily since that time in various film and television roles, to my knowledge, Rampling hasn't had a lead role in a film for quite a few years. And it's good to see her in such fine form. She has always been a competent, attractive actress with an air of intrigue about her. So, here she is as Marie Drillon, a deluded widow who takes living in denial to new heights. Overwhelming evidence suggests that Marie's husband has drowned while swimming, yet she continues to speak of him as if he were alive and has conversations with him when he frequently appears in her apartment. It's a moderately interesting premise, though the pace of the film is a bit slow. As the story progresses, figuring out whether Mr. Drillon committed suicide or died accidentally becomes the focus of the plot. And for a while, it keeps you guessing by revealing small pieces of the puzzle.  But the real matter at hand is Marie herself and the outcome of her delusional condition. She seems to make progress at times, especially when she starts dating a gentleman whom her best friend has recommended; yet she continues to struggle emotionally and psychologically.Ultimately, one is most likely left with an uneasy feeling about poor Marie, and the film would have been more positive and probably stronger if her character could have fostered or conveyed a greater sense of growth. Even so, the film is above average, and Rampling turns in an excellent performance. And if nothing else, one is reminded that not all things in life can be neatly resolved or easily accepted; we choose either to grow, overcome the blows and take responsibility for the quality of our lives or we suffer the consequences.  "},{"Title":"A knockout performance by Charlotte Rampling","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a tour de force for Charlotte Rampling - her performance alone makes this worth watching. Things begin with Marie (Rampling) and her husband Jean (Bruno Cremer) heading out of Paris to their summer home in the country. In following the mundane activities of their trip and first night away we learn quite a bit about them. The rhythms of their married life have long since been grooved. Marie's attachment to Jean is apparent, but Jean's feelings for Marie are less well established and this becomes a relevant plot element.On the day after their arrival at the summer home the couple go to the beach. While Marie suns herself, Jean goes for a swim and he does not come back. Marie goes through all of the expected reactions - waiting anxiously, calling the police, witnessing the search, and finally giving up. It is here that we move into the deeper waters of the story, as it were. The expressions on Jean's face just prior to his going on the swim sets the tone of ambiguity as to the cause of his vanishing. Was his disappearance an accident, suicide, or willful?Marie deals with this bewildering situation by entering into a state of denial and this is where Rampling and Ozon boost this movie beyond the ordinary as they subtly trace the gradual chipping away of Marie's illusions. The reaction shots of Marie's seeing an older man swimming in a pool, or receiving a recorded message that a body has been found, are powerful in their understatement. The use of lighting to accentuate Marie's moods is quite effective, like the use of harsh white light when she is in obvious agony.Rampling is at the top of her form and she completely puts to rest any idea that a woman in her 50s cannot be sexy.The subtext of how Marie's friends try to deal with her reactions is engaging, making you wonder about the best way to deal with a friend in a state of denial. You want to be supportive, but also want to encourage them to face what you think are the realities of the situation.Relationships are always more complicated than the participants understand and, as is the case here, a traumatic event can unleash emotions and thoughts previously unexplored. I took the ambiguous ending to personify the hopes, fears, and unknowables in Marie's relationship with Jean, and maybe in all significant relationships. "},{"Title":"The universal made deeply personal.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a mature, thoughtful study of the games we play with ourselves to make it through the day; a walk through loss and denial. The acting is simple and superb throughout.Rampling gets deserved praise for this role, but Bruno Cremer as her husband has perhaps the most difficult role to tread, it's a fine line done marvelously.Ozon is one of my favorite Directors. His work is always thought provoking, risky, and willing to explore the dark corners to bring fullness to the life of his characters. Some of Ozon's work is bright and campy. His other mode is quiet and serious. This is one of his most serious, and one of the best. "},{"Title":"Phantom Limb Pains","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The death of a beloved person implies also a big loss, a loss which dependents refuse to believe.Director Ozon flurries and unsettles the viewer again. It begins with the cut right after the vanishing of Marie's (Charlotte Rampling) husband Jean. It's summer. The married couple apparently enjoys their vacation at the sea. Suddenly, Jean disappears and the search of the police remains without a result. Cut! Marie sits with friends at a table, ostensibly in a flashback, outside it's winterly, Marie tells from Jean, who is waiting at home. She goes shopping and buys some clothing items for Jean. However, by and by, the viewer realizes, that this is not a flashback It is the time after Jean's vanishing and Marie lives on as if nothing has happened.The film concentrates only on Marie and her denial of reality, her non-acceptance of the loss, which goes so far, that she i. e. sees Jean in the door while she sleeps with another man, Vincent. Jean remains ubiquitous in Marie's life, he is always there and only disappears in a few scenes when reality comes in her life for a second. He is also present in the character of Vincent, whom she replaces with her missing husband, talks to him and treats him as if it was Jean.That's why the film takes place in Charlotte Rampling's face, who shows a fantastic performance She appears in every scene, her mimics symbolize the whole suffering of Marie. In clear, calm shots Ozon glances at the emotional recovery of his protagonist. Behind her chilly facade, Rampling only forebodes the psychological precipice of her figure and screens the film from flying out into melodrama. Rampling is the undoubted highlight, the highlight of a film which leaves behind an unsettled viewer. "},{"Title":"Fine drama, excellent Charlotte Rampling","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sous le sable tells the story of Marie Drillon, excellently performed by Charlotte Rampling, whose husband disappears when they are on holiday after he went for a swim in the sea. What follows is the struggle of Marie who can't accept the fact that her husband is dead and that he will never return. In several scenes is shown that Marie still talks to her husband in the present tense, like he's only gone for a couple of days but will return very quickly. In one of the last scenes we know for sure her husband is dead because they found his body. In that scene, we see again that she just can't accept it because the body that is found has all the characteristics of her missing husband, but she still denies that it is her husband.Charlotte Rampling gives a remarkable performance. The movie is partly based on something Francois Ozon experienced in real life. Years ago, when he was at the beach, he saw a woman who's husband was went for a swim in the sea and didn't seem to return. He always wondered what happened to the woman and her missing husband. Excellent movie, Francois Ozon is a brilliant director. I've seen 8 Femmes as well and this is also a very good movie, although it's something completely different.8/10 "},{"Title":"A moody blue film","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Francois Ozon's film 'Under The Sand' has a dark, sombre scenario. French couple Marie and Jean have been married for a quarter of century. They take their annual vacation un the south of France. The drama unfolds as they're enjoying a beautiful summer's day at a local beach. While Marie lies down to have a sunbake, Jean, after a reflective glance at the surf, rises, and heads into the surf for a swim. After dozing off, Marie wakes up to find that her husband is not lying beside her. She searches the beach and he is nowhere to be found. He has vanished, her nightmarish ordeal has begun. The best decription I can find for this film is that it charts the intense, oscillating experiences of one woman as she has to face the loss of her husband in a horrible way. Charlotte Rampling's performance as Maris is strong. The whole gamut of experiences are revealed. Even as Marie tries to accept a new lover but struggles, because her husband is still very much with her. This film was dark, even grim, but recommended. "},{"Title":"Grief on an Empty Beach","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Losing a loved partner one has lived with for years can be a devastating thing to cope with, but not really knowing if he is dead or alive -- or worse, going into denial that he has died -- can lead a person right into the edge of the abyss. Such a thing should never happen to anyone, but it does to Charlotte Rampling's Marie Drillon, a university professor who is happily married to Jean Drillon (Bruno Cremer in a near-silent performance). The opening ten minutes describes everything one needs to know about them their dynamics, their love for each other unquestioned, quiet, but as potent as a garden filled with the scent of roses and lavender.On a trip to the beach, Marie drifts into sleep as Jean decides to take a swim. When she awakes, she misses him and thinks he's within the area. Unfortunately, he is not... and the more she looks for him the less likely it is that he is alive. A search brings forth little comfort, and she if left from there on in limbo, wondering where Jean may be, if he is alive, or dead.Her behavior from then on becomes increasingly erratic, which is an indicative of what happens to a person who's become so attached to another and the horror that slowly arises to the surface when those ties are suddenly, irrationally severed. She catches a glimpse of a young college student and is suddenly unable to continue giving a lecture; she seems a little off at a dinner party; she has gone on a spending spree (buying a new shirt and tie for Jean) despite the fact that her account is overdrawn and due to Jean's disappearance she has no access to his funds (which leaves her in a predicament as to how will she survive). Above all, she is acting as though Jean is still alive and well.A particularly disturbing moment arrives when Marie decides to embark on an affair with another man who comes into her life Vincent (Jacques Nolot) which establishes that maybe reality for her has finally cracked. Vincent and Marie begin making love, seen mainly through the motion of their hands... and then Jean's hands come into the left of the screen, identified through the blue shirt she bought him. It continues in perfect silence, with only her moans barely overheard. A later sequence has this odd threesome repeated as Jean observes her and Vincent making love from a distance.In many ways, UNDER THE SAND has the elements of a thriller. A disappearance, the search, and the inevitable revelation as to what exactly happened. However, when a person is so deep in denial, those things matter little, if at all. Marie receives the crucial call from the morgue and decides to ignore the message left. She seems unable, unwilling, to face what has happened, and one of the more heartbreaking scenes of her anguish take place in a small montage where she is seen alone, sitting on a subway station, then riding the train, looking forlorn and empty.Charlotte Rampling makes this her movie all the way. She's on screen at all times, and her performance is reminiscent of the one Juliette Binoche gave in BLUE. As a matter of fact, Binoche herself might have been the better choice, but Rampling is outstanding in her willingness to portray a woman in intense pain, suffering and coming apart from the inside out, desperate for answers but equally closed to them. Her disconsolate weeping at the end is an emotional tour-de-force wrenching itself out from its restraints, and that final scene on the beach as she runs towards the enigmatic, ghostly image of a man she believes to be her husband (whom she seemingly cannot reach) packs a devastating blow to the senses. A powerful masterpiece from the hands of Francois Ozon. "},{"Title":"Ozon is brilliant","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" After seeing Swimming Pool (my first Ozonic experience - his first American-language movie), all of his previous films and now this one, I've come to the conclusion that Francois Ozon is a truly brilliant filmmaker, someone who is capable of foraging deep, DEEP under the surface of things - as only a Scorpio can - to convey what is nearly non-conveyable in films psychological state and motivation. Charlotte Rampling is superb in Swimming Pool, and in Sous Le Sable (Under the Sand), she creates one of the most stunningly subtle and heartbreaking portraits of grief that I've ever experienced; this film is profoundly sad, a brilliantly accomplished, astoundingly mature piece of work. "},{"Title":"Three Colours Beige","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" François Ozon's Under the Sand is a great departure from his previous films, trading the bold and over the top farce of Sitcom and the brash melodrama of Criminal Lovers for something much more restrained. As a result, this is a mature film about mature characters, shot in a low-key style that is beautiful, though unobtrusive; with Ozon's camera finding a sense of poetry and evocation in even the most mundane of objects to help further express the sense of grief and remembrance so central to the spirit of our main protagonist. To help convey this, the filmmaker instills his work with a lethargic mood, drawing on the silences of scenes and the physical and emotional distances between his characters to create something that is much more internal and subjective than the ensemble films that he is best known for (Sitcom, Water Drops On Burning Rocks, 8 Women, etc).It's almost a cliché to reference Bergman when talking of films that focus almost solely on the existential matters at the heart of their characters, but I suppose it could be relevant here; the film also reminded me, in tone, of Woody Allen's Bergman-esquire drama Interiors, or perhaps even Another Woman, with the film often confining itself to cramped and quiet locations in which characters meet for sex and lengthy semi-philosophical discussion. It's certainly not a film for the Friday night matinée crowd, but I'd imagine that goes without saying; with the story focusing on middle-aged characters and themes like grief, regret, loss and mental illness. However, the film manages to transcend the chamber-piece trappings of the Bergman style of drama by also giving us an element of mystery. It would be wrong to reveal too much about this central concept in something as ultimately superficial as a product review, although it's safe to say that the film hinges around a question of bereavement and the way in which this bereavement, or loss, is viewed by our central character in relation to those around her.In this respect the film is similar to George Sluizer's original version of The Vanishing, in the respect that both of these films pivot around a mysterious disappearance, which leaves the absentee's lover desperately searching for some kind of closure. Unlike The Vanishing however, Under the Sand relegates the more obvious thriller elements to the background in order to more closely analyse the effect of the disappearance and possible death on his lover and her different methods of coming to terms with it. Ozon, as evident from films like Water Drops On Burning Rocks and Swimming Pool, has a strong grasp on his actors, and here draws some beautifully rendered performances from his highly esteemed cast. As some of the other comments have already noted, the central performance from Charlotte Rampling is an absolute revelation, as she creates a character that remains elusive throughout, but at the same time, is completely sympathetic. A much understated drama. "},{"Title":"Surviving loss","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am amazed at Ozon's insight into loss. When death is so sudden there can be the illusion of life continuing, particularly when a couple have grown together for so many years. We are led to see everything from Marie's point of view to the point that even her best friend, Amanda, seems unsympathetic. When Marie does attempt to move away from Jean's memory, the new lover, after only one night, is already volunteering to help her with her problem. The brief scene with mother-in-law is superb. The allusions to Virgina Woolf are also key to understanding. For me, it is the sympathy given by Ozon to the character of Marie, the one who has to cope with loss, which gives this film such power. Without a hint of indulgence, we see a strong character attempting to survive an experience which has shattered her life. "}{"Title":"Most thought-provoking film I've seen for years.","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you (as I do) rate films & plays by how much after-show interesting conversation they provoke, then this film is at the top.  Go with at least one other person and leave time afterwards to discuss  How far over the sanity line is she, or is she?  Is he or isn't he?  Did he or didn't he? How much of what her mother-in-law talls her is true?  What does she believe and when does she believe it?  What are her choices about what to believe, and what are the implications of each choice.  Is she capable of making a choice? "},{"Title":"it hurts...","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ozon seems to have made here, what he couldn't quite succeed with See The Sea. Charlotte Rampling's performance is so amazing it hurts. But the real credit should be given to Ozon himself. It's surprising for a director of his age to make a film so economic, so mature and hiding the director from the viewer when it's all depending on the director. It's a master's work. It's François Ozon's masterpiece. a touching drama about a woman's denial of her loss, an everyday habit maybe like mentioned in the waves. the last shot of Charlotte Rampling running on the sands towards the illusion of her husband is amazing. and how ozon cuts it before she ever reaches. "},{"Title":"She does her best to deny the death of her husband...","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Charlotte Rampling does an award-winning acting job depicting a woman's reaction to her husband of 25 years disappearing into the ocean in the south of France.  They seemed to be a serenely and smoothly functioning couple taking their annual vacation together.  They had a lovely seaside villa and seemed to know the routine of travelling, opening the house and preparing to relax.  They seem like a loving couple, but she is in her 40's, fit and trim while he was aging and overweight.  He got wood for a fire and she made pasta and they went to bed together with affection, but no passion.The next day was lovely and he lovingly applied sunblock to her back.  He went swimming by himself as she preferred to relax for awhile and read a book.  She never saw him again as he never returned.  She was frantic and initiated a search, but no body was found.  The following year she was trying to get on with her life, still denying her husband's death.  Her friends grew increasingly concerned and tried to fix her up with a pleasant single man, and eventually she agreed to have a date with him and make love.  The image of her husband remained with her in a soft, friendly way.Events accelerate, the finding of the body, a shocking talk with her aged mother-in-law.  Ultimately she seems to come to grips with reality as she breaks down and cries on the beach, but the sudden ending must be watched closely for a clue to how she eventually copes.After the love-making scene, there is a shocking realization by the new boyfriend, that their physical intimacy meant nothing to her after the fact.  This is what many lovers feel when they realize the physical intimacy was only skin deep and temporal.  One wonders by what magic enduring love and commitment happens. "},{"Title":"A pure reflective portrayal on how we cope with loss","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" This charming sober film from French filmmaker Ozon poses the questions of loss and denial, sexuality, and the many ways that we deal with grief. When we grow to know someone all our lives, how do we function when our conditions have changed? And in what ways do we compensate to fill the voids and human touch that we linger for?The story is simple enough, but the meditations are complex and intricate. Marie and her husband are on holiday in the picturesque south-west of France when at a deserted beach, the husband goes for a swim but never returns. The extensive majority of the film is concerned with Marie's perception of her world after her husband mysterious disappearance and her reflections on sexuality and ageing.This is a fine film. In tradition with the French school of film-making, there are many quiet, meditative scenes; moments where Rampling's character glides through ornately furnished rooms and houses of her affluent companions who offer support and counsel. The sparse dialogue creates an introspective and reflective film - totally refreshing and mature in the demands on the audience.The city streets of the Landes region and the associated beaches are serenely photographed. It is truly beautiful to watch. Add Ozon's exceptional direction that heighten the loneliness and regret enforced by Rampling and the film is a treat for the senses.Rampling's performance deserves a special mention. She carries the entire film for the duration. She is a sensual, sexy, sophisticated and fully-developed female. Her acting is minimal but it works to great effect. She is able to communicate her feelings of denial, regret, giddiness and womanhood with sometimes no dialogue, realistically playing Marie with the constraints of society's norms but tempted to break free and unleash her feelings and guilt buried under the sand. This is one of the great film performances.This was so refreshing and beautiful to watch, a treat to be engulfed in picturesque Landes for a while. It was a truthful and honest portrayal of how we cope with loss; when we are so used to living our lives, taking our loves for granted. Ozon and Rampling were both stunning, sensual and reeled me into their world. By the film's end I was reluctant to leave her world of memories and regret, and I drifted of listening to the credits as long as I could. I wanted to continue listening to the crash of the waves, the peaceful tides pulling me under the sand. "},{"Title":"A terrific film","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw this film on cable last night, and thought it was wonderful - extremely moving, almost terrifying at times.  Charlotte Rampling gave what was truly one of the two or three best, if not the best, performances by an actress in 2000 (take that, Julia Roberts).  Extremely affecting, and highly recommended.  However, I am confused by the cast list - I could have sworn that the actress playing Marie's best friend was Gena Rowlands, but she's not listed anywhere, so I'm not sure it was her after all.  A great movie, rent it if you haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"Tender psychodrama","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Often, when French movies try to be intimate with their characters, they just end up boring the audience (often by talking the audience to death). Not so this one This simple story about a woman having to come to terms with her husband's suicide (was it a suicide?!) is a subtle and tender psychodrama that doesn't need much words. Silent, calm cameratakes on Charlotte Rampling alone by herself allow a wider interpretation of her feelings than distinctive, exaggerated situations or actions would have done - and allow us to care and identify easier. Great, for example, a moment when she seems to come over her trouble and visits a beautiful appartment that she wants to move into A simple pan over the cemetery outside, coming as abrupt to the audience as to her, tells us all that's necessary.Overall, under the sand subtly reminds us on how love towards a partner might, over time, turn into comfortable love towards rituals, while passing by the true changes that might happen within the our partner. Probably the reason that makes the movie so human and touching. "},{"Title":"Sad but true portrait of an puzzled woman","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" French cinema usually gives me deep  and fine emotions; this movie deals with a woman who suddenly loses her husband, Jean he disappears, on a beach, with no explanation. Puzzled, she dreams with him, and rejects any proposal. I think the central point of the film is the fact that she thinks he lives yet, so doesn´t want lo love anyone else. She is always waiting for him..., but he doesn´t get back. You realize that she truly(¿?) loves him after 25 years of marriage, but Jean´s mother  tells her that he was in depressed and that maybe he wanted to make another kind of living or commit suicide... And what we got at the end? the sad but truly portrait of a woman, left by her husband, who is not capable of face the reality he didn´t love her nevertheless 25 years of marriage and she didn`t realize...Worths see it...,     "},{"Title":"Terrific Acting in a weird, thoughtful story","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Slow, deliberate, and a perfect example of great editing, every movement seems to have meaning.  I never realized Rampling was such a powerful dramatic actor.  The ending is just that-- and ending.  There's no dramatic closure, the viewer is unsure of the ending, but that is as it should be. Saw this the same weekend as Moulin Rouge, which underscored what a pleasure it is to see a thoughtful character study on screen. "},{"Title":"Interesting psychological drama","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is definitely Charlotte Rampling's film.  On the screen nearly all the time she admirably plays the part of Marie, a middle-aged woman whose husband Jean disappears suddenly during a sunny day at a lonely beach.Her mounting despair and refusal to accept the facts which seem to point to his certain death by drowning grip our attention at once.  The uncertainty of the incident and her disbelief nurture in us the hope, however meagre, that somehow or other he is still alive.The acting throughout is both sensitive and convincing.  Charlotte Rampling is a great actress moving with such grace she can even make the preparation of a cup of coffee interesting to watch.   The magic of this film is found in the simple every day incidents that make up our lives...like going to the beach or wondering who is at the other end when the telephone rings.  Add to this a mystic quality and you have a winner.Not every one perhaps will agree with the ending, but I think this one is intriguing.   A big question mark confronts us. Our hopes rise..... There comes to mind the old saying....The wish is father of the thought. "},{"Title":"Denial","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have never given a 10 out of 10 however Sous le Sable has truly amazed me, to the point in which I rent this movie a few times a year for the sake of dissecting it, trying to find a flaw but, at the end, failing to do so.Charlotte Rampling incarnates the feelings of desperation and denial in a movie that leaves a void in each one of us, as we see a woman whose mistakes trigger a mechanism of psychological and emotional self-destruction that will alienate her from everyone. There are a few parallels between her husband disappearance and some of the scenes, as if life were trying to teach Rampling a lesson throughout the movie (The description of Virginia Wolf's suicide note and the fact that Jean was depressed).Powerful in its emotional jabs and luxurious in its plot. "}{"Title":"Touching","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Under the Sand was a haunting, touching movie.  Charlotte Rampling was excellent as the denying, grieving wife.  I think the film did a good job in examining the effects from the death of a spouse.  It is not a young person's movie nor is it a particularly happy movie.  It does have an effect on you.  I wondered if I would be as strong or as weak as Marie Drillon if placed in a similar situation.  The movie invited this introspection and that for me is the hallmark of a good film. "},{"Title":"A good atypical summer film","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"     Throughout Under the Sand, I was thinking about how Kieslowski's Blue portrayed a similar tale of loss and grief with many more dimensions and luscious imagery and music.  However, Ozon's film has a plot twist that Kieslowski didn't have.  The viewer never knows whose perspective he should believe in Marie's story.  At the close, (SPOILER,) is this her husband, and she totally mad?  Or is there something much stranger going on?  Even though Marie cries on the beach at the end, even she feels the death is much too odd to have happened as it did.   It's not a gorgeous film to look at like Kieslowski's were.  It will not leave you breathless, but Charlotte Rampling's unraveling in the film is well worth patiently viewing.  After the near unbearable Sexy Beast, I wanted a so-called art film that wouldn't be dependent on style.  This film is much more character driven and easily paced than a lot of others out there.  If you've ever wondered how you might react if someone you loved suddenly disappeared, watch the film and think about it afterwards.  Well worth the trip. "},{"Title":"An elegant enigmatic film","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As a fond of Ozon I was really happy, when Russia became the first country where Sous le sable was presented. It's an enigmatic film about an elderly woman, who tried to find her husband. On the  beach he went to swim and disappeared. This mystery ruined her life, she tried to substitute husband by lover but failed. Sous le sable is a dainty French film about a lone elderly woman under the sand of time. I recommend the film to all fans of good European cinema. "},{"Title":"Examining the Development of the Theme of Mourning...","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Psychologist Elizabeth Kubler-Ross highlights five stages of the typical mourning process denial and isolation, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance. It is clear to see that Marie does not follow this process. And although she clearly expresses denial, her denial is not shrouded in isolation. This is first shown in the dinner party scene as she discusses Jean flippantly and in the present tense, Ozon using a study of Marie's friends' reactions to show that something is not right. This runs contrary to the writings of both Freud and Kubler-Ross, who observe the social withdrawal of those in self-denial, as if the only way to maintain the mourner's alternative reality is to cut him or her from all outside factors which have the potential of ruining the fantasy. This scene is difficult to watch due to Marie's matter-of-fact delivery with no hint of melancholy, and the friends' inability to confront Marie or force the issue of Jean's death.Marie's grief seems to be marked as atypical by her willingness to face these outside factors, which comes across as almost stubborn rather than genuinely self-deluding. Under normal circumstances, such a high level of social interaction would appear to lead to a greater sense of reality for the bereaved. However, Marie is armed with several defence mechanisms which she uses when directly confronted with her true situation. In the first instance, when confronted by Amanda after the dinner party and after a lecture, Marie uses changes in language to switch the tone of the conversation. It seems that she can feel more comfortable and isolated when speaking in English, and perhaps she was able to use the same technique before Jean's disappearance to exert her own individuality within her marriage. This use of language draws certain comparisons to isolationist behaviour seen in psychological studies of grief and bereavement, for example Colin Murray Parkes' elusion to the widow who spoke in a whisper for fear of making reality too real.Later in the film, as Marie's defences begin to get breached, she resorts to both anger and insults in order to keep her personal reality from being destroyed.. she transcends her calm veneer for the first time when confronted about Jean by Vincent, and when confronted by her mother-in-law she resorts to petty insults. This series of reactions seems to come to a head when she returns to Lit-et-Mix to face the final reality of her husband's death. Having seemingly run out of ways to deny her situation, Marie breaks into laughter. This can be read either as a confirmation of Marie's descent into madness or as a prelude to her final moment of acceptance as played out on the beach in the final scene.Despite these deviations from established psychological writings, Marie's behaviour does in part correspond to some of Freud's theories as set out in Mourning and Melancholia, in particular when he describes mourning as the process of reality-testing6. Marie's actions can be seen as a way for her to examine her new emotions and social surroundings since the loss of Jean. In fact, the film could be seen as a study in the way in which Marie explores several alternative realities the awkwardness of her fledgling relationship with Vincent displays her hesitation in leaving her personal reality of a monogamous life with Jean, as if she is performing experiments on herself, constantly testing the limits of the world she has conjured around herself. This is expressed visually by Ozon in studying Marie's physicality, the way in which she interacts physically with her surroundings. The most explicit reality-testing scene occurs when Marie is lying on her bed and is caressed by six hands, those of Jean, Vincent and herself It can be seen almost as the transition sequence between two of her realities. Ozon also frequently uses reflections of Marie's face in order to convey the idea of her physicality, literally highlighting the reflective nature of her self-discovery in order to truly recover from the loss of her husband she must re-identify herself, perhaps also coming to terms with her own mortality, the subject of which is most explicitly conveyed in her conversation with Vincent about Virginia Woolf. It is also hinted at during her conversation with her mother-in-law the two of them trading insults over who will be the first to end up in a psychiatric home, while Ozon makes studies of the mother-in-law's aging features. The scene in which Marie passes out when seeing a cemetery could be seen as a reaction to Jean's death, but could equally be interpreted as her reaction to her own mortality.However, despite these references to the psychology of loss and bereavement, Ozon's film cannot simply be read in this way. The film is as much about life as it is about death. In a way, the presumed death of Jean runs merely as a sub-plot in the story of Marie's self-discovery. The essence of the film is clearly based around Charlotte Rampling's central performance, which remains ambiguous but powerful throughout, reflecting complex ideas about attachment and loss, and leaving behind several unanswered questions over the reasons for her actions as well as what results from them. Ultimately, Ozon's film is intended to remain open-ended, as displayed in the final scene where Marie runs towards a mystery man, perhaps reflecting the ambiguous nature of life and death in a secular society in which death is no longer associated with notions of an afterlife or ritualistic coping mechanisms intrinsic in Christian interpretations of mortality. "},{"Title":"Charlotte Rampling at her best","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A beautiful simple story, told with no unecessary effects (Ozon respects the natural pace of mourning time). But what strikes most is Charlotte Rampling, who's never been so real, so beautiful, so mysterious. I won't forget her face in this film. It's not usual, that kind of meeting between of an actress and a character. "},{"Title":"Breathtakeing","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is magical. The way that it is directed through to the way that you really don't quite know what is going on at the end. The portrayal of Marié by Charlotte Rampling is inspiring that such a high level of acting could be protrude on film still. Her performance is one of the best I have ever seen and really drives home the subtle sub plots of what makes her do and think what she dose. The switch between scenes in English and French works well also though some of the subtitles are not so good. This alas is a constant problem. Bruno Cremer's performance is both realistic and spiritual which really drives home his characters role. I was amused to see that François Ozon thinks of Germans in the same light as his countryman Anton De Cones, as a race obsessed with nudity. As the only other occupants of the 'German Beach' were naked. "},{"Title":"Charlotte Rampling responds to her husband's disappearance and death","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Under the Sand (2000) is a remarkably suspenseful picture centering around the reaction of a wife (Charlotte Rampling) to her husband's (Bruno Cremer's) disappearance while they are at the beach. He apparently has drowned but there is uncertainty about how or why or even whether it happened because no body is recovered immediately. Director François Ozon achieves a mood or tone of non-acceptance by Rampling that's sustained throughout and holds us tightly in its grip. She cannot accept what has to us and to her friends apparently occurred, to the point where she imagines seeing her husband and talking with him at times.The story is on the spooky side, weaving together two mysteries. One is the details of Cremer's disappearance and the other is the state of mind of Rampling. Music is used sparingly but effectively. Rampling's life and the reactions of those around her are shown in detail. They are mundane. She puts on a brave face, rejecting the idea that he's dead. Those who know her and meet her attempt to ease her way toward acceptance but she's firm. Only slowly does she inch forward. Even as her hope fades when confronted with facts, it rises again to overcome the grief and loneliness of having lost her mate suddenly, unexpectedly and permanently.Ozon, Cremer and Rampling do not miss a beat in bringing this story to life. It's one that pulls us in completely. "},{"Title":"French to English in various scenes","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I just saw this movie this afternoon and really enjoyed it. Was anyone else taken back a little by the change from French to English and then back to French without any notice. The first time it happened, I was very surprised. Why do you think that was done? I don't see any purpose The only time, it made sense to me was when she was teaching and reading from an English novel, otherwise, it didn't make sense in other places. Any comment? Excellent movie, I will recommend it to friends and try to see a few more Charlotte Rampling movies. It is a snowy day here and so this movie went very well with our weather. Can anyone recommend any other Charlotte Rampling movies? I would definitely like to see something else that she has starred in. Does she do both French and British movies? "},{"Title":"Fragile","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEAD.Charlotte Rampling gives a marvelously understated portrayal of the fragility of a woman who has lost the central pillar in her life.Her reaction in the mortuary scene provides a fine example of her skills as an actress. "},{"Title":"fantastic love","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  having read all the comments none mention what i thought was the central message of the film - the nature of love between men and women - especially its dissonance. someone somewhere commented on the revelation to Rampling's character of the fact that her husband didn't love her - surely what was even more poignant was the question of whether she could possibly have loved him if she did not even know him - given the possibility that he was driven to suicide under her very nose and she was oblivious. for me it was more questioning of the fantasy that women suppose is love - but then i'm a man. "}{"Title":"fantastic love","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  having read all the comments none mention what i thought was the central message of the film - the nature of love between men and women - especially its dissonance. someone somewhere commented on the revelation to Rampling's character of the fact that her husband didn't love her - surely what was even more poignant was the question of whether she could possibly have loved him if she did not even know him - given the possibility that he was driven to suicide under her very nose and she was oblivious. for me it was more questioning of the fantasy that women suppose is love - but then i'm a man. "},{"Title":"To watch Charlotte Rampling is purely pleasurable.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There is a brief moment in the thriller Spy Game when everything comes to a halt and you are mesmerized by one person.  Such is the cameo by Charlotte Rampling.  In Under The Sand every scene is filled with this amazing woman. Kudos to any woman who allows an actual photograph of herself in her younger years to appear in a film.  This says so much about her confidence as an actress.  Her character lives two lives after the disappearance of her husband, and for the most part lives them successfully. (SPOILER AHEAD)  I am confused somewhat by the end, where she is given an opportunity to have all doubts alleviated, questions answered and closure to the events of the past few months, yet oddly opts out.  I don't mind this ending to a beautiful film I'm just not sure if I fully understand why she would do that.  Love is the obvious, but in this case, doesn't answer everything. "},{"Title":"A real tour de force performance by Rampling makes this a must-see.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The movie is a well done exploration of love, devotion, loss, denial, and the question of survival of traumatic grief.  It might be just a bit too sensitive for some, and others may question why the story shows a woman having enormous difficulty coming to terms with the sudden death of her loved husband, asking whether a man in the same role would have been as believable.  (Unreconstructed sexist that I am, I think not.)  But the bottom line is that this is a compelling, well-shot, well-edited movie with a performance by Charlotte Rampling that really has to be seen.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant.  Says an 18 year old","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Listen.  This film was beautiful, emotional, sad.  most of all, economical. It was un petit pous trois couleurs bleu, but that's no bad thing.  it passed the watch test - i didn't look at my watch until 1.15 minutes in. that's pretty good.however, it is worth saying to the reviewer below, from los angeles, that i am also 18 years old.  so perhaps even 18 year olds can enjoy a film like this.  or do we all have goldfish like attention spans?ironic, really, considering part of the film is about getting perspectives on ages outside the normal cinematic depiction.  a refutation of ageism, i believe.go and watch it again, mr. graves...  "},{"Title":"A Middle-life Life-Partner Experience","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a film that is slow in developing but not without losing its grip.  It is not boring unless you are 18years old.  Actually, this is a mature film for mature viewers who understand the complexities and bliss of mid-life relationships that are further complicated by the loss or disability of a steady partner whose patterns are well learned and experienced along that long path.  Long relationships lead to an acceptance and craving for shared performance, habits and body language - either good or bad.  In long-term relationships, bad times are blended with the best.  All bad times are without risk. As others have commented, Marie (Charlotte Rampling) has lost her husband Jean (Bruno Cremer) in a low-keyed holiday trip to their seaside residence in southern France.  We do not know much about them other than it appears that their relationship is either strained or okay.  We learn those elements not in high-level drama but one of progressive mental torture going on in Marie's mind - particularly after Jean disappears beachside while Marie is basking on the sand.This script is a tiptoe dance between the real and unreal; between sanity and insanity; between a temporary mental aberration induced by bereavement and the need to retain the memory of a life-partner at all cost.  Perhaps, what we see is just a short slice in time or worse, something more permanent.We will never know that answer.  We only know the experience that Director François Ozon created that has an open ending.  "},{"Title":"'Sous le Sable' Lifts Above the Sky","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  (Warning This commentary contains spoilers.)Francois Ozon's film is a calming pleasure.  Each time I see a film of this kind (and by that I mean &#145;fresh,' &#145;sensuous' and &#145;gentle,' like `Une affaire pornographique'), I cannot help but think that it is a shame that Hollywood wastes so much of its time making the dross that it does.  Point taken, as Stanley Kauffmann illustrated in a recent review, that many of the most skilled artists and craftsmen currently working in film are in Hollywood and doing a good job.  But there's a gaping abyss between those that do their jobs well and those that can actually bring pleasure to a viewer.  I don't want to be spending my time in the theater grabbing at straws, hoping I can locate this or that part of a film that is effective, all the while aware that the film as a whole feels like it came out of a hole.  For the last 100 years, the pinnacles of film have shown that this medium is best viewed as erotic, not intellectual or philosophical or religious or political.  Ozon clearly accepts this point.  He wishes to grip not the mind, but the senses; for him, nothing better than the camera lens captures the perils of the body.  `Sous le Sable' follows the pains and denials of a middle-aged woman as she tries to come to grips with the death of her husband.  The woman, embodied, or even better, &#145;brought to flesh' by the venerable Charlotte Rampling, knows he is gone, but is tricked by her senses.  She &#145;feels' him at every turn-she has became so accustomed to him, to his daily routines, the sounds of his voice, the way his thick hands moved on her body, that her psyche cannot let loose--and we come to &#145;feel' him with her.  Her memories and emotions create a projection of him that is so real and seductive that the strict fact of his death can never gain stable ground in her mind.  Moments of clarity, in which the viewer is aware that she must knows he's gone, are ever so brief, and never consist of her stating outright that he is dead.  Emblematic of this struggle with reality is her incessant shifting back and forth between &#145;past' and &#145;present' verb tenses.  In her lucid moments, her husband &#145;was' this and &#145;did' that.  But when the weight of despair and emotional attachment become overbearing, she says that he &#145;is' and &#145;does.' This shifting of tenses is a nice, subtle touch in the film and only serves to show that the devices and techniques employed by it, whether linguistic, narrative or cinematographic, are all for a purpose.  This may sound whinny, but devices and techniques used strictly to call attention to themselves or to those making the film have become tiresome, and nothing irritates me more.  For the Coen brothers, abuse of cinematic trickery has translated into success, financial and even critical.  `Sous le Sable' has no such trickery, and serves to highlight the differences between the opposing sensibilities at the heart of French and American independent or &#145;art' cinema.  	Ozon's film is sparse in its economy.  Music is used sparingly, and when it is used, it does not bombard or intrude.  Furthermore, the performances are reserved (had this been an American film, Charlotte Rampling would have been coaxed to pull her hair out and run naked in the streets to make her delusional state more &#145;convincing' and &#145;engaging').  But best of all, the film is short (at 1 hour, 40 minutes, the film might these days be classified as a &#145;short'), and this means that nothing included should have been excluded.  The intense scenes (of despair and even embarrassment) are counter-balanced with humor (Rampling's laughter hits points that are paradoxically funny and tragic), delight and sensuousness, and as a result, the intensity of the material is not violent.  It all fits in nicely.As I mentioned at the outset, the film is actually quite soothing and, I might even say, hopeful.  True, referring to a film in which the protagonist is unable to escape her own utterly fallacious delusions as &#145;hopeful' may not be directly justifiable.  Yet, Ozon seems to offer the possibility that hope can take on unique forms, and that for some, living a life at the service of a delusion may be more satisfying, even beneficial, than living according to the rules of fact.  Some delusions might just be therapeutic.  "},{"Title":"Relaxed and sombre....Ozon, is that you?","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Unlike the vast majority of the rest of talented French director Francois Ozon's films, Under the Sand features hardly a shocking moment. In fact, the most shocking thing about this movie is the level of restraint present towards the end when Ozon has a clear shot at giving his audience something to go home with, but doesn't capitalise on it. On the whole, Under the Sand is simply a sombre tale of love, fused with tragedy and the implications of loss. The film follows Marie Drillon (Charlotte Rampling), a woman who loses her husband while on holiday. As he has been lost in the sea, Marie has no body to prove that her husband is indeed dead, and so continues her life pretending that he's still around. The film then follows a psychological thriller structure, as we watch our protagonist disintegrate as a result of her loss. Under the Sand is more than just another thriller, however, as Francois Ozon directs it, and his energy and invention always ensure that the film remains interesting.It's amazing just how relaxed this film is, as just shortly before seeing it I was lucky enough to catch Ozon's Water Drops on Burning Rocks, and said film is a completely different kettle of fish to this one. There's next to no startling imagery, no impromptu dance sequences and on the whole it just seems like Ozon wanted to make a straight art film. Not that I have a problem with that. The film stars Charlotte Rampling, who would go on to collaborate with Ozon on the bewitching Swimming Pool and is an excellent actress on the whole. Ozon always ensures he gets the best out of her as well, and in this film, as in Swimming Pool, you always get the impression that the bond between actress and director is a happy one and one that both parties are satisfied with. The film's substance draws from it's themes of loss, but the most haunting element of the movie is the idea that love is ever lasting. In today's day and age it seems that it's socially acceptable to cheat on your lover, but this film ardently disagrees with that view. While I don't rate this as one of Ozon's best films, it's definitely a good one and I don't hesitate to recommend it. "},{"Title":"Grief is never easy.","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this after `Swimming Pool', a much lighter and sunnier piece by Ozon, with Charlotte Rampling also in the leading role. Whereas `Swimming Pool' is a light thriller with the theme of how books get written, `Souse le Sable' is an emotionally riveting dead serious examination of grief and its effects. This is not an easy film to watch (grief is never easy) but Charlotte keeps us there with a performance of rare power.Her English born but French resident character Marie has been married for 30 years to Jean, apparently happily, though there are no children. She lectures modern English literature at a university in Paris (particularly Virginia Woolf). Like everybody else in France she and Jean go on &#145;oliday in August, in their case to a cottage they own near the sea in Landes, south western France. On their first morning at the beach Jean, in his sixties and not terribly fit, goes in for a swim and doesn't come back.No body is found and Charlotte goes back to Paris to pick up her life. She goes back to work, goes to a dinner party or two, and even sleeps with Vincent, one of the men her friends have put her way. The trouble is that Charlotte's grief is so strong she finds herself believing Jean is still alive, still massaging her back in bed and even watching from a doorway as she makes love to Vincent. Her friends notice this but attempt to ignore it, beyond suggesting a psychiatrist. But of course psychological gorillas of this size are not easily put off. She is also disturbed by some indications that Jean, confronted by fatal illness, may have committed suicide.Some time later a body is found and Marie travels south to make the identification. She realises that painful as this might be, she must do it for her own sake. But the gorilla comes along for the ride.This is a starkly serious, but very honest film. Sometimes you think the characters are too honest for their own good, such as when Marie tells the hapless Vincent he falls down in the weight department and that he means nothing to her. Jean's ancient mother is also pretty cutting, suggesting at one point that Jean just got bored with Marie and decided to disappear. Well, sometimes people are brutally frank, but it doesn't usually help.Charlotte as Marie is pretty near perfect. She has the facility of conveying her character's emotions with no more that a look or a glance &#150; no histrionics  required. She can still do sex without arousing pity. And she gets us to care about her character, dully middle-aged as she may be. Ozon has obtained a marvelous performance from her. `Swimming Pool' by comparison is Ozon/Rampling Lite and was a lot easier to watch, but `Souse le Sable' is a profoundly moving film.The unfortunate thing about grief, as is shown, that the happier you were with the loved one, the more difficult it is to handle their loss. Marie couldn't imagine life without Jean and then can't accept his passing. Time helps, but does not always heal. Sometimes you think it might be better to be the one that goes first.  "},{"Title":"Rampling is Expressive in Very Sad Story","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Under The Sand (Sous le sable) is a cross between Bergman/Ullman's Faithless (Trolösa), for its humorless look at a middle-aged, comfortable marriage, and Truly, Madly, Deeply for how not to deal with an unplanned break-up.Charlotte Rampling's face and body language are wonderfully expressive, as she alternates between facing reality and basking in fantasy, and in French and English.While it's always interesting to be a movie tourist inside middle-class Parisian apartments, we don't really get much insight into individuals or relationships.It's just sad.(originally written 5/20/2001) "},{"Title":"Terrific performance","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've always been a big fan of Charlotte Rampling and I remember her striking looks in the films Five Easy Pieces and The Verdict and its both strange and interesting to see her age. This film is fairly well made without being anything special plot-wise. At times I thought I was watching a cross between Repulsion and Images. The story is not fresh but watching Rampling as a late fifties woman get naked and have sex scenes is compelling. At first she came across as another old(er) lady but later she became a real sex object. And I really think thats a big compliment to a woman her age. She became right in front of my eyes a real sexy woman and I think it's a real tribute to Rampling's true beauty. Not to mention that it's a brave and daring thing to do. Her performance is the core of this film. "}{"Title":"Charlotte Rampling returns","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It was wonderful to see Charlotte Rampling hosting at the closing ceremony of Cannes 2001. She looked happy and confident, absolutely capable of exchanging in French and English bilingually, and certainly no worry in looking her age at all. I remember her in Georgy Girl 1966 playing opposite Lynn Redgrave and Alan Bates. She was opposite Sean Connery in John Boorman's sci-fi Zardoz 1974. Sous le sable 2000 (Under the Sand) written and directed by François Ozon (also wrote and directed Amants criminels, Les 1999 (Criminal Lovers*) released in U.S. 2000), is like a comeback vehicle for Rampling. The film is essentially focused on her character - a woman in her fifties losing her husband in a  25-year marriage - not being sure if he's lost or dead, or is it a matter of her not being able to accept the situation presented to her? She may be an intellectual - a professor, yet handling loss of someone close to her, she cannot handle such philosophies of life and death, or can she? Be prepared that there might not be much of a storyline should you expect dramatics. The drama is within the realms of Rampling's quiet, subtle delivery of Mrs. Marie Drillon. If you prefer more animated or dramatic storyline about loss of a spouse, try Truly, Madly, Deeply 1991, directorial debut and written by (English Patient, The 1996) Anthony Minghella, with brilliant performances by the two leads, Alan Rickman as the (past) husband, and Juliet Stevenson as the wife (who cannot let go of her beloved husband.) From a reversed angle, there's also To Gillian on her 37th Birthday 1996, where Peter Gallagher is the husband (who cannot let go of his beloved wife) and Michelle Pfeiffer is the (past) wife.* François Ozon's Criminal Lovers is in French. NFE Not For Everyone. It's not your usual teenage love & adventure story about a young girl and her boyfriend, how they escaped from a murder scene into the woods and were held hostage by a woodsman&#133; It can be viewed as a modern day dark fable perhaps. Director Ozon's psychological approaches are at work and the story is not without moral backbone.I look forward to the release of Charlotte Rampling's two films with Stellan Skarsgård Signs & Wonders, and Aberdeen.  "},{"Title":"Poignant","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sous La Sable was released a couple of years before the same director's Swimming Pool, but both films are companion pieces, united by Charlotte Rampling's unforgettable presence. Rampling's Marie in Sous La Sable is an English college lecturer who loses grip on reality following the disappearance of her husband in the sea during their holidays.Like Swimming Pool, a great deal of the film takes place in the mind of its protagonist, but unlike Swimming Pool it's easier in Sous la Sable to distinguish the difference between reality and fantasy.Rampling's presence dominates the film so much that it threatens to submerge Ozon's vision. She rises above the material that it seems a lesser actress would not have raised Ozon's script and direction as much as she. As an actress here, Ramplings is like a director, conducting her pent-up emotions and internal angst, sometimes oblivious to what Ozoon might have intended. This is a sign of a great actress. However, this is not diminish Ozon's achievements. Ozon's direction is flawless and his first attempt at making a staid art house film is still one of his better films. "},{"Title":"Sober and powerful","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" François Ozon is quite well known in the world of cinema since his movies Swimming Pool and to a lesser extend 8 femmes. But he has made a lot more movies than these two and Sous le Sable or Under the Sand in English was the last one before these two.It tells the story of a middle aged female college professor and her husband who go on a vacation to their summer house in the southwest of France. When they are on the beach, her husband goes for a swim in the sea, but she decides to stay a bit longer on the beach. She falls asleep and when she wakes up later that day, there is still no sign of her husband. She goes back to their house, but he isn't there either and after the police has searched the beaches and the sea, but couldn't find a trace of him, she returns home alone. Has he left her, was it suicide or did he drown? Because she has no answers and no body to mourn over, she starts acting like if nothing has happened, making it impossible for herself to make the best of the rest of her life that she has left...If you are familiar with the average French movie, than you know that most of the time they talk, talk and talk. Just like they don't seem to be able to have a moment of silence in a Hollywood movie, the French always seem to feel the need to make endless dialogs. However, this movie breaks with that tradition and for me personally that's where its main power can be found. The characters don't tell what is going on in their mind, but their facial expressions say so much more than a thousand words. And there are a lot of feelings to express, but it all feels very genuine and real. This isn't a mellow drama (type TV-movie), but a powerful and touching movie.It's also not the kind of movie that you watch with only one eye open. You've got to stay focused if you want to understand and appreciate the movie. Because of the lack of dialog, the images tell the tale and are therefor very important for this film. But not only the images are important. The story and the acting are at least as important and both are certainly much better than average. The powerful and yet sober story and acting give this movie its quality. Especially Charlotte Rampling's performance was impressive, but Jacques Nolot and Bruno Cremer did a very good job as well. Add to all of this an interesting ending and you know you've got a special movie. That's why I give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Not Up To Par","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I bought this film on DVD after hearing that it was Charlotte Rampling's best role/work since The Night Porter and having always been a big fan of hers, I promptly went out and bought the DVD.   Needless to say, I was quite disappointed.  While Rampling is great in it (when is she not?), the movie itself just didn't stand up.  I kept finding myself saying, What's the point?  Not a good thing to find yourself doing in the midst of viewing a film.  I blame this not on the actors but rather on the director.  Where was his sense of direction when he made this film.  Was he just so happy to have Rampling that he came up with the story as he went along or what?  This is not a movie that I would recommend unless you're just killing time watching cable - even then, better to just pick up a book.  That being said, I hope to see Rampling again in something else soon.  She is unique, one of a kind and always a pleasure to watch.  "},{"Title":"How grief and loss turns you into a Surrealist.","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  'Sous le Sable' may seem a million miles from Ozon's last film, his wonderful adaptation of Fassbinder's play 'Water Drops on burning rocks'.  Where Fassbinder's world is constricted and claustrophobic, Ozon here charts a wide terrain cities, beaches, the French countryside, graveyards, apartments, restaurants.  But Ozon has learnt some lessons from his master, most obviously in his way of filming highly emotional subject matter unemotionally  The story of a woman who has lost her husband has lachrymose pitfalls enough, never mind a husband whose disappearance, Reggie Perrin-like, is unexplained.  Ozon avoids the potential melodrama of grief, but it would be wrong to suggest his film is a clinical study.  In the same way Fassbinder displaced character emotion smothered by social convention or posing onto his decor and his narrative form, so Ozon allows the uncertainties provoked by grief to shape his uncertain narrative.  For instance, a more objective film would have drawn a clearer line between Marie's (willed?) illusions and the reality of her loss.  And there does seem to be that clear line - we can tell that her conversations with Jean are the product of her imagination, especially when her friends roll their eyeballs and suggest she visit a psychiatrist (this has led some misguided critics to label the film 'misogynist' - after all, everyone deals with inexplicable loss with exemplary sanity).  But this would suggest that there is another world outside Marie's fantasies that is somehow real. It doesn't quite work like that - the sense of time, for instance, seems to collapse into a temporal limbo after the disappearance, we have no idea how much time has elapsed between the events shown, especially when some scenes are sharply cut short, and others almost intolerably drawn out.  The book Marie is reading to her students is Virginia Woolf's Proust-inspired 'The Waves', a novel on one level about being submerged by memories and the past; there are many shots of Marie behind aquariums, or liquidy windows that suggest she too is drowning in some sort of deluge of memory. Indeed, the repeated shots of Marie behind windows, the world outside projected onto her, suggest that she has left the real world, which has become dead to her, a land of shades, and has passed into a shadowy land of her own, which has the only solidity.  This goes beyond a mere metaphor for grief - the way a mindset can transform reality, can turn the oppressive everyday into insubstantiality, and the transient imaginary into the true reality, is Surreal, and there is an unsettling, yet liberating surrealism about scenes like the aquarium one mentioned, or the extraordinary self-pleasuring, where Marie is caressed by disembodied hands, or the general emphasis on fetishistic detail (this is a film about the erotics of loss, about how desire always depends on an absence).  After all, death, and uncertainty about death, is the supreme anti-bourgeois force, unsettling all attempts to create stable identities, properties and relationships (and therefore the equivalent to the rat in 'Sitcom').  To me, Ozon seems less interested in the processes of grief, than Marie's motivations - there are times when she seems cynically self-aware.  The film overflows with reasons why Jean would disappear - health (he can barely breathe in the early scenes, painfully dragged down by his enormous weight), financial worries, maternal influence, marriage ennui (which the opening sequences oppressively seem to suggest), impotence - rather than die, but the sheer proliferation of plausibility becomes implausible - you wonder if these are elements of Maries's own self-questioning of a deeply unsatisfactory, unfulfilling marriage.  Jean's disappearance allows her to play out, with his ghost and her new lover, the marriage she never had. The pre-disappearance sequence is itself eerie - the ghostly country house, the matching reds (restaurant table; towel and swimsuit on the fatal day), the weirdly funny encounter with naturists on her first suspicions, the matching composition between the grass on the sand dunes behind, and Marie on her rug.  There are times when Marie seems to age in time-lapse in front of our very eyes, phantom-like, as elusive as her husband, despite all her efforts with her body.  'Sous le sable' is certainly closer to Ozon's previous, more outre films than might first appear. "},{"Title":"Stuck in Circles","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After a few scenes to        establish their relationship, an elderly woman's husband disappears        into thin air. The rest of the film deals with her denial of the        fact, as she keeps the husband alive in her        hallucinations/fantasies. The fact that her mourning never        progresses beyond the denial stage, the fact that she never        experiences the full gamut of grief, the anger and defeat, prevents        her and the film from ever delving into the deeper universal        meanings of death, its ultimate connection to her (and our)        mortality, its mystery and unity with life.       At first, when there's no corpse and the husband is merely a        missing person, her suspension between reality and fantasy works;        she has a right to hold on to hope, a right to deny death. But this        doesn't last long. Fairly early in the film even her friends        acknowledge his demise. She enters her own lala land, precariously        perched on the lip of insanity. Again, by peculiarizing grief in        this way, the film skirts the real issue, the bone-crushing        finality of death.       It might have been more interesting, more a revelation of internal        struggle, if the husband's fate had remained unresolved. She would        then have had to deal with the idea of his death, abstract and        pure; and her response, then, likewise would have been purified and        distilled, the essence of grief, and not merely circumstantial. But        no such luck. The body turns up. It's the plot's way of forcing her        hand, forcing her to deal with reality.       The supporting cast is nothing special, merely adornment around        Charlotte Rampling as the widow. (The only exception is the short        appearance of her mother-in-law, a nicely nasty shriveled-up old        hag.). The camera spends so much time on Rampling's physiognomy        that it soon becomes apparent she was cast merely because her face,        with its overhanging eyebrows and down-turned mouth, is permanently        set in an expression of sorrow. A perfect type, a poster widow.       There are a couple of nice touches, little leitmotivs, the past        bleeding into the present the widow repeats small actions she        performed before her husband's disappearance. These are but small        islands of intelligence in an otherwise dreary sea of straight,        utterly literal storytelling. The look of the film is drab and        purely functional as well, its use of cinema as medium purely        utilitarian.       Everyday, everywhere, ordinary people leading ordinary lives are        dealt the same hand, or worse, as this widow, but their responses        are much more courageous and profound than anything in this        self-consciously subdued little film. In a sense, this movie is        cowardly, mincing; it enjoys the mood of loss without its meaning. "},{"Title":"Very watchable but inconclusive","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film has little plot and is not pacey, but it isn't meant to have those characteristics.  It is beautifully made and is very stylish. It has a few moments of terrific drama - the scene between Jean's mother and Charlotte Rampling is just superb.  The scene where her lover confronts her with reality and Charlotte Rampling's response is also top notch.Charlotte Rampling is a very watchable actress and this is a very watchable movie.  It is, however, inconclusive to a fault and would have benefited from a few more scenes of quality drama. "},{"Title":"Slow but somewhat interesting","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Under the Sand is the story of Marie (Rampling) and the loss of her husband. Within the first few minutes of the film Marie and her husband are on holiday at their holiday home. They go to the beach, and whilst Marie sleeps her husband goes for a swim. She wakes hours later and cannot find him, and so a search ensues both in the short and long term.I found this film rather slow, and although the story was interesting it seemed to be hammered home through the use of what were essentially repeated story elements. It was quite a sad story for various reasons, and never really very fulfilling, but that was arguably the point. Both the acting and direction are good. You would probably like this movie if you are fan of French cinema and perhaps slow psychological romance, although there is not much romance in this film. 3/5 "},{"Title":"Underwhelming; a narcotic movie","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I could not figure out who would watch this film all the way through without squirming (or, as I did, fast-forwarding through the scenes without dialog).  I've come to believe that the purpose of the film is to honor the continued beauty of Charlotte Rampling, who is really the only character in this film who counts  it's a subjective movie dwelling largely in the actress's mind.  It's interesting that she's obsessed with a fat, ugly, unhealthy dead man.  But one does not want to watch this unsightly actor on screen, and especially when he interacts with Ms. Rampling.  The guy who she gets hooked up with is not worth it, either.So it's what I would call a narcotic movie  you will like it if you are on narcotics, or it may have a narcotic effect on you.  The only ray of hope, that a young handsome man in Rampling's college classroom will bring Rampling back to reality and a new relationship, is stomped out quickly and efficiently.   "},{"Title":"Tedious, bland, excellent","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Under the Sand follows a woman who is in denial over the disappearance of her husband. Rampling delivers a splendid performance (no stretching) as the film plods along slowly lingering over the smallest details of her life revealing her desperate grief one fragment at a time while even showing her in the company of her dead husband; an apparent  representation of delusion. For those interested in a microscopic examination of one woman's grief, this film may have merit. For just about everyone else, it will be too tedious and lacking in sheer entertainment value. (B) "}{"Title":"In denial","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" Simple story Husband goes missing after a swim on holiday and his wife is in denial about the situation. The idea here is to tell the story by showing only the outward reactions of all involved. Ozon hereby creates a mystery (is he really dead?, was it a suicide?) but the over-explanatory character spoils all the fun. The walk in the woods, his face before the swim already tell everything, but if that's not enough Virgina Woolf is thrown in (if you dislike reading check out The Hours).So the rest of the movie we rely on the acting, which is average but not that interesting. We have the almost obligatory love scenes, redundant fantasies and much talk about nothing. Everything is mildly interesting. But one scene stands out that between Suzanne (Andrée Tainsy, who just passed away) and Marie (Rampling). Andrée Tainsy mixes so many facial emotions in that scene it makes the whole movie worth watching.Ozon is a very traditional filmmaker who seems to strike a chord with his French audience. But he could have lived thirty years ago and made the same movie. It's almost as if he is in denial of the great French film history. Luckily we still have Jeunet, Besson and a lot of new talent to save the day for the French. "},{"Title":"Very unsatisfactory film!","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I usually like independent films & this is my second Ozon film which have both had Charlotte Rampling in, and unfortunately they have both been disappointing. Too long takes, too much left unclear, and essentially I was bored. (And I'm French & like slow (but they need to be good) films.) The ending is annoying & left hanging. Why? Also, Charlotte, in character, is often not very likable. For example, she could have just been aloof, and not mean, to Vincent, who was just trying to be nice & helpful.What this film does do is give one a good idea of how NOT to be in relation to death - one should remember that one's loved ones can die at any time and one needs to be ready to let them go. But our culture doesn't like to talk, or even think, about death, even though it's all around us. How many people die each day? And one needs to grieve adequately before starting any new relationship. "},{"Title":"Buried Under the Sand","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm not going to talk about the actors. Everyone here has already done that and the problem I have with this film doesn't involve the acting at all. It is very well done. However, it is sad and depressing. Not many people will want to watch Marie struggle to accept the fact that her husband is 'gone' and that she is now alone. Her husband has been gone for 3 months and she talks about him as if he never disappeared. The husband's mother, who is in a nursing home, makes a comment to Marie telling her that she's probably crazy and boring too. Maybe that is why her son disappeared-because he was bored with his life & his wife. Why anyone would make such a comment to someone suffering is beyond me. But for some reason, there it is, this pathetic scene hinting that Marie might be insane. She isn't. She's grief stricken and unable to accept the fact that her husband may be dead, perhaps by suicide. If this all sounds dismal, be prepared. This is NOT an uplifting film at all. I enjoyed Swimming Pool much better and wouldn't want to sit through this again. Try something else. "},{"Title":"A rambling shamble built around Charlotte Rampling","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Having more or less grown up on French New Wave films, I think my tolerance for murky, character-driven French melodramas is unusually high, and I liked With a Friend Like Harry most of the way through, but Ozon's film is the epitome of what those who despise art-house film loathe suffocatingly slow revelation of not much. What I think its audience finds welcome changes from Hollywood movies is that it shows a 55-year-old woman and her sixty-something husband as sexual beings and it shows people who live with books. Indeed, Rampling teaches English literature, reads to her class from _The Waves_ and recites from memory Virginia Woolf's suicide note (which may be a clue or may be a red herring). It also shows cruelty in a different form than the violence endemic in American movies Rampling laughing at and dismissing a sexual partner who is too light (and not just in weight) and being cut down by her mother-in-law, a tough old crow/crone, whose message about her son/Rampling's husband Rampling adds to her cache of denials. Alas, these scenes together total at most three minutes of the hour and a half of the film that was made up as it was filmed. "},{"Title":"One of the lesser foreign films I have seen recently","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Under the Sand tells of a middle aged married woman (Charlotte Rampling) who's husband is mysteriously lost at a beach.  OK, fine start-up for a film possibly about how her husband vanished (this is slightly brought up in the third act) or with her trying to cope with the loss.  After the husband's missing scene, the film does something that urked me.  It jumps to the wife now back at home, but it doesn't tell whether it is before the vacation or after (it is mainly her seeing the husband that had me confused).  After I figured out that Rampling was at home after the vacation, it was clear that she was dilusional in that she thought her husband was alive (even after she hears from the police that he's dead she's still a little crazy) going to the stretch that if she sleeps with someone else she is cheating on him.  While Rampling was often good, the film itself was confusing most of the time and when I found out what the plot was suppossed to be, the payoff was very miniscule for this type of movie.  It tries, to be sure, but it just doesn't succeed in convincing, and that is the film's big part.  Oh well.  One more note that is another pet peeve, if only for myself the unecessary form of going back and forth to English and French within a simple conversation for no good reason.  That's what Truffaut, and recent films like With a Friend Like Harry and Dreamlife of Angels know from the start- stick to one language unless it's totally reasonable to swicth briefly (that is the only big liability in the classic Last Tango in Paris, by the way).  C+ "},{"Title":"long, uninteresting, a waste of money","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I kept waiting for SOMETHING, ANYTHING to happen . . . this movie has been compared to Hitchcock work. Hitchcock movies are mysterious, have surprises, make you think, entertain you. There is no suspense in Under the Sand; you basically know the main character, Marie, is in denial about her husband's death--it is evident to the person watching that she is ill. The movie is too long and empty. Charlotte Rampling is a very good actress and still at her age very nice looking, but she alone cannot save a film with very little to say and show. I just wanted it to end! "},{"Title":"Woman fears growing old after older husband disappears","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Marie and her older husband take a weekend vacation to the beach.  Marie falls asleep on the sand, and when she wakes up her husband is gone.  A year after his disappearance, she continues to think that he is still part of her daily life.The basic plot could make an interesting story, however it was executed poorly.  There are many long scenes in which NOTHING happens. (Such as the twenty minute scene of Marie's face driving home from the beach.)  The film moves VERY slowly, even if you exclude the drawn-out, although not entirely pointless nude scenes. (And what was with the hour long, 20-handed masturbation scene?  Was that supposed to be artistic and thought provoking? It just made me laugh.)Under the Sand *could* have been interesting, but the length and general lethargy of it makes it hard to sit through.  If it's a foreign film you're going for, as always, you'd be better off with Life is Beautiful.(Btw, the scene lengths are exaggerated, but they are awfully long.) "}]