[{"Title":"Filmic Art in Digital","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"43 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  To the best of my knowledge The Center of the World was shot on a digital camera. If this is the case, then that was a very wise choice for the material and tone of the same. The Center of the World is an intellectual adult's version of Pretty Woman (although, I couldn't help but notice a few similarities to Egoyam's Exotica). On the most basic level is where we leave Pretty Woman, however. This film is definitely not for all tastes, but that would be a loss for those folks. The Center of the World has a lot to say about human sexuality, loneliness, and money and the simple link between them in this modern-age. It's about the loss of human contact and connection between people in the same room; it's about perception and misjudgment. Additionally, there's a very primal ritual running through the sex scenes in this film that speaks volumes about human evolution versus technological evolution. There's a lot here and I don't want to ruin it for anyone by continuing my rant. "},{"Title":"terrific characters (spoilers)","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"37 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Center of the World is one of those movies that sticks in your mind. Not for the straight-to-video look, and not for the sex scenes (during which Wang mostly focuses on the characters' faces rather than bodies). It's the characters that keep you thinking well after the credits.Richard Longman (Sarsgaard) starts out as a stock character the nerdy, socially inept computer millionaire who doesn't know how to get a girlfriend. But Sarsgaard, brilliant as usual shows us his many layers. He gets aggressive with video games; he's instinctively caring, assuming a strong masculine role (though it's obvious he's not the strong one). He's a big kid who just wants some intimacy, but doesn't understand the basic complexity of human connection. On the other hand, he's seduced by the surface of things--watching too much porn, he really believes that money and a good time will make those sexy porn-queens care about him. In reality doesn't take the time to get to know Florence at all. His rage and frustration confuse him; he's empty and often resorts to money to fix things.Florence (Parker) is a bit of a cipher at first. She's cold, withdrawn, business-like. Yet it's clear that as she gets to know Richard, she likes him. She's conflicted about her role as her feelings change--does she want to sleep with him? does that make her any less of a whore?Many reviewers took sides with one or the other, which I think is a mistake. There's good and bad in both that makes them equally sympathetic. Richard wants intimacy and is a nice goofy guy. But he's also emotionally stunted and more than a little pervy in his desire to buy not just sexual satisfaction, but human connection. He has no right to buy her feelings, but he is allowed to be confused by her lack of them (given their camaraderie)Similarly, Florence is cold and not a little cruel. But she is also conflicted by her feelings, which are somewhere in that gray area of real affection and sexual attraction. Even conflicted, however, but she doesn't make the mistake of thinking that her feelings are love. He bought her body and even of her enjoyment in the weekend, but he can't just buy a relationship. I don't doubt that she wants him, but after (or during) the point when she gives in, she realizes how much of her desire was fantasy. In the end, she makes the only choice she understands.The last few scenes--Richard's pointless, (somewhat stereotypically masculine) act of rage, and Florence's cool expression of her sexual independence--reveal how damaged these characters are. And though the ending is ambiguous, the audience instinctively knows that something is ruined between them.The real trick? Hopelessly, we root for them to heal each other somehow. We buy into the Pretty Woman fantasy, just like they do (Florence less than Richard, but still) We imagine that Florence lets her guard down and learns to care for someone, and Richard tries to connect with a real woman rather than some porn fantasy. But this is the anti-Pretty Woman (which was a travesty of a film). This is reality.Not a perfect film, but very thought-provoking.  "},{"Title":"Very sensual and daring","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's hard to find a truly erotic movie made in America.  Most mainstream films have little sex/no nudity and a whole lot of violence.  And what constitutes erotic art in films is made up horribly contrived, unbelievable Cinemax/Playboy movies.  That lack any real heat and are amazingly unsexy and boring. So a film like Center of the World is a rare gem.  It actually is sensual, erotic and the participants in the sex scenes seem comfortable and actually engaged in what they are doing.  The scenes do not come off as awkward or simulated.  Which is the challenge for any film director.  To make the audience believe what they are seeing is real.  What's special here is that a great actress who one would actually like to see do nudity/sexual material, has the lead female role.  There's no body doubles here and Molly seems really comfortable with the nudity and explicit sex scenes.  She looks absolutely gorgeous throughout the movie.  And is not the traditional, cookie butter starlet that is churned out in a 1,001 Cinemax skin flicks.  Hollywood should make more of these films.  Unfortunately, I think during this age of sexual repression in the arts, our natural human sexual needs will continue to be hidden from view on both the big and small screens.      "},{"Title":"Love in the Time of Dotcoms","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A digital camera does not a movie make but Wayne Wang didn't rely on avant-garde technique alone when he decided to revisit the basic boy-meets-girl story.   He simplifies the problem by choosing two people with very little in common and then taking them out of their natural settings and putting them in the unreal world of Las Vegas.  The man is a socially inept but financially successful engineer so typical of our times and his character is developed and portrayed very realistically by Peter Saarsgard in a role very different from what he played in Boys Don't Cry. He's got it down even to the careless dressing and awkward laugh. I know - I work in the Bay Area.  Molly Parker is equally convincing as the drummer-by-day-stripper-by-night career woman who has such a cool and invincible air about her that it makes quite an impact in the few occasions when she does let her armor down.It almost seems as if Wang has taken the Hollywood classic Pretty Woman and has decided to deHollywoodize it.  And in that he has been quite successful. The graininess of the Blair Witch style digital camera coupled with innovative shots including unexpected close-ups follow no clichés.  Equally cliché-free is the screenplay which follows a loosely linear narrative advanced primarily by the sexual encounters between a man and a woman who are placed in the near-equivalent situation of a desert island and come from different worlds.  In this, one can discern shades of  Last Tango in Paris, except that this movie is set in a more cynical time where love has been deconstructed and is not worth killing for.  Sex becomes the center of their world but even as they escape into sex they cannot quite leave their personalities, their dreams, their insecurities behind and that is what ultimately saves them and their story from the mundaneness of a forgettable sexual encounter.  Although they go into into the deal for purely selfish reasons - he desiring an escape from Internet porn and she looking for some extra cash - their encounter, like all good stories, becomes something of a journey of self-discovery.Mention must be made of the attention to detail which makes the setting very believable.  The soundtrack is eclectic and follows the local Californian club scene rather than big label network music.  And the dialogue is very boy-girl-next-door rather than being made up of grand lines.  However, this movie is not everybody's cup of tea.  The lack of a discernable narrative in some of the scenes risks losing the viewer's attention.  And there's no simple message or tying up of loose ends here. But those who can brave that and the graininess will be rewarded with a contemporary look at love in our times.  "},{"Title":"Center Staged","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"36 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although more infamous for its sex scenes than its acting anddirection, Wayne Wang does marvels with a digital camera and hisactors in a very good independent film.This is an adult film, so some of the descriptions in this reviewmay not be for young eyes. Peter Sarsgaard is Richard, a youngcomputer genius worth a million or so who takes a liking toFlorence, played by Molly Parker. They decide to take a trip to LasVegas together, with Richard paying for everything, and someharsh guidelines set up by Florence no kissing on the mouth,together for just four hours every night, and no actual sexualpenetration. Goofy Richard goes along with the demands, and thetwo skip town to Vegas. Richard is skipping more than just town,his computer business is about to go IPO, and his partner can notseem to get a hold of him.Florence and Richard settle into a routine, and try to get to knoweach other after being so intimate physically. Richard's love forFlorence is obvious, but slowly Florence begins to have feelingsfor Richard that are not of the usual prostitute/john type. CarlaGugino flashes in as one of Florence's screwed up friends, whonotices a change in Florence when she is with Richard. Eventually,the couple begin breaking their rules, and the climactic sex scenebrings out everyone's true colors on the future of the relationship.The title of the film is interesting in that Richard thinks the center ofthe world is his computer, and Florence thinks it is a female'ssexual organs. Eventually in the film, Florence's definition seemsto be decided on, with Richard using his Center (money wise) toget to her Center.The film treads through the familiar sexual obsession territory, butwithout going to the lengths that have been touched on in dozensof late night Showtime and Sinemax series and made for cablefodder. Richard is a genuine babe in the woods, trying to project adangerous side, when in fact he is a nice guy who wants to helppeople. Try and keep track of how many times he asks Florenceand others if they are okay or all right.Florence is a great character, unable to contain her growingemotional attachment, so she uses her own body as a wall toRichard's love. You find yourself wishing these two screwed uppeople would get it together, but the ending leaves it up in the airwithout being too frustrating.If anything, I sometimes found the sex to get in the way of the plot.Both people share innocuous stories from their past, then followthrough with kinky sexual acts, but I deemed more from thestories.Wang does a great job with the digital camera. He is respectful ofhis actors, not getting into everyone's face because he has thetechnology to, but he stays close enough to give the audience avoyeuristic feeling in the hotel room scenes. While some scenesrun long here and there, I found the two main characters sodifferent and so interesting, I did not mind the slow spots.There is a lot of sex and nudity here, but only one very brief sceneset in a strip club constitutes anything you would normally see in aporno. This is the kind of film Roger Ebert has been screamingabout for years, demanding a new A for Adult rating that would behigher than an R, but not quite a porno either. The NC17 blewup in the MPAA's face, as it replaced the X, it did not fall justbelow it.The Center of the World is just less than an hour and a half long,but speaks volumes about its characters. I enjoyed it more than Ithought I would, I am still smarting from sitting through Wang'sChan is Missing, one of the most dull, overcelebrated, andpointless films ever made. He has come a long way, and I highlyrecommend this effort.This is unrated, and contains some sexual violence, strongprofanity, very strong female nudity, strong male nudity, very strongsexual content, brief pornographic sexual content, very strongsexual references, drug abuse, and strong adult situations. "},{"Title":"Much better than it seems","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I passed on this film while in the theaters due to bad reviews and a highly misleading ad campaign. I disagree with both. This is an accomplished psychological piece a-la-Bergman that never betrays its characters by providing an easy way out. The film follows a rigorous script that dwells deeply into the wants and flaws of the two leads and ultimately tells us that we are limited by our own minds as to the possibilities that life might offer. Although Florence and Richard in theory could change the terms of their relationship, their inner feelings and biases restrict them to what is possible within their own way of thinking. The sex is central to the conflict in an intellectual plane, which will severely disappoint those who are searching for sexual highlights. In terms of DV technique, this is perhaps the best shot film after the DV classic The Celebration. If you are looking for an engrossing film where every detail serves its main theme, this is it. There is no fat here. It deserves to be watched over and over to absorb its depth under simple dialogue, understated performances by two extraordinary actors and a minimalist plot.     "},{"Title":". . .is it money? is it sex?","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An extremely articulate and well-observed film from Wayne Wang, about what it means to have power - financial power, sexual power - and how shallow this power truly is, especially when it's detached from anything resembling true involvement, genuine passion.  Both characters are obsessed with The Game, and they are both very good at it. Peter Sarsgaard and Molly Parker are both superb, letting us see enough of their characters' inner workings to completely understand them without showing too much, losing the edge. Each has what the other thinks he/she needs, and the film is basically a discourse on negotiation - what you will give up to get what you desire? Issues of control are central to the theme, and the cool thing is, both characters know it and they get off on that more than the actual sex itself.   "},{"Title":"Interesting for the Right Person","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was a very worthwhile rental. However, it is not for everyone. Here is what I enjoyed1. Extremely convincing acting; 2. Sophisticated scripting and edits; 3. Intelligent dialog; 4. Interesting use of digital video (think grainy Blair Witch shots); 5. Some hot sex scenes; 6. Characters that interested me; 7. Deals with very raw and real emotions for these characters; 8. Director doesn't spoon feed the viewer. Some things in the scenes are better left unsaid, and they are left implicit for the viewer to grasp. I enjoy being treated as intelligent; 9. I appreciate the take on the dark side of Internet wiz-kids; 10. The movie succeeded in getting me to feel the mood of the characters very well. The feelings you are left with after watching the film--the ambiguity, the desire, the bitter-sweet frustration, even the slight weariness--enhanced the impact of the film for me.What you May Not Care For1. Was I able to relate to the main male character only because I am a male involved in high-tech field?2. Very slow pace. This is about burning emotions, coy dialog, and appreciation of believable acting. It's very cerebral. Not a typical drama by any means.3. If you want to see even more sex, then rent a porn film. The sex here is not just about sex, but about adult loneliness and other adult themes.4. There is a lot of subtle symbolism and fragments of dialog that you have to pay attention to get the most out of the film.5. Many people who did not groove with the director as a whole would think the beginning, middle and ending was too slow and not satisfying.6. If you don't appreciate the challenge of shooting realistic looking digital video in poorly-lit situations you may think the photography sucked. I didn't, it worked for me, but it's not for everyone.7. Confusing cross-cutting scenes forward and backward in time. I thought it was very appropriate, but it could annoy others looking for simpler fare.8. Too many things left unsaid in the dialog to be totally clear what is going on. I liked this, thought if very appropriate for what the characters were experiencing, and it made it feel much more voyeuristic, even kinky. Again, not for everyone.9. You may not be able to get beyond the fact you are supposed to feel sorry for an Internet Wiz Millionaire and a confused young stripper who gets paid a lot of money for one weekend in Vegas. On the hand, they are still just two human beens and that is, I think, the whole point...10. If you are a horny person looking for naked woman with big boobs I think the film will leave you, well, kind of flat.In short, an interesting film for a young guy involved in high-tech and likes to think...  "},{"Title":"great film of modern people","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  riprock's review is right on.  The guy is looking for a good time but in the sense of a somewhat naive dude who's not used to interacting socially. The woman is looking to be comfortable in her job and not having to interact too socially. Yet they are both drawn into each other by their commonality.Not a film for everybody. Not raunchy enough for the porn freaks, not graphic enough for the art freaks, too graphic for the love story freaks. We're all freaks. This movie hits a perfect balance in showing the two sides of love, lust, and lingering love. Great photography, pixillation, mood inspiring, cold -- yes but that's part of the story. Bringing the Carlo Gugino character just at the right time, sent this movie over the edge as as superb look into modern psyches.This is not a sexy movie. it's a relationship movie. but not just of man <-> woman, but of person <-> person. It's deeper and more personal than many of you think. that's why you don't like it, find it uncomfortable. You see yourself, it's lonely, it's scary, it's fun.I "},{"Title":"Digital Verite...","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You don't *look* like a stripper... was the first clue.  Director Wang, who clearly OK'd Zalman King/Adrian Lyne film style ad and packaging art, was hardly hiding the reality vs. fantasy (or real vs. fake) themes of his superb dot-com romantic tragedy much past the opening credits.Wang's use of hand-held camera, grainy 8mm, incandescent lighting color wash, high-definition close ups, and assorted traditional noir and verite style cinematography and direction is a breakthough exploration of digital media.Vegas visitors brave enough to leave their Strip casino/hotel cocoons during daylight hours will surely be struck by the almost surreal difference between how ugly and unglamorous the city is by day and how other-worldly beautiful after dark.  Florence, however, is no Vegas...Get it?  Florence (Italy), is *real*, and every flaw she (the city) may have simply adds to the unearthly beauty she emanates.  Whether filmed in handi-cam, Fisher-Price pixelvision, or 70mm IMAX, at high noon or midnight, the beauty of Florence (Italy) is timeless and media-independent.  At least in the hands of Wayne Wang, Florence glows with or without the lipstick and latex...I mean neon.Richard's visit to the Venetian Casino/Hotel near the end of the movie completes the tragic romantic (city) metaphor.  The canals at the Venetian Hotel are truly as pathetic as the film depicts them.The problem is, these two tragic lovers have always kept a safe distance away from Florence (Italy), or *reality*, and are tragically resigned to a Vegas-reality.  Or a dot-com reality...Filmed digitally and rendered as cinema verite, even duplicating the grainy silver halide crystal image artifact of low light film stock with a digital effect extends the film's theme to the medium communicating the artist's expression.Great film.I just wish my many shares of homegrocer.com were as valuable as a single used copy of a DVD of this film....or a single apple from an actual grocer..... "}{"Title":"Worth one viewing","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Center of the World is a very well photographed drama and is highly worth a viewing, but has several flaws.Center of the World, an almost mirror image of Leaving Las Vegas (better film), is about a computer whiz named Richard's (Peter Sarsgaard) three day escape from his everyday life to Las Vegas with a stripper named Florence (the lovely Molly Parker), who he pays to go with him under the conditions they won't have sex.But Richard's promise eventually gets the best of him and he begins to obsess about having the best sex of his life with Florence. Florence, meanwhile, holds Richard back with teases and a Fire and Ice (Don't ask me) routine off screen. With each tease, the characters' chemistry builds up and we begin to wonder if Richard and Florence are actually falling in love.Center of the World has beautiful cinematography.  The entire film was shot on tape and a few scenes are in one of the best shades of black and white I've ever scene.Peter Sarsgaard is very good as the naive but extremely polite computer whiz and Molly Parker (although very better in Pure) pours herself into the tough role of Florence almost as good as Jennifer Connely portrayed Marion in Requiem for a Dream.The film does have several flaws though. It has far too many sex scenes (often gratuitous), the chemistry between the two characters blooms and dies at any given time and the surprise ending is almost ruined by two scenes directly after the surprise (you'll have to see for yourself).Center of the World is a good film worth watching once.   "},{"Title":"Encounter of lost souls","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" * Possible Spoilers Ahead *There is a lot more to this sad story than its publicists seem to have realized, and I think much of the credit for this must go to the two lead players, especially to the beautiful and audacious Molly Parker. In Florence she has created a young woman richly endowed with natural gifts, none of which she values, or strives to tie together into an actual personality -- a life -- and who thus must be a dark opposite to the highly skilled actress portraying her. No doubt Miss Parker has encountered many real-life Florences, as have I, and when reaching for their center, found nothing.Florence has radiant natural beauty, which she either ignores or tries to hide with makeup and blank gazes. She has natural intelligence which has never been challenged or developed. She has human warmth and feminine sensitivity, which she hastens to suppress every time they surface unbidden. She might even have musical talent, but I suspect that drumming, like stripping, is something she can do with her emotions on idle and her brain in neutral. Peter Sarsgaard's Richard is in even worse shape as a human being. He is a one-trick pony, a software engineer burned out after a year of work that netted him over $1 million, mainly through the entrepreneurial and stock-trading efforts of others. But neither the money nor the work is real to him, and by the time shown in the movie he is essentially ignoring both. Money and job are just forces of nature from which he passively draws sustenance, like the atmosphere and the internet. Not only does Richard not know what he wants, he (like Florence) does not know how to want. He imagines he wants to be in love with Florence, but he has not the slightest curiosity about who she is. He enjoys the immediate gratification of looking at her and holding her (one would have to be dead not to), but flagrantly misses every opportunity the script presents to ask her what she wants or hopes or dreams -- or even if she has achieved orgasm. Each time she reaches out to him, beyond the terms of their 'contract,' he fails to reciprocate in any meaningful way, reminding her of why she wrote it in the first place. Strong women sometimes choose intelligent, handsome, but centerless men like Richard as their first husbands because they seem malleable, easily turned into profitable providers and fathers of healthy children. But too often they turn out merely to be Silly Putty, like Richard, unable to hold any shape at all.  Looking ahead, I could see Florence some day putting the pieces of herself together into a real life, or a reasonable facsimile thereof. But Richard? Never. This is an intelligent and thought-provoking movie. Is it entertaining? Not really. It cuts awfully close to the bone for a lot of folks, including me. Is it erotic eye-candy, as the promoters would have us believe? Again, not really -- except that looking at Molly Parker without makeup (either with or without clothing) is worth a lot more than the price of admission. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Missing the important point","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film a lot more than I thought I would. It is quite flawed in parts but it is great to experiment and not get it quite right then to follow the usual formulas. I think a lot of people are missing the point in dissecting this film to classify it as soft/semi hardcore porn.Spoiler-please do not read any further if this spoils the plot for you!This film is about a transaction, not about sex. The main female character comes to this realization but ultimately it is the male character that is deluding himself and pays the price for his misplaced fantasising and realises what a facile, surrealistic and empty existence he is living. People who pay for sex are losers no matter how rich they are.I thought the acting was good; it was nice to have a realistic ending and not a 'Pretty Woman' type happy ending. I wonder if Pretty Woman would have been so successful if it had starred Chris Evans and Billie (a real life Pretty Woman scenario). "},{"Title":"Film ultimately disappoints","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wayne Wang has built most of his career directing films about unique relationships and this one is exactly that. But its also one that really doesn't have much to say. Peter Sarsgaard plays Richard who is a man that has a computer business and its on the verge of going public and earning him even more money than he has now. Molly Parker is Florence who is an exotic dancer in a strip club and she meets Richard in a coffee shop. They talk and he finds out where she works. Finally he asks her if she would come to Las Vegas with him for 10,000 dollars. She lays out the ground rules like no sex. But between 10pm and 2am she will do erotic things with him without intercourse. During the stay in Vegas Richard meets her friend Jerri (Carla Gugino) and at one point she says her boyfriend beat her up. Richard gives her money to help her out. One of the questions surrounding the story is if Florence and Jerri were in on it together to get more money out of Richard. Its possible. The center of the film is Parkers performance as Florence. Its the best thing in the film and Parker reminded me of Linda Fiorentino in The Last Seduction. A very smart woman who doesn't compromise and is in control at all times. At one point in the film Florence is masturbating and I think the scene shows that whatever sexual pleasure she receives will be on her terms, when she allows it. *****SPOILER ALERT*****The end of the film has no revelation and the character of Richard is so predictable that one can't help but call him a big fool. Of course he falls for her and thinks that over the course of time she'll change her mind about him. But business is business and Florence tells him that she's here for the money, just as they had agreed on. The irony of the film is that Richard is a very successful man with a computer company making lots of money but when it comes to relationships, he's a failure. Florence is the one that understands what business is. She's a consummate pro! Film is moderately interesting without having any real message or angle to the story. We don't know if Florence and Jerri set up Richard and you can't feel sorry for him. He's portrayed as such a schmuck. We saw his intentions when he first asked Florence to Vegas. I guess that makes Florence quite the opportunist! "},{"Title":"Truth as absurd it is","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is absurd, vague, slow, abrupt and incomplete. But isn't that how life is? I wont take any sides but one thing is certain that the director has been able to keep it as close to life as any of our lives could be. This movie is not about unreal heroes, super-hot babes & witty dialogs. It has a millionaire loser for a hero and a shy hooker for a heroine, and their love which is not your run of the mill happy ending love story but love which is free from any bias and desires of the flesh. Picture this - A really hot woman, dressed in exotic lingerie acting all horny in front of you, but you don't feel a thing. You don't feel a thing because you want her to undress her heart,her mind,her soul and not her body which you know could be bought by money. The brilliance of this movie lies in the fact that despite he is given what he wanted( at least what he bargained for), he still feels incomplete and we as viewers experience this by ourselves,and that goes for one scene and the actors life as a whole too. While she never lets her guard open(though baring all for him) but finds herself helpless in the face of the goodness and respect which she perhaps never experienced before. She denies its love because she doesn't want to complicate things or probably also realizes that their love is not to be, but the matters have complicated already. A poignant tale of absurd, incomplete love and the absurd, incomplete life of our internet world.* Don't watch it for the sleaze, you might end up erecting your sensitive side instead. "},{"Title":"Women, The Center of the Universe.","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Women, the power of their control, if they only knew how easy we break. They always seem to catch you off guard and they always have the destiny of us in their hands. The Center of the World is the authority of the female dancer phyche. It correctly shows that the nightclub dancer is a girl with refined features and intelligent, I loved a stripper, I remember how I could not believe she was a dancer just like Richard. Florence is beutifull, so refined so innocent looking, so classy yet, never a whore, she danced and took our money, we gave her alot of it for a couple of songs while she danced on your lap. Director Wayne Wang has either dated a dancer or fell in love with one because he displays the power of women, they make the rules, end of story. The Center of the World is a film that teaches a hard lesson to men, women are never bought, not for all the money in the world or for all the luxury, deep inside, a girl will only give to he who deserves. A couple has entered a room and look at the view, while in flashbacks, the story of their meeting is told. The meeting at Pandoras Box, she tells him 2 songs 30 dollars. He offers her a nice compensation for a little vacation, she accepts with conditions. Richard falls in love, she's becoming attracted, she wont allow herself since she was hired. She gives in and he is stunned that it meant nothing to her, but look in her eyes. Acting is in the eyes and Richard and Florence display a tidal wave of feelings and soul. When Richard realizes Florence is not his he breaks down like a little boy, remember? Women make the rules, if they only knew how easy we break.  "},{"Title":"Good, and reasonably realistic","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found the movie to be well made and the story pretty good, and holding it all together was a constant feeling of I can believe this.There was very little in the movie that seems unreal to me.As the first comment says, more movies should be made like this - an intelligent exploration of how we feel about sex, love, feelings, desire, etc. "},{"Title":"Doomed to be misunderstood","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a sad truth that the moment you add sex of any degree of explicitness to a film, for a large number of viewers that becomes what the film is about. If you read many of the hostile complaints here about Center of the World, you will find that to some degree they almost all center around the sex. Some found it offensive. Others thought there wasn't enough of it. Others still didn't like the way it was presented (the digital video wasn't clear, etc.).Listen up. This movie is not about sex.It's about loneliness, isolation, the inability to connect to others. Wayne Wang is presenting the idea that modern life has made many people unable to connect to each other even in areas as intimate as sex. Everything about the movie is intended to reflect this. He didn't shoot on digital video to save money; he did it for the look, which is somewhat pixilated, distancing, with a sort of tv-like unreality.Is the movie perfect? No, in particular the ending seemed unsatisfying, as if at the very last Wang wasn't sure how to leave us with the point.But it's still pretty damned good. I could see and understand every choice that was being made on the screen. Peter Sarsgaard and Molly Walker turn in fine performances as two people who want to connect to someone else and at the same time are terrified to do so and don't really know how. In the end it feels safer to keep themselves emotionally disconnected, to keep relationships on the level of internet porn or chat rooms, or in the form of a financial transaction or lap dance.If you can't see beyond the sex in the movie, whether you're offended or titillated by it, you almost certainly won't like the film. On the other hand, if you've felt the loneliness that seems color everything in modern life a little grayer, you'll understand the point of this movie without needing people at imdb to explain it to you.  "},{"Title":"UNEVEN FILM, BUT WHAT A PERFORMANCE","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you decide to rent this film or catch it on HBO (which seems to run it several times a month these days), know up front that it is uneven and ultimately doesn't really end up anywhere interesting. The writer/director Wang was trapped with only two possible outcomes, granted. But after the level of trust his performers put into him, he owed them and us something more satisfying than where the movie takes the audience. However, the performance of Molly Parker makes watching this film more than worth the failings of the script.No one, NO ONE, came close to what she does in this film that year. If you have any respect left for the choices the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences members, not to mention most of the critic groups, don't watch this movie. The fact that Parker was completely overlooked, while Julie Robert's over-hyped, far-short-of-spectacular turn in ERIN BROCKOVICH got the accolades, shows what total rubbish these critical popularity horse races really are. In CENTER OF THE WORLD Parker gives an astoundingly brave performance. Yet it is the nuanced, subtle touches that show the viewer her character's shifting attitudes that make it such a stand-out job.Without a single line of expository dialogue to illuminate the internal one, one can follow the character's struggle to maintain the control she thought she had on her own emotions. The idea that some young people have the wisdom of adults without having had the experiences to form that wisdom and what happens when they face situations that test them in a similiar fashion is very intriguing. Its a shame the film cannot match the effort Parker puts into it. Peter Sarsgaard does a 180 degree flip from his turn in BOYS DON'T CRY and while not as amazing as Parker, he does fine job too. His character is more of a now stock one the brilliant guy with immature sexual development.But above all else, bravo Ms Parker, BRAVO! "},{"Title":"Arty Shite or Philosophical Thesis?","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Films that cause a stir like this are rare. Some reviews rave about it, others say better to spend your money on knitting needles.The critics have a point. It is hard work, on many levels. Pre-digested sweet and tasty Saturday night stuff this is not.But the reason it has so many riled is probably because it cuts a little too close to the bone. For a generation raised on celebrity marriages and fairytale lifestyles this is uncomfortably realistic.Whether single, married, divorced or living a hermit life in Fiji, these are strange days. Does Mr. Wang have a point? Has he touched on something here?Watch it and make up your own mind. "}{"Title":"A must see!!!","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...Wayne Wang's notorious, controversial and explicit CENTER OF THE WORLD (Artisan, $.. is a much more polished piece of work than Romance. It also explores the bleak terrain of emotional isolation. This time the protagonist is a rich internet geek (Peter Sarsgaard) who literally contracts with a rock and roll drummer and part-time stripper (Molly (Parker) for a sexual get-away in Las Vegas. The phoniness of Vegas and the impersonal internet are more than metaphors for what amounts to virtual sex in real life. The basic elements are familiar in countless other love stories, but here the physicality of the two main characters dominates everything. In many ways we root for them to break out of their protective shells and actually connect with the hearts.Sometimes the walls we build to keep out the bad cuts us off from life itself. This film, shot on high definition video, evokes a more personal and immediate response and is much more effective on DVD than it is projected in a theater. Longing for intimacy but in the grip of a fear of letting go leaves the main characters with only the option of exploring physical sensations as soulless.  "},{"Title":"Molly Parker, Las Vegas, and a great script equals a winning combination.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a big admirer of Molly Parker, who might be the best indie actress today. From taking unconventional roles to her appearances on many Canadian T.V. programs, she always shined and might be a future Oscar winner; she's a superb actress from the old-school. She's not a phony type like most Hollywood types; perhaps that's why she's shunned the big time. I would also shed a tear if she ever got married, unlike others, who probably get married every year to spend the big money they get.Center of The World (rented with the vastly different Bill And Ted's Excellent Adventures) is about Richard (Peter Sarsgaard), a dot-com millionaire who has spent the last two years as a recluse in front of a computer, trying to shake off the pain of a dissolved relationship. One day, out and about, he is captivated by Florence (Parker), a drummer in a band who works as an exotic dancer. Surprised that the ordinary looking Florence is a stripper, he goes to the club and she looks much different and way more beautiful. After a period of time in which he's a customer of hers, he asks her to go to Las Vegas with him. She eventually agrees but there must be some conditions, such as no sex, no kissing, and they must be together only at certain times for their encounter (although they spend the day together as friends). So they go to the greatest city in the world, get the best room at New York New York, and the viewer sees these two in a Who's Afraid Of Virginia Woolf? style movie, where they let out their secrets and sexual fantasies for everyone to see.We see the two of them slowly falling into love, but there seems to be a barrier that prevents them from being together, and that barrier comes into play during their three days together.Wayne Wang and his writers deliver a superb script, and Parker and Sarsgaard deliver awesome performances. You'll forget you're watching a film and are instead watching a human drama that is from the real world. Playing Unreal Tournament, the encounters in the bedroom, the ride of the Coney Island roller coaster; all of it is from a real world. And of course, Las Vegas continues to show it's beauty and splendour.The DVD contains a director's commentary, two alternate endings, a documentary about an adult website created to promote the film, production notes, and a soundtrack for your CD-ROM. Also, the opening credits, typed in the way the nervous, naive Richard himself would do it; backspacing his many typos is very cool. If you want to see why indie film making is gaining a growing contingent, check this one out. "},{"Title":"A fine film that will be misunderstood","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Center of the World is a film that will separate the careful, thoughtful viewers of cinema from the tourists.  Understandably, an unrated movie about a stripper and her client heading to Las Vegas for a three-day long, $10,000.00 lap dance is bound to attract a certain crowd.  And most of them will be disappointed.  The audience will probably  split three ways  Those that are going to be disappointed because it isn't `Pretty Woman', those that will be disappointed that it isn't `sexier', and those careful viewers that will realize the film is neither Hollywood romance nor full-on pornography.The Center of the World is about human contact as commerce.  Both characters supply it.  Richard through the internet company he works for, and Florence at Pandora's Box, the strip club where she sells carefully controlled human contact for `$60.00 for two songs.'   Ironically, both characters are cut off from what most people would consider normal contact by the fact that they `sell' a specialized form of it.  Florence by the rules of her job and Richard by the multiple computers screens he cannot seem to get away from.The characters are somewhat comfortable in their respective situations until they leave the controlled environments with which they have set up for themselves and with which they are familiar.  Even in one of the least real places on earth, Las Vegas, real human contact sneaks in and screws things up.  As they start to get to know each other and deal with sometimes mundane and sometimes intense situations, Richard mistakes it for something deeper and Florence sees it for what it is but retreats back into her role as the untouchable stripper. Neither character seems comfortable with normal contact.  Florence certainly doesn't want it from someone who pays to see her naked body and Richard seems ill equipped to handle even a normal relationship, let alone one that starts with $10,000.00 cash changing hands.Viewers looking for a fairytale will be just as disappointed as those looking for hardcore porn.  Yes, there is explicit nudity.  But it's cold, calculated nudity.  Nudity stripped of it's erotic power.   Yes, there is a pretty stripper and rich guy willing to pay for love.   But he isn't Richard Gere and she isn't Julia Roberts and this isn't Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Into the Depths of Sexuality","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Absolute Brilliance!  Wang takes an amazingly insightful look at the correlation between the sexual mind and sexual body.  The film not only serves as a reality counterpart to films such as Pretty Woman, but leaves the viewer in a strange state of simultaneously being physically aroused and emotionally depressed.  Mauro Fiore does a good job of working with mixed mediums, but the performances of the actors and the coaching of the director are the real gems of this film.  One of the best of the year! "},{"Title":"Powerful, realistic and erotic","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wang has directed a superb take on the power between those that sell sex and those that purchase it.  For years I have been perplexed at why men are such masochists and allow themselves to be tortured by strippers, Lap dancers and so on.  What is the point of the you can look but you can't touch mentality?This is basically the plot of this film, and for those that haven't seen it I won't reveal too much more.  It was wonderful to view an intelligent take on the dynamics of the liaison between Richard (the dot com millionaire - Peter Sarsgaard) and Florence (the lap dancer - Molly Parker).  The fluctuating emotions and overwrought hidden passion between this pairing is what truly captivates the audience in a way so rarely done in a film where sex is concerned.We saw this movie at a midnight showing in NY.  There were perhaps 40 people in the theater, about ten couples and a group of 20 or so friends. Unfortunately the group of 20 friends seemed to revert enmasse to a group of juvenile school children as they giggled during two of the most powerful moments of the film - Richard when he describes having sex and when Florence masturbates herself as a demonstration of her re- asserting her power.Sarsgaard and Parker deserve extra kudos for taking the risk and accepting these roles and then for rising to the challenge and totally immersing the audience into these three days of their lives.  As another reviewer has said - go see it - more films should be made like this.  "},{"Title":"How much for just the body?","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've noticed how sharply the word money resembles the word violence. &#x96; Antjie Krog An underrated erotic drama by director Wayne Wang, The Centre of the World stars Peter Sarsgaard as Richard, a dot-com millionaire who runs into Florence (Molly Parker), an attractive drummer/stripper.The Centre of the World initially seems to be indulging in familiar prince-meets-hooker clichés (eg Pretty Woman). Wang, though, has other things on his mind. In his hands, both Richard and Florence are alienated by their professions. He hides behind modems and monitors, rarely meeting people face to face, she has strict no touch policies. Both prefer to remain at a professional distance, creating avatars or fabricated facades when dealing with others. Significantly, Richard believes machines to be the center of the world, the computer coder believing in a very masculinist, controlling view of people and relations. Florence believes the opposite women (the feminine, the vagina) are for Florence the center of the world, around which everything revolves. This assumption grants her, she believes, power over men. Control.Power and control becomes the preoccupation of the film's second third. Here Richard hires Florence for a weekend. He will pay her ten thousand dollars to be his escort. Florence, perceiving herself to be submissive in this relationship, attempts to exert some power of her own. She lays down some rules no touching, no kissing, no sex and the couple will only be together for a strict late-night window. Richard consents. He's just a passive guy, he tells her, genuinely loves her and has no wish to force her to do anything against his will. Florence doesn't believe him.What constitutes real or simulated love/lust becomes the preoccupation of the film's final third. Like most films of this ilk, Richard misreads Florence's performances and simulations as real affection; she genuinely likes him, he thinks. Florence, of course, says she doesn't; it was just an act. Richard is left confused. What's original about the film is this Florence genuinely does love Richard, but will not allow herself to acknowledge or act upon this love. For Florence, the couple's relationship is inherently objectifying, demeaning and social relationships mediated by money, or economic relations themselves, are intrinsically violent. For Florence, Richard's just another boss. Another employer. And as long as he's paying, she's forced into submission and dependency.Scientists and philosophers have spoken for millenia about power-empathy gaps and the dehumanisation engendered by economic relations. But Richard does not see himself in this light. He is a nice guy and genuinely wants to give generously, out of love (or genuinely believes he does). When Florence rejects him, Richard then vengefully becomes a caricature of what Florenence perceives him to be. He turns her over and violently has sex (rapes?) with her. Ironically, this merely affirms Florence's own prejudices (correct assumptions?).The Centre of the World ends with two symbolic scenes. In the first, Florence masturbates before Richard, and explains that this is what genuine love is. For Florenece, the act is honest and not tainted by the conscious or unconscious power games or depersonalising desires of others. The film then cuts to a strip-club, in which Florence and Richard meet once again. Brilliantly, Wang has each character now fully embrace their customer/provider, master/whore roles. Richard pays, Florence dances, end of story. Their transaction is impersonal, cold and each now perceives themselves as being in control. Unlike the rest of the film, which is shot in raw, intimate digital photography, these sequences are shot on dreamy celluloid, amplifying the couple's now-explicitly acknowledged games of fantasy.Most of the big auteurs had key films about prostitutes/prostitution (Godards's Vivre Sa Ve, Passolini's Accatone and Salo, Bunuel's Belle de Jour, Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut, Kiarostami's Like Someone in Love etc). Wang's The Center of the World is smaller, like a stage-play, but unfolds with the grimy, sexy ambiance of a Abel Ferrara movie (Go Go Tales). Sarsgaard and Parker are excellent in their roles.8.9/10 &#x96; See Antonioni's Beyond the Clouds. "},{"Title":"Weird, but seductive, artistic, and overall competent","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is easy enough I suppose to be cynical of a movie like The Center of the World, a movie about gratuitous sex with no plot to go along, but it would be the wrong way to approach this particular example. Film buffs could easily appreciate the movie as a case of style over substance. Its effectiveness is in its subtlety, never going over the top. What little plot there is may seem contrived, but in fact it has some credibility. I can believe that a story like this could happen in reality, just seldomly. The end result is a surprisingly mature feature, which is definitely not for a shallow minded viewerPorter invites his new friend Florence (a stripper) to come to Vegas with him for short vacation where they can have a few nights of uninterrupted sex. She agrees, but asks him to play by her rules No sweet talk, no kissing, and no penetration (or something like that). Slowly she starts to fall for him, making it difficult to keep the trip strictly professional.There is never really much of a story to begin with, but this is part of what makes the film feel more natural I suppose. It sort of plays out a bit like Before Sunset, only with nudity in the place of dialogue. The Center of the World, though very mannered and slow, does make some progress, but the film runs out of steam in the last twenty minutes. Actually, 'steam' may be the wrong way to put it. The film moves more like a gondola than a steamer. Having seen his Oscar winning photography for Avatar, cinematographer Mauro Fiore's work on The Centre of the World could not seem more different. This is a striped down, desaturated, deliberately crude and grainy looking production where flash backs are low contrast black and white, and the picture quality increases in grain or unnatural colours when the mood swings. Well, it works, I'll say that much. I haven't seen Las Vegas portrayed this way since the Godfather.Molly Parker maintains a very good screen presence, and in fact she is not simply a body like Sharon Stone in Basic Instict, or Holly Hunter in Crash (David's Cronenbergs film, not the Paul Haggis movie). Florence is definitely a human being, both inside and out. Even the fact that her body is covered in freckles feels realistic. Pretty girls in erotic movies, are almost always spot feel it seems.The ending has nothing in the way of a payoff, but it is not uninteresting. It is one of those scenes which makes you uncertain of whether it is real or a state of mind. I'll leave you to see the film and decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"Pretty Woman with a reality check.","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the above mentioned movie it always seemed strange that a really rich and handsome guy resorted to a hooker, albeit a real knockout one? Now we see a possible scenario that might make the plot not just a fantasy. A Dot-Com. millionaire, with the required nurd-ness uses his economic power to feed his...well I guess fantasies and the story results are pretty good. They are at least more realistic than the sterile grunting that most current movies use as sex scenes. Hollywood does violence beyond scale, but they do sex in the taboo filled lock-ups of censors and religious heresies. A director takes a daring chance into these forbidden areas and he is either eviscerated or beloved. For this movie there has been some of each. I don't think it deserves either.  I think the movie making is a bit lame but the story and the attempt at reality deserves credit where due. I wonder how The Postman Always Rings Twice would have been if it had been done this boldly? Rhetorical questions seem to serve little purpose but I wonder  how this movies got to be R rated and Midnight Cowboy was rated X? A question for another time perhaps? This movie is not in the class of Midnight Cowboy, but it is pretty good and should be seen. "},{"Title":"Realism and artificiality","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I recently saw this movie again and although the topic may still be important in todays society, as a subject for a movie it however seems a bit outdated. However, it is still a very nice movie. A lot of people are drawn towards this film because of the rumors of graphic visual material. However this is not a pornographic movie and less shocking than a movie like Baise-moi. But this is definitely not the essence of the movie.It deals with the subject of realism in several aspects. One is the reality or artificiality of the life of the computer dude that lives through computers. The internet is his world and is taking over the real world. He can no longer relate to people in a regular way and starts an artificial relationship with a stripper. The movie deals with the question how real these relations can be and where the real world and real emotions fit into this artificiality.This aspect is enhanced by the use of different ways of filming. At certain times it is filmed like any other movie and this cinematic quality fits the artificial aspect of the movie. At other times the makers switch to a style of filming whose hand-held camera footage is reminiscent of documentaries and reality shows and whose graininess reminds us of home movies. I find that the makers have made some very nice and efficient cinematographic choices to bring their message. For that alone I find the movie worthwhile. People seem to forget that hand-held does not automatically equate to Blair Witch type movies and can convey so much more.Definitely an interesting movie to watch. "},{"Title":"SEXY ALIENATION","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like this film for what it is.  It's really erotic.  And it's very very hot.  But I'm a sucker for endings, and without spoiling - I have to say I was a little bit disappointed.  Don't get me wrong, this is great independent filmmaking, but with a little more guts, and a little more detail of the human condition - and all of it's dysfunctions and twisted little habits - this film might have been a landmark. "}{"Title":"Even if you hate it, you will still love it!","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is a real pity that we don't see movies like that made more often.  This movie may not have any deep revelations and it may even have some plot holes, but it has 3 things uniquely combined in one film 1. It feels like a serious movie (although is has a few mandatory comic reliefs) 2. It feels real, it is actually believable. 3. And it uses purely the language of sexual situations to progress and deliver most of its points!I mean you can see countless sex scenes in almost any movie these days, but will you miss any of the plot or any of the ideas if those scenes were deleted or replaced by the birds shots? Even in the movies that deal with sex as one of their main subjects, still most of the deeper messages are just plainly given by actors in their dialogs or other (non-sexual) scenes.Center Of The World is not like that. It talks about sex (and love to some extent), the fantasies people pursue, and how it all intertwines in a weird way, with boundaries dissolving in unexpected ways and places. It gives you a lot to think and argue about, and yet there isn't much dialog going on, most of the time you just see people engaged in an erotic or sexual situation, and yet this movie utilizes the language of these situation to the full extent to send a powerful message.I urge everyone to see this movie and tell your friends to go and see it too. Like I said in the beginning, this movie is unique and unless people give it enough recognition it will stay unique. And it really should not be that way. I hope for a chance that people who make movies will start giving more attention to what is actually happening in the sex scenes they film, and more importantly HOW it happens. It is a potent language when used right it can tell more than words do, and the dramatic effect is amazing.=== next part may contain spoilers ==> There is one thing I found inconsistent about the plot. While in the end Richard and Florence actually have sex, at the same time the movie goes out of its way to make sure the viewer sees how indifferent Florence actually is and basically hates the whole thing. But we know that she already got the money, and Richard was not the kind to really push her, and they both agreed on the rules in the beginning. She could have easily taken control of the situation, but she chose not to. Something must be wrong, she either should have just walked away, or she was not that indifferent after all. There is probably a good explanation for this, because it would be sad if the key scene of such a good film is just one of those things happen for no apparent reason movie moments.=== end of spoilers ==> Go see it! Even if you hate it, you will still love it!  "},{"Title":"A sexy movie masquerading as a character study; what more can a guy ask for!","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There's a reason this movie is unrated. The criteria for an R rating are likely overstepped. Seriously, all one needs to do to get a sense of what you're going to be watching is read the IMDb full storyline. Common sense prevailing, you know you'll be seeing nudity, erotic scenes, and that's why most will choose to see the movie. Yes, there's a fairly good character study story developed and both Molly Parker and Peter Sarsgaard do a good job of delivering performances that make it such. But let's face it, I'm not the only one that decided to view the film for the character study&#x85; as an afterthought. Carla Gugino thrown into the mix helped seal the deal for me. I have to warn the prospective viewers that you'll be seeing as much, if not more, of Sarsgaard's bottom than that of Parker's. I wonder if that could be considered a double spoiler. "},{"Title":"not what I had expected","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the trailer for this last spring before 'blow' - it looked like a daring and sexy film about internet porn. I was intrigued, but I never got around to seeing in the theaters. after seeing this movie today, I will agree with other reviews that this movie is like an anti-hollywood low-budget evil twin of 'pretty woman'. I really liked its realism, but I was expecting much more in terms of explicit content, asides for the famous lollipop shot. in the end, the marketing for this film was *very* misleading - the poster made it look like an art/sex film more in the vein of david lynch and atom egoyan, and both the trailer and the website, well... go look for yourself so, much like the website for 'center of the world', I was left wanting more; then again perhaps that is the point of it all, where the viewer is made to feel like the male character in the film - there is a limit to what he can get. in the end I was dissapointed, and 'center of the world' was not at all what I had expected. It is a good film, but what you see is *not* what you get. the tagline says come closer, but unfortunately the film never lets us get close enough and doesn't deliver the goods it promises. if it's a sex/art film you are looking for, you won't find it in 'the center of the world'. canadian directors are masters at this, so try atom egoyan's 'exotica' (with similar themes of man's fixation with a stripper), 'kissed' by lynne stopkewich (also with molly parker) or david cronenberg's 'crash' (a fantastic and very misunderstood film about the possible future of sex in a society where every pleasure has been over-exploited) instead. oh, and ken russell's 'crimes of passion' definitely gets an honorable mention in this category. "},{"Title":"Actually a pretty good movie","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It might not be a good movie for you to see in a movie theater, but it is actually quite a good R-Rated movie for watching at home during late hours. Too bad it doesn't end the way one comes to expect, but maybe it is closer to real life this way.  "},{"Title":"Daring film with flaws","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw Center of the World on cable & it knocked my socks off.  You just don't see films these days either in theaters or on cable that represent sexuality as boldly as this one. The characters (with one exception) are compelling & the drama & self destructiveness of their relationships are evoked indelibly.  The filmmaking is great w. wonderfully evoked scenes of sexual fantasy & erotic dreams.The two leads give powerful performances.  Their symbiotic relationship is described in a complex way; & their sexual chemistry is deeply evident. Wayne Wang is to be commended for boldly going where most Hollywood directors refuse to go in these times of sexual correctness & sexual Puritanism.I am glad to hear that the dvd contains two alternate endings to the film, because the one I saw on cable was pretty lame.  After enduring a debilitating & ultimately unsatisfying relationship, it appears that Peter Sarsgaard's character hasn't had enough.  He goes back to the same exotic bar where he first met Molly Parker's character & asks for her again.  Their tryst seems to almost repeat their earlier relationship.  Why would someone go back to the scene of their humiliation as if nothing had happened?  Nothing had been learned?  It's just not plausible to me.  Also, Carla Gugino's character, a weirdo slutty character doesn't make much sense to me.  The film doesn't make very much of her.  Yet she has this weird scene where she comes on to both leads almost simultaneously.  What was Wang's point in this scene?  To me, it just stands out like a sore thumb.RS "},{"Title":"A Hot, Sexy and Sensual Adult Version of Pretty Woman","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Richard Longman (Peter Sarsgaard) is a successful lonely nerd making lots of money in computer business. He meets Florence (Molly Parker, incredibly beautiful and sexy &#150; I watched many movies where she performed secondary roles and I never noticed how gorgeous she is!), a stripper in profession who plays drums as a hobby. Richard invites her to spend three days in Las Vegas with him and paying her for the `job' ten thousand US dollars. She accepts the proposal and establishes certain rules for the sex games, including no mouth kisses or penetration. During these three days, Richard falls in love with her. I found this movie great the two characters are very well explained and the viewer can understand the situation a lonely guy like Richard certainly would fall with Florence after a close contact like they have. And Florence admits that once a whore, whore for the whole life. She was with him just for money and even her doubts regarding her feelings about him were superseded in the end  by the reason. Fortunately Wayne Wang did not use the alternative ends showed on DVD, where Florence returns to Richard the money he spent with her and her girlfriend Jerry . In certain part of the plot, Florence puts in question her feelings with Richard, but in the end he is just a regular customer. I believe Wayne Wang used the storyline of `Pretty Woman' for developing the screenplay of this adult version of the story. My vote is eight. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Films of the Year, and Probably the Greatest F*(@ Film Ever made.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It really feels good to see a great movie and last night I saw the Best Film of the Year (so far). Actually, I liked this movie so much that it will end up in my top five list of the year. So I went to the 930 showing of The Center of The World, and that film worked in every possible level. The story is a simple one, dot COM Millionaire hires stripper, who he has a crush on, to go to Vegas for a weekend. She gets $10,000 he gets all the fun he can handle. We have seen this done very badly before. But what Wayne Wang does, to me, is Film History. The film doesn't go the usual route, feelings are not allowed, this movie is about the Battle of the Sexes. The Battle of the Sexes, How more cliché can one get, well if the capital of cliché is Tokyo, this movie lives in New York, that's how far away from cliché this movie is. Women and men are enemies in a battle that is never going to end and no one is going to win. Every single scene between the Millionaire and the Stripper are clear stand offs. I won't pushed the matter on, this film is a F#^( Film. There are at least  seven sex scenes in it and in every one of them, the battle becomes more and more brutal. Who is in control, which has the power, who is more beautiful, who is not a wh*%@? The Millionaire thinks he has the power, Stripper thinks she has control. The Film was excellent. I could go into more detail why this movie is perfect but I won't. Some of my reasons are maybe too cruel for the public's ears. Is better just to let you come to your own results. The film was done very boldly, it was shot on DV and until now I didn't like the results but this movie once again, changes my mind about some topics. Is almost a documentary about these two people and the battle that they are both going to forfeit. So the format and the style fit the movie like a glove. Both actors, who you probably have never seen before, are great. And the writing seems to me a bit minimal. This is a movie that screams improvisation, but very well thought out improvisation. The film had a very surreal touch to it, and I think Vegas should be the one to thank for that. Hotel rooms, bars and the Vegas surroundings are the main backdrop, and it still creeps me out. Is one of the most haunting films I have seen in a while. Oh, by the way, I forgot to mention that this movie is plot-less, and is just as interesting as anything anyone could come up with.  In a month were everything that is coming out are stupid Tom Green movies, I'm happy I discovered this one in time. And for the newspapers, if you want a sound bite, see what you think of this one. One of the Best Films of the Year, and Probably the Greatest F^%( Film Ever made. Lo "},{"Title":"Wang's attempt at LAST TANGO IN LAS VEGAS","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wayne Wang has acknowledged his love of LAST TANGO IN PARIS and with this movie it's pretty obvious what he's going for.  Unfortunately, there's a big problem with the film's premise  any man who's got $10K to hire a hooker AND has access to the internet should be smart enough to know how/where to find a suitable travel companion who will do as he pleases.  Still, there was something intriguing about this movie -- but I just didn't buy the story.  The two leads were interesting and did a good job with what little dialogue they have (Peter Sarsgaard totally inhabits his character and the frustration his social ineptitude causes him is palpable). Did Molly Parker even do her research?  Man, if she gave me a lap dance I'd want my money back!   "},{"Title":"Nothing new here","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ancient script. Man needs the physical stuff. Man hires dancer or prostitute. Man falls in love with her. Man in crisis mode.This movie lacks a bundle on the character development's front. And the passion between Richard and Flo doesn't really fly. The elements are there to make a good movie, but Wayne Wang seems to be unable to put the magic touch to it.Molly Parker and Peter Sarsgaard are doing a fine job as Flo and Richard.You can easily skip this one.Out of 100, I gave it 73. That's good for **½ out of ****.Seen at home, in Toronto, on October 18th, 2002. "},{"Title":"I want my eight dollars back!","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an excruciatingly awful film - strike that - an excruciatingly awful video that has been transferred to film. If you can not afford film, Mr. Wang, PLEASE curb your ego and release it directly to video.The quality of the picture is terrible and the story is twice as bad. The film revolves around two of the most vacuous characters I have ever had the displeasure of watching on screen Richard, a socially retarded software millionaire who pays Florence, an empty headed but street-wise stripper, ten thousand dollars to accompany him to Las Vegas for a weekend. In those three days, Richard naively hopes to win this bimbo's heart.Over the course of the weekend we are subjected to watching the homely Florence play mind games with the idiot man-child, Richard. Richard's only relationship with women is masturbating in front of his computer monitor (shown in a flashback), which demonstrates that he is easily manipulated and an extremely pathetic human being.I won't spoil the ending for you, but it actually doesn't matter if he ends up with her or not. What matters most is, you've just wasted eight or ten bucks (depending on where you live) on a cruel joke played by Wayne Wang.Wang doesn't introduce one character worth empathizing with or even relating to on any level. Are we supposed to feel sorry for this bumbling twenty-something millionaire? Oh, the poor little rich boy. Are we supposed to care about the self-debasing affected stripper who only cares about money? How can you worry about someone who doesn't concern herself about anything or anyone? You can't!Again, I have to go off on the quality of this movie. It's horrible! The entire film was shot on video and it doesn't even look like digital video. Some of the scenes were so pixilated my eyes had a hard time focusing on the screen - and, I thought The Blair Witch Project's quality was bad.I love independent film, but this isn't film - it's video. A very, very, very bad video.  "}{"Title":"Last Tango In Vegas","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A lightweight riff on Bertolucci's magnificent Last Tango In Paris finds a couple strike a deal whereby he will pay her to spend three nights in Vegas with him. Well, a holiday in Vegas even if you have to do a bit of sexy dancing for someone? Who could say no? The problem here is that the main character of the film pretty soon establishes itself as Las Vegas. Who cares where that ice cube is going? I wanna see The Stratosphere! And there is the problem...despite some half hearted attempt to inject modernity into it all by making him a computer wizard (though this is never really explored from the cyber sex angle) and despite the washed out colour of the DV flashbacks and some arty shots it is really hard to care. A couple of questions are raised but never answered and the whole film teeters on the verge of being interesting but never engages the viewer. Stil there are some great shots of Vegas! "},{"Title":"All steamy sex and mirrors.,,not much of a movie here","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Two people lost in the world somehow find each other.He is a nerdy, depressed Mr. Nice Guy, willing to pay to get close to people. She is a stripper who works out her anger as a drummer in her off-hours. When she tells him she won't let him get close, he takes it as a challenge.He wants to believe she's fundamentally normal, just great in bed. What she sees is a guy she can squeeze for money. Not understanding, or caring, what she's doing, he's willing to throw everything away for her. When she rejects his love, he's not such a nice guy after all. Yet they both keep going back for more.There is a tremendous amount of sex in this sordid Vegas-based movie and I sense it was used to pad a flimsy story. This film takes itself very seriously, but like time spent in Sin City, it doesn't amount to much. "},{"Title":"bad timing","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What is up with a movie coming out in 2001 acting as if the internet is still creating dot com millionaires out of nowhere?  If this were real life, that guy would have already BEEN a millionaire but would be seeing his fortune being reduced to being able to afford nothing more than a hot meal and a cheap bottle of wine. "},{"Title":"Lots of Potential, Little Result...","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen a lot of movies with the Internet as subject matter over the past few years, and the surprising size of the audience I sat with for this one leads me to believe that my interest is shared. The Center of the World was supposed to examine sexual relationships in the age of the Internet, according to this Salon articleBut Salon got it all wrong; the touchy subject of online pornography was only fleetingly alluded to, and what I got instead was a slightly more realistic version of Pretty Woman. Thankfully, Sunday's episode of Futurama did a much better job on the pornography issue! "},{"Title":"A disappointment from Wang","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've followed the career of Wayne Wang for several years. His two New York movies (Smoke and Blue in the Face) maybe probably his best. The Hong Kong epic Chinese Box worked very fine for me, even though the subtitling of the Chinese dialogues was very erratic in the copy that was projected and edited in video here in Mexico. Therefore I was surprised to find this film in the video shelf and very eager to watch it. More when I found out Paul Auster collaborated in the story (he was a key participant in the two N.Y. movies afore mentioned).It was a sure disappointment. In this story about a computer geek that sort of falls in love with a stripper, Wang forgets that the key point in a dramatic story is that the viewer identifies or at least cares for any of the players. But as soon as the geek meets the girl and offers her money to go for a few days to Vegas things start to drift out of context. The erotic imagery are the center of this world and they work as good as in the best Zalman King soft porn. But this is a Wayne Wang movie, and his characters always should be, and work for that matter, above those issues.But they don't. The video-cinematography is beautiful, full of interesting close ups and moving camera effects. The film structure is full of flashbacks in black and white that reconstruct the first meeting of the characters in a sort of convoluted manner, becoming tiresome as the movie advances.There are few strong moments, like the almost cameo by Carla Gugino as a damaged woman that end up not paying off. It's a difficult movie to watch if you expect any rapport with the characters. The ending is an unconclusive as the rest of the film. Trying to leave an open finale, the conclusion seems vague and pathetic. "},{"Title":"Sexy but needs a bit Viagra!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What is The Center of the World? It could be the country of Ecuador, it could be the White House or the United Nations, it could be that spitball that always landed on the globe in your junior high school's history class, or it could even be where man likes to invade his taste buds from time to time. It is also the new film by Director Wayne Wang. `The Center of the World' is about lonely young millionaire who hires an exotic dancer to spend the weekend with him in Las Vegas.  The film does focus on topics such as masturbation, isolation, lesbianism, prostitution, and desperation. No! This is not a documentary of strip club regulars. At times 'The Center of the World' did receive the center of my attention; but at other times it was way off its mark. *** Average  "},{"Title":"Boring, Slow and Mis-Marketed","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At the risk of sounding like a pervert, I must give this movie a bad review primarily because this movie was promoted as explicit sex with a story, but it was more of a bland and boring story with a few erotic dancing scenes.  All the actual sex was kept off the camea. While some people may like slow, drawn-out, simple drama storyline with bad dialogue, I was expecting an edgy erotic thriller in the fashion of Basic Instinct.  Needless to say I was greatly dissatisfied to find it did not meet any of my expectations.  I could easily make a better movie myself.  Maybe I will. For those who LIKE the slow dramas and don't mind nudity and implied sex, this is a decent idea of putting a computer geek looking for love and a below-average stripper looking for money together.  Just don't make any expectations before and during the movie and you should not be annoyed by the non-climactic ending.  "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alright, so I waited 90 minutes for something to happen in this movie.  I mean, I was hoping for a cool plot twist or something.  Instead, I was just bored.  I was trying to like at least one of the characters, but the main characters were shallow and annoying.  The supporting players weren't around long enough for the audience to get to know them.  I'm glad I had a free pass to the movies when I saw this, because I'd have been upset if I shelled out 9 bucks for it. "},{"Title":"Worse than Showgirls.","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I would have never thought it possible that a film could scrape the depths of horrible movie-making to the degree that Showgirls did, this film surpasses even that little masterpiece in every facet.Do yourself a favor and rent some soft-porn instead at least you'll be spared the agony of expecting a plot - any plot - and having to witness two of the most contrived and ridiculous acting performances to date.I read a few past user reviews, and am frankly just flabbergastedthat this could make anyone's Best 5 Films of the Year List. I can pick 5 better Stallone films...and I'm no Rocky fan.Save the $8 or whatever it is and spend it on gas (3 gallons these days?) to go see a real film, Memento. I understand it's not playing everywhere, but you'll be happy you took the ride. "},{"Title":"A Question Of Aim. . .","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Was this a great attempt shackled by inadequate  resources, or a direct hit on the wrong target?It cannot be determined from the product, and there is no way to really know if the project was a great innovation or a slapdash excuse for the opportunity  to play bad boys and girls in front of a camera.Technical aspects ranged from average to mediocre,  with an occasionally poor effort detracting from the story's progression.Could it have been done better?  Of course.But then, a better technical job might have produced  a less entertaining movie. "}{"Title":"At least it only cost me $4","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, 29 francs, which is the equivalent of $4.  I knew little about the film except that it was a bleak erotic Wayne Wang film.  And it was all of those things.  Maybe I just wasn't in the mood to see Pretty Woman Meets Leaving Las Vegas/Showgirls, I don't know.  I was underwhelmed by the sex, the dialogue, even the loneliness--I've had better of all of those.  The one scene I did actually find right-on was...POSSIBLE SPOILER ...the one where they finally have sex in the end.  It comes just after he talks about how it is going to be, how great HE is going to be.  But the reality is that he isn't super-lover; she isn't wet, he spits on his hand to get inside her, she is just starting to get into it when he comes.  How many women can relate to that?  I certainly can.  I don't think the scene was at all about her retreating into herself and pretending not to enjoy it--it was about the fact that he was a great lover only in his own mind.  And when he turns her over and forces himself on her after that, no one can claim she is simply pretending not to enjoy it.  She's being raped, for God's sake!END SPOILERI'll have to rent Smoke again to regain my taste for Wayne Wang films.   "},{"Title":"This may take patience&#133;give it a try","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you like Molly Parker (Kissed 1996; The Five Senses 2000), go for it. It's a restrained performance (in spite of the physical intimate scenes) as the role of Florence demands, and the mysteriousness about her Parker subtly sustained. Peter Sarsgaard, quite a different role from Boys Don't Cry 1999, contributed his unpolished (and shy) boyish look to the role of Richard, a computer programming nerd.Center of the World is NFE not for everyone. Filmmaker Wayne Wang has taken a risky attempt, and you can't quite give this film a label - it sort of defies category other than a film experience unto itself. The digital video approach gives a voyeuristic feel, a record of the brief rendezvous of two strangers, Richard and Florence. My immediate reaction as I left the cinema was it's a rather sterile movie - sterile treatment, computer and digital - colder than MEMENTO. There are flashbacks (so does Memento), and there are certain potential sparks, yet never aflame. It takes two to light the fire of the hearts - one-sided is not enough. The intensity of the rich computer nerd is tame. There are no waves of passion.Peter's Richard is still quite childlike in spite of his success in dot com business. As he was chatting with Florence, we catch that his father passed away recently. That's a possible clue to his disposition - not caring about money or expense, kinda aimless in his pursuit or what he'll do - subliminally, he still has the sense of loss or denial grieving his father. As for Florence, she is mysterious, isn't she? And probably remains still a mystery as we leave the movie. Somehow Molly Parker optimizes her quality of restraint as Florence, a rather complex young woman who seems to know not what she wants, or, she wants or desires yet would not let herself go and venture forth or take (another) risk. It seems like she has a past that impacted her reluctance to express her feelings - she doesn't want to go through 'hurt' again. While he, the naive, is willing to experiment and let go of himself to receive her, and her girlfriend Jerri (Spy Kids Carla Gugino). His patience and generosity are almost virtuous.  What do we make of this film, this encounter between Florence and Richard? Did they grow to appreciate each other? Is there love between them after all? Perhaps it'd be a TORV (tastier on repeat viewing) opportunity.The intimate scenes might not be erotic to some, and the film may not have a storyline or drama to others. Try Bliss 1997, it's Sheryl Lee (Laura Palmer of Twin Peaks TV series 1990; Backbeat 1994) with Craig Sheffer as her husband (Fire With Fire 1986 with Virginia Madsen; A River Runs Through It 1992) and Terence Stamp as the therapist (The Collector 1965; The Limey 1999.) If you want stronger (and physical) content/drama, try (practically anything by) David Cronenberg. To name a few eXistenZ 1999; Crash 1995; Dead Ringers 1988. If you're interested in dot com and computer nerds, try Startup.com 2001, the documentary. There's plenty of drama and humanity in it - and it's real-life. TORV copyright 2001 Ruby Liang, ruby_fff.  "},{"Title":"Sexy Movie, but Unattractive Characters...and What's Up With the Ending?","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I did not like this movie. Primarily because of all the hideous closeups that the director chose to impose upon the audience. I do not care to see zits, freckles, pores and eyeballs up close. It did not seem to add to any of the scenes. It was merely distracting. I found Florence to be only mildly attractive and a terrible dancer to be a stripper. Music was terrible, too. And yet....there was something very provocative, erotic and sexy about the film. For all of the nudity, we still did not see his penis. Why not? I thought the introduction of the new character was interesting, but it went nowhere. ========= *SPOILER*========================TO FOLLOW===> Someone please email me and tell me about the ending. I thought they had split up? Was that his imagination or did he actually go back to the strip joint and buy a lap dance from Florence? The reason I am puzzled is because she seems to be wearing the same toenail polish and outfit and saying the same words. Still, it would have been kind of neat for it to end that way.====================End of Spoiler=========================> By the way, that guy is the creep that was in Boys Don't Cry. "},{"Title":"Wang and Wong? The great mystery... to be uncovered.","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh, I'm coming inside youuu...!If this is the sort of dialogue you want, I suggest you delve a little deeper into your DVD store (the hidden depths and secret passages), and get a porn film. Pornos are far quicker in getting to the point - and even the characterization is sometimes better than in TCOTW.However!... A warning, lest you think there is hardcore porn in TCOTW this crap is strictly soft-core, so don't expect something like 9 Songs, Intimacy, or Sex Is Comedy, other similar sex-driven plot-less garbage, masked as art.Alarms started going off in my little head the moment I read the credits screenplay by Ellen Benjamin Wang. Apparently, the director's wife (probably 30 years his junior) must have one day felt that her husband owed her a shot at writing movies, as return for everything she had done for him (hint hint). In fact, maybe the screenplay is loosely autobiographical? A lonely millionaire seeks out an expensive female escort to keep him company in a five-star Las Vegas hotel... I was also surprised that Paul Auster had sunk so low as to waste his time on such cretinous and pointless material.This is what I refer to as a lifeless movie. D.O.A. The mood is dead, the visual style (filmed mostly on video - whoopdie!) is more bland than your dull neighbour's sea holiday footage. The hip shaky-camera shtick gives yet again the impression of a drunken director of photography who stuck his camera you-know-where and then filmed the movie from behind, randomly taking in images, sometimes missing the actors completely. The near-lack of a soundtrack only underlines the deadness of everyone and everything involved. Was this crap inspired by Idiots 95, Lars von Trier's wonderful little crackpot cinematic-revolution firm? The wobbly camera, the sex, the ugly look, and the lack of music certainly adhere to the rules of Morons 95. We're offered two lead characters who are uninteresting and bland. I could almost see Molly Parker as a stripper (although, they're usually rather mangy-looking), but when it is mentioned that she fixed car-locks and plays the drums, I could have laughed. I could have but didn't, because the movie had already put me in a semi-slumber during its first several minutes. Parker plays an uninteresting, mentally hollow stripper; Sarsgaard plays a run-of-the-mill nice guy an uninteresting rich and polite semi-nerd. When the two of them were together sparks flew! No, not really... But I'm sure that Ms.Wang intended to have us see those sparks - wherever they may be. Where have those sparks gone? Or were they never even thrown in the film in the first place? Ms.Wang, you need to find out who took those sparks that were meant to be in all those sexy, emotional scenes. I think someone stole them. Or perhaps the sparks abandoned the set, running as fast as their feet(?) could carry them, unwilling to have anything to do with this dull project.Thank God for the miracle of modern science! No, not the internet, computers, or DNA research; I'm talking about the remote control. Using this simple yet effective tool, I managed to finish this 85-minute movie in less than 70 minutes. I know, still too long for this malarkey, but that's at least 15 minutes of my life saved, and every minute counts when you're as bored as I was, watching Ms.Parker try to be sexy with her laughable stripping and tiny butt.So what was the ultimate point of this shamelessly plot-less film? Basically, this is a when-is-the-penetration-gonna-happen kind of story. At the outset of their Las Vegas adventure Parker tells Sarsgaard and the poor viewers that there will be no kissing and no penetration, but even the most clueless viewer knows that that's exactly what has to happen at some point. And when it happens it's... it's... rather uninteresting, just like all the previous events. In that great finale they kiss, they have (un)emotional sex, Parker is still frigid, Sarsgaard is still in love - and sobs like a baby after just having semi-raped Parker. He did that to her because he was heavily frustrated. 10,000 bucks and such disrespect? Ts, ts... Maybe the message of the film is this rich semi-nerdy young millionaires are often unable to get the proper sexual escort service that they really need. Wow. That IS deep.Or maybe the movie wants us to muse over whether the vagina or the internet is the center of the world. (I'm not making this up.) Now, that's DEEP! A little correction. I just found out that Ellen Banjamin Wang isn't a Wang but a Wong. Furthermore, she is not a real person but a pseudonym which Wayne Wang so very ingeniously created to represent all the great and inventive minds that put so much thought into this intellectual exercise. Maybe that's why the movie sucks this much half a dozen writers collaborating on what is essentially a non-story... that can never end well.There is more entertainment to be found in reading the name Wayne Wang over and over than watching this film. "},{"Title":"Don't see this movie!!!","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of the worst that I have seen in a while.  If it wasn't for all of the naked women in the movie, I would have walked right out of the theater.  There was absolutely no plot, it wasn't shot very interestingly and it was plain degrading to watch.  If you have any urge to see this movie because it is about a dot-commer in SF, wait until it is out on video.  There is hardly any reference to the industry and there are even less shots of San Francisco.  Truly a terrible movie and a waste of money. "},{"Title":"Lots of sex but really boring","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie (excuse me, film) strives to be edgy with lots of intense sex scenes. At first the sex was compelling but after a while it was like, please make it stop. It's so boring!! We get it they are two broken people with lots of problems, hang-ups, whatever. And they're channeling the emptiness of their lives into the sex. Beyond that, there's not much to this movie. Take away the sex and there's really not much here. In agreeing to join him in LV, Florence has a set of rules to which they must adhere. OK. But we don't really find out what's behind her strict adherence to the rules. It's like a plot device that goes nowhere. Then, there's the scene where Richard runs into an old friend and Florence puts on a fake southern (?) accent and makes up a story about operating clothing line of for women's fantasies. Wow, she's so smart, witty and in- your-face! Four stars is really a stretch. "},{"Title":"Tepid treatment on the politics of sex","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gee whiz, didn't realize I was setting out to watch a soft core porn movie! Could have been a very interesting story. Unfortunately, the main characters were devoid of emotional depth and lacked any interpersonal chemistry. In the end the story had nothing to do with love or even attraction, but just the power (and violence) that some people exert over each other.Thought the ending was perfect given the superficiality of the characters. Gave this 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Why Digital Sucks","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ran into this one on one of my 7 HBO's last night. Considering the talent behind and in front of the camera, plus the new digital technology that was used to film the movie, you would think this would have made news when they tried to release it. After watching it, I now know why I've never heard of this film, it probably went straight to video without one week at any of the indy film houses in LA like Laemmle or Landmark. Wayne Wang is a great Director - see Smoke or Joy Luck Club to see for yourself. Peter Sarsgaard is a sensational young talent, see Boys Don't Cry  or Salton Sea to see for yourself. Molly Parker is somewhat unknown to me, but her recent work as a female rabbi in Six Feet Under is bringing her more to the forefront. Sarsgaard and Parker are decent enough in their roles, it's Wang who blows this movie to bits. Using Hi-Def/Digital Camera technology was the big mistake. If you want to see every freckle, pimple, and pockmark on your movie characters faces, then go with Digital. Wang made these beautiful enough people look really really bad, and to me, this movie is the A #1 example for why a film should not be shot in digital, at least not this way. Film is film, and a film is shot on film. If something's not shot on film, i.e., on digital, then guess what? It's not a film. It's a movie. Because of the pornographic nature of this movie, the digital camera made it feel like that much more of a porno to me. Wang probably makes digital look worse than it actually is by deciding to shoot his actor's faces so close up. It ruins each shot. He makes Molly Parker look like an alien with his close ups on her big blue, freckle framed eyes. He makes Peter Sarsgaard look like a bum with his tigh shots on his cavernous pock marked face. It's disgusting. If you shoot digital, lose all tight shots and bad lighting, and watch this movie as an example of what not to do when shooting digital. The story is pretty much a not so original take on rich guy goes all out to buy a prostitute and maybe they will fall in love, let's see what happens. It's worth watching, but like many movies, only because you can learn what not to do as a filmmaker.   "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As well made as the movie is from a filmmaking standpoint, I was just very uncomfortable watching this movie.  Even though the scenes themselves weren't as explicit as most people would claim (the most explicit is the scene involving the stripper and the lollipop -- if you saw it, you'll know what I mean), just the whole movie, for me, was tough to watch.  I would have walked out, except I was doing an assignment for a college class for my journal, and this was one of the movies he suggested we see for this assignment.  I forgot to take a notebook with me to the movie to take notes, but I will say that I won't be sitting through this one again just for a class. "},{"Title":"Dear God, would somone please make the suck go away!","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I never knew that the majority of audiences in the United States who attend arthouse cinema could ever, ever, EVER consider this abommination an art film. Since when do we feel that glorified pornography with a some-what better than Debbie Does Dallas script makes fine cinema? Because the characters all had issues? Because they were emoting after their sex scenes? This film is utterly one of the most revolting excuses for independent film I have ever had the displeasure to see.I have no problem with love scenes, sex scenes, nudity, et al, as long as they have some sense of tasteful rellevence to a strong story. However, this script was merely a hashing out of sexual perversions, with the SLIGHT feel of romantic interest for about a millisecond. The writing was at times laughable, and most of the time tollerable at best. I have scence sexual thrillers that actually went somewhere...this, sadly, was not one of them.'Tis Pity She's a Whore.J "}{"Title":"Better than I expected, but still pretty pointless (and dangerous)","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had many feelings upon watching this movie.  First, from reading other IMDB member descriptions of the film, I had expected something totally unwatchable and boring.  However, that was not really the case for me.  I thought The Center of the World was well-acted; I felt empathy for the two main characters, Richard and Florence.  I thought most of the dialogue was written thoughtfully and realistically.  In terms of cinematography, the hand-held camera thing worked well for most of the film, but there were times it did get a bit tiresome too.  Also, for a film where nothing much really happens, The Center of the World didn't seem overlong to me.  Overall, I would say this movie kept me semi-engaged and interested. But it also bothered me.  What punched my buttons?  First, I had a really hard time believing that the characters of Richard and Florence, who are portrayed as very emotionally literate people, would ever get involved in such a vacuous and emotionally unsatisfying situation.  Perhaps Wayne Wang, Miranda July, and the other writers of this film's script knew people involved in a similar relationship as Richard and Florence.  But I don't see pornography/strip clubs/stranger sex/etc. in such a clean light.  As I see it, a great many people involved in these activities are doing so because of terribly painful childhood wounds (i.e. sexual abuse, huge abandonment issues, family shaming)and to portray, nay, to glorify Richard and Florence's characters in such a clean erotic way misrepresents to the reality of the strip/porn world.  My concern here is that portrayals like this incorrectly glorify something that is really ugly.  Having taught high school for three years and knowing how films such as this distort teenagers' perceptions of reality, I can just hear my fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen year old students talking about how cool this film is, how like real life Richard and Florence are.  And then I can see them wanting to go out there and be like Richard and Florence.  Oh, cool, dude, let's get a striper and go to Vegas.  Yeah, cool.  So, anyway, I was disturbed by this aspect of the film.  Another thing that really punched my buttons related to the portrayal of men's/women's gender roles in the film.  There is much destructiveness, ugliness, and violence in this movie related to how men and women are represented.  Under everything in this film lies the old steretypes that men basically buy women for sex.  I think this is a very dangerous and violent way to portray male-female relationships, even if Wang was trying to do it in a tongue in cheek or not so serious way.  The two scenes that really disturbed me the most with respect to this issue were the one where Mel Gorham's character, Roxanne, came to the hotel room and the scene near the end of the film where Richard and Florence interact more intimately.  Without giving away the plot, I just thought the whole scene with Roxanne and Florence reeked of male hatred.  Was this the purpose of that scene?  And after Florence and Richard's final night in the hotel, I felt truly sorry for Richard's character.  What's gives with Florence's character?  Is she supposed to be behaving cruelly just for fun?  Why did she have to play by the rules, as she always said?  In light of her apparent emotional literacy, it seems highly unlikely to me she would behave in this way (unless she had some very serious issues with men).  A last criticism  The title of the film doesn't really work for me.  It seems too significant, too grandiose for the way the film is made.  And that makes me realize that although the I find the characters and dialogue in the film interesting, there's something not well-thought- out, something sloppy about the whole thing.   The Center of the World just seems really pointless and silly at the end.  So I don't know what an appropriate title would be. Anyway, that' my two cents worth.   "},{"Title":"lasttangoinvegas.com","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's nothing if not timely a high-tech nerd (Peter Sarsgaard) pays aSan Francisco stripper (Molly Parker) to spend a week with him for$10,000. She sets the rules no talking about feelings; no kissingon the mouth; no penetration. So, after a few days in Vegas, aftersome major sharing (I used to have this job opening locked carsfor people who lost their keys...), and some goofy  video-game-playing, what do you think happens? Think thoserules are gonna hold up for ninety minutes? What, you failed towatch that LAST TANGO DVD you bought?Someone needs to tell Wayne Wang and his 73 screenwriters (tomake this wiffleball of a movie?) that strippers do not come on tohigh-priced geeks with a sultry, surly, misterioso manner. They actwarm, friendly and accessible to melt the geek's shyness and getto his wallet. (The most truthful moment in the movie comes whenwe see Parker forlornly playing the drums in a dumb riot-grrl bandher delusions about her future are just about right.) AndSarsgaard, so good as the tallboy-chugging redneck in BOYSDON'T CRY, gives an awful performance as the techie--hismama's-boy giggles and fidgets are like something out of BALLOF FIRE. And must Wang, or Sarsgaard (who one suspects isimprovising like mad a la Wang's SMOKE and BLUE IN THEFACE), give us the dweeb perpetually saying, Shhhhhh! It's okay!to the stripper? She's ten times stronger, spiritually and otherwise,than he is. Sarsgaard's incessant gestures at consolation justmake him look pathetic--a dork out of an Albert Brooks movie.This is supposed to be a character drama, but the limning ofcharacter is pitifully thin. And as wizards of the erotic go, Wang isabout six stories below Stanley Kubrick. (Last stop; basement.)The one curious oddity in the movie is that Wang is the firstdirector in the history of movies who has made a guy looking at acomputer screen interesting--more interesting, strangely enough,than all the copulation he stages. "},{"Title":"I Just Paid $9.50 for a Cinemax late night movie","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  And I couldn't even enjoy myself to the fullest because there were people around (I ain't no Paul Reubens).This movie proves that anyone can directStep 1 Shoot naked peopleStep 2 Shoot naked people performing sexual acts on each otherStep 3 Shoot on DV.  It will look horrible but no one will notice because of Steps 1 and 2Step 4 Don't worry about blocking or lighting or plot holes or character development -- again, steps 1 and 2 will remove all needStep 5 Don't go to Cinemax or Showtime with your work of art.  Make sure it plays at respected theaters (I mean theatres) like the Angelica in NY -- that way Roger Ebert will think it is an art film and give it Two Thumbs UpStep 6 Steal the basic plot for another, better made movie... oh, I don't know, maybe Pretty Woman, and boldly change it to show the true, dark side of hiring a hooker for a few days.  This will help your film be seen as arty and dangerous.I'm all for sex, and I'm all for watching other people have sex.  But this movie is a soft porn dressed in art haus clothing. "},{"Title":"Showgirls the Next Generation","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Take Showgirls, make it all independent filmy and lower the budget, and you'll have this movie. Trashy as hell, but veiled as intelligent. The audience I saw the picture with laughed throughout the showing. See it for what it is, porn-lite fobbed off as art, and you will too. Perfs by Gugino and Parker are dead on. I got tired of Sarsgaard's one note performance. Still, I like to see DV features make it to theatrical, and I'll give filmmakers credit for achieving that much. And for getting my $10.My advice Rent Center of the World and play it with the sound off at the next literati cocktail party you host. "},{"Title":"One of the worst.....","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Easily one of the worst films I've ever seen! I love Independant films, and usually give them some slack....but this one is just bad all around! The acting is terrible, even by Indie film standards, and I've seen better cinematography in mid 50's super 8 home movies. The only purpose this movie serves is to give those involved in making it an excuse to show naked women and bad acting and call it art instead of what it is a bad soft core porno. "},{"Title":"A good movie for suckers","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Center of the World, which refers to the birth canal, tells of a young millionaire nice-guy who pays a stripper to do three days in Vegas with him. She imposes restrictions like no kissing on the lips, no talk of feelings, no fornication, etc.  At issue is, will they get past the sex stuff and fall in love? Wang has put a slick veneer on this story which spends too much time with gratuitous sex and too little time with character development...and what little is developed is pretty hard to swallow. Gugino's appearance is token, out of nowhere, and contributes nothing and all the lollipop and fire and ice BS is just window dressing for a story which is a flat as warm beer. C "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The script is disastrous, pretentious boring drivel. Whoever wrote those dialogues and plot is a loser who never had a meaningful relationship with anyone, or hopefully had one but absolutely no writing talent whatsoever.The camera work is a pathetic attempt at presenting the movie as an 'art film', 'independent' or whatever is supposed to give it some value. The only reason I managed to get through to around 90% of this film is my friend who laughed at and ridiculed every single line of those fake dialogs. I mostly spend my time wondering how much worse is it going to get.If people can actually get this kind of trash to DVD and cable TV, I wonder whether I should give up my profession and start making movies. I am convinced I can write a much better script than this junk.Don't even think about watching this.  "}]