[{"Title":"Crazy Eyes!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"44 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" So back when I was in high school The New Guy was released and my best friend and I saw it together, all I could say was that I wanted to pull a Dizzy, re-vamp my whole act for the school, we can all dream, right? But anyways onto the movie, The New Guy is actually a really funny high school comedy that is sure to deliver a few good laughs. I think the reason why is because of the cast, it looked like they just had a blast making this movie and made it completely entertaining. While it's definitely not the best acted or stands out against all other high school comedies, this formula worked and DJ Qualls truly made the movie into something special. He and Eddie Griffin were great for The New Guy, a new twist on the typical high school tale of freaks, geeks and beautiful people.Prison inmate, Luther tells us the story of Dizzy Gillespie Harrison, a 18-year-old high school senior and nerd. Dizzy is friends with Nora, Kirk and Glen, and attends Rocky Creek High School, where he is picked on by star football player Barclay. This occurs before and after Tina Osgood causes him to have an erection, which the school librarian accidentally breaks. Dizzy is misdiagnosed with Tourette syndrome; he is then illegally placed on medication by the school counselor. While at the mall's food court, Dizzy makes a fool of himself and gets arrested. In prison, Dizzy meets Luther, who turns out to be a sympathetic ex-victim who makes it his goal to teach him how to be cool. In an attempt to wipe the slate clean, Dizzy gets himself expelled from his old high school, then undergoes a makeover with the help of the prison inmates. Changing his name to 'Gil Harris', he enrolls at East Highland High and makes an impression by being dropped off in a prison van and beating up the school bully, Connor. The action has an intended effect, and head cheerleader, Danielle, welcomes the newcomer to school. Everything goes to plan, he's cool, popular, and everyone looks up to him&#x85; little does the school know what Diz actually was at one point.I really did enjoy The New Guy, I still love watching it today. There are a lot of great bits, but I think what my friend and I always have a great time watching is when the prisoners are teaching Dizzy how to be tough, especially when Luther teaches Diz the crazy eyes. This movie has a lot of memorable moments in it, I don't know if it's enough though for The New Guy to stand out as a classic high school comedy. But I do recommend it if you get the chance, it has a great soundtrack, a cool story and fun characters. Diz definitely made Madonna run for her money with his new re-invention of himself.7/10 "},{"Title":"A movie lovers movie","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"36 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are expecting another teenage gross out film, you'll be surprised to find out  that this is a cleverly disguised sweet movie about trying to fit in that cold cruel world called high school. This movie is filled with surprizes for movie buffs...and keep your eyes open for alot of surprize cameos.  And when the credits start to roll, stick around for the out takes.  You will smile all the way home.  "},{"Title":"It's not about the story. It's about the fun.","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A lot of people will say the plot of this movie was lame, predictable and dumb and yeah, they're right. But this kind of movie isn't about a brilliant plot. It's about interesting characters and silly gags and parodying those more serious types of movies. There are some funny lines, sight gags and slapstick, some cute girls, the bad guys get what's coming to them and the good guys win. Throw in some surprising celebrity cameos (some of which you might not catch until the credits roll) and a great soundtrack that mixes old and new songs and that's what I call entertainment.The cast is noteworthy too. DJ Qualls, of course, Zooey Deschanel (the chick from Elf), Eddie Griffin, Lyle Lovett, Jerod Mixon, Parry Shen, Matt Gogin etc. did a fine job. If you can watch a movie without being hypercritical about how bad it is, then get this, sit back a have some laughs "},{"Title":"well, it's another high school movie....loser wins!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you want a movie that's realistic, look somewhere else.  If you want a cute film, where the losers come out on top, this is a pretty good movie. Dj Qualls is becoming a really good actor, and he's got the role of the geek nailed.  Patten that boy for this part.  There are some choice moments in this movie that make it better then some, and Vanilla Ice is in it...how cool is that?  That's actually what makes this movie so great.  The cameos. there are some major rockers in this that will refresh the screen at times (towards the end).   "},{"Title":"Hilarious and a Great Cast!!","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"23 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'The New Guy' seems to stand out from all the other teen movies. When you go to see a teen movie, it is usually about the most popular kids in school and how they try to get laid. Though this movie shared some qualities of your normal teen movie, it had certain aspects to it that made it stand out from all the rest. I think it was the star studded appearances in the movie such as Tony Hawk, Gene Simmons of KISS, Vanilla Ice, Tommy Lee, Jurmane Dupree (spell??), David Hasselhoff, Horatio Sanz of SNL, and Jerry and Charlie O'Connell. What A cast! And of course DJ Qualls and Eddie Griffin were a hilarious on screen duo! 'The New Guy' certainly stands out from your average teen movie!! "},{"Title":"Dorky, funny, Cool","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"24 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, this movie is so funny. It skips the cheap humor of farts, and sick jokes and creates a situation that is funny on its own. Its original, and fresh on the coming of age genre of movies. It somewhat leaves the coming of age movie, and goes more towards comedy. I like how they had a few elements of other movies, yet it remained original and funny. Crazy Eyes kept being funny, the outcomes and situations that happens at times on their own, are funny! Nice cameos, and a nice paced movie. i will be adding this movie to my collection and will love to watch it a few more times.. Its funny! "},{"Title":"as good as these movies can be","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  just when you think they are going to go overboard with the dork vs jocks and dissing his old dork friends conflicts, they don't, thank you.  Plus, more often than not, the main villan does not even take that big of a role and his friends and girlfriend make him look like the idiot that he is. Because of these reasons,this movie is totally enjoyable and easy to watch. "},{"Title":"DJ Qualls sure know how to to act strangely and funny.","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie about 2 weeks ago and i must say that i was impressed by DJ Q's acting as Gil Harris / Gale Harrison! Ross Patterson also was acting like a modern high school thugstah... Anyway, this movie made me laugh like i havent laughed since American Pie 1 & 2! ) This is a kinda classical teenage movie, worth to watch! Lets just hope that they make a New Guy 2 or something.. ;) "},{"Title":"A real feel good movie","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The New Guy, is just one in a long line of feel good movies, and this one has something for everyone, its funny, romantic, and has poetic justice, what more could you ask for?. Excellent acting from Eliza Dushku and DJ Qualls, is there anything his character cannot do to make himself look cool, Dushku is the girlfriend you want the school bully to have, she stands up to him, and puts him down at every opportunity. Overall its a super movie, if you want a laugh and to to watch something that'll make you smile, then watch this one.  And dont forget to keep watching at the end, the out takes are worth watching. "},{"Title":"A funny enjoyable Teen Comedy","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The New guy was a movie that I had mixed feelings about. One part of me thought the movie was going to be just another piece of teen garbage and the other half actually had hope for the film. I am very happy to say that the film was actually very good. This movie is not your average teen movie of coarse it does have a few sexual references but it doesn't go overboard with the sex jokes. The most important element of the film was its meaning which is believe in yourself and don't let the people around you control you. The plot wasn't too original but I enjoyed the film very much.The film stars DJ Qualls as Dizzy Harrison, and his three friends Nora (Zooey Deschannel), Glen (Parry Shen), and Kirk (Jerod Mixon) who are just entering their senior year of high school. Dizzy and his friends have always been the geeks of the school and been the target of humiliation. So one day Dizzy gathers up enough courage to talk to one of the cheerleaders at the school. He actually succeeds in this goal but the cheerleader caused him to become aroused which in itself isn't too good. The next problem occurs when the cheerleader's boyfriend comes over and asks him what he is doing talking to his girlfriend. Dizzy is then humiliated in front of the entire school by the boyfriend punching him and then a hall monitor grabbing Dizzy's private area and pulling him into the principle's office. He is now so embarrassed and doesn't want to ever go back to school. So Dizzy freaks out in a fit of rage and goes to the mall and takes the microphone from the church quire and starts talking about how bad his life has been. This then gets him thrown into prison where he meets Luther (Eddie Griffen), who was also the loser kid in high school. Luther then explains to Dizzy how to get expelled from the school so he can go into another High school and start over with a new image. So he gets out of prison and goes back to school and tries to get himself expelled by pulling many wild stunts. He then goes back to prison where he learns the ropes of how to succeed in high school as the `cool guy'.  He changes his name to Gil, which is his middle name and starts fresh at the new high school. He embarrasses the most popular guy the first day and everyone falls in love with the New Guy! Gil gains respect from the main cheerleader at this new high school (Eliza Dushku) and starts a relationship with her. Gil feels great at first until he gets so popular and forgets about his 3 buddies who he has known since he was little. Gil finds a way to encourage the new school that his friends are just as cool as him. Gil then helps raise the school spirit by encouraging the football team to win games. Everything is going well for Gil until the football game between his new school and his old school occurs. This then causes a huge problem. The bully from the first school and the bully from the new school get together and find a way to destroy Gil's reputation.The film gives off a very good soundtrack with a mixture of many different types of music. I especially liked Dizzy's & his three friends' band who sounded awesome in my opinion. I think they should really go out and get a record deal because their music rocked. So as you can tell from the brief description of the movie, it does try to have its sexual jokes but aren't very offensive or sick like other teen movies. But most importantly to me is the end the film, which made a very good point. The movie was a very fun ride for me and I seen it many times already and enjoyed it after ever viewing.  My final rating for the New Guy is an 8/10  "}{"Title":"A Feel Good Movie With a Fairy Tale Ending","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some Spoilers DJ Quails stars as a kid who purposely gets expelled from one school to go in to another school, where he can start with a new reputation. The story then shows him attaining all of what he wants, but he has to disconnect himself from his past. Then he is reconnected with the past he is running from. There are a couple laughs and a feel good or almost fairy tale ending, as all works out in the ends and he gets the girl and keeps his new reputation.Eliza Dushku also stars in this one and she is the girl he gets. She again in an edgy cheerleader and a side character, like Bring It On. I always watch Eliza hoping for a little more drama from her. She can be a very powerful dramatic actress. However, in this one, she hardly raises her voice.The story may seem pretty unrealistic, but it has a good theme, I believe in. The main character's major change starts as an act, but he gradually gains confidence in himself. When his confidence changes, he is no longer concerned so much with himself, but with others. At that point he becomes likable and one can understand why the new school likes him. "},{"Title":"Harmless, pointless fun","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I bought my sister the DVD version of the movie while cruising through Border's one weekend afternoon,and I remember having second-thoughts immediately after.I refused to be in the same room while the movie was playing. After a few days though, I decided to see the movie for myself. After all, my mom saw the movie and said it was funny. It can't be all that bad if my own mom says so, right?As always, the old adage holds Mother knows best. This movie, while full of moments I've seen from many, many teen movies over the years, does come up with its share of funny moments.I'll say this Eddie Griffin saves this movie. His scenes are undeniably funny. I remember seeing, Undercover Brother and remember being thoroughly entertained (although the hot chicks did help). This movie has its hot chick as well The undeniably sexy Eliza Dushku, and her two friends (whose names escape me at the moment.)My heading says it all. Enjoy for what it is! "},{"Title":"It gets slightly better!","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  (MINOR SPOILERS)'The New Guy' starts off really bad. I was groaning through the entire beginning when Dizzy Harrison (DJ Qualls) gets hurt in a really bad way and during his scenes with Eddie Griffin. The editing was rushed, and the movie really didn't start very well at all. I thought I was going to loathe this film as much as Ballistic Ecks vs. Sever', but then it got slightly better.It got better soon after DJ Qualls became the new guy in Gil Harris. The whole reinventing yourself for a new high school seemed to work, and I even laughed a few times as Qualls tried to fit in. I also groaned a few more times too, but it was fun seeing a doofy character attempting to become a cool one. Similar themes have been explored before, but the film turned out to be better in the second half than the first. Almost likable in a goofy sort of way! DJ Qualls isn't going to be star material after this film, and I guess we can be thankful for that. If you can get past the first grueling 20 minutes, it gets slightly better to become passable. Lots of cameos from musicians, including a really funny one from Vanilla Ice.**½ out of *****! "},{"Title":"DJ and Eddie are funny in this","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  DJ Qualls and Eddie Griffin, the prison buddy, are the 2 people who are funny in this movie.  This was pretty good since it did make me laugh some.  DJ plays a loser(he gets his d**k broke by a 90 year old woman at school), who gets advice from Eddie, and gets himself kicked out of high school. He does some funny things, including intruding on the principle with a video camera to do this.  He then transfers to a new high school and builds a new reputation as the bad boy.  One of the funny things is the evil eye look he would give and Eddie does it also, and they play this background sound whenever they do it and everyone jumps back.(SPOILERS)  My favorite part is when DJ shows up at the new school in the back of a police armour car. His objective is to kick the b*tt of the badest punk at the school. When he first walks up to the guy, he gets punched.  But, DJ tries again and knocks the guy out.  Only problem, no one was around to watch.  So, he drags the unconscious guy around school, trying to get people to see him beat this guy up. It was funny.I also liked in when DJ sets this stautue on fire, and the reactions these girls give.  Also, when he shows up at this party on a motorcycle and wrecks it, but ends up getting towed.  See it, to get the joke.  I also liked it when his band plays Play that Funky Music White Boy.FINAL VERDICT  A decent comedy.  I recommend it because it is short and you will get some laughs. "},{"Title":"Much more intelligent than meets the eye","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Rented this movie as a late sunday afternoon movie, thinking it would be lame and a no-brainer that could help me ease my hangover. I wasn't prepared to laugh, I just wanted something to watch without thinking too much. But it turned out to be the funniest movie I've seen for a long time! I reckon that those comments on this movie that were negative, didn't get the underlying humour in the movie that isn't that obvious. For me it was kind of a kick in the nuts to other teen movies, making fun of the clichés found in these films. At the same time it uses these elements to make some really good jokes and giving it a ironic touch. I mean; the whipping look was just hilarious!! Just the whole looser getting cool plot is so over the top, it has to be ironic. I believe this is a movie that european filmlovers would like much more than the americans. It plays on a level that is not easy to understand when living in the middle of the reality it is portraying. For us outsiders it is so much funnier. If you don't get the movie, then you're not...sorry I don't mean to offend anybody...that in touch with reality. Sorry....****(*) out of ****** "},{"Title":"Ties in the elements of teen movies perfectly","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As with all teen-based movies, it is wrong to go in with the expectation of a deeply profound and provocative movie. This movie is supposed to be far-fetched and whacky and succeeds perfectly.The characters are cliched in order to highlight the flaws of the jock, the cheerleader, the geek etc. It is not a byproduct of poorly thought out characters or lack of depth. Rather, the film concentrates on exploiting these cliches for all the humour that they're worth.If you have the breadth of scope to appreciate the far-out and the obscene, then this is a great movie. If not, lighten up! "},{"Title":"Entertaining bad movie","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This silly comedy features DJ Qualls (who was entertaining in a small role in last year's Road Trip) as a high school loser who reinvents himself at another school as a popular tough guy. The storyline is pretty stupid and filled with more teen movie cliches than you can shake a stick at but the film is still kinda fun to watch because the filmmakers obviously knew they were making a crappy film and decided to have fun with it. Qualls seems to be having a ball with his role and Eliza Dusku (from Buffy and Bring It On) never seems to take her Cheerleader babe stereotypical role seriously, always poking fun at cliches, especially in a pointless but hillarious swimsuit montage. Yea the film is utter crap but it was still fun to watch. GRADE B- "},{"Title":"too silly, too broad, too convoluted","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dizzy Harrison (DJ Qualls) and his friends Nora (Zooey Deschanel), Kirk (Jerod Mixon) and Glen (Parry Shen) are in a garage band and seniors in high school. They are also outcasts. Dizzy especially is picked on and he even has his penis broken. He gets arrested and befriends fellow inmate Luther (Eddie Griffin) who teaches him the ways of the prison. Back in school, he gets himself expelled and transfers to a new school. Using a new name Gil Harris and new attitude, he's cool and just got out of prison. He's the popular New Guy and attracts the attention of cheerleader Danielle (Eliza Dushku).I like DJ and I don't mind the cliché teen story. It's just too silly to be taken seriously. Some of the story doesn't make sense even if a wide latitude is given. I'm not looking for a masterpiece of writing but it needs to be better. It's also not funny. The comedy is so broad that it really doesn't work. I kinda like the actors but the movie is too stupid to recommend. "},{"Title":"New Guy Old Story.","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The New Guy (2002) Dir Ed Decter / Cast DJ Qualls, Eddie Griffin, Eliza Dushku, Zooey Deschanel, Lyle Lovett Comedy about transformation and by its conclusion viewers may wish that it took the form of a better film. DJ Qualls plays a school nerd who is bullied to the point that he attempts expulsion. Why he is sent to prison for this is beyond me but he is trained by Eddie Griffin in the art of intimidation. Now he is enrolled in a new school with a brand new outlook. He goes through the predictable clichés of gaining interest of the school slut and bully's girlfriend. Directed by Ed Decter with amusing references to Patton and Braveheart. Qualls does what he can with otherwise predictable material. We know that he will face his oppressors and conquer and none of it amounts to chalk board dust. Griffin narrates for reasons unclear. He will school Quall in the art of rebellion. Eliza Dushku plays the girlfriend with the personality of a paper bag. Zooey Deschanel also appears as one of Quall's friends who has unnoticed girlfriend potential written all over her. This is unfortunate since she is totally hot. Lyle Lovett makes a wasted appearance to remind us that his career is dying rapidly. Theme regards acceptance and fitting in as well as standing up for yourself, which everyone can relate too but the screenplay needed transformation to match and it fails to do so. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Bloody Hilarious","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As far as comedy goes, you can't get much better than this. They casted DJ perfectly and he fits into this role like a glove. This movie gives geeks the world over a confidence boost as shows them that geeks can quickly turn into bad-asses (with some forged papers and enough eyeliner). This movie is hilarious and Eddy Griffin's character makes this movie totally unforgettable. All the scenes in the prison are comedy gold, although it portrays prison as being one large party. And everyone feels good when they see a high school bully get beaten. 8/10 score on a general scale, but 9 out of 10 as far as comedy movies go, really a fantastic comedy movie. "}{"Title":"No Brains, A lot of Heart","Date":"27 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This ridiculous film doesn't have much brains, but a lot of laughs at other's expenses and sexy girls, sounds like high school to me. This is a film I grew up with and I think it offers a legitimate way to get yourself out of the unpopular crew. It's an idea deep seeded in every dork or bullied kid's mind. Of course there are various extremities as the film plays like a cartoon without any logic or sense of pain for its characters. What is very true in the film is its overall theme, how to be popular (Be yourself, who hasn't heard that?) and how to get the hot girl (confidence). Because of its touchy subject of popularity that everyone can relate to, this film will grab everyone's heart and emotionally indulge you. That's what it, is a lovable film with a lot of heart and no brains. You'll definitely miss high school, after seeing this despite what part of the social hierarchy you were in. In the end, it's fair to everyone, and you'll smile, question things, shake your head, but try the crazy eyes for sure. Good film to re-imagine you scoring with your old high school crush. - camachbr0 "},{"Title":"Feed the needy....","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dizzy Harrison is an unpopular geek going through a bad senior year. In an attempt to make a new identity for himself, he gets himself expelled, learns the technique's of cool from a prison inmate, and enrols at a new school under the alias Gil Harris, to make new friends. He then gets noticed by the head cheerleader, Danielle, and helps the school football team gain self-respect to win games. But things unknowingly begin to turn sour when Danielle's disgruntled boyfriend begins investigating into his past to uncover any dirt on him.....Its a great premise, and could have been a wonderful movie, but I have never seen a movie where the lead is so miscast, that it ruins the whole film.Qualls is a good actor, Road Trip was funny, but to cast him as someone who would be considered cool by all the school and to have Dushku be attracted to him, is beyond bonkers.I know its shallow me saying that, but its a shallow movie, and despite the message of the film 'if your nice, it doesn't matter if your not cool' its still shallow, humourless stuff.The cast grate, Griffin is wasted, and its so predictable, you can almost count to three when the titular character has something bad happen to him, and then its all okay come the end.Add two really bad homages to Patton and Braveheart, you have a really disappointing movie. "},{"Title":"In dire need of  coming of age","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's amazing what I'll allow myself to watch, isn't it? The New Guy lies comfortably at the bottom of the barrel in terms of comedic teenage-fare. Its jokes are tired, its sight gags consistently unimpressive, and its story only elevated by the capable performance of DJ Qualls. You may remember him; that geeky, weird looking kid from Road Trip? His only starring role is unfortunately a film infested with dead end clichés and stale jokes so powerful they could taint a resume for decades.Qualls plays a high school senior named Dizzy, he's the stereotypical nerd who plays in a funk band and is treated with torment day in and day out at his high school. One day, Dizzy becomes involved in a little situation at school. Long story short, the poor guy's innocuous erection when talking to the pretty cheerleader leads to the librarian breaking his penis and sending him into a never-ending sea of embarrassment. For no real reason, loopier than all hell on prescription drugs, Dizzy intrudes on a church sermon at a local mall and is sent to prison.In prison, Dizzy meets Luther (Eddie Griffin), a man who understands the position the poor sap is in and wants to help him out. Dizzy winds up expelled from his old high school and winds up taking advice from Luther on how to be hip and cool. He gives him a makeover and renames him Gil Harris, as he attends the school run by preppy girls and jocks, East Highland High. He quickly sets his sights on school cheerleader Danielle (Eliza Dushku), and quickly learns the only way to leave an impression is to be a jerk, so that's exactly what he does.One thing I truly need to admire about The New Guy is its lack of ambition. It's hard to find a film from the last few years that seems to be as inert and as lifeless as this one. From its drab title, to its cloyingly bland poster, contrived setup, stock characters that can be described and summed up in one word, unfathomable plot points, and a barrage of other things, it's almost as if the executives behind the picture told Columbia Pictures that they wanted to fund, produce, create, and distribute one of the most boring and listless examples of teenage banal.And they succeeded. Not only does the film make us sit through ninety-three tedious minutes of clichés and dead-ends, it also shortchanges the comic ability of its headlining actor, Eddie Griffin, by giving him virtually zero screen time. The man shows up at leisure, pulls off the ominous prisoner with little convincing charisma, and seems to appear and reappear at convenience.As stated before, DJ Qualls is an underrated talent, unfortunately confined to a supporting role more often than not or simply not recognized at all. This is tragic but also apparent when you have mediocre comedies existing on your resume in place of successful, possibly defining staples. If we were to compare The New Guy to, say, Stealing Harvard, you'd have to resort to the political method of picking the lesser of the two evils. If you compared it to the nineties icon Slacker, well, you'd be comparing art and trash.Starring DJ Qualls, Eddie Griffin, Eliza Dushku, and Zooey Deschanel. Directed by Ed Decter. "},{"Title":"Not entirely there....","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...but not entirely missing either.It had its moments, and it sagged in some areas.The Patton scene was funny; but DJQ shrieked a little; Ed Rollins as the tattooed warden was funny; Tony Hawk's appearance gave me a chuckle. Dollar$ to Donut$ the script was written (and re-written, and re-written) some time in the 1990's....don't ask me why I think that. I could watch Eliza Dushku impersonate Richard Nixon, and DJ Qualls should probably spend some time in a gym (so the ladies could have some eye-candy). The Cheer Leader squad was amazing to look at. I liked the idea of the transformation via jail cell, and the homage to Dr. H. Lecter was amusing too. I had too much to drink tonight so don't be surprised that I am rambling.All the best, peace out! "},{"Title":"nothing new about this","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Randomly, I select a film from on-demand, and we are off and running.As the film starts I can see the production values are average at best. Then we have a young man dancing like James brown - which, in hind-site, may be the funniest thing about this piece of junk.'The New Guy' features DJ Qualls. DJ leaves a lot to be desired as an actor. He fits the dork mold perfectly, but struggles when it comes to tying this film together. Qualls plays the picked-on nerd with only a small group of friends. In an effort to escape his terrible high school life he gets expelled, jailed, and learns how to be a tough guy from Eddie Griffin. Griffin's part is far too small to save this film. It's almost as if the director slapped 10K on the table and said we need you Eddie for 10 minutes of footage and a cover shot. We'll have you out of here by 5pm. Sellout!Qualls re-enlists at a new school to establish his alternate ego. This is the point, right at the beginning, where this film goes south, and fast. The films biggest issue is it's complete lack of realism. This genre has been done before with much more care(see Phil Joanou's '3 O'Clock High'). Some of the gags in this film are so utterly ridiculous that you can barely keep your eyes on the screen. They'll, more likely, be rolling, as if to say, Oh My God.The romance between Qualls and a cheerleader at his new school lacks any depth whatsoever, and both actors make this aspect of the film, useless. I'll give it 4 stars for the revenge factor, which is always a crowd pleaser, and for the cameo's, which were fun and frequent, but 'The New Guy' is NOT a good movie, and, I suppose, that most of the positive reviews are coming from the 13-16 year old demographic.I will never recommend this film, and I will never watch it again.36/100 "},{"Title":"Once a Dork...","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" So I'm totally writers-blocked one night while trying to finish a script. And I'm channel-surfing cable, my mind a blank, settling in to a long night of unproductivity, wondering fearfully - like everyone who experiences the steel wall of Writer's Block - how I'll ever be able to string words together again, when suddenly - THE NEW GUY. And words come.Ironically, there are not enough words in the virgin English tongue to describe the depths of stupidity THE NEW GUY plumbs. But it is not all bad. Well, the story, acting, directing, characters and production values are excrement - what saves the movie are its CAMEOS...Just before I can slap someone in frustration for the movie's putridness, and continue channel surfing - Gene Simmons.Yes, Gene Simmons of KISS as an evangelist preacher. From outa nowhere. Hilarious! Bad hairstyle only helping.Then Vanilla Ice as an overzealous bouncer. Funnier than his whole career combined.Henry Rollins as a prison warden. Square jaw, square job.Crue's Tommy Lee as a partygoer with a chick on each arm - now there's a stretch! Other cameos passim, topped off by none other than The Hoff - doing his Knight Rider as only he can.The bawdy cameos exist in another dimension of viewing pleasure, unrelated to director Ed Decter's and writer David Kendall's egregious film.THE NEW GUY is about utter dorkfish, Gil Harris (D.J. Qualls), who gets himself expelled from school (after a humiliating erection incident), so he can re-invent himself at another school as tough guy, Dizzy Harrison. It's meant to be a comedy. Too bad it isn't funny.I gotta get back to my script...--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania). "},{"Title":"Take it for what it is...","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" DJ Qualls and Eliza Dushku make an interesting on-screen duo (and later couple) in this all American style comedy that is oriented for a teen audience.Sure, there are many clichés but you can forget about them in order to have a decent time.The movie is about a geeky, loser student that gets bullied all the time and could never get any girls. So he changes to another high school and invents himself a new cool, badass, groovy attitude that convinces everyone (except the popular male studs) that he's really cool.With his new attitude, he starts dating -sort of- the hottest cheerleader in school and that's just enough to make him change for bad because now he dismisses his old friends and his personality is now really annoying.Things get really ugly when the popular male students from his new college investigate about his past and discover that he was a terrible loser...Watch the rest and expect interesting things with a message.Eliza Dushku never looked this hot. I mean, her body is just spectacular and is enough reason to watch the movie. She's unbelievable hot believe me, if not, watch the scenes where she's trying on some skimpy, raunchy bikinis.DJ Qualls is really funny this time.Anyways watch this movie if you are in the mood for a predictable but funny teen comedy with some decent spoofs (Patton for example). "},{"Title":"Close to being as good as the Farelly Brothers","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I wasn't expecting much from this little movie but was very pleasantly surprised by the themes explored in the script. In many ways it is very formulaic however, the execution was very above par and had me laughing and chortling quite a few times. I would love to know how Ed Decter got so many of the great cameo appearances of A and B list stars to poke fun of themselves in their roles.Zoey Deschanel looks so young in the film--great makeup crew.Two great scene gags of Patton and Braveheart.Don't expect a lot, but be amused. "},{"Title":"THE BEST!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  the new guy is one of the coolest movies. it is one of my all time favorites! but gil is not the HOTTEST guy on the earth. that is why he makes such a great actor for this film. one of my favorite parts in this film is when dizzy gets his, you know what, broken!!! that is so hallerious.... and there are so many ways that he could have got it broken. and then writer made a great move on that when he does it infront of the whole school and then the old lady grabs it! that is so funny. and the counsler is funny too. she is a dits! well have fun watching the new guy!  "},{"Title":"A laugh-out-loud, stupid teen comedy.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a lot better than i thought it would be.  It has plenty of characters you can relate to, and enough laughs to keep your stomach in pain the entire time.  Not to mention all the hot girls, and trust me there are plenty of them.  In my opinion, Qualls is hilarious and I would like to see him in a lot more films.  There are also plenty of hilarious cameos in this movie.  This comedy is certainly worth checking out, and if your a fan of the teen comedy already it will become an instant classic.  "}{"Title":"A real fun movie to watch!!","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Come on people!! why is everyone so worried about the plot half the time. The New Guy had an overall trite story, but was entertaining and a fun to watch film. So what if it didn't have a immense story line as Lord of the Rings or the astonishing and well thought out plot of Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets.It was good because, unlike Lord of The Rings, wasn't claimed to be long and boring.It is just nice to kick back and watch this movie because it is fun! "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this movie not really expecting to like it but it was a riot! I loved the way that Diz changed, not only his external but his self-image. It was a hoot! Plus his band totally rocked and not everyone who was a good guy/girl was a pretty/handsome guy/girl.  All in all it was a funny, silly movie with a cool moral behind it. "},{"Title":"Totally hilarious","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It caught my attention pretty quickly. The simple idea that DJ(Dizzy) could become the badass of a high school was out of this world, but it was pulled off nicely. I enjoyed all of this movie with the exception of the last 10 minutes which like all cheesy movies are generally bad. I would suggest this movie to many people. 6.5/10 overall(8 of 10 if you expect a cheesy comedy) "},{"Title":"Don't dis it!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Coming from a teenager from the age bracket this film is clearly aimed at I thought it was an amazing movie with a great cast, it was hilarious and absolutely great! After seeing the trailer if it's not your kind of movie why watch it? It's a teen movie, just like most of the others it contains the same kind of humour and the same kind of cast and can i just say to the guy who dissed DJ Quals, it was refreshing to see him looking good after seeing him a total loser in Road Trip. Everyone needs an opening break into the movies so why put the casting guy down for giving DJ Quals that chance? So personally I think it was an amazing film, well worth the wait for us in the UK and DJ Quals with that hair, hell yeah! "},{"Title":"Hilarious - Lighten up Already!","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funny, hilarious, feel good movie. Dont listen to the naysayers. It's a teen movie for god's sake - what were these reviewers expecting? Shakespeare? The movie does start a little slow, but unlike the other teen movie releases recently, this one has some good surprises, not to mention the cameos - look out for Tommy Lee Jones, funny scenes with Tony Hawk (of skateboarding fame; another indication that the movie is geared to the X-games type crowd), David Hasselhoff, and even Vanilla Ice! LOL )) The Braveheart scene is just too much. And if you have even the remotest appreciation for real music, the soundtrack is full of some wicked funk, from James Brown all the way to Outkast. See ya! "},{"Title":"May not be a classic, but it works fairly well.","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Fed up with being the target of some awfully cruel pranks, a determined teen, Dizzy (D.J. Qualls) decides to get himself expelled from the high school that he attends just so he can go to a different high school nearby and work on improving his image. The New Guy may not be a classic, but it works fairly well in depicting Dizzy's attempt to be like James Dean or Steve McQueen in a positive way. What I liked about the movie is it tries (not hard enough) to show what it likes to become popular and some people like me never got that chance to be cool.  Plus, some of us knew better not to go too far in gaining the attention of certain preps.  And how Dizzy gets even with some of his foes (old and new) is somewhat acceptable.Qualls, who I liked in Road Trip, comes through again with an everyman-type of performance and so do Eliza Dushku and Eddie Griffin, who play a key role for Dizzy.  Dushku, the noble cheerleader who sympathizes and befriends Dizzy and Griffin, the mentor in prison/narrator, who teaches Dizzy to give anyone an intimidating look, which is done quicker than John Belushi with a whip in hand.I recommend the movie for teens who feel put down and who want to show they're not easy to take advantage of, but don't go to drastic options for revenge.      "},{"Title":"Better than recent flicks","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As someone from the John Hughes generation, I was starting to become dismayed at the lack of decent teen comedies as of late.  However, when you compare this to Dude, where's my joke?, Freddie got Fiscally Fingered, How Highly Stupid, Kevin Smith Strikes Another Movie Deal, and Stupid Movie (one and two), it's a friggin masterpiece.  It's nice to see a comedy that made me giggle at points and didn't have to rely on pee-pee and poo-poo jokes every 30 seconds.  It was sweet and had a decent story.  I would call it this generations Can't Buy Me Love.   "},{"Title":"Very very intersting movie","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The fact about teen movies is that the perception is so distorted (in wonderful and interesting ways) because it hasn't had the time to coalese into the more mature hollywood conformity.However, the story is of course petty deterministic and even if I wrote any part of it down, it wouldn't be a spoiler. But that is hardly the point of these movies. It glorifies physical violence -- as a means to ends and coats it in sugary eye candy of sex.  But underneath it all, it's a story about change and how is percieves change to be and how to attain it. From spiderman to this movie, the positive effects of change is always a sure way of entertaining audience. But the interseting idea is always what the cost of change is? From a bite of a spider to a knowledgable inmate, it's always shown to be quick and easy, right place at the right time, work the system.  "},{"Title":"Good, light-hearted high school comedy","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Based on the previews, I thought this was going to be another cheesy high school comedy, but was pleasantly surprised when I walked out of the theater.  The underlying theme of the whole movie is just an odd-ball trying to fit in.  The movie wasn't too crude or gross, but it wasn't to plain or boring.  I think many people who see this will be able to relate to one or more of the characters, and will be able to appreciate the movie more.  I would recommend seeing this if you are in the mood for a nice comedy. "},{"Title":"One of the best teen movies I've seen in a while","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the funniest TEEN movies I've ever seen. I went to the movie expecting another Scary Movie. When in fact this movie is far more tasteful. It doesn't have so much just sickening humor. Most of the comedy came from the writers own original ideas and I loved it. This movie was suppose to reach out to teens and it did. I myself am a teen and I was in tears laughing. Knowing that some adults have seen this and just already decided they weren't going to like it upsets me because this really wasn't made for them so of course they wouldn't like it. Eddie Griffin and DJ Qualls both gave wonderfully comedic performances. Eliza Dusku had all ready blew me away in Bring it On but this movie has definitely shown a lot of her potential. I went to this thinking it was going to be a unoriginal plot which always ends the same when in fact this movie managed to surprise me. The twist, jokes, and cast all put together made one of the best teen movies I've seen in a while. Please see this movie with an opened teenage mind to get the full effect. "}{"Title":"worth the money","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The new guy was a great movie. It's not really one of those movies that you would be embaressed if you saw it with your mom. I would pick this movie over scary movie anythime. I thought it was going to be one of those nasty movies that you have to have a good sense of humor to laugh at but it turns out I liked a lot. And what made the movie even cooler is that it had Eliza Dushku in it. I would see it again. "},{"Title":"Fun!!","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was expecting this to be just another formula teen movie.  Instead, it was almost a parody of all those formula movies.  I laughed so hard that I think I'll go see it again this weekend!  The Texas references might not be as funny to foreigners (i.e., those from somewhere other than Texas) as they were to me, but the way they took all the formulaic content and turned it on its ear was well worth the price of admission in and of itself. "},{"Title":"Loved this movie!!!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is pure fun!  I went to see this with a full theater and everyone really seemed to enjoy it.  The plot line is a little played, but the actors really save it.  DJ Qualls is an amazingly funny guy.  He handled the role well and managed to be really funny, but maintain a real sweetness to his character.  The rest of the cast was great, too.  Eliza Dushku is great and keeps her character from being cliche'.  All in all, a great movie!  Keep your eyes peeled for the last shot of the closing credits---reminds me of Something About Mary! "},{"Title":"Pleasant and funny","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Where this is certainly not the best movie of the season, it was definitely entertaining.  It is about a subject we can all relate to - the delicate, infuriating social structure of high school. It has a good mix of clever humor, dumb slapstick, serious moments, and those little kickers like cameos and popular movie spoofs.  It also has a very mild serious element; any more would have been burdensome, less would leave it mindless.  DJ Qualls's performance is very likeable, and for the most part so is his character. The acting is mediocre, but that's what one should expect from a movie in this genre.  The cinematography is not poor, but could have been better. The plot is contrived and predictable, but so are most these days.  It is mostly the bizarre humor, easy to like characters, and outtakes that make this movie worth watching. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought at first this movie would be an American Pie/Dazed and Confused typical end of the school year type of movie, I was wrong... I found this movie easy to identify with, beings everyone was picked on to death in school.  Overall it was a great movie, I recommend it. "},{"Title":"This was the funniest movie I have ever seen in my life.","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie rockz. Was the funniest ever, and hey, I got voted loudest laugher in our theater, so I'm very happy at the moment. If you like comedy, than this movie is for you. And it doesn't have very many inappropriate parts, like many other movies. GO SEE THIS MOVIE!! "},{"Title":"Not Bad at all.","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I will start by saying, this movie is not the best but yet it's not the worst. I was very surprised by this movie because I thought it would be but it made me laugh and it made me have a good time. So when you go out with you're buddies check this movie out I'm sure you will have a good time. It's no American Pie but it is pretty entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Nothing in The New Guy worth watching","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was expecting a high school comedy about losers trying to fit in, but instead The New Guy offered me something that wasn't a comedy set in a very awkward, cliché high school.The humour was done in Black-stylings, except worse than that, done in a Caucasian version of Black comedy. I understood what was supposed to be funny, but I just could not laugh at it. I didn't understand why they included a prison sub-plot, or plot device, I'm not sure if the writers themselves knew the point of it other than to compare high school to prison. And that is only funny once and only if they don't hit you over the head with it.The New Guy stars a few up-and-coming young actors. Zooey Deschanel and Eliza Dushku have since hit it big which I have never understood why, and after watching this movie I still can't explain their popularity. The new guy himself, DJ Qualls, has this peculiar appeal to him which I was actually attracted to but he is only crawling to fame, probably trying to drag himself away from this movie. "},{"Title":"The New Guy Delivers","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The New Guy is one of the best comedy films of the year 2002. D.J. Qualls stars as an outcast high school student who is the butt of all the jokes, and is ridiculed by every social group, but his own, the geeks. With a father like Lyle Lovett, and the friends he has, he must find his way in the world.Hence, go to prison to become a better high school student, and a scarier one too. While in prison, he meets an inmate that knows the secret to scaring someone, the look. With his new found knowledge, he starts attending a new high school, where he finds the toughest punk, and beats him up, only to become loved by everybody, everybody except his real friends.Along the way, many high school students feel the way that he did, and wish they had a friend on the inside. Comedy is the best way to make friends, so this film deserves 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Funniest Film Ever!!!","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film had me laughing the whole way through. DJ Qualls plays his part well and Eddie Griffin with his crazy eyes kept the film entertaining. Get it for your kids or if you haven't got any kids get it for yourself. Not a typical teen movie!!! The soundtrack to this film was great and the only people i know who didn't like it don't have a sense of humour. This is such a great film and i didn't realise who all of the cameos were until i watched it again!!!!! Eddie Griffin and DJ Qualls make the film work anyone else would have ruined it. Luther High school is a lot like prison Bad food, high fences; the sex you want, you ain't getting', the sex you getting', you don't want. I've seen terrible things. Dizzy Yesterday, an eighty-year-old librarian broke my penis. Luther You win. This is so funny and for all you boys out there Eliza Dushku and her bikini scene is a must. FROM BITCH TO BULL BABY!! "}{"Title":"The best movie ever!","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hi, I,m absolutely the hugest fan of this movie!When I first saw the movie, I was like, oh my gosh, It's me in the movie, i'm absolutely like that! and until then,it became my favorite movie, I mean, I watch it all weeks, and each time I laght more and more, because I discover new jokes and funny things about it... It's the best movie ever!!!! The actors are all great, and my favorite is Luther, oh he is so funny and crazy in the paper, he's perfect! And there's two favors I wanted from you, I wanted to understand the end of the movie, with the BayWatch man because I've never understand it, and I would really like to get it, and the other favor is that you send me the email address of hte director, Ed Decter, because I'm absolutely his hugest fan, I would like to tell him this, and tell how much I appreciate it. If you do this to me, I will be very very very thankful and happy!It's my dream to get in touch with him, so, please do me this favor! thank you and keep listening to the people who has something to tell you! "},{"Title":"Hilarious parody of every 80s teen movie ever made.","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The one line summary above is my take on this movie, whether the writer of the movie intended it or not. The New Guy takes every cliche in the book (see below!), spins them out of control, and spews them back out again upon the unsuspecting viewer- Zero to HERO!- The scene where the really *really* bad sports team suddenly plays out of their skin.- Geek gets girl!- Life lessons-a-plenty are learned.- The bully gets his comeuppance!- The hero realises who his real friends are... (this is a tender moment folks)These aren't spoilers. They're what you expect but they're not here. These moments are turned into other things you'll never see coming and they'll make you laugh out loud. The cameos are funny and unexpected plus there's a great soundtrack with everyone from James Brown to American Steel.Standout performances from the fairly unknown DJ Qualls (hopefully I'll see him in something else soon) and the veteran Eddie Griffin make this one to see. Hang up your preconceptions and come into this with an open mind. This isn't a cheesy teen movie. This is a slapyouintheface teen-movie satire! See it. "},{"Title":"The New Guy, rocks!","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  `The New Guy' is definite worth a watch teen movie. Just one bad thing, it got really cheesy ending. Elisa Dishku has finally played the main role of an actress that she deserved (rather than that supporting actress that she used to play). You will definitely love her in this film. Especially the scene when she tried out 10th of swimsuit. She will blow your head off not just only your mind. The movie is full of funny scene that it will definitely hurt your stomach. The casting is kind of funny and after all it is one really funny teen movie.Max 6.5/10 Recommendation Lend the VDO or buy VCD.  "},{"Title":"GREAT","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm sorry, I know this movie is very idiotic but you cannot help to laugh. It's just too funny. I laughed through out the whole movie. The stupidity of the movie was the essence to make this movie so funny. The story however was very original and is always in these kind of movies but overall it was a fantastic movie. It was like the comedy of Zoolander. I thought that movie was great and funny and so was this one. Many people think this kind of movie is dumb but I thought they were great and I recommend it to all viewers who like really funny movies. I GIVE IT TWO THUMBS UP!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Funny","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dizzy Harrison(DJ Qualls) has always been a big loser but the worst is yet to happen when a 80 year old librarian breaks his penis in front of the whole school. Dizzy decides that he has to leave his school and get a new identity in order to survive high school life. With help of his jail buddy Luther(Eddie Griffin) Dizzy learns to do the crazy eye, learns a few moves and he now calls himself Gil Harris and he is ready to attend another school and be the popular guy he's always wanted to be. His plan actually works and the whole school thinks that Gil is very cool and he even gets a girl named Danielle(Eliza Dushku). But how long is Dizzy going to be able to keep up his new identity and what will people do when they find out who Gil actually is? Sure, this movie was quite stupid but it was also very funny. I thought that I would never like this movie but I actually kind of did. Of course the best scene is when the gorgeous Eliza Dushku is trying on bikinis. Anyways, I would give The New Guy 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Funny Funny Funny","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  god damn! this movie rocks! its so funny... i just loved the movie Run and See it!!! "},{"Title":"THE definitive movie for anyone who has ever been wedgied","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I Loved this film. Its in my top 3 silly comedy films! It's like so many cheesey films where you know what's going to happen, but a hell of a lot funnier and cooler. DJ Qualls is great as the nerdy kid and Eliza Dushku is great as the sexy just sensitive cool girl. Of course they get together, but the journey is a lot of fun.Quick outline Dizzy (DJ Quall) plays the typical loser in denial who one day gets stoned on painkillers or something and gets arrested for preaching in a mall. Then Eddie Griffin (the scary little inmate) gets all the other prisoners and guards to help him be cool - including the makeover by the stereotype camp guard. After Dizzy gets himself expelled he gets transferred to a new school.Then we see Dizzy the next day arrive Hannibal Lector style - which is one of the funniest things I've ever seen. This is Kyle off Road Trip scaring the pants of prison guards and all the school kids and then appearing from under the mask looking cool.Speeding up now, he becomes cool, p***es off the ex-badass by stealing his spot and girl and unites the school (nerds and jocks alike) as well as helping the football team win everything (somehow). Then the top jock from his old school appears, gets beaten up by all Dizzy's new mates and then gets his revenge by showing some of the choice exploits from Dizzy's school days.Of course Dizzy is saved from being nerdified again. Surprisingly, its the prison guards and inmates who do this by humiliating the two ex-jocks.This movie is so much fun. There is only one groan moment really and thats when Dizzy breaks his penis in front of the whole school (that was a groan of pain and sympathy). Dizzy becomes the cool kid very pretty easily and with a great deal of luck and I was supporting him every step of the way. This film has loads of cameos including David Hasselhoff and Tommy Lee Jones as well as a cast who compliment the film's style very well.I advide you all watch this, maybe drunk, maybe sober, but it is still funny as %@/*! I'm off to watch it again now. ) "},{"Title":"Great film with a good message","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is great.  It is entertainingly fun.  Eddie Griffin is funny. DJ Qualls is awesome.  And Eliza Dushku is HOT!!!  It also tells us that we should not segregate ourselves.  The nerds are just the same as the jocks.  It's great.   I love it.  Everyone needs to watch it.  And Lyle Lovett.  It can't get any better than that.   "},{"Title":"Up there with '10 Things I Hate About You'","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was most definitely half bad. The geek ends up in jail for a night and meets an inmate who tells him how in order to get better you have to 'walk the walk and talk the talk' as well as get into another school. A set of ridiculous, and one downright disgusting, pranks follow as he attempts to get expelled from his current high school. All the while his counselor is searching for problems that are not there; refusing to listen to what is wrong (like any true counselor) eventually the geek succeeds and gets tossed. He ends up decking his way into the eye of the school, through many accidents as well as funny actions. Transforming the school into a Utopia of teen movie proportions.This film does have the typical actions of a teen movie so beware. But it also takes a different look at high school life, much more accurate than any other teen movie I have seen. It has morals and the true let down of things. (both his original and new school end up turning against him when his past comes to light) while still keeping the romantics (he still gets the girl, and she tells of how she once was 'Dan the Man') Unfortunately the 'star' cameos are over the top, it should definitely be given a fair chance, at the very least, but remember to leave a good sum of your common sense at the door.  "},{"Title":"Zero to hero with a twist","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ***Spoilers***Now let me start by saying I thought this was a great film (and I've seen it twice in a week) - funny, great soundtrack and a slight twist on the old 'loser becomes popular and wins the girl' theme.We start with our loser/geek/nerd/hero (delete as appropriate) Dizzy Harrison having an unfortunate incident involving his manhood, a senile old lady and peculiar angles.  Cut to a trip to prison and teaming up with Luther (Eddie Griffin), who teaches him how to start fresh as the big man on campus, and changes his name to Gil Harris.Now the usual formula would now go along the lines of - guys gets picked on, snubbed by beautiful (but bitchy) girl, hero then does something to make people love him, wins the girl, school is happy and fade to credits.Well, 'The New Guy' makes some small, but quite significant changes (in terms of making the film 'feelgood') to this normal structure.  For a start, the girl, Danielle (the very beautiful Eliza Dushku) is actually a good girl to start with.  Also, whilst Dizzy does become popular (using some ingenuity) by helping the football team win the championship, his nerd status is revealed at the end (as is the norm) but the people don't love the nerdy version.  Still, he wins the girl, so we see him get his reward.Now, I do enjoy a good college 'buddy' movie, with the zero becoming the hero, and I did enjoy this too (a lot!).  Sure, I would have liked to see Gil retain hero status at the end, but he gets Danielle (who reveals something of her past too), so I can buy that.I must mention again the soundtrack - some real pumping tunes are cranked out with real purpose.  Also, how is Zooey Daschanel not Reece Witherspoon's younger sister? (She's not, by the way).  They sure are similar!Good scenes to watch again - the shopping scene (for the lads!), the 'taking Ed up the tower' scene, which marks the first stage of change in attitudes among the pupils, and the football clips (for the dancing and music).I loved, hopefully you will too - 9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"***1/2 out of 5","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoiler Alert `High School is a lot like jail. The bad food, the high fences, the sex you want you aren't getting, and the sex you get you don't want.' For every great battle lies a man, true of inner sanctum and the honour to fight to the death and die for the fight. For every world war there is a General Patton and for every thirteenth century Scottish revolution there is a William Wallace. But in this time of crisis there is still a war raging on within the confines of our school systems, so it should come as no surprise that one man would, some day, rise and change the face of this injustice for good. Just to bad that person is not Dizzy Harrison. Dizzy is the head of his merry band of blips (people who are hardly noticed on the radar). Thinking that in his last year of high school he can maybe upgrade to a bleep and get noticed, he ends up having his penis broken by an elderly librarian in the school cafeteria in front of everyone, don't you just hate it when that happens? Strung out on medication, Dizzy ends up in jail after assaulting a local preaching played by Kiss main man Gene Simmons. In jail he is subject to change after coming into confrontation with a scrawny little black `dude' named Luther (Eddie Griffin). Luther tells of how he used to be the `biatch' at the last jail he occupied, so knowing he needed a fresh start, broke all the rules and got sent to a new jail where he can rein supreme at the top of the food chain. So in a stage of frantic fascination Dizzy decides to try his hardest to get himself expelled, several unneeded scenes of potty humour pursue. After getting himself the boot, Dizzy returns to Luther for a makeover and a less in cool. The rest of the film really speaks for itself, the goofy guy goes to a new school, becomes the coolest guy in school, gets the pretty girl, beings the best out of everyone and then is publicly embarrassed when his past comes back to haunt him. Sound familiar? It probably does because it describes the exact case scenario of virtually ever teen film on the market. But this film takes it upon itself to be just a cut above the rest because of its loving atmosphere and a stand-up job from Griffin. Griffin is on of the most well timed comedic actors out there right now. He reminds me of Chris Tucker but with less talk and more precision. He is a module for comedic expressive form, emphasising his delivery into a scientific notion, never wasting a second. He delivers each punch line on the drop of a dime and delivers them in such a manner that we believe he is not a man trying to be funny, but an actually funny individual being himself. But have you ever driven a car with only one wheel functioning? It's not very easy is it? Griffith is known for his reputation of stale comedy and over played gags from under played actors. Because of this he nearly always finds his way to the centre of the comedy wheel. The only problem is the he always seems to be the only one trying to manoeuvre a forward state of velocity in the shaft with all other functions dead in the water. That is why it is a tragedy that the scenes not featuring Griffith are nothing more than a grouping of immature `poo-poo and pee-pee' jokes. But of course the best lines from Luther are the ones from his interfusing bit of narration. He satirizes the common hero type dealing in telling `His story is my story because behind every hero is a little pissed off dude who don't get no credit.' But the satire ends there and morphs into full-fledged parody from the on in. We see tons of embarrassing celebrity of everyone from Tony Hawk to Vanilla Ice. We are also subjected to mockery of such greats like Patton and Braveheart, and did I mention potty humour? Dizzy is played by is-but-shouldn't-be upcoming teen star DJ Qualls, yes the loser from Road Trip and has no comedic backbone in his lanky little body. But if you can forget the unfunny ness of his distinguishable character formation the guy is occasionally likable. Qualls does play his character as a caring teen that realizes that friends are worth more weight in gold than popularity could ever cost. Sure some of it is cruel and I hated watching it, specifically a scene where a lovable midget is put into a garbage can and rolled down a hill. But it then redeems by following up with an act of immense gratitude and kindness that sends a little bit of warmth to the chestale area. When all is said and done this film probably has many more flaws to stockpile than assets. But what is there really to expect from a genre of film that always seems willing to push things to the boundary but always is careful never to cross it? Even if that means sacrificing a good bit of comedy for a scene in which the principal is video taped while going to the washroom. I wish that someone would take an R-rating and do with a teen film what should be done without being graphically obscene of overtly sexual. Let the comedy speak, not the age demographic. I also have to wonder why such teen films not only never tie up loose ends, but create them in the first place. Why is Dizzy released from jail without trial or even a warning? These are the kind of questions that script writers should ask but never do. Oh well, I guess they all can't be a 10 Things I Hate About You. But hey this is not a film that anyone should get worked up over. So go ahead, call up your friends, make some popcorn and enjoy it with them because after all, aren't friends what makes these times the best years of your life? "},{"Title":"Too bad","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I generally enjoy stupid comedies, but this comedy was just plain stupid. There's not much more I can say about this movie that hasn't been said. I'll just say that it was one of the worst movies I've seen. It was unfunny, boring, and there were so many cliches (can anyone be original these days?). Fortunately it only cost me a dollar to see it. Unfortunately, I'll never get the 1.5 hours back. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was the funniest movie! Everbody will enjoy this mvoei, because everyone can relate to it, I mean trying to fit in. DJ Qualls, Eliza Dushku,and Eddie Griffin were great! Also, it was funny to see Tony Hawk, Vanilla Ice, and Jerry O'Connel in the movie. Oh, don't foret to stay after the movie ends, it shows picture credits and outtakes from the movie. It was great! I really like this movie! I give The New Guy a 10 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"DJ Qualls is a God!!!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the funniest teen comedy in years!  I left the movie feeling really happy and me and my friends were laughing about it the next day.  DJ Qualls is perfect as the underdog hero.  He is charming and hilarious.  I hope to see him in more movies.  He just rocks.  As for the rest of the cast, Eliza Dushku is hot as heck, Eddie Griffin is awesome, and there are some great cameos.  Stay put for the credits because there is some really funny stuff there, too.  I rate this movie a solid 8!  See it, you'll laugh and what else do you want from a comedy? "},{"Title":"Amateur-ish and just not very funny","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For every good teen comedy there are about a hundred bad ones. The New Guy is one of the bad ones. That annoying guy from The Core plays Dizzy Harrison, nerdy high schooler who decides to leave and transfer to another school across town to re-establish himself as Gil Harris, a cool kid with bleached hair and leather jackets.The premise is stupid enough but then they pile on loud, obnoxious gags. And the scene where a big revelation is made about Gil/Dizzy is laughable at best.Overall if you've seen other teen comedies you've seen this before. There are two good scenes- Tommy Lee's self-mocking cameo (Hey, where's the VIP room? Girls?) - The reference to the film Pearl Harbor floppingOther than that, it's all fairly basic and banal. D.J. Qualls - please don't ever star in a lead role ever again! "},{"Title":"A stupid load of trash...see it! No wait...don't see it!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some films are just simply bad. Either from poor production values, a dull story, a misplaced message or a whole load of other things. However, some films transcend that badness and become simply pointless, and The New Kid is one of those films. I'm not a massive fan of the teen comedy sub-genre, but unlike many cinema buffs; there are a handful that I like, this film not being one of them. It's amazing just how completely and utterly superfluous this film is and it's a wonder it ever got made. Of course, I'm sure money was a reason; but somehow I can't imagine that this picture was a huge hit at the box office. In fact, there are only two real reasons for watching this and neither of them are good ones. The first reason is to see just how stupid movies like this can be. Normally I would have turned this trash off after a few minutes, but I couldn't because I just had to see how much more stupid it could get. And I found out that the answer to that question is much more stupid. The second not very good, good reason to see this film is that Eliza Dushku is in it. She may well be very, very sexy...but she really needs a new agent! The plot is unlikely as anything you'll ever encounter, and it follows a geeky kid that moves schools and decides to become cool. So does. Before he knows it, he's got everyone in the school idolising him and not only that, but he's also got Eliza Dushku trying on bikini's for him! Yeah...right. Naturally, the film features the usual sorts of jokes, including the standard midget and the hard kid that gets his comeuppance. This movie also features a number of very painful movie tributes, for films such as The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, Patton and Braveheart. What really got me about the choices of films to tribute was that this movie's target audience most probably wouldn't have seen them, so it's just a completely wasted joke. Not to mention an excruciating one. The weird looking kid from Roadtrip takes the lead role and does his usual thing. It must be frustrating for an actor to be typecast, especially when you're being typecast as a nerdy kid. Oh well. On the whole, if you've got absolutely nothing else to do (like I didn't), see this movie. Otherwise; you have no reason to bother. "},{"Title":"Who Dat?","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The film itself was a little lame, but had its moments. DJ Qualls did a good job as did Eddie Griffin, but what made this movie worth seeing is the many celebrity cameos such as Vanilla Ice, Kool Mo Dee, Henry Rollins, Gene Simmons, Horatio Sanz, Tony Hawk, Lyle Lovett, Jerry & Charlie O'Connell, and Tommy Lee. It was great to see these guys in the movie and it made the film all the more enjoyable to watch. "},{"Title":"Untasteful and waste of valuable time","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film looked good to start with, interesting and funny. However 10 Min's in and i was ready to start clipping my toe nails and gaze out the window. Instead i persisted and sat through. The only way to describe it is humor aimed at 10-14 year old while the movie is obviously aimed at an older audience, say 16-24 years. It is no joke when you say it is made up of toilet humor and seen it all before type gags. Seriously I could watch grass grow for 2 hours and be more fulfilled. As for the actors, they are not too bad, ranging from a skinny geek to an obeese black guy. The strange thing is the girl in the geek patrol, she just does not fit in, at least the other two are replicate the unpopular people in real life. "},{"Title":"Very Funny Movie!!!!!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Now this is the comedy lover's dream.  There are some minor problems in the beginning, when Dizzy wants to get expelled.  His father and school shrink, have the hots for each other, but never do anything about it.  For the most part, it follows all other movies of this type, nerd wants girl, nerd changes image to get girl, nerd succeeds.  But one of the differences is, he doesn't realize that he is becoming what he hates the most.  As for the girl, well, when you're honest, things usually will work out for you, as they did in this case.  See the movie, it is very good.  It would have been better with an R rating, but you can't do anything about that.  For all you guys out there, the swimsuit scene is the best. "},{"Title":"I give in I'm a fan","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen this movie maybe five or six times now on various movie channels, and I just give in. I love it.It features two of my absolute favorite actresses in the world (Zooey and Eliza). It's a parody of _everything_. It's got some great physical humor. It's completely aware of it's stupidity at times. It's got some great music (mostly the funk). It's feel-good. Zooey Deschanel sings.It's best quality is that, although it's clearly a parody of this kind clichéd teen movie, it also works _as_ a clichéd teen movie. So, both clichéd teenagers and fans of parody can enjoy this.Not to mention Eliza Dushku parading in bathing suits. If you needed any encouragement.  "}{"Title":"DJ Qualls have the potential","Date":"17 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't believe I watch this. Maybe I'm too old for this or I've been watching too much comedy with Seth Rogen in it. That, coming from someone who can watch Road Trip over and over again. Writing is junk, directing is mediocre, camera work needs to be worked on and acting is somewhere between bad and tolerable. To be pessimistic, maybe this can be a stepping stone for rising celebrities, writers and directors. But I have to say that DJ Qualls does have the potential to make it big in the comedy genre. He might even make it big in Drama if he quits being cast in a comedy such as this.Overall, if you're below the age of 18, you might enjoy this movie. Older than that, you might have to find a true honest comedy movie.P.S The 4 stars is for DJ Qualls. "},{"Title":"Mostly stupid, at least has a meaning though, unlike 'Hot Rod'","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I will not take too much time on this review since a movie like 'The New Guy' doesn't deserve any analysis that gets too deep.Simply put, this movie is pretty dumb, with some funny parts. A lot of swearing ruins a lot of parts for me. It does teach a lesson about how you shouldn't change who you are just to fit in, but stay true to who you are and strive to be a good example.It's got quality scenes, but then it's got some sleazy scenes as well which hold it back from being anything worth remembering.It's the simplest of lessons, mixed in with some funny moments but a lot of crap. 1.5 stars/4 "},{"Title":"Who's da bitch now?","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Does the loser always have to win in the movies. You know that doesn't happen in real life. The bully reigns supreme in high school and always will.OK, we suspend believe for 88 minutes and cheer on DJ Qualls, who was great in Hustle and Flow, and not too bad here as the nerd who went to prison and learned how to rock.I swear that i didn't drool over Eliza Dushku in Race the Sun, but I did here. She may have been playing a High School Cheerlear, but she's 22, so drooling is OK.Lots of cameos including Christa Campbell as Tommy Lee's girlfriend. You know that's why I tuned in. "},{"Title":"Don't laugh ... remember when you were the new guy?","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" To be honest, and this will probably shock you, I felt a soft spot for this film. It could have been the multitude of cameos. Maybe it was the shockingly impassioned DJ Qualls, or maybe it was the fact that this reminded me of a different time in cinema where movies were made to just be funny. The New Guy felt like one part Can't Hardly Wait, one part Empire Records, with one part actually feeling like a dud Pauley Shore movie. You probably hate me already, but these elements clicked with me. Now, this wasn't Oscar-caliber in any way shape or form, but it did hold my attention, made me chuckle, and made me appreciate classic 90s (early 00s) tween comedy.The plot surrounding this film could be found anywhere. Qualls plays Dizzy Harrison, a nobody determined to be someone this year in school. A debacle &#150; of which will not be mentioned &#150; sends him screaming to the nurses office and eventually into jail. It is during his moments of detention that he meets with Luther (the low-point of the film Eddie Griffin), who teaches him to act like he is a different person. It sticks, Dizzy goes to another school under the pseudonym of Gil Harris &#150; wins the hearts of the students, a hot cheerleader named Danielle (Eliza Dushku), and nearly looses all of his friends. Will he be able to live the high life he has created, or will his past catch up to him? If you cannot answer this question, it is obvious you need to start watching more movies. Like I said when I started this, the plot isn't something you want to spend your Sunday writing to Grandma about &#150; it is the passion of the characters, the enthusiasm of the creators, and the easy-going spirit of the film that actually hooked me more than I anticipated. I liked the jokes. I liked laughing at Lyle Lovett getting hit in the eye with a flaming marshmallow, I liked the fact that Vanilla Ice was playing a FYE-esquire employee with a mean streak, and I loved whenever those O'Connell boys were on the screen. Something about these moments took me back when comedies prided themselves on weak plots and cameos galore. One could almost say this was a precursor to the Scary Movie franchise, except better executed.The plot is feeble. That has been established already. The plot wasn't bad, it was just cliché ridden to the point where you could care less what was going to happen (because it was predictable prior to it happening), but wanted to see our characters &#150; Qualls, Dushku, Deschanel, Lovett, O'Connell, and more (Gene Simmons as a Reverend?) &#150; were headed. I can't say that I loved the characters, but they kept my attention on screen more than I thought. I think what impressed me about this film was that it didn't rely on crass body humor to progress the plot, the jokes (while weak) did have some moments of creativity to them. Someone tried to give this film a cult standing, but failed &#150; but not without going out fighting. I applaud this attempt. The characters worked well together. Whether you were waiting for another priceless cameo or just watching Qualls bumble around Dushku, I was following it. This combination was perfect with a cool beverage, a warm evening, and a desire to laugh. There wasn't any high level of expectation &#150; and I think that is where The New Guy succeeded. It knew where it wanted to be, and it didn't strive to go further. I have been hesitant to see Borat because of the hype that everyone applauds to it, so in this instance the bar has been set too high. For The New Guy, I knew very little about it outside of the previews that I had seen in other films for this one. I didn't want to see this movie, but when it arrived, I wasn't scared to put it in my DVD player. I was happy. This was a chuckle filled film.Another element that I really enjoyed was the parody connection. The New Guy parodied other films of that year (or older/younger) and you just don't see that anymore. Outside of the obvious parody films that have been released lately (shall we never speak of Epic Movie again), Hollywood tends to avoid this in modern cinema, but for this critic is has always made me laugh. Why do you think I own The Critic series? I thought this really enforced this film's standard &#150; again &#150; without going over the preset bar, it brought a new level of comedy to the surface and writer David Kendall coupled with the direction of Ed Decter did a great job of keeping performances low, cameos high, and intelligence mediocre. There was a level of understanding that this was a decent film, but it didn't want the general public to know it.Overall, I could complain about the bad parts of this film all day, I could also speak highly of other parts that I just seemed to cobble up like leftover cake, but I am not. I will suggest this film to friends and family, let them be grumpy with me for a bit, but I liked this movie. It is not one that will be added to my collection, but for the time and place that I am currently at The New Guy hit the spot. Qualls isn't the greatest comedian, but his comic timing is genuine. His matching with Dushku was preposterous and we all knew, but we went along anyway because it was a comfortable cliché. I like the comfortable clichés.Don't skip it, but don't knock it till you see it. Surprise yourself.Grade *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"I actually quite enjoyed it, it's really a fun film, that's often very funny, with a good story and cool characters","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I actually quite enjoyed this, it's really a fun film, that's often very funny, with a good story and cool characters. All the characters are extremely likable as well (except for Connor) and it had a really cool Braveheart spoof as well, plus I liked the ending too. DJ Qualls is funny and is a very likable lead, and Eliza Dushku was looking mighty fine as usual, plus a lot of the laughs for me came from when Dizzy was in prison with Eddie Griffin. Sure it may be nothing groundbreaking, but then again I didn't expect it to be, and compared to the rest of the recent teen comedy's this is actually really good, plus it's very well made and nicely written as well in my opinion. It had some great cameo's in it and my favorite had to be Geoffrey Lewis's as the Rocky high school Principal, plus I liked the opening with Eddie Griffin as well. This is quite an underrated little comedy and I couldn't help but laugh when they shoved the midget it in the garbage can(even though it was mean), plus the only thing that hampers it a little bit is that it's a little bit predictable. I actually quite enjoyed this, it's a really fun film, that's often very funny, with a good story and cool characters, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Ed Decter does a great! job here with solid camera work, and just keeping the film amusing and at a very fast pace. The Acting is actually fun!. DJ Qualls is fun as the goofy nerd, and never takes himself seriously, which is a good thing, he was often quite funny, and very likable, and was absolutely perfect for this part, his chemistry with Dushku was also on I actually really dug him!. Eliza Dushku is incredibly gorgeous, and plays her role extremely well, she's charming, charismatic, extremely sexy, likable, and just did a fantastic job overall! (Eliza Rules!!!!!!!). Zooey Deschanel is very cute and did what she had to do very well I liked her lots. Jerod Mixon is good as the token fat guy, and was funny I dug him. Eddie Griffin is actually somewhat funny, and had me cracking up in a few scenes and never really overdid it, good job!. Sunny Mabrey is perfect as the hot slut, and did her job well. Ross Patterson is extremely convincing as the asshole, and did his job very well. Geoffrey Lewis,Tony Hawk,Lyle Lovett,Charlie O'Connell,Jerry O'Connell,Tommy Lee,Gene Simmons,Illeana Douglas and Vanilla Ice all do well in there small roles. Rest of the cast are fine as well. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Crude and rude but funny and inspiring","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" At the start of the movie Luther is in prison talking to a visitor on a telephone. He starts to describe Dizzy Gillespie Harrison, and we see a young Dizzy, with a giant afro (even though he's white) dancing in his underwear like Tom Cruise in 'Risky Business'--except I believe it's James Brown he's dancing to.We move forward several years. Bear, Dizzy's father, is driving Dizzy and his friends Nora, Kirk and Glen to Rocky Creek High School on the first day of Dizzy's senior year. His father's job involves car alarms, so Dizzy figures he can impress the head cheerleader (I know that's who it is because it's parked in the spot marked 'Head cheerleader parking ONLY') by fixing a problem with her alarm.To say that Dizzy's first day as a senior doesn't go well is the understatement of the year. Something happens to him that can only happen to a guy when he is with the girl he was trying to impress, and everyone sees. And what the ancient librarian does as a result ... well, no guy wants to have this happen. In fact, I've never heard of this being done. And Dizzy gets sent to Miss Pierce, who calls in Dizzy's father. Apparently something else happened that I didn't see because of editing for TV--Miss Pierce says Dizzy has Tourette's. His father covers his mouth and scolds him for cursing right after the sound went out briefly on my TV.Dizzy never wants to go back to this school. After his medication for Tourette's somehow causes him to end up in a cell with Luther, the veteran prisoner gives him advice on getting kicked out so Dizzy can start over.Dizzy's attempts at expulsion end up being bizarre and even disgusting. Eventually, he gets what he wants, and after a makeover that results in what one character describes as a Brad Pitt look, he shows up at the meaner and tougher East Highland High, using the name Gil Harris (Gil being the short version of his middle name).Can he start over? Can he build a new reputation? The results are quite surprising and even inspiring. But he still has his old friends, who still have their band Suburban Funk. Or does he? This movie would never win any Oscars, but I found it entertaining and often funny. DJ Qualls was good considering the material, and so was Eddie Griffin. I found Elisa Dushku quite likable as the beautiful cheerleader at Dizzy's new school. Some other interesting characters were Courtney, an East Highland cheerleader with a reputation, and Ed Ligget, a very short tuba player (his family was in the rodeo business) who bullies loved to humiliate. Connor was one of those bullies, and a rival for Gil.I've heard Lyle Lovett is a respected actor, but based on this movie I would have said he should stick to music. Numerous musicians had cameos, including Kool Moe Dee as a prison guard and Vanilla Ice as a 'bouncer' in a record store. Julius Carry was good as the coach of the chronically pathetic East Highland football team.I suppose one needs to know about popular movies to get some of the jokes. I recognized a scene from 'Patton', where Gil dressed like an officer and stood in front of a flag. And because of the bagpipes and tartans, I concluded another scene must have been from 'Braveheart'. I've never seen either one--only clips.Don't miss the blooper reel at the end.It wasn't the best teen movie ever, but it made me happy. "},{"Title":"The New Guy Was EXCELLENT","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Oh my goodness, I have watched this movie about 17 or 18 times it is so good, and I thought the movie was going to be crap when I first heard of it but then when I found out that Jai Rodriguez from queer eye for the straight guy (he is the culture guy) was on it I couldn't resist from watching it because I think jai is so totally HOT!! This movie turned out to be a funny story and it had great actors in it and if you haven't seen it I totally recommend that you do, oh and watch out for Jai in the movie, he plays the Gay hairdresser that gives Dizzy his makeover. I love this Movie its great. So I hope you go out and get a copy of it today, you'll love it... "},{"Title":"the new film to watch","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i love film, i always find good films in bargain bins but this one is the best. the story challenges every person in the world, it relates to me for school and work. but hey it was a good laugh, and at bits i was crying with laughter. very good watch. i loved seeing the bully getting bullied himself as we've always known someone annoying and too big headed for their own good. i known i've known people like that. i must say that i was especially pleased with D J Qualls performance, he is always a good laugh. and i must admit one of my favourite actors. and Elisa was very good in it as well but not as the others say for the bikini scene but for her performance.so a definite must see, and if you find it in a bargain bin even better. "},{"Title":"good movie for teens","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I liked the film because it didn't have all the nudity and bad language that is usually associated with teen angst movies. DJ Qualls is great as the hero who unites the Bulls and the Blips and who saves the school. DJ is usually cast as a geek or underdog in most of the movies he has made so far I think he has the ability to do more dramatic work. I'd love to see him cast as a leading man in a romantic film, you don't have to look like Brad Pitt to play a romantic lead. Although it had a lot of predictable moments - they win the big game, geek gets the girl in the end - It was fun to watch. It was interesting to see the transformation of Dizzy into Gill. Surprising that he could go from looking like a skinny geek to a skinny tough guy. It had a lot of cameos buy stars but they weren't needed. One thing that bothered me is that a lot of the high school students looked like they were in their 30's. The O'Connel brothers tried to act like kids, but came across looking like 30 year old mental cases. The only real disappointment was that there was not more interaction between Eddie Griffin and DJ Qualls. "},{"Title":"a guy that tries to be cool and changes his personality, he could forget his past but his past not","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't know what's wrong w/ u' 'cause this is the best movie I have ever seen, I think you have never been in a high school... this is a extreme movie about what kids can do to have fame or just a peaceful life. Maybe u' are in a high school and u' are popular or a totally loser but you haven't seen someone trying to change of social position. i know that this movie is a little bit exaggerated but still teach us something and make us laugh while we are watching it. I can considerate the new guy as my favorite movie, I really enjoy it and have fun watching it, maybe is that I am from another country and the high schools are very different of the AMERICAN ones, first in Chileans school they are not really social positions, so define as the popular place, or the losers, o intellectual... so I just like it because i laugh of the American people an their school society "}{"Title":"Very Funny movie Eliza Dushku looks better and better","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A very funny movie the new guy, works on the old principal of the underdog, winning in the end. The movie shows the acting ability of DJ Qualls who plays the nerd turned tough guy, with a heart role superbly. Elisha Dushku keeps your eyes fixed to the screen at every minute, she is more then a looker but a very good actress. The movie has very little or no down time in it, is a laugh a minute. Eddie Griffin roles as the convict, giving the look is great, they could have used him more in his role, but is was played to perfection. Some little send ups of previous action movies only add to the whole picture, I don't want to mention them here as its better to get the full impact on watching this very funny movie. "},{"Title":"Midget Tossing + Eliza Dushku in bathing suits + Multiple Atomic Wedgies","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" = A really great movie! YouBeeNLooKiNaTMyJaNeT?!!!!! Eddie Griffin is classic DJ Qualls was great. And like I said before Eliza Dushku in bathing suits. I like chicken I Like Liver Meow Mix Meow Mix Please Deliver i don't know how they expect you to fill up ten lines of text without spoiling the movie all you can say about a movie is that it is great. And I suppose you could hint at parts of the movie I'm talking bout the funk! Aight?! then you can't shout? Whasupwitdat? how can I quote if i gotta go around all quiet and stuff I bet the next thing they say is that I cant curse. well funk that. I'll be darned if i don't get a curse word or two in here. It's the American way. Which reminds me, Randy Newman has brought it to my attention that South America stole our name, he says lets drop the big one and there will be no one left to blame. This movie also makes his other song Short people got no reason to live valid. They constantly serve the resident short person. "},{"Title":"Totally slapstick and I love it.","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a total slapstick gem. I really think it holds up better than most of the teen movies of the last decade. The first time I watched it, I was with a couple of people who complained how stupid it was the entire time. Later, it was on one of the movie channels and I watched it alone. I found myself laughing my head off. The humor is sometimes low brow and rarely realistic, but that makes it great. You really have to embrace the absurdity of this movie. At it's core, The New Guy is still a sweet little movie about an uncool kid making it to the top. The cameos are great, and so is DJ Qualls. If you're ready to laugh and have a good time, lose your inhibitions and check it out. "},{"Title":"Not funny, garbage, shouldn't have been made.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must be too old to understand modern comedy. I never used to believe what reviewers wrote about movies. Your review used the word dismal, no argument here. What I really don't understand is how the producer/director got financed. This movie isn't worth watching. I believe that any positive comments were by shills for the movie's owner in an attempt to recover from a huge loss. Utter garbage. This flick didn't really have a chance due to the terrible and lame premise on which it is based, it should never have been made. I will watch for this director in future so as to avoid his work ! "},{"Title":"A Movie that can be summed up in 4 letters....CRAP!","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just finished watching a little tidbit of film know as the New Guy.  I started off not expecting much as I was unimpressed by the commercials. The film is filled with tired old jokes that are repeated over and over. Though there are some rare gems of jokes in this film the majority of it is scatalogical humor.  I must admit that my review is somewhat influenced because I had just seen Not Another Teen Movie the night before.  This movie is similar to that film but perhaps one or two steps better.  What saved this movie was the cameos by famous people like Tommy Lee and Tony Hawk. Overall, the film will be a good dvd rental so you can just fast foward to the cameo scenes. "},{"Title":"The Stupidest Movie I Have Ever Seen In My Life","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to the movies thinking that this movie would be funny, but once again I was wrong. There was so much cursing and yelling. It was just SICK. I can't believe they would actually talk about people's dicks and about being a bitch and all that stupid junk. I'm sorry for allowing myself to see this movie. I don't mean to be mean, but I'm sorry, it was the worst movie I saw. The worst. This was AS worse as Me, Myself, And Irene. I rented that movie and that was stupid. It wasn't as stupid as this movie. NOTHING is as stupid as this movie. No movie is as BAD as this one also. And what a name like Dizzy. No boy or girl is named Dizzy. Who's The Bitch Now and S***. That's all I heard during the movie. I wish people would censor the bad language and nudity and all that jazz because it gets out of hand. I have never seen such a stupid movie in my life. I couldn't even laugh at it. I don't know why people liked this. This should never have been a movie. It never should have been shown at all. You know what? I've had it with these kind of movies. They're silly and stupid and just stupid silly movies. That's all these are. No need for this kind of stuff, no need whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Extremely Funny, An Awesome Movie!","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Skinny geek Dizzy, gets deliberately expelled so that he can reinvent himself at a new school as the coolest kid on the block In their attempts to plumb 'grosser-than-thou' depths, too many American teen comedies forget there's more to movie life than a succession of sick routines. The New Guy gets it partly right, slipping the gags into a proper, if clichéd, story and ensuring that the main characters are sweet, silly and - in that American Pie way - likable. Qualls is skinny geek Dizzy, who gets deliberately expelled so that he can reinvent himself at a new school as the coolest kid on the block. It works because he knows we know he knows it's a scam that's bound to come undone any moment. Throw in some love interest with Eliza Dushku, an eclectic mix of cameos (Vanilla Ice, Lyle Lovett, skateboarder Tony Hawk) and a 'you've just got to be yourself' message, and The New Guy scrapes a passing grade.Overall, Likable characters and a clichéd but meatier-than-usual story for a teen comedy. Definitely Worth A Rent! "},{"Title":"this is a great film","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this movie is great i liked it when i watched it was great and their was lots of famous people in the film like gene Simmons and vanilla ice and josh Todd and DJ qualls played a great performance and it was great casting because Eliza dishku played her port perfectly and the great thing about this movie is that how much they put in to it i mean the movie talks about a geek how turns in to this hard core popular bully at school this is a teen comedy but they made it to a fun nice cool movie that is nice to keep watching this film has great parts and every body in this movie has great talent and jerod mixon and parry shen played their roles well "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Very funny and the scene with Eliza Dushku trying on bikinis is enough to warrant a 10 rating. See it!Hmmm, strange site - comments have to be at least 10 lines? But you can't 'pad the comment with junk words'? Is it just me or is this asking for trouble?! sOK then, I really enjoyed the film. It made me laugh out loud and left me with that 'feel-good' feeling. I even bought the film after the second viewing. And as I said, the bikini scene is great. I challenge anyone to disagree! If you didn't fancy Eliza Dushku before then you will after watching this. And I'm not even gay! "},{"Title":"Extremely Bad, steer clear","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just caught this movie on TV and o man...what garbage. Most teen high school movies are outlandish stories based on realistic events more or less. But The New Guy is completely off-the-wall. The plot is outrageously fantastical, the characters are unrelatable and flat, not to mention the audience doesn't or won't care about any of them. In the situations the main character gets into, more blood would have been shed in real life and I seriously doubt the producers even made a profit. But it's not a total loss, there is plenty of eye-candy (but not enough to save the movie). Honestly, that's the only thing that kept me watching this trash...then again I am a simple, simple man. Unfunny, unreal, utterly crap.  "}{"Title":"Good but not great","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I seen this on Sky on wednesday. To be honest i was expecting another harmless teen comedy which will make me laugh the first time i see it but never again after. This one is different D.J Quails playing pretty much the same character as he did in road trip i solid as the nerd who becomes a high school rebel and Eddy Griffin is good as the convict who helps transform dizzy into a badass. However i wish the same could be said about Ross Patterson who is unbelievably unconvincing as conner the high school bully and is rightly shunned into the background for the majority of the film.There are laugh out loud bits in it. However a weak and predictable plot don't do the gags justice.The one surprise's of the film is Matt Gogin who stole the show for me as the hilarious midget who is constantly bullied and should have gone on to bigger things with this great performance however looking at his filmography things haven't worked out for him. 7/10 "},{"Title":"just not funny","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The same old retread about a nerd who becomes cool when he is transformed with the help of a jailbird. The jailbird shows him the look which is basically a snarl with eyes a bulging. The film is another standard flick desperate to win your approval. I've seen so many films try and walk the same line that the greatRevenge of the Nerds paved. The new guy gets purposely expelled from his high school in order to start over. You have the typical bullies(which are either..yep..football players or leather coat clad)and hottie cheerleader(the georgeous Eliza Dushku). The cheerleader,you know will wind up with the nerd if you've seen a treasure trove of these things like I have. The formula has been worn so thin it's nearly invisible. This is a comedy that desperately wants to be funny,but if the gun doesn't have the proper ammunition it isn't gonna shoot the right bullets. This film only shoots blanks. It tries to hold on to the back of our nerd hero,but his very thin back can not carry this dreck. I say go watch paint dry or clean your cammode..you're liable to have a better time. *1/2/***** "},{"Title":"A good high school stupid movie","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You probably don´t have any doubt about this being a stupid high school movie. If stupid high school movies can be good, this is one of them. It is exactly what it seems to be, with a far lesser share of the genre's defects. First thing, it is not a romantic comedy. Romance's role in it is reduced to the necessary minimum. Second, while it has a good lot of morals, its wild irreverence wipes off any trait of preaching -unlike The revenge of the nerds. The bad guys are laughed at, not hated or despised. Third, it has quite a bit of fresh humor. Surely most of the genre's cliches are there, but they are not all that there are, neither are poorly developed. It delivered good surprises to me, and made itself a surprise. I guess that if you enjoy rock and roll, juvenile stupidity and aimless fun, you will be very pleased with this movie. "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It was ok. I mean like 4/10. It was a predictable movie. you knew what was going to happen in the end. After she finds out about him then still goes after him at the end of the movie. Glad i got this movie for free. They were having a buy two VHS get one free at my video store in town. This was the only left out of other old-day movies.  "},{"Title":"Eliza","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If there is one type of movie I don't like, it's high school movies. For the main reason that high school isn't like that. You don't have groups of nerds who play chess, groups of jocks, groups of cheerleaders etc. At least not in Europe. Maybe it's strictly an American thing. Yet I find myself watching these movies every single time, because secretly I enjoy watching the 'loser' beat the populars and win the girl or guy.An example of a loveable nerd wins dreambeau movie is 'Never been kissed' with Drew Barrymore. The difference between that movie and this one being that you actually like watching Drew. But maybe that's because Drew doesn't give out that loser vibe, whereas DJ Qualls does. You can't help feeling sorry for the poor git and for burrying your head in the cushions every time he does something extremely stupid.Which all makes me wonder, whether American girls are really like that. Attracted to ex-con psychos? Shallow? Tubelights? Or is it just cheerleaders?To be honest, I didn't want to watch the movie. I wanted to watch Eliza Dushku. And frankly that's the only reason to watch this movie. Fast forward through all the bits without her and you might actually really like it. I didn't fast forward, so for me Eliza is the only reason I didn't completely hate it.**/5 stars "},{"Title":"Very Good !","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie. It combines all the elements of a comedy and adds a touch of romance.It has alot of elements of real life situations which I like alot. If you have not see this movie you should go out and rent it right now. You WILL NOT be dissapointed ! "},{"Title":"not BAD","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have read a few review for The New Guy, most saying that it is not bad. I agree. Although The New Guy is not going to win any awards soon, it was worth a laugh.Also, can I just say how many CONNECTIONS does someone have to get that many extras in this film (Gene Simmons, Tommy Lee, Tony Hawk etc.) "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie of All Time","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was simply amazing.  It's a cinematic masterpiece.  Where did they get all the stars?  I have never laughed so hard in my life.  This shoots straight to the top of the list of funniest movies of all time, and every last actor and actress in this movie is sure to go on to blockbuster success. "},{"Title":"Not half bad","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The New Guy really wasn't that bad of a movie. I caught it on cable last night and enjoyed the film. DJ Qualls who made a impressive debut in Road Trip is just as funny here as is Eliza Dushku. Now why I feel that Sundy Mayberry should have got naked but DJ's performance say this film. "},{"Title":"Pathetic and embarrassing","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a truly pathetic film this is.  I'm embarrassed at having sat through it, so imagine how humiliating it must be for the people who starred in it.  Very unimaginative, and nothing we havn't seen before. The one highlight was the swimsuit scene, or more to the point the America's Finest wearing them.  When is Eliza Dushku going to get away from the mindless teen garbage that seems to spewing endlessly from the minds of Hollywood's most idiotic screenwriters. What a waste of talent. Finally, a little plea to the Aging Alternate Icon.  Hank (Henry Rollins) stick with your music and your spoken word tours, cause you can't act.  Not that you can sing either. "}{"Title":"Eliza Dushku is awsome and totally hot!","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is hilarious!  And Eliza Dushku is amazing!  She is hot, sexy and fits the part perfectly.  If nothing else watch this movie to see her! The scene with her trying on swim suits is awsome!  I would totally recommend this movie for anyone who enjoys good laughs too. "},{"Title":"nothing not seen before","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is A-Typical.Thoroughly predictable right from the start.Soon as you hear, the tag line, you know what is gonna happen. Then everything else that happens arrives while your already laughing at the joke.Dont get me wrong, its not bad film, to kill 90 minutes to. But its not one to watch again and again.i gave this film 6/10 as it did make me laugh and it does have Eliza Dushka in it.this is just my opinion you watch it for yourselves and make up your own mind. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended feel-good movie","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow, what a surprise.  I thought that this movie would be another run of the mill high school story, but it is quirky and fun.  Please note the tongue in cheek cheerleading by Eliza Dushku.  Rent or buy Bring it On and The New Guy for a good night in. "},{"Title":"Another One for the Fire!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I feel bad for movies that try to be serious but fall short. The New Guy is just that. Call it what you like, but in the end it is just another Not Another Teen Movie with a series of pointless comedy that falls very short in being an original comedy. Even though a enjoyed the story the film tried to tell, I felt it could have been rewritten to be a much better comedy. Even with all the cameos, the eye candy of Eliza Dushku, and the over acting of DJ Qualls, this film failed to be a success. On another note, how many Pulp Cultured Trash films can Eliza Dushku make? I mean, Eliza, please! Stop it! Come on, once you've sold out enough to make your first million, start asking your agent to find you serious roles that can show your acting ability. You've done Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. You've done your Bring It On days of a body with no brains. If you're going to be a sell out, you might as well move back to Watertown, Massachusetts and stop telling people your from Boston. Then again, you could pull an Angelina Jolie or even a Jennifer Connelly career and start being in better films that will one day lead to a golden award and a more honorable profession. Then again, I like watching you in pointless films that makes me laugh from time to time. "},{"Title":"Pretty Lame","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The New Guy might not be the worst movie ever but I think it was pretty lame.  I don't understand how everyone says its oh so funny, sure, there were some laughs but most of the laughs is because the actors were making fools of themselves.I really didn't understand the plot of the movie 'til the very end, and even then it was very shallow.  The entire movie is pretty much based on stupid dances and wannabe gangsta mentality.  The sound effects were really stupid at times (i.e. the tiger eye, which really made no sense in the first place).One more thing I didn't like about this movie was that Dizzy had WAYYY too many roles pushed into him.  In short, not enough characters were played.  You will see DJ Qualls play almost every type of personality there is, in a short time.  First he is a loser, then he turns mean, then acts like a gangsta, then is the nice guy, then the lover guy, and he was even the main cheerleader (haha)...it really didn't make sense to me.  I gave this a 3/10. "},{"Title":"Good Flick","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film actually has a pretty decent story.  It's nothing complex and a bit far-fetched at times, but nonetheless a good movie.  Some of the comedy is kind of redundant in movies of today, but it's still somewhat funny.There is one other major reason to see this film, and that is Eliza Dushku.  She is one of the most phenomenal women I've ever seen, anywhere!!!  When I saw Bring It On I was in love, and then I found out she was the same girl in True Lies, and I just couldn't believe it.  Anyhow, she is reason enough to watch this film.The other actors did a good job as well.  I thought DJ Qualls did a good job in the film, ever since I saw him in Road Trip I thought he was a cool actor.  Eddie Griffin is funny as always!  I was also impressed with Zooey Deschanel and Parry Shen, I had never heard of them before, but I thought they did a great job.All in all, this is just a fun movie.  When/If you see it, pay attention for all the cameo's, there are a lot of them, most of which are musicians.  There are also, a lot of references to other movies, so you might try and point those out too.  Anyhow, I hope you enjoy the film, thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Why was D.J. Qualls the star?","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Thats my only question. D.J. Qualls is not really a bona fide star, and by putting him in a lead role is like knocking at the Raspberry Award door. His last real effort was decent in Road Trip, (albiet it was the exact same character development-a nerd into a cool kid,)and even at that, it was a sub-par effort. If they had gotten a more decent star, this movie would have been a lot better. Eliza Dushku is another story. Her 2-dimensional performance was rather dissapointing after a fair turn in Soul Survivors. Thats why I have to dissagree about this movie being a movie lovers movie. I thought it was ok, but other than that, it was a weak, lightly humor-dusted, and annoying trip to a-nerd-who-wants-to-be-cool-without-alienating-his-friends-land. **1/2 (Two and a half stars out of Four.) "},{"Title":"Another cure for sleeplessness if you're not an Eliza Dushku fan...","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is full of poor juvenile jokes from other really bad teen comedies with a bunch of B to C level celebs thrown in for fun.  The only cameo worth noting was that of Gene Simmons, which was probably the funniest part of the movie, and even that may very well be lost on the film's target audience.  The teenage (and some older) guys will love the Eliza Dushku bikini modelling scene, but this movie won't help her career any. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie suxs!!!  I wasted my hard earned money expecting a funny, well put together movie, but mainly for the comedy.  It was not even funny, the guest appearances could not save this movie.  The acting horrible, the movie horrible, the plot... was there one.  The only thing that saved this movie from getting a 2, when it truly deserved a 1, was the fact that my friend neil looks like DJ Qualls and the marshmallow incident!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"THE WORST MOVIE I EVER SAW- and I've seen many movies!","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie raises the need for a whole new category of Oscars- it should win an award as the Most Moronic Movie of the year.  Seldom do so many finely-honed traits come together-- an utterly senseless script that is excruciatingly unfunny, extremely poorly drawn characters, constant breaks in continuity and logic, terrible directing, astonishingly bad editing... all in one film!Oddly, D. J. Qualls is a superb comic actor, and this is obvious even in the midst of this wretched pile of junk.  Many of the other actors are excellent, too.  It's just that in this film, they are busy being excellent at acting out retarded non-jokes.The trailer looked pretty funny, didn't it?  The trailer WAS funny, but the movie is not.  Not at all.  If you spend your time and money on this film, don't say you weren't warned.  Are you aware that millions of people in the world live on less than the equivalent of one US dollar per day?  You could take the money you would have spent on this movie if it were worth seeing, and send it off to feed and house some people who have almost nothing, who are hungry for something to eat.  You could donate your money to a medical group who will immunize 20 babies from deadly disease.  Heck, they could have done that with the entire budget of this complete waste of a film. "}{"Title":"Please Don't See it.","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I beg all of you, don't see this movie.  Not only will it cause you immense pain for having to sit through it, but it would encourage Hollywood to keep make these monstrocities.  (I guess they probably will keep doing so anyway, but it's worth a shot.)  This movie is the worst movie I have seen, with the worst writing and only slightly better acting.  All my friends and I were cringing through the whole movie, and never once did any of us laugh.  The movie abandoned plot to just make these jokes that were supposed to be outrageously funny.  I could tolerate a movie that gives up on plot, but the funny parts hold it together (like Monty Python and the Holy Grail). However, the parts were not funny whatsoever, and it was insultingly predictable.  I've hated movies before, but I've never been so enraged at a film.  DJ Qualls was likeable, but he had nowhere to go with such bad writing.  I really feel sorry for Tony Hawk now.  Normally this is the point in the review when I mention the one redeeming quality of the film so as not to completely bash it.  But I couldn't find one at all.  There are thousands of inconsistencies in the film, but it's a waste of time to count them all. And for the movie to even hint at such a great film as Braveheart makes me cry.  Please don't see this movie.  (I also find it interesting that although the girl was obviously better at riding the mechanical bull, but she got thrown off the horse at the end.) "},{"Title":"Puts Clueless to shame.","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A new type of revenge of the nerd story. Dizzy Harrison(DJ Qualls), a nice awkward teenager, Is humilated on his first back at school. And later gets exspelld. For help he turns to a nutty but cool prisoner(Played very funny by Eddie Griffin) to help tuffin him up. When thats done, he is sent to another school, and starts teaching some popular jerks a lesson in humility. He also wins the attention of the head cheerleader(Played by the gorgeous Eliza Dushku). The funniest teen comedy I've seen in years. DJ Qualls is charming, so is Eliza Dushku, but I don't understand why she would pick this type of role. After Bring It On ,I thought she pick more serious roles. Expand herself more has an actress. But she is still young. On another note for some male viewers, If you liked her in Bring It On then you will really like her in this movie. "},{"Title":"Touch and Go Film","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Based on the trailer for this film, I had a lot of assumptions for this film. I had assumed that it would be a film that was on the level of 'American Pie', with the gross out humor. I assumed it would be a teen sex comedy. I assumed it was something that that was going to mirror all the teen films that populated and dominated the entertainment industry in the mid- to late 90's.Instead, I put aside the judgmental side of my mind and just embraced the film for whatever it would turn out to be. To my delight, I found myself laughing nearly every scene. There may have been inferences to other films, but this film did them better. (Okay, okay... Not the Braveheart reference) If you're a prude, you won't like the one particular rest room scene. This film moves from the traditional teen film and places a moral that, though cliche, is very important.This is the type of film that I felt that DJ Qualls' starring debut should have been an outcast/nerd who overcomes his foes to become popular. While some plot points ask you to suspend belief and some of the supporting characters are over the top, you still have a good time with this film. Too bad it opened a week after Spider-man opened though. "},{"Title":"Over-used, tired, boring, unfunny movie which exemplifies how not to make a film.","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If one word could summarize The New Guy it would be Cliche. Not once in this movie was there a semblance of plot, structure, character development, and most importantly an original thought. No joke is too low or tired for The New Guy.  How many movies must we sit through that poke fun at midget's, prison rape, and pooping?  To put it more clearly, at no point in time, did I feel like there was a human making this movie.  No one could have willingly pitched this movie without doing so for money and money alone.  And no movie company could have accepted the  pitch had they not been made an offer they couldn't refuse.  This film makes every film-maker, actor, writer, producer and grip who are struggling to make it in Hollywood wince with pain.  The movie theater was fairly crowded for a Saturday afternoon and not once during the whole film was there someone laughing.  This movie sucks, What a waste of film, are just some of the comments overheard after the movie.  D.J. Qualls makes Pauly Shore look like a comedic genius.  Ed Dector makes Ed Wood look like the undisputed king of film-making.  All the midget's in the world couldn't have made this movie funny.  I'm going to go watch every Ernest movie now just to reassure myself that this movie was that bad.  Please don't do it to yourself.  "},{"Title":"Horrendous  ½ out of  10","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are not a word I can drag out of my vocabulary that describe how awful this movie were, I think the correct word must still be invented I were to say ½ out of 10 I am giving this movie the biggest complement ever.Needless to say but this movie are bad and I mean really bad and with possibly the worst actor in the world in this movie it goes from bad to almost unwatchable in less than 15 minutes.Let met start with the biggest problem in this movie namely DJ Qualls .His acting abilities are horrendous. Nobody will ever belief person so strange looking if not ugly will every succeed in getting a girl like Eliza Dushku (except the people giving this horrid movie more than 2 stars) The plot It the same old story all the teen movies. A outcast Dizzy Harrison (DJ Qualls) get expelled from his school and some how lands in prison (didn't bother to give much attention to detail ) butPrison buddy luther (eddie griffin) teaches Dizzy the techniques of how to be popular He goes to his new school under the alias Gil Harris and are ever bodies hero thanks to luthers techniques and Danielle (Eliza Dushku )fall in love with him , but some one finds out about his real name and history of been a outcast and starts to threatens his repartition of been the hot new guy.A terrible movie, "},{"Title":"It's an excellent film. Eliza is great","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have seen the new guy movie. Iam from Argentine and i bought the original. The performance of Eliza Dushku is Excellent.I have seen almost all her movies and she is great. The other actors are also great. I love the message from the movie because it has a clear message. Maybe yo don't have to be the most popular in school, just to be a good person. The direction of this movie is great. I recommend this movie for teenagers and also for kids. Maybe middle age people will not understand the context. I would like to see more often to Eliza. I'm a great fan and i consider her to be the best actress of all Hollywood. "},{"Title":"As Moronic as Beach Blanket Bingo Without the Charm","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When you buy a DVD of a teen comedy and enjoy the film you keep it for future viewings, if you don't like it you sell it. Used DVD's of THe New Guy have flooded the market and the price is down to just slightly more than one dollar. This supply and demand point should be a warning to any new viewers. Somewhere out in the vast cosmos are a few people who have viewed The New Guy and found it amusing, almost everyone else who watches will wonder how a comedy can so totally fail at being funny or even mildly entertaining. So if you are thinking of viewing The New Guy you should ask yourself whether one minute of Eliza Dushku trying on swim suits is worth 89 minutes of your time plus the rental fee/purchase cost. As this is the only thing worth watching (it is truly outstanding), you may want to join me in petitioning for requiring the inclusion of at least one minute of Eliza trying on swim suits in all feature films.I am not sure about the agenda of the shills are who have posted positive comments about The New Guy but maintaining a healthy skepticism about them is a good idea. On close examination, their analysis and writing style may remind you of the essays written by that guy in fifth grade who still needed the teacher's help for shoelace tying.And don't let the presence of several cast members who are normally very funny/entertaining, like Zooey Deschanel, Illeana Douglas, and the already mentioned Eliza Dushku fool you into thinking this is worth viewing. There have been some bad teen comedies but you have to go all the way back to the Annette and Frankie beach movies to find anything this bad and those things had a certain charm and a much higher level of sophistication. In fact, you could make a good case for not even classifying The New Guy as a teen comedy, maybe it was originally intended as a device to the torture terrorists in Cuba. The New Guy suffers even more than most from the teen comedy curse of a cast too old to be portraying high school kids. Sunny Mabrey plays Courtney, who is simply the sleaziest looking high school cheerleader in cinema history. Mabrey did not look quite this sleazy in high school, but she graduated 1993, the nine years since were not kind. While this explains why she looks so used up, it doesn't explain why they gave the role to someone who should be driving a SUV full of her own kids to soccer practice. The New Guy wants to be a spoof of Not Another Teen Movie, an uneven spoof of the teen movie genre but something that is cutting edge in comparison. Most of the blame has to go to the writer David Kendall who is no Cameron Crowe. Kendall is an obvious hack whose only writing credits are episodes of Growing Pains and Just the 10 of Us. Thankfully nothing he has written since The New Guy has made it into production. Could anyone have read the Patton speech in his screenplay and actually found it amusing? "},{"Title":"It's totally stupid","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Extremely stupid! The plot is horrible and outdated. It's all about the 80's! A lot of stupid cameos which are doing nothing and plot twists extremely badly written. Not to speak of the poop jokes... I didn't like the score, it wasn't just to obvious - it was the score you could have picked in your sleep.The cast is pretty bad. The nicest thing I could say is... made for TV The lead DJ Qualls does a decent performance but he's got it all done for him script wise. I could easily see four or five other actors doing the same.However...Feelgood isn't only a word to describe this but in fact what the writers, actors and director must have had chanting all along while doing this movie. And believe me it works! I love the 80's teenage flicks! I love to know that the good will beet the evil right from the beginning. I love all this stupid cameos including Tommy Lee, Tony Hawk, Gene Simmonds etc. Lyle Lovett is in it...For a stupid teen movie it is pretty damn good. Well in my thirties I still smiled a lot and laughed several times. What else can you really expect?I especially liked some of the turns at the end as swell as a beautiful Braveheart spoof. The girls were pretty and the geeks won - what's there not to like.If you like teen flicks like they used to be this is pretty much a must see. If you want a movie to be challenging and make your mind work - then never mind.For what it is, I'll give it a 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"A dork by any other name...","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If the kookie schlock romp The New Guy was obviously a slampoon of the many unoriginal high school flicks with a similar plot it would have been more fun.  However, as the real deal, a film where the hero is a campus untouchable who gets cool and disses his uncool friends and then realizes he shoulda been content with who he was before and makes a bullhorn apology to the student body...you know the drill, this flick gets low marks. Bottom line is the story is hacked, the casting awful, the jokes recycled (except for the Braveheart and Patton bits), characters stereotypes,  etc., and the film relies too much of Qualls goofy looks. A no brainer for teens only. (C) "},{"Title":"Waste of time & talent (where there was some...)","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the worst of it's kind.  It makes the ultimate error of being boring and really not funny.  DJ Qualls had his place in Road Trip and should have remained there, a leading man he is not.  Eliza Dushku is limited to strutting around in various bikinis and other skimpy garments.  Worst of all it tries for a moral ending, which seems incredibly forced.  No redeemable features at all.  Terrible. "}{"Title":"Totally lame rarely even giggle worthy...","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I got this movie on dvd for Christmas and watched it now I wish I'd never broken the seal... What a lame movie... the plot was totally obstructed by crap, could hardly even tell where the story was even going. Sure the movie had a few good spots, but for the most part, this movie should be renamed Jackass 2 The sequel or something... anybody who finds getting a kick in the crotch or throwing a midget in a garbage can and rolling him down a hill as being funny should have their heads examined... This movie barely registered as interesting on my radar screen and I would like to sell it to anyone who comes up with the money so I can go buy some other movie. A Zero will rise? I think not, this movie flat-lined in no time.  "},{"Title":"I can't believe I enjoyed this","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I shudder to think of this, but I found myself actually liking this movie. It was strange- poor writing, poor acting (except Eliza, as usual, she was awesome).  I saw this unwillingly with a friend, but I found myself laughing a lot, and I got a kick out of the cameos.  I'm generally the type of person that would choose Requiem for a Dream over She's All That, but what can I say.  It's an anomaly. "},{"Title":"hopelessly lame comedy","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's a scene about midway through `The New Guy,' in which the school's main bully smashes a soda can against his buddy's head, prompting the latter to exclaim, `That's not funny, dude.'  That comment could pretty much sum up every single moment of this excruciatingly bad entry in the `teen comedy' genre, a category of film that has enjoyed inexplicable popularity over the last several decades.`The New Guy' is one of the worst such films to come along in quite awhile. For one thing, it makes the fatal mistake of believing that, just because a film is `wacky,' it does not have to ground its comedy in any sort of rationality and logic. For Dizzy Harrison (DJ Qualls), a nerd in the company of nerds, life in high school has turned into a never-ending series of humiliations, as he finds himself the butt of seemingly daily pranks and practical jokes.  When he manages to get himself expelled from that school, he enrolls in a new school, hoping to start life afresh as a `cool dude.' In the time between, Dizzy has, inexplicably, been sent to prison (crime unknown) where he hooks up with Luther (Eddie Griffin), a convict who takes Dizzy under his wing and shows him how to turn the tables on all the bullies at school and impress the ladies in the process.  Not only do we not know why Dizzy is thrown into prison in the first place, we have no idea why he keeps being sent back there only to return to school the very next day.  He seems to wander in and out of jail at will, just so he can pick up a few new pointers from his mentor, Luther.   Even a comedy that prides itself on defying the laws of reality can't take this many liberties without the audience eventually crying `Foul!'One could forgive its lapses in coherence if the film had at least managed to be funny.  Instead it fails on even the most rudimentary levels of basic comedy rules and structure.   The general theory in operation here seems to be that, if everyone simply mugs wildly for the camera, we won't notice how truly lame and uninspired the jokes and comic situations really are.   The attempts at movie parody &#150; of `Braveheart,' `Patton,' Clint Eastwood westerns etc. - are not only corny and ineffective but strangely arbitrary and irrelevant to this particular genre and the audience it supposedly caters to.  Moreover, the humor is so broad at times that one gets the feeling that the `skits' were dreamed up by the filmmakers as they were shooting the scenes.  Even the Luther character, who narrates the film, seems like a last-minute after thought added to the script to try to give the film a certain quality of cohesiveness that it otherwise lacks.  That might explain why Luther is stuck in an entirely different setting from that of the rest of the film, and why Dizzy's presence there makes so little narrative sense.  If that is indeed the case, then the filmmakers have achieved the opposite of what they were intending &#150; not cohesion but disjointedness.DJ Qualls shows a lot of potential in the starring role, but David Kendall, the writer, and Ed Decter, the director, have left this able actor stranded high and dry with little or no material of quality to work with.  Eddie Griffin, who made a better impression in `Undercover Brother,' is completely wasted in the underdeveloped part of the prison-bound Luther.Dumb teen comedies don't get much worse than `The New Guy.'  `That's not funny, dude' is more than just a line in this movie; it turns out to the film's mantra.  "},{"Title":"The Same Old Stuff","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was by far the worst film I've seen in years. If monkeys with sever diarrhea had written and directed a film, it would still have less feces in it than The New Guy. I believe the formula the studio used when they made this film was Dork(DJ Qualls)+Hot Chick(Eliza Dushku)+Crap+Cliché = Waste of $$$! The New Guy tries to copy other teen movies you've already seen a million times before, and it even fails miserably at that. The story is very familiar an ugly duckling/loser(DJ Qualls) tries to become popular. Things are going smoothly in the beginning and he is changed by his newfound popularity. Of course somehow his past comes back to haunt him. Cue the sentimental speech and happy ending. Blah, blah, blah. Cliché, cliché, cliché.I can't explain why, but the movie just isn't funny. It tries too hard. Sometimes the jokes are just so obvious, you KNOW what's coming, and that ruins the humor. Minutes after finishing the movie, I can't remember a single joke. It is that bad and forgettable. Name any other teen movie and it would be better than this one. Any of them! The simple truth is that there are only two reasons you would see this film 1)Eliza Dushku's changing scene, 2)You're in love with DJ Quall. Although there are some cool cameos by Tony Hawk, among others, it does not save the film. Honestly, if you see this film you are telling Hollywood that it is OK to make horrible, horrible movies. Which is NOT TRUE! So support PETM (People for the Ethical Treatment of Movies) and rent something else. You'll be doing everyone - including yourself - a favor. "},{"Title":"Well... It may be worth it for the swimsuit scene","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What were they thinking?! Do people actually still make movies like this? Do people actually BUY tickets and go see movies like this? This is a relic of the 80s that was made 15 years too late. It's been years since I've seen a movie so predictable, so idiotic and so formulistic. Its concepts of social behavior and teen life are so old fashioned and pathetically prototypical, the makers of Saved By The Bell would have laughed. Fine, you say. It's just a stupid comedy. It doesn't have to be smart. But hell, at least make it funny! There were maybe two or three good jokes throughout the whole thing. A couple of decent actors (Eddie Griffin wasn't bad, and Zooey Deschanel is strangely charming) and some good cameos (Tommy Lee, David Hasslelhoff, Vanilla Ice) don't make up for a lousy script, a pathetic lead actor and bland, uninspired directing (the line - directed by a co-writer of There's Something About Mary should tell you all you need to know).I wouldn't recommend buying this DVD. I wouldn't recommend renting it. If they're showing it on a plane and you haven't got anything to read... get some sleep. And yeah, Eliza Dushko is gorgeous, and there's a scene where she tries on different swimsuits. You can get that kind of stuff on the Playboy channel. And they have better dialogues. "},{"Title":"Mild Comedy","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The New Guy is a decent but forgettable comedy. It has heart, it doesn't really have laughs. The acting? Sorry, that's a no too. Come to think of it, the directing and screenplay is bad too. For some reason it's just entertaining.I think there are so many teen movies about popularity that it's becoming a genre. I liked it, but there is so much that can be approved. Not worth theater $ (it's out on video by now, so it shouldn't matter). I'd say you can watch it if it were on a plane or so, but don't take it seriously. Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Genuinely the worst movie I've seen in a long time","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First off lets clear things up, most of the time you can see a bad movie a mile away. its not always the same with a good movie but when its a genuine piece of garbage you can spot it pretty quick. Some key things a bad movie has are a lot of bad teen actors, an MTV soundtrack, celebrity cameos or Lyle Lovett. This film manages to have all of them. I'm a pretty bad sleeper and when this was the only notible thing on TV one late night I put it on and watched it through. I figured it would be bad so I pushed myself to watch it as I've not seen a bad movie in a while. This exceeded my expectations. I guess you know the movie is bad when you cannot stop remarking on how hidious the main character is. heres the plot in a nutshellDJ Qualls goes to prison for some unknown reason to meet Luther (played by Eddie Griffin, who at times, can be moderately amusing) who teaches him how to be cool. He decides to use this device at his new school and pick of chicks, become popular etc. Naturally it works and he dates the head cheerleader only in the end to be exposed by the head bully and come to terms with who he is etc. sound familiar, oh it is.The film could have been an entertaining piece had it used jokes that were not stale, unfunny and horribly out of date. I've read so many reviews of films with old jokes but this is the first one where i have noted this myself. If you are looking for a film to watch one night and this is the only thing on than by all means, don't watch it. If you must though, be prepared for the worst, but doing that will still leave you with high expectations compared to what this film turned out to be. Rating 1/2 * (I have no idea why)Added to this, DJ Qualls may be the worst, ugliest, most uncharismatic actor on the planet. He could make Paul Walker look like Gene Hackman. Excuse me, he could make Paul Walker look BETTER than Gene Hackman. "},{"Title":"Mind-numbing stupidity","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Several dozen strikes with a block of wood to the temple are the equivalent to this mind-numbingly stupid waste of precious film.  As a teen, I am depressed to be reminded yet again that this is a representation of not only American marketing directed at teens, but what the world actually views as the 'teenage creed.'  The plot centers on a revolting, backwoodsesque reject taking advice from an African American prison inmate in order to gain the prize that, according to this film, all teenagers want but not all can achieve; high school popularity.    Not only is this an outlandish idea, but also the inmate's character fails to be introduced, let alone solidified throughout the movie.  Subduing the nausea caused by this blatant African American stereotype that I felt had fizzled out by the 1950s was my first task.  Secondly, I am still desperately searching for good in this movie. Not only does it establish, once again in American culture, that popularity is synonymous with promiscuity and violence (as long as you have a great haircut, of course), but it also demeans audiences everywhere by incorporating poorly written jokes that even a puddle of slime could comprehend.  In summation, poor writing, poor film technique, poor acting, and an approach to filmmaking similar to an uneducated, patronizing adult rank this film, in this author's opinion, as the worst film in American history.   "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In the words of Eric Cartman this movie sucked donkey b****. I mean seriously this is one of the worst movies I have ever seen and I have seen quite a few pathetic ones. DJ has the perfect dweeb look going on and its good but there is no way he can star in his own movie. To be fair this movie had a pretty fair intro but it lost itself within the first 15 mins of the movie.The movie tries to have elements of the best of all teen movies and instead ends up as a pile of s***.The comic situations look too weird (not weird funny, just weird).Crude sex jokes (not American pie style), illogical , incoherent situations make this one painful experience. Overall if you enjoy mind numbing experiences go for it. Else pass this one. "},{"Title":"Smart and funny","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Smart and funny new teen movie is more fun than pretty much all other teen comedies. Using a formula that other teen movies use, this one takes it a step further.DJ Qualls plays Dizzy, a high school student whose days at high school are not going too well. He gets sent to prison, and gets tips on how to get his image boosted. To become the popular kid, it takes time and practice. Because of school not going so well, he decides to get himself expelled from school and gets sent to another high school. There he meets the hottie cheerleader Eliza Dushku. Taking his tips tat he learned in prison, he changes the school around, uniting everyone and making a name for himself.DJ Qualls does a very, very excellent as the lead here. He very clearly shows his emotions and knows how to act. I can see more roles for him to play in the future. Eliza Dushku...what can I say? Complete hottie, who does such an excellent job(as always) as the cheerleader who changes after meeting Dizzy. Any fans of her will love her very much in this film. *People who love Eliza as much as I do, will love the scenes of her posing in many different bikinis*This movie is actually very high on the sexual content, and it shows. But its very well handled here, while it probably would've drooped in the hands of another director and different actors. Passing with a PG-13 was nice(so I could go see it without parents, but my parents would've gone if it was rated R anyways), and has content almost close to American Pie level. This is shown in one scene where a girl who walks off without Dizzy turns around and asks him are you coming?, to which he replies almost (this is because of her asking him to take her clothes of with his teeth, make out with her, etc.).Anyways, I felt that this movie was very well handled, very well acted(Great job Eliza and DJ!) and has a lot of humor(sexual and crude) which would make anyone laugh, and would probably offend some.My advice Go see it. Easily my favorite movie of the year so far!Final Grade 10/10.Rated PG-13 for sexual content, language, crude humor and mild drug references. "}{"Title":"Not really anything special...","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When you know a movie is being directed by someone who has never directed before(and hasn't since), you know not to expect anything great. This teen flick is no exception. Wait, teen flick? This movie isn't even R-rated... it's PG-13. In other words, it's far, far tamer than most of the crude sex comedies of later years that begun their return to popularity with American Pie. These films will always be popular with teenagers... the reason why escapes me at the moment. Well, there's the sex and the crude comedy... I suppose that would be it. This has less nudity and cuss words than that of the R-rated ones, making it easier to sit through for those who don't care much for such(though why anyone like that would watch a movie like this is beyond me). It's got a good deal of the humiliation humor and usual let's hurt someone to make people laugh attitude. Schadenfreude. Feeding the inner bastard in all of us. Like with most other less-than-impressive teen comedies, it's got more of that, the typical teen humor, than morals and, say, anything of actual interest. There're the nice messages of high school is tough and kids can be cruel, to anyone in there, but they're practically covered by clichés and bad taste. They're also quite heavy-handed, when they do come up. The plot is somewhat original, but also rather uninteresting and uninvolving. The pacing is poor, I found myself hardly watching at all. The acting is fair, but many parts are over- or underplayed. The humor is fair, with some good laughs from the likes of comedy talents such as Eddie Griffin and the O'Connell brothers, Charlie and Jerry. Most of it is crude and unfunny, though. The cinematography is uninspired. The direction is vapid. All in all, just not a terribly good film, and one that is rather quickly forgotten. I recommend this only to the biggest fans of teen comedies, and look elsewhere if you want T&A or swearing. 5/10 "},{"Title":"corny film","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i just saw this movie in hbo. i think it's one of the corniest film ever and the most unbelievable. the first part of the movie was more okay when he was in prison. when he became the new guy, it was so stupid. everyone there was artificial. i like entertaining movies or even stupid movies but this film was trying too hard to be a stupid movie that wants to be patriotic too?  "},{"Title":"Cliche","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is horrible. Just like any other teen movie that was sub par. The acting is bad, the plot is not there, it is badly directed and even worse its all been done before. This is nothing more than a few teen movies blazened into one pathetic attempt at comedy. The only funny part was the broke dick scene. The ending was incredibly predictable with Dizzy being exposed as a loser from another school. The football scenes were incredibly over done. Highschool football plays on FRIDAY only, yet they showed 5-6 games, meaning 5-6 weeks have gone bye. Dizzy also said that Homecoming was two weeks away from the day after the first game he went too. Also, State Championships are played in a respectable stadium, like the AstroDome, seeing as they are in Texas, not at another highschool. This movie could have been done WAY better. All in all, it was horrible. I watched it the first time for enjoyment, second time for critique. i give this a * out of ****. "},{"Title":"What in the name of God is this? (plot spoiler)","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh god, not another dumb new comedy movie.  Boy, did this one stink.  The plot seemed like it was fast-paced so it would confuse the viewer and make them focus more on the jokes.  Uh, I think it went something like...a boy moves to a new town and gets picked on at high school, so he manages to get himself into enough trouble to get kicked out (which is the funniest part, he videotapes the principal taking a crap and plays it during the morning announcements.) and goes to jail, only to find out his cellmate is Eddie Griffin, who teaches him some kind of stupid kung-fu tricks which I think are supposed to be funny, and then he goes back as a more social person. I don't remember too much else that happens, of course there is a happy ending, as there is with all films made past the year 1997.  I wouldn't reccomend this to anyone, unless you enjoyed such trendy classics as American Pie or 100 Girls. "},{"Title":"unfortunate","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Anyone who appreciates film of any quality will realize that this movie is a waste of time.  What is unfortunate is the number of people who say that people who dislike The New Guy take things too seriously.  We are living in a culture that has traded quality for commercial pop non-sense.  There is a difference between a quality piece of work and a cheap copy with no integrity.  This is the latter.  If you want your money's worth, be sure to at least see the girl and guy ride off onto the sunset at the end.  That was the only redeeming quality of the flick. "},{"Title":"Lightweight","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How did I forget to put in my two cents on this one? Probably because I forget it even existed a day after watching it. I like Qualls, and he has plenty of screen time here. But the plot is virtually nonexistent and he is not nearly as funny in this as he was in ROAD TRIP. The BRAVEHEART gag is a real kick, although it goes on a bit long. This one strains and stretches way past the point of credulity. Ah well, there's some good music to listen to. "},{"Title":"Nice try, but not succesful","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one i expect not to see more than once.. It has it's hilarious parts, but that doesn't save the movie. The only bright side of this movie is that Eliza Dushka plays a roll in this movie. Damn.. she's HOT..!!! )Well it's worth trying to watch this movie, but don't fall asleep while watching.. "},{"Title":"An Unfortunate Movie","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Last night I had the, well, I won't say pleasure so let's just say occurrence, of watching The New Guy on DVD.Yeesh.As most people who know me, or at least read what I write about movies on occasion, know that I'm pretty forgiving about movies. I don't expect Shakespeare when it's not meant to be Shakespeare. It's a good way to be, as there are lots of movies out there that aren't great by any means but have their charm.The New Guy ain't one of them.It's about this kid who enters his senior year hoping to be more than just a loser, gets horribly embarrassed, goes to prison for a day or so for no real reason, gets the idea from an inmate he befriends that if he gets expelled and sent to a new school, he can start acting all tough and crazy and be popular, does so, and becomes so before the inevitable unveiling of who he used to be by the bullies at the old school. And of course all is forgiven because even though he supposedly has a reputation as a crazy killer of a guy at the new school, he still has a heart of gold.Throughout the movie we also see him in and out of prison, just visiting it appears, but still allowed in among all the kind-hearted inmates. And we see Jerry O'Connell and his brother who are way too old to still play high school guys. And we see football games that play out in mere minutes. And we see Eliza Dushku trying out bathing suits. That was the good part. The only good part in the whole movie.No wait, there was a second, Zooey Deschenal was in the movie.Do yourself a favor - don't see this movie. Don't be stupid like me. If given the choice between this movie and unnecessary dental work, choose the movie, but at least think hard about it before doing so. "},{"Title":"Positive comments","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  after suffering through Not Another Teen Movie, i thought i would never try and watch a teen movie again, but The New Guy is pretty damn funny (at times)...enough times that it was worth it (considering I got to watch it for free)...aside from getting to see Eliza Dushku again do her thing (just as cool as Bring It On), DJ Qualls was excellent in the lead role....his supporting actors were classic HS...very well done... yes, it was the standard teen high school movie, cliche and trite down to the Jake Ryan clone(<--showing my age there, I know) but there were some scenes that made it watchable...no way is this a get up and walk out movie..i stayed through the credits...of course that was also to see a listing of all the cameos that were in the movie...I would have loved to have been on this set with all the people he had in it... anyways, just my review...I give it 8 out of 10 stars, losing points on originality, and lack of ethnic characters in the central characters...as a frame of refrence, Not Another Teen Movie got one star (for technical work) and Amelie got 10 stars (for being cooler than anything to watch, over and over) cheers Quito "},{"Title":"Darwin was Right!!!","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to this movie thinking that this was going to be a drama or something, but  it turned out to be another one of those snotty-nosed teenager toilet-humormovies! I think I want to quit my job as  a truck washer and make movies instead.  All I'd have to do is go to the local K-Mart where all the high school kidscongregate at night and film them throwing frisbees and drinking pop andsomeone out there would sit in a theater and laugh. This movie was even worse  than Van Wilder and really shows how much of a loser you can really be in life. If  popular movies like this suggest where our society is going, then maybe Darwin  was right. How about we just put a pack of cheerleaders in charge of our great  nation and then we can all get shorter work days because we need an hour toblow dry our hair every morning. My suggestion is to go out and rent HappyGilmore instead, its funnier and at least Sandler isn't a communist. 1 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Nice Cameos!","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't expecting this to be a great film when I went and saw it, but I thought that it would funnier than what it really was. Compared to other teen movies, the humour of this film wasn't as gut-busting as maybe some others. I will give The New Guy credit though for being rather original at times with the situations its characters are put in. What I enjoyed most about this film were the cameos by Henry Rollins, Vanilla Ice, Gene Simmons, and Tommy Lee. "},{"Title":"Kiddy movie","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A film combining a unique blend of excessive affirmative action, male chauvinism, and shallow story line to bring you one of the most wasteful experiences of your leisure time.  You may smile at the characters but cinematography makes you cry, and while you may feel like you might be going somewhere towards the end, don't flatter yourself (or the director) - you will arrive at a complete halt.  In short, invest your money in something else other than this film. "},{"Title":"Kind of hard to judge","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It,s really hard to read this movie. I  found some of the parts funny, and  many of the cameos were hilarious,  but what is the overall impression. I  feel anger because Geoffrey Lewis  whored himself to be in this film, or  the fact they needlessly parodied two  of my favorite movies of all time in  Patton and Braveheart, or maybe the  fact that `odd' people are over caricaturized to benefit the need of ridicule. But then  again, some of the jokes were good,  and the loser does provide the world  with a side that would normally be  overlooked due to outside impressions.  Truly, a vexing film. "},{"Title":"Alright","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie wasn't as good as I thought it would be. There were some good funny scenes, but the rest was a little stupid. I liked the black prison guy the best (Eddie Griffin). This movie would only be funny to people who laugh at stupid jokes. This movie diserves a C "},{"Title":"Charming comic bits include a broken penis","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  New Guy, The (2002) DJ Qualls, Eliza Dushku, Eddie Griffin, Zooey Deschanel, Jerod Mixon, Parry Shen, Lyle Lovett, Sunny Mabrey, Horatio Sanz, Illeana Douglas, D Ed Decter. Not another tried formula Teen Qualls was a skinny zero before he spent a year in prison, now he's an aggressive stud at a different high school and becomes part of the `cool' kids. Will they discover his true identity? This one aims for the bonfire where it presents itself with uncreative writing and an overshare of extremely unfunny penis jokes. Who makes these uninspiring repeats? Running Time 89 minutes and rated PG-13 for vulgarity, sexual content, and some language. * ½    "},{"Title":"Laughs are few and far between","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dizzy Harrison(DJ Qualls) is an unpopular, high school geek going through a hellish senior year. In an attempt to make a new identity for himself, Dizzy gets himself expelled from his high school, and learns the techniques of being cool from a prison inmate(Eddie Griffin) Dizzy enrolls in a new high school under the alias Gil Harris, he makes new friends and he soon gains respect from the jocks and geeks alike.Dizzy then gets noticed by the head cheerleader Danielle(Eliza Dushku) and helps the school football team gain self-respect to win games.But things turn bad when Danielle's angry boyfriend begins investigating into Gill/Dizzy's past to uncover any dirt on him.Also in the cast is Zooey Deschanel, Lyle Lovett, Horatio Sanz and Illeana Douglas.The Script by David Kendall was rather lousy and Ed Decter Directing is rock bottom.There are cameo's from Jerry and Charlie O'Connel, Henry Rollins, Tony Hawk, Kool Moe Dee, Jermaine Dupri and Tommy Lee.Then we get some really over the top cameo's with Vanilla Ice, Gene Simmons and David Hasselhoff.Despite  funny performances from DJ Qualls, Eddie Griffin and Eliza Dushku The New Guy Falls flat.Most of the jokes are rather lousy, but it does manage to pull out a funny scene or two.But most jokes really just fall flat.The only scene really worth watching is when Eliza Dushku is changing from bikini to bikini or something really tight.Eliza Dushku is very sexy, but she can't even save the movie though she does come close with the scene in the bikini's.The New Guy reminds me of a lousy version of Can't Buy Me Love with Patrick Dempsey.The jokes are few and far betweenI give The New Guy 3/10 "},{"Title":"ELIZA DUSHKUTHE HOTTEST NEW GIRL","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The best part of this movie is the hottttt Eliza Dushku. The other actors are fair,but hottie Eliza puts the fire into any movie she is in. The bikini scene alone is worth the rental fee. Eliza Dushku is the hottest actress to never take her clothes off on film,although what man wouldn't want to see this hottie in all her majestic glory!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Big Disappointment","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had heard a lot of good things about this movie, so I picked up the DVD the other day.  I could only watch about 30 minutes of this movie.  I didn't find the humour in it at all, and it was very boring.  Scenes like the main character videotaping the principal on the throne, & the school secretary grabbing onto the lead character's erection are just some of the humour that's thrown at you within the first 30 minutes.  The humour utilized in movies nowadays seems to be very toilet based.  It was funny at first in some movies, but now it seems that most of the comedies that have come out lately have all been the same, and that is moronic & crude.  What are the big executives in Hollywood thinking?  It seems like they are grasping at straws to find something funny.  I guess the only thing that matters is that THEY find movies like The New Guy funny.  The only good thing about this movie was Eddie Griffin, but even his usually funny humour was lowered to predictable dribble.  I usually like teen comedies, but this one is the most unimpressionable mess that I have seen in a long time!  "},{"Title":"Another lame teen comedy, but not bad","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The New Guy gets off to a very slow start, abusing us with crass humor including a teacher getting videotaped as he relieves himself in the bathroom and the main character (literally) getting his penis broken. Yeah, I know.  Don't ask.  The cameos are very amusing, including one by Gene Simmonds as a Reverend preaching abstitence.  This is an obvious inside joke, being that Simmonds banged about 5,000 chicks back in his hayday. There are other hilarious cameos, including one at the end that will have you on the floor.  Eddie Griffin is delightfully amusing as Luther and says one of the funniest lines  Prison is a lot like high school  the sex you want, you don't get and the sex you get...you don't want.  Unfortunately, the fine actress Illeana Douglas is wasted in a thankless role.When the film surpasses the 30-minute mark, it becomes harmless and mildly entertaining.  The soundtrack is one of the best soundtracks I've heard in a while, including the great In the Air Tonight by Phil Collins, which some may remember from Risky Business in the Tom Cruise-Rebecca DeMornay love scene.  The minute that song played, I felt like I just received an adrenaline shot, especially after the film's lame first act.  The characters are all cardboard cut-outs and utterly cliched--with the exception of Qualls's geeky friends, who DON'T belong to the Chess Club and DON'T wear goofy clothing.  The minute you see the beautiful head cheerleader, Eliza Dushku, going out with the dumb, obnoxious jock--you know exactly how that's gonna turn out.  But the film's message is pure.  It's a message that has been expressed in several teen movies, but in The New Guy it actually played off well.  That message is not to snub anyone because they may not be as popular as you and may be much different from you.  I couldn't help but sympathize with Qualls's character, because I was the underdog in high school.  I was a blip on the radar screen as the movie's character says. And watching him gain popularity, though via stupid reasons, raised my spirits.  And I also found it touching when the jocks were picking on the midget and Qualls made them apologize to him.  And the last thing that makes this movie somewhat of a guilty pleasure is the many beautiful chicks. I've said before that Eliza Dushku is one of the most beautiful actresses in Hollywood, and I stand by my word.  In one scene, she marches out the dressing room of a clothing store in all sorts of bikinis and low-cut dresses, modeling them for Qualls.  Though I know that would never happen, it's a great fantasy and I get to see Eliza half-naked!  So I ain't complaining.  Plus, there's a lot of gratuitous shots of scantily clad cheerleaders and that chick who plays the town slut is a major babe!Don't expect any surprises (minus the cameos).  The movie is totally predictable, but it's harmless fluff (after the first 30 minutes) that ain't as torcherous as your average teen flick.  It's a shame that DJ Qualls went from playing the hilarious Kyle on Road Trip to the moderately funny Dizzy in this movie, but hopefully his next movie will offer a much better role. One major flaw in this movie is it's set in Texas (and probably shot somewhere in California that looks kinda like Texas) and other than Lyle Lovett and Illeana Douglas, nobody has a Texas accent!My score  5 (out of 10)       "},{"Title":"Do yourself a favor, and stay away from this one.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You know you're in movie hell when not only is the feature desperately unfunny but it is also reprehensible to the senses. The New Guy is a screechy new comedy that features DJ Qualls as a geek outcast that tries to make a name for himself at school. His one goal in life is to get expelled, and after that his ambition is a little hazy. He does make attempts to get a date with a cheerleader by offering money to have some dinner with him. Already, not only is the movie crudely unfunny but the hero is a creep.The movie flashes to bits of Eddie Griffin as a prison inmate, and he scares the guards and just about everyone else by making stunted whiplash noises that are pitched from the soundtrack and provided by sound editors. Get it? Everyone around him is whipped because He's the man! When Qualls finds himself in prison, Griffin takes him from under his wing and shows him the ropes, and there is a gag where Qualls is literally climbing the ropes and Griffin lights it up with a match. This isn't dope comedy, this is comedy on dope.For the life of me, it is near impossible to make coherent sense of The New Guy in the way it cuts back between Qualls' high school experiences and prison. It's not clear whether they are flashbacks or if he was literally incarcerated after every misdemeanor he commits at school. Qualls, in one of his hijinks, videotapes the school principal on the toilet, while he experiences diarrhea and feeds the video onto all the school monitors while classmates laugh and sneer. Next shot, we find Qualls in prison with no explanation.   The incompetence of this movie has it constantly cutting back and forth with no resolution to logic of what took place in the scene before. There are bad moments and then worse moments, like when the school librarian breaks the character's penis. See, he had a stiff&#133; oh, forget it. Besides a fairly amusing parody of Braveheart and a couple of nice scenes with the appealing Eliza Dushku (who is just absolutely beautiful!). Tortured beyond belief, one wants to assault the movie screen in revenge. Lucky for you readers, you can choose from much better movies out there at the Cineplex to go see now instead of this one as long as you don't get locked out of Spider-Man or the new Star Wars.  "}{"Title":"Loser woos sexy cheerleader yada yada yada","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  THE NEW GUY (2002) * DJ Qualls, Eliza Dushku, Zooey Deschanel,  Eddie Griffin, Jerod Mixon, Parry Shen, Lyle Lovett, Illeana Douglas, (Cameos Gene Simmons, Tommy Lee, Kool Mo Dee, Henry Rollins, Vanilla Ice)  Retread of `Revenge of the Nerds' with none of its geeky charm this time focusing on pencil neck Qualls (the only likable thing about this laugh-free &#145;comedy') who creates a new identity after a humiliating stint at his high school thanks to cool lessons from prisoner Griffin to win over a sexy cheerleader (hottie Dushku) and the usual gross out hi-jinks ensuing.  The only inspired thing about this mess is the casting of crooner Lovett as Qualls' doppleganger dad (!)  (Dir Ed Decter) "},{"Title":"Pretty Bad","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was horrible. It was not funny compared to the same genere as Not Another Teen Movie or Van Wilder.The only good part of the movie was when Eliza Dushku was in the scene. Her bathing suit dance was AWESOME!!! "},{"Title":"The loser's dreamshow","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While I am not sure a dreamshow for a loser, much like the one played by DJ Qualls in The New Guy, would involve wearing an afro wig at the age of eight and dancing like James Brown, getting his member whacked by the school librarian or getting lectured on becoming a popular student by a inmate pl1ayed by Eddie Griffin, it might involve being popular in some form.  Because while this film does pose as a comedy, gross out and stupid most of the time with the most effective gags in the prison scenes (and where did Henry Rollins come from?), there is heart somewhere in here, a sense of trying to succeed in the mind of a geek who is the precise son look alike of Lyle Lovett.  The film seems tailor made actually for the popular kids of high schools, and for the other kids well, it's the drama of the year.  I'm not sure quite what to make of it, but it might serve some use for fans of Braveheart and Patton.  B- or C+ "},{"Title":"Puts CLUELESS to shame.","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A new type of revenge of the nerd story. A nice awkward teenager named Dizzy Harrison(D.J. Qualls) is humiliated at his first day back at school. And later gets expelled. For help he turns to a nutty but cool prisoner( played very funny by Eddie Griffin) to help tuffin him up. When thats done, he is sent to another school with a new identity, And is ready to teach the popular jerks a lesson in humillate, he also wins the attention of the pretty head cheerleader(played by the gorgeous Eliza Dushku). One of the funniest teen romps I've seen in years. D.J. Qualls is quite charming. So is Eliza Dushku, although I don't understand why she would pick this type of role, but anyway for the male viewers if you liked her in Bring It On, then you will really like her in this movie.  "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie still makes fun with short people. While Austin power may have used short people in a good way, this movie has used the old ways of making fun of short people.The jokes are very transparent, very untasteful. Some of the guys and girls are good looking, that was the only reason that I kept watching till the end. ) "},{"Title":"The film is only stupid, but the protagonist is *annoying*","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK it's pretty obvious that this film is awful. In fact I only watched it because I mistook it for The New Guy 2003 The first real mistake of the film is the casting (I won't comment on Eddie Griffin, his name is enough of a trademark for bad films) -the so-called 'New Guy', DJ Quills, is a pretty bad choice under so many aspects. First of all, he is far too old for the part -which is pretty common, but what makes it much worse here is that this guy already looks ten years older than he actually is. Then, I have to say that even if I don't usually pay too much attention to this, here the lack of a decent script and anything anyway funny forced me to dwell on the protagonist's ugliness. This guy is far too abominably looking for any part!! How could he ever be believable in the role of the charming new guy?! The script doesn't help him either. The situations are recycled from whatever z-series American comedy, with easy jokes (people recorded while at the toilet) and tired stereotypes (cheerleaders, the jerk boyfriend, everyone in the high school behaving as a lobotomised mass). And where on earth could it be funny to see a super-skinny guy dressed as a general on a football pitch, throwing pseudo-quotes around?? More than that do we really believe that that's going to make him popular in a high school?? The only actually funny parts were when the protagonist was being beaten up. They were trite and predictable, but at least that annoying skinny guy got what he deserved for a while. I have to admit I didn't manage to watch through the whole film, so I might have missed some even more awful parts. Sorry about that. But I tried to watch a few scenes here and there, to see where it was heading (Nowhere). "},{"Title":"Thoroughly unfunny","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How do movies like this get made? Seriously, someone tell me. I think I know when you take the average of the masses, it always equals absolute stupidity. So when bigwig producers decide on film projects, they're forced to select the sorriest excuses for scripts and bring them to pathetic life for all to enjoy. *gag* Then we package them and sell them to the confederacy of dunces. The New Guy is a waste of thousands of dollars and countless hours of time of all those involved. The resulting product is probably the biggest piece of cinematic waste since Lone Star State of Mind. It never ceases to amaze me how low people will go when greenlighting movie projects. Is it me or are they going lower and lower each year? There is no story here. It has no message, it has no purpose, it has no value or memorable characters or dialogue, no redeeming qualities. But it's a comedy! you say. Well there's certainly no laughs, either...for any educated person, that is. The laughs in this film are scant at best, mostly nonexistent, and downright inane. From a comedic standpoint, it misfires on just about every possible cylinder. The comedy in this movie is equivalent to the same Three Stooges episode on its 1,000th loop. How many times can one laugh at DJ Qualls falling or hurtin himself? How many times can one laugh at countless stereotypes? Plenty, if you're 10 years of age or of equal mindset. If this is supposed to be a comedy, and fails this miserably, what are we left with? Mucus. Green mucus. And lots of it. I have an idea. Why doesn't everyone in America get a college degree so we can bring the average IQ up a few notches. That way, the movies we produce will (hopefully) improve. I pray Ed Decter will stay out of Texas and make his lame movies elsewhere. As for the writer try harder. Shame on you for making this movie. "},{"Title":"It gets an extra star on account of Eliza Dushku.  THAT'S IT.","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... The humour and the direction were just plainly abysmal. 10 or so minutes in, and with my preferred celebrity lust object still nowhere in sight, I was all ready to consign this straight to my list of excruciating sit-through's... and then, the miracle happened... The revelation that made me abandon all of my mental faculties and just start thinking with more 'primal' parts of my anatomy. Ladies and (especially) Gentlemen, I present to you Eliza Dushku, resplendent in several bikinis; and at one point making a deserved show of riding atop a mechanical bull... There was no way I could say that my time was TOTALLY wasted on the viewing experience, now! This film harbours some moments capable of making grown heterosexual men - and curious females even - weep. I should know, I'm one of those males; and the expression most capable of summing my simmering feelings up?? YOWZA!! Thank CREATION for beautiful women like her...What I know is this No film with Eliza Dushku showing even a little skin can be all bad; but on current witnessed evidence, a good few can come perilously darn close. This is the type of skit stretched painfully over 85 minutes that would make Keenan 'n' Kell blush... Aside from the ubiquitous Eliza, it depends almost entirely for its appeal on random bad things happening to DJ Qualls. I'd have had no problem with this if someone had done the job right straight away; but no - he has to narrowly squeak by time and time again to continue making audience lives a misery... Had they just provided me with a chair, some strong industrial tape, a match, a few chunky rats and a can of lighter fluid, the pain would have been over far quicker...... and what to say of Vanilla Ice????????! (perhaps the most noticeable of many abject cameos) Well, put it this way This makes his stint on 'Men & Motors' look GOOD. That says it all, really... "},{"Title":"Eliza","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  WEll, I give this movie a 5 out of ten for the film itself, I thought it was funny,and just plain fun. the other 5 is because Eliza is in it! therefore it gets a 10 for me!Eliza makes this film worth seeing!.....(referencing the bikini scene) "}]