[{"Title":"Stupid, yet entertaining...","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"120 out of 147 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I love stupid movies... I live for them, in fact, and this was definitely stupid.  Spend the $5, go see it for yourself!  If you weren't interested in it, you probably wouldn't be looking at reviews in the first place unless you're a concerned parent (let your kids see it, it's not too bad), or if you hated it and wanted to see if anyone actually enjoyed it.  I did, and I recommend it to anyone who just wants to laugh at the antics of two total stoners.  Personally, I think a different ending could have made this movie a lot more enjoyable, but I don't want to give it away, so see it for yourself.  This one won't win any awards (with a name like Dude, Where's My Car? one wouldn't expect it to be a contender, anyway), but for all of us who have had a night to remember that we forgot, it's damn funny. "},{"Title":"Lighten up, people!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"155 out of 227 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude is by no means an intelligent movie, nor does it want to be one. However, it is treated as one by the public. If you don't like stupid movies, why did you go see it anyway!? I mean, personally, I love stupid movies. American Pie, Idle Hands, Evolution- all genius. But if you see any of them thinking you are going to get an intelligent comedy the problem lies within you and your lack of a sense of humor.Or maybe you're just too old.      "},{"Title":"What the hell is WRONG with all you people?!?","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"179 out of 282 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This movie is funny, period. Everyone I know (and like) that saw it thought it was hilarious, including me. I don't understand what people were expecting when they saw this! It was a thousand times funnier than any recent Ben Stiller comedy. There are at least a dozen scenes that made me laugh out loud. The couple of people that actually wrote a good review for this said that it was so stupid that it was funny. Well, I don't think it was any stupider than most of the unfunny comedies that have come out lately...And a lot of people compared the to Bill and Ted. Why? It was nothing like Bill and Ted, except for maybe there were 2 male leads, like countless other buddy comedies. You people are just... WRONG! "},{"Title":"FUNNY!!!","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"126 out of 191 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude Where's My Car is one of those movies that is so stupid, that it is hilarious.  I could not stop laughing throughout this movie.  My favourite scene is the Chinese food place one.  I've never laughed so hard at a movie.  I totally recommend this movie to people who like stupid comedy.And theeeen..... "},{"Title":"Shibby-est Movie Ever!!!","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Of all the stupid (yet funny) movies out there, Dude, Where's My Car? is definitely one of the funniest.Nowadays, so many stupid/funny stoner movies are out, but none can really compare to the hilariousness that Chester and Jesse bring out of each other. Reminiscent to Beavis and Butthead, they cruise around as two aimless stoners with no real purpose in life but to shibby, shibby, and shibby. (Shibby, which could stand for ANYthing, really.) Being the first to fully implement the words Dude and Sweet, Jesse and Chester deserve two thumbs-up for this stoner movie. Teenagers of any generation would definitely enjoy it. I've seen it a hundred times and still love it to this day.Shibby!!! "},{"Title":"SO stupid,but SO funny!","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"41 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I have to admit it,the plot (2 guys not remembering what they did the night before and ending up in an intergalactic crisis)is every bit as ridiculous as it sounds,but the truth is, for some twisted reason , I like this movie. If people don't like this kind of stuff,why did they choose to watch it in the first place?Whatever this movie lacks in intelligence is compensated by the talent of its two starsSeann William Scott is as entertaining as in American Pie and Road Trip,and as for Ashton Kutcher...Well,That 70's Show aside,he's never really managed to be this funny again. Those two guys know they're not doing a masterpiece such as Some Like It Hot, but they manage to make us giggle with the material they've been given. They know this movie will never appear in any Top 10 or 50 (except maybe Stupidest Movies Ever), and they're fine with that. And so should the audience.So,if you want to watch something that's funny but intelligent,watch a Woody Allen movie,or Wes Anderson's films,or The Simpsons,but if you want to watch something that just makes you laugh without having you focus on the story,I strongly recommend Dude,Where's My Car?. "},{"Title":"Please, people!","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"43 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  OK, I've read a lot of the reviews, and I'm somewhat disappointed by the negative ones. Of COURSE this isn't gonna be the best movie you ever saw! Of COURSE it's gonna be mindlessly stupid! What, you were actually expecting something like a cinematic masterpiece? My friends and I went to see this movie after taking some major tests, and we wanted to laugh and relax. By watching DWMC we succeeded! As soon as it comes out on video, it's going straight to my stupidly funny movie collection, along with Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure and American Pie. Look, if you're willing to lower your IQ to that of the average stoner and-G*d forbid-have a good time at the movies, go see Dude, Where's my Car? As long as you know what you're gonna get out of it, it's not a waste of money. And hey, if you do get totally bored, go buy a large popcorn with lots of butter and amuse yourself by seeing how many popped kernels you can get on people's heads without them noticing. (I warned you, you won't like the movie if you can't be stupidly immature-think blink-182's What's My Age Again?-for a couple of hours) "},{"Title":"Duderific","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"37 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Highly entertaining the first 100 times I saw it, now not so much. The 'and then' segment at the drive thru entered my homes dialect and has not left yet. Hot chicks are sprinkled thru the movie, as well as the very disturbing she-male stripper. This movie is often thought of as the epitome of bad, but really it's funny enough. Is it formulaic? Sure. Is Ashton Kutcher a total tool? Kinda looks so. Seann William Scott is the funnier of the two by far. Great cameo appearance of Brent Spiner (knows as DATA on Star Trek Next Generation). The bubble wrap jumpsuits are also highly entertaining and original. I thought there was going to be a sequel to this, but it evidently fell thru. "},{"Title":"A fun, light hearted movie, with moments of comic genius...","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"25 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" A fun, light hearted movie, with moments of comic genius... I like a classic, epic, drama as much as the next guy. But, this wasn't one of those. This was a flick to laugh at. If you are generally a happy person and can laugh or cry at commercials, then you will enjoy the antics and slapstick of this movie. If you are constantly judgmental, moody, or jealous when you see other people having a good time... then this might not make you smile. Did I say smile? That's the idea folks. A film that makes you smile is not going to always get an Oscar. This film is far from Dumb & Dumber, and not close to Neil Simon. Lighten up, loosen up, and cheer up with some popcorn and you will laugh. "},{"Title":"Bizarre, dumb, but manages to hang together.  Kinda.","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I saw this under the, ah, recommendation of Dave Barry (Everything you need to know about America). It's a typical forgettable, goofy, non-sequitur filled comedy that manages to be on-target the majority of the time. Some *extremely* corny moments (one word ostriches), but no gaping holes in the plot, and in the end, everything's resolved as reasonably as can be expected.Recommendation Pick it up if you're a fan of dependable screwball comedy and want to see a pretty good effort by Ashton Kucher. Not enough manic energy to qualify as a party movie, and definitely not for couples (unless you have a great sense of humor, of course). "}{"Title":"Funnier than it had a right to be","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  What a stupid, mindless, cliche'd, juvenile film!It worked though.  Laughed out loud a lot and it didn't rely on bodily functions as much as many other cheap laugh films that have come out recently.  The funniest bits were actually the sight gags or the stoner dialogue.Solid seven for mindless enjoyment. "},{"Title":"much better than you'd think","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" People who saw Dude, Where's My Car? either loved it or hated it. What you thought of it probably depended on your impression of the movie beforehand. If you're a fan of Cheech and Chong-style stoner movies, and you're a gen-xer or younger, you probably enjoyed it. If you knew it was going to be stupid and expected little, you probably didn't like it.I thought it was an excellent movie. I know not many serious people felt that way, but there you go. I like a movie that is self-consciously stupid, and I felt that this one pushed that concept to the limits. Everything seemed to be done to give the impression to the uninitiated that this was a bad movie. The writing on the surface seems terrible; the acting on the surface seems terrible. And I'm not going to say you have to look deep to find meaning. The deeper you look, the less meaningful the movie becomes. The filmmakers are working from a long tradition here. Give Ashton Kutcher and Sean William Scott some credit; they are both gifted comic actors, and they are both funny here. The movie doesn't make much sense, even when we find out what the continuum transfunctioner is. The bare-bones plot seems like nothing but an excuse to have these two half-wits go on a series of misadventures. And yet, I don't think it can be denied that these vignettes are funny, often hilarious. And the dialogue is so stupid that it's really hilarious as well. ConsiderCHESTER Dude, you just touched Christy Boner's hoo-hoo. JESSE Shibby!MR PIZZACOLI A trained dolphin could deliver pizza better than you too. JESSE But then the pizzas would get all wet!And so on. The movie is full of non sequiturs and dumb dialogue. And if you're in the right frame of mind (and no, I don't mean high) then much of this is hilarious. The fight with the Chinese food takeout lady (And then? No and then! And then? I refuse to play your Chinese food mind games!); the guy in the cage (played memorably by Andy Dick); the transsexual stripper (or, as he/she puts it, gender-challenged male); the race of identical hot chicks, and their enemies, the totally gay Nordic dudes; the cult of Zoltan; and, of course, the continuum transfuctioner itself, which is a Rubiks cube that Chester is able to solve, despite barely having the brainpower to tie his own shoes. This is all very funny, and I think you have to be some kind of film snob to not see the artistry that went into making a movie so stupid that ends up being so entertaining.What you have is the most likely future cult classic to come out in many a year. It's a stoner movie where nobody (human) does any drugs; a mystery with no real mystery; and a dumb movie that, because of the calculatedness of its lunacy, is not really so dumb after all. "},{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  For those of you out there that enjoy comedy, this movie is not for you. What can I say other than that I want my money back?  This movie was incredibly stupid, and not the least bit funny (remember the tattoo scene in the trailer? even that got old after the first minute, and was certainly did not need to be repeated). I enjoy a good movie as much as the next guy (i.e. - Cheech & Chong), but this movie was just stupid.  For anyone wanting to see a good comedy this winter go see any other comedy before this one.  "},{"Title":"A Pretty Funny Movie","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Dude Where's My Car wasn't planned to win any Oscars and I didn't expect much of that from this movie. Ashton Kutcher is normally pretty funny on That 70's Show, so I expected a pretty humorous performance by him as well as Seann William Scott who had by this time already been in the first American Pie. All in all I have to say that this movie is definitely very funny and delivers a very nice and event amount of laughter. I wouldn't go out on a limb and call this the greatest comedy ever made and I wouldn't go out on a limb and tell a lot of people to check it out because most people think it is a stupid movie but if you really like a movie with a very dumb plot and lots of laughter, then check this out. "},{"Title":"Eh? Why all the bad feelings?","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I recently saw this film, for the second time, and realised just how funny it was. Its true this film isn't original by any standards, just another anarchic comedy. Neither will it push the limits of cinematography, or inspire others to film making. However, it's funny. Damn funny. Its got some great humour, playing on stereotypes, (e.g. pot smoking junkies, gay Nordic men.) OK, so it is completely unrealistic, but anyone who takes this film seriously is an idiot. Its a great film to watch with friends, and i would recommend this to any fan of teen humour, like Scary Movie, Team America and, of course, American Pie. "},{"Title":"Wow, this should be called dude this movie sucks!","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Well, as far as bad movies go, this is without a doubt the worst movie i have ever seen.  I have never truly felt so cheated out of my money as i did for this movie( i use the term movie loosely).  I loved Stiffler in American Pie, and Kelso plays the perfect idiot.  But given that, they can't turn water into wine.  Or in this case feces into dunkin donuts!  This movie sucks so bad that i would pay other people to watch it just to hear how they hated it so much!  If you do waste your money on this, let me know what you thought. Thanks! "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has beat out Mr Magoo as the most unwatchable movie in my opinion.  I honestly wanted my money back after renting it.  I'm usually very easy to please, as far as movies go, but this really stunk.  Imagine Beavis and Butthead, non-animated, and they stepped onto the set of Half-Baked.  That was this movie.  Ugh. "},{"Title":"You must be joking","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The fact is that the films purpose is not to fall in line amongst films such as American Beauty yet to level itself with the other recent toilet humor films American Pie and Road Trip. Doesn't that fact that these three movies star the same actor say something about his talent? What was Marla Sokoloff thinking, she is one of the most talented actors i have come to see and i find her in a pointless and stupid movie. I tried at times to laugh at things that were stupid in order to satisfy the person whom chose to see the film, but i just couldn't do it. the movie did not even hold my interest. and i wonder why not. the script was something a ten year old could write, the story was not funny and predictable and just plain idiotic. in all it was a bad movie, a tasteless attempt in the line of films American Pie successfully began. i wasn't expecting a award winning film, but this was just pathetic. on a good note however, the early gag of the take away and then? order was something that made me smile. but no. I'm sorry, no. "},{"Title":"Awful, simply awful!","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Sophomoric humor with a lack of humor.  The plot (what little there was of it) was incredibly thin, and it just seemed to get worse the more I watched. I think Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott are both talented young actors, but in this movie they just looked stupid. "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's The Humor?","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I know there are movies that are so stupid they're funny, but I dont think this one qualifies. I knew that by seeing this I wasnt going to enjoy it, but I have to say I at least expected some funny things to be in it. It was really corny and stupid, nothing humorous about it. It comes in 2nd to Joe Dirt being one of the worst movies I've ever seen. "}{"Title":"Shockingly bad","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  That this film was ever made must seem to its makers somewhat astonishing - to a person who just spent £3 renting it (stupid me) it's an outrage. By far the least funny comedy to have ever sullied the world of cinema, it lurches appallingly from send-up to shock comedy to laugh-free stoner antics at the drop of a hat.A film that raises two wry grins throughout its course one of which is a moment recycled from There's Something About Mary (a stoned dog! How we laugh!) and another that makes you reminisce for the days of Bill and Ted and Wayne's World - which is just about all the film does, in fact.Abysmal. "},{"Title":"Stupidity has a certain charm - ignorance does not.","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Well, Dude Where's My Car might be at least a novelty as one of few Hollywood films that seems to have been written, cast, filmed & edited in less than a day.  I honestly can't believe this got made (or that I allowed my friends to make me sit through the entire thing).  The jokes are too stupid and predictable to be dumb-funny, and the actors involved don't seem like they would be capable of pulling off any kind of funny had the script actually provided it.  Oddly enough, unlike most mindless slapstick comedies, this movie actually has TOO MUCH plot - every scene seems to introduce a new moronic and uninteresting subplot.  Of course, they were obviously going for moronic, but it doesn't work on any level whatsoever...There is only one aspect of this film I enjoyed Donkeylips from the old Nickalodean show Salute Your Shorts has a very small role. This is the role that will turn him into the next Richard Gere though, you just watch... "},{"Title":"This proves that movies can be stupid and funny at the same time","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" My 5/10 rating is because, like any Bill & Ted movie, Dude, Where's My Car? is only targeted at a certain audience (in this case all the world's slackers). The plot - or whatever it is - of course has goof-ball stoners Jesse Montgomery III (Ashton Kutcher) and Chester Greenburg (Seann William Scott) searching for their car and having a most unusual adventure in the process. The point is that you shouldn't try to take this movie seriously; just accept it as nice stupid fun and you're sure to have a good time. Not a movie that you'll ever forget. If I remember right, Michael Moore even suggested that we should show it to Kim Jong Il in order to make peace between the two Koreas. "},{"Title":"Dude, where's my refund?","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  allright. I know anyone who reads this, if there is anyone, is used to me talking about my feelings all the time. But this i have to tell.Tonight, December 16, 2000, I sit here in my chair in Maryville, Missouri convinced that civilization is on the brink of collapse. Humanity is destined to destroy itself and every living thing on this planet, and I have the evidence. I went to see Dude, Where's My Car.I would just come right out and say this is, bar none, the worst film ever made. But it's much more complex than that.My friends and I (who are about the same age as the characters) are college students who occasionally end up wasted and forget what we did, as is the premise of the movie. I even talked about making a movie about all of it. However, someone got to my idea first. Now my dream of making that film is crushed because I will never believe anyone will see it because of this movie.It's not just horrible, it's horrible on every level.It's not funny at all. The commercials made it look like it would be full of laughs, a 'american pie' or 'something about mary' kind of thing. I didn't laugh a single time, and I'll laugh at anything.There is no plot. I constantly felt as one does when you run into something, and spin about wildly, bewildered for a few seconds. Characters pop in and out of the screenplay with no ryhme or reason. Each scene is built around one or two jokes, which aren't funny to begin with.I can't relate to this at all. I thought the film would be two people waking up with hangovers, retracing what they did the night before. Well, I'm convinced they were getting to that part- just as you find out that the entire chain of events was triggered by extra terrestrials with a sinister plot to destroy the universe. No, I'm not kidding.You can't even laugh at how bad it is. I enjoy watching bad movies occasionally. It's funny to laugh at their badness, and sometimes you have to wonder if they intentionally made it bad. But not this one. You can't even watch it on that level. There are absolutely no redeeming qualities in this film, and those who produced it should be drawn and quatered.To sum it all up, this film made my ears bleed. It has set the science of cinematography back 50 years. I do not think that I will ever be able to sit down in a theatre seat again without a chilling running down my spine. This film was so horrible that I will never forget it. I only hope someone is there to hold me when the nightmares come.  "},{"Title":"Good as other stupid movies...","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Dude... Where's My Car? I like each other a good movie, stupid but good, I don't believe that it deserves so many merits but with the stupid thing that it is the I have found quite amusing as to enjoy a good while. Here you see a stoned dog, space girls super sexy, some people all stranger, in short, Ashton and Seann acted well, they have left the paper well of stupid, and take out this way more movies, I don't believe that the $5 are lost completely...It is necessary to keep in mind that in the production of comic movies, there are them good and bad, some terrible ones, but they should not be enraged so much with this, OK, Jennifer Garner leaves me openmouthed with that suit that uses of alien supersexy (well, before transformation to real big-one), she is hot. "},{"Title":"It is funnier evry time you see it.","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen this film about 10 times. It never gets old. I laugh evry time I see it. It was a bit confusing. But i still loved it. It is about 2 potheads who make out in a mercedes. That is once in a life time . Then a dog getting high that is once in a life time. I will never see a 20 year old wgho get beat my a 5 year old gril in a air hockey match. This is a great adventure and it is sutible for evryone. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people like to think","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I am not going to sit here and tell you that this movie was amazing, mainly because I don't like telling lies. But I am yet to hear anything good about this movie from anybody I know. It's not that bad of a movie. It will make you laugh, and there is a story. It is kind of stupid, but all in all not a waste of time.This movie basically appears to be a stepping stone for Ashton Kutcher's movie career, I want to see how he does in the movie Just Married, then we can decide if he should retire after That 70's Show.Personally, I rated this movie a 7. "},{"Title":"Pretty enjoyable after all...","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Teen gross-out flicks like Dude Where's my Car are generally ripped to pieces by the leading names in American film-criticism, sometimes understandably so. But a critic cannot afford to put on airs when it comes to comedy. To attack the makers of this movie on account of plot-holes or lack of good taste is as pointless as criticising science fiction for lack of realism. People complaining that there is no sense to be made of Dude where's my Car (and there have been many) are pointing out the obvious yes, it relies completely on gags, references to other films (Monty Python, Jurassic Park, Star Trek, Attack of the 50 ft. woman), gross-out effects and idiotic dialogue. Anyone intending to tie all of this material together into a well rounded whole with a message is in for a very unpleasant viewing. Expect a quick, youth oriented fix without pretensions and chances are you will enjoy this movie after all. There is no ground-breaking content here and Kutcher and Scott do not posses the comedic talents of Adam Sandler or Jim Carrey but they do inject a hint of charm into this picture, which is actually pretty enjoyable after all.       "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I love this movie.It is maybe in my top 3 funniest movies.This movie is about two guys losing their car.The plot is really funny and gets intensely funny as the movie progresses.I forgot how funny it actually was until I saw it for the first time in 5 years last night.Some of the funniest scenes was where they ordered Chinese food and broke the box after it went AND THEN!,the dog smoking the weed,the scene where all these women ask for sexual favors and when these five women turn into the giant.It is a really funny movie and everyone I know has seen it.If you like comedies, this is a must see as it was the best comedy of 2000.My rating is 9 stars out of 10 cos it was great,funny and a true classic! "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Awesome flick, truly one of the best short conservative movies I've ever seen. Everything was so well done especially the first scene (not counting the dream). And how they made the whole aliens thing true mad it more enjoyable, making fun or cults makes me give high marks. A previous comment here said don't waste your time, I'd give that advice for a girl, but I would make a guy watch it (but the guy in question may have already seen it). And, by the way, Brent Spiner playing a French dude in a short cameo sequence was extraordinary. I really wish I could see more films like this, and has gone into my top 10, no question. "}{"Title":"A sweeeeet movie, dude an' thhhheeeeeeeeeen some more","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" About two dumb-wits who cannot recall anything from the night before. As they retrace their steps from the night before, they realize that it must have been a very wild night indeed! Involving strippers, aliens, a year supply of pudding, more chicks, dodging killer ostriches,nerds and the continuum transfunctioner.Not a very serious movie, but great for the guys to sit down and have a few cold beers before going to the party. It's funny, very funny The protectors of the continuum transfunctioner will have you rolling on the floor, particularly if you are of Scandinavian origin.But frankly, this is a movie that you will either love or Hate. Hopefully you belong to the first group! "},{"Title":"Ranks somewhere between...","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Not as good as It's Pat, but better than Stuart Saves his Family. Yes, it's that bad. Absolute horrible writing. Not enough Kristy Swanson. Stiffler not very funny as a retard. Another one of those movies that the only funny parts are in the previews. Very disappointed (and embarrassed) I wasted a Saturday night on it. "},{"Title":"I've Been Rendered Impotent...","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is the WORST comedy I've ever seen.This is the WORST teen movie I've ever seen.This is the WORST acting I've ever seen.This is the WORST directing I've ever seen.This is the WORST story I've ever seen.This is the WORST film I've ever seen.This is the WORST pain I've ever been in and I just want it to stop now as I have gone deaf and blind and can no longer produce children.  1/10.  Help me.  "},{"Title":"Worst movie, EVER!","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, Where's My Car? Is quite possibly the worst movie ever made. It's a typical teenage movie, but even more revolting with a story that is as deep as your household sink. Considering it is a summer movie though the story is not so important, but what is important is the humor which does not make it past the word Dude!. The humor is redundant and the story is dull and boring. This is the type of movie that makes me despise Hollywood. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever.","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I don't usually comment on films that I don't like, but this one was so bad it deserved to be commented on.  This movie made me feel sick after I left, and I almost threw up on the way home.  I would not recommend it to anyone even as a rental.  I feel like I have wasted 2 hours of my life.  Don't waste your time and money. "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's My Nine Bucks???","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Unfortunately no longer in my wallet after going to see this cinematic disaster which contained only two jokes... and then... sitting in the theater in agony and hoping they'd find the stupid car to end it all... and then... leaving the theater angry... and then hoping whoever greenlighted this project is being told by some fatcash executive with a cigar in his mouth that they'll never work in this town again... "},{"Title":"Possibly The Worst Film Ever Made","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Usually, I write long reviews detailing why I hate a certain movie.This movie is so repulsive, however, I can't do that.The basic plot is that two lame (and incredibly stupid) perverts go on a hunt for their car. The jokes are dirty and far from entertaining, the characters just seem to get more and more dumb, and the storyline...a first grader could have written a better script, grammar mistakes and all. Conclusion?Do not see unless you are a sick-minded individual with the humor of a twelve-year-old.If so, this is the perfect excuse for a movie for you. "},{"Title":"Worst ever movie...","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This has to be the worst movie I have ever seen, bar none. It is lame and pathetic, and people who like this have a really sorry sense of humour. It's a wonder these loser freaks get girlfriends. They must be the saddest geeks in the world. The producers, writers and director should give up and get jobs as caretakers at a scrapyard. Maybe the rubbish will appreciate their talent. What a waste of time this piece of garbage is. "},{"Title":"Cheesiest film on Earth","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Kids, gather round and I'll tell ya a story. One night last summer,my younger brother and my cousin coaxed me into seeing thisfilm. I was slightly inebriated and it was about 1 in the morning.Even with those 2 factors going for it, the movie wasn't funny at all.It was just stupid. The fact that they actually put in an alien invasionto the movie proves just how little faith even the directors andproducers had in this movie. 2 guys getting so wasted they can'tremember what happened last night isn't much of a plot, so theyput in aliens and seem to honestly believe it'll be the movie'ssalvation. 'Dude, Where's My Car' is a great example of what NOTto do while making a film.  "},{"Title":"Dude where's my car?","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This movie is not meant to be a masterpiece or a classic but it is one of the funniest films I have seen. If you watched Beavis And Butt-Head then you will get the feeling this is what it would be like if they had a live action film.Dude, Where's My Car? is just one of those stone comedy films that is so ridiculous that it's too funny It characters are Jesse (Ashton Kutcher) and Chester (Seann William Scott) as they try to remember where their car was as well as trying to make up to their girlfriends Wanda (Jennifer Garner) Wilma (Marla Sokoloff) who are twins.Don't expect this movie to be full of plot twist, masterpiece writing or top performance because this movie is not that but what it is for is that the movie is down right funny. Sure there are some scenes that make you go what were they thinking but that's part of it being a stoner movie you can expect nothing less of movements like that.Also some of the characters are just far out there that it makes you go well well well plus they throw a lot of things at you in terms of a plot but they really center more on the comedy which will make you laugh with your sides hurting also you'll find yourself quoting this movie later onI give Dude Where's My Car? an 7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"A Classic Stoner Movie For Almost Anyone!","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The only problem with Dude, Where's My Car? is that it deals with dumb burnouts. Unlike The Hangover or Cheech & Chong, Dude has virtually no offensive material. Sure there are sexual and drug references, but it's nothing that a little kid in kindergarten or first grade couldn't handle. Just having good parents is good enough. Knowing the way parents are today, it might be a bad idea.Dude, Where's My Car? is a mystery-comedy that is always exciting. The humour helps the story and mystery portions and that's just fine. It is about two dumb and irresponsible best friends named Jesse and Chester (Kutcher, Scott) who wake up one morning after a wild party with their angry twin girlfriends (Garner, Skoloff) with no memory of what happened the night before and wondering where their car is. Their anniversary gifts are in it and they must also find the continuum-transfunctioner that holds the power to the universe. The future of the universe depends on them, and their car. When they are out looking for the car, they meet wild and zany characters that get them into hilarious messes. But what probably makes the movie as memorable as it is are its random scenes that are thrown in just for the heck of it. Many movies try to do thrown-in-humour and fail. Dude is the perfect example of thrown-in-humour working like a charm. The first scene with this kind of humour happens when they are ordering Chinese food with their friend (Herman) and teethe woman over the speaker keeps replying with And then? The next one happens when they are changing clothes and see tattoos on their backs that say DUDE and SWEET and they keep asking what their tattoo says but they aren't clear enough. There are many other hilarious scenes that are gut-busting with dynamite dialogue, but it is ultimately these two scenes that stand out in most people's minds. I have seen this movie so many times. I will see it so many more times. if this were released today, it would have received critical acclaim. "},{"Title":"Incredibly hilarious","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" How this is only rated at 5.1/10 and trash like The Hangover gets over 8.0/10 is beyond my understanding. As many people have pointed out, IMDb is becoming less reliable. Yes, this comedy is stupid (I don't actually like the way people on here use this adjective to describe the movie - too many negative connotations), or, as I like to put it, it is so light hearted it isn't supposed to be taken seriously at all. The plot simply proves it. But it is the ridiulousness of the plot and the fact that this would never happen to anyone in real life that make this move insanely funny. I mean, who didn't laugh at Dude, it's a llama!, the And then scene, or My name is Zarnoff. This is Zabu, Zellnor, Zelbor, Zelmina, and, uh, Jeff.? The movie is hilarious all the way through, there aren't any scenes that won't cause the watcher to stop laughing. If anyone wants to watch a real comedy movie, which does it's job of providing comedic entertainment, then Dude, where's my car? is the movie to watch. Although judging by the fact that people these days prefer to claim that Zach Galifianakis doing his typical Look at me, im fat, therefore im funny! is absolutely hilarious, this movie won't get the deserved rating and recognition, simply because people have a boring sense of humour. "},{"Title":"One of the great comedies of all time","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This movie has a perfect script, it is perfectly acted, the directing is visionary, and even the cheap special effects are iconic. If this isn't the best comedy of the decade, that's because it's the best comedy of all time.The plot seems rudimentary two stoners wake up with no memory, and can't find their car. They have a Who's on first dialogue about their car, then they go about the business of reconstructing the forgotten events of the previous day, with impossibly funny gags thrown in at an unprecedented pace.It quickly becomes clearer that what they forgot was not any ordinary day. They forgot that which is impossible to forget.A lifetime supply of jello! Thirty stolen pizzas! And that's just the appetizer. each event is quickly one-upped by an even more unforgettable event, and the writer is constantly daring you to imagine what could possibly be more unforgettable, only to reveal it, and deliver.A suitcase of money! A transsexual stripper! Making out with Christie Boner! Hot space-chicks in jumpsuits! Space-nerds dressed in bubble wrap! Nordic space-dudes! Finally, the most mysterious and powerful object in the whole universe, and it was right under your nose! And everything hangs together--- not a single plot-point is forced, everything seems inevitable, everything works. That's virtuoso writing.I know what you're thinking I could easily top these plot events by throwing in hostile ostriches and a fifty foot tall woman. You're right.The movie is like a Russian doll each outrage is a small part of an even bigger outrage. There is no cheap laugh. Even the silliest gags are rooted in deeply intelligent observations, like the way in which the idiomatic Chinese transliterated phrase and then is often used inappropriately by Chinese speakers of English. Or the way in which any folksy wisdom can be turned into funny by translating to Yoda. Or how shibby can put a Llama label your mental ostrich.Like Charles Bukowski's Pulp, the movie doesn't shy away from having space aliens in the plot with no hesitation or explanation. The dialog is written in vapid language, so that the intelligence is only revealed in the higher-level structure. This makes the movie seem superficially dumb to dumb people.If this movie were dumb, it couldn't be so devastatingly funny. I saw it when it came out, and I nearly died laughing in an otherwise empty movie theater.I assure you that every single plot point is resolved in a satisfying way, no loose threads. And that's a tall order for a movie with this many threads.The attention to detail is unbelievable. Each of the different groups of characters each have different elaborate hand signals which they use. The costumes are inspired--- the bubble wrap suits, the most perfect outfits in cinema history, cost $0 to make. The track-suits make the stoners look out of touch, the jumpsuits make the aliens look alien, the pizza outfit make Mr. Pizzacolli look like a Pizza shop owner, without any effort. This is the triumph of imagination over budget.Another effort by this director Harold and Kumar go to White Castle was very good too, but not at the same iconic level as this one. Harold and Kumar go to Guantanamo was spotty, marred by unnecessary Republican apologia. "},{"Title":"Utterly stupid Comedy. William-Scott&Kutcher, can only take the material so far.","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Dude, Where's My Car? is a movie I initially enjoyed, and found hilarious. Well I must say, the novelty wore off this time, but quick. Ashton And William Scott are actually two performers I enjoy, but here they are riddled with silly material. The funny moments, that the movie tried to provide us with, often come across as very childish, and immature. The Hangover kinda resembled this movie, only it did it much better, and had a lot more laughs. The only two major laughs I got of the film were when, Jesse and Chester dressed up like the Zoltan's, and when Jesse and Chester encounter the Chinese lady at the Chinese drive through. The end is of course predictable, as all well ends well, but at least it's short.Performances. Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott manage to inject likability, into there thinly written parts, but they can only do so much, with the immature material. Jennifer Garner and Marla Sorkoloff are OK as the twins. Kristy Swanson looks hot, but that's about it.Bottom line. Dude, Where's My Car? is a big misfire, and lacks too many laughs to really warrant more then one viewing, but honestly? even that is pushing it.4/10 "},{"Title":"Superb, original, funny. One of my all-time favourites","Date":"18 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I can't believe this movie has such a low vote. I just watched hangover which has a score of 8 and seems to be a complete rip-off of DWMC? Ever wake up with no memory of what you did last night? Only happened to me once, but then I lived through the sixties. Watch these two stoners try and work out what happened last night. A laugh a minute and a roller-coaster ride through the totally bizarre world of these unfortunates. Giants, aliens, hot babes and a weird alien worshipping cult. Jump aboard and travel the line between plausible and impossible. Totally recommended. Watch this and forget your troubles for a couple of hours! "},{"Title":"It's Stoner Bashin Time","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Dude where's my care is about Jesse and Chester two young stoners who had a really good night. The only problem is that they had such a good night that they can't remember any of it and worst of all they have no idea where their car is! So now they try and piece together everything they did the night before in order to find their long lost car before it's too late! I really loved this movie back in college but it has lost some of it's luster over time. The stupid humor is still quite funny and I guarantee you if you are high when you are watching this film that you will laugh until you fall out but as I look at this I have to say that it is truly a very very stupid movie. I like the strangeness and the off beat humor which still gives it a 6 of 10 and Seann William Scott is actually very much at home in this film. It is a film that is perfect for a college age individual seeking a cool trippy movie to watch and a fair comedy for those that ain't trippin. If you get a chance you should try this movie out it is a pretty good buy. "},{"Title":"Yes, it was stupid, yes I enjoyed it.","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Don't walk into this movie expecting anything Oscar-worthy; you won't get it. What you will get is 83 minutes of stupid, teenage-boy type humour. The plot is absurd. The acting is hardly incredible, but Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott both kept me laughing all the way through. Hardly the most thought-provoking film I've ever seen, but would be great as a Friday night pizza and Coke movie with your friends. It's dumb but, in my opinion, quite hilarious. I'd recommend this movie as long as you're not expecting something that will keep on the edge of your seat and bursting with emotion. It doesn't require much attention, or much, if any, thinking. Overall, very funny movie, I know I'll be watching it again. "},{"Title":"What's wrong with everybody? It's not that bad.","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This movie is was one of my all time favorite comedies. It is very funny. This wasn't bad. It might have been stupid, but it wasn't bad. It was still funny. This was never meant to be a good movie. It was made for one reason. For comedy. It did not fail at that. I thought that the story was actually kind of okay. The script isn't that good, but it's okay. The acting is average comedy acting. I thought that this was a very funny movie that is underrated and it definitely deserves more credit than it got. This movie was funny. It was bad, but funny. This was actually not even bad. It was a good comedy. I hope you like it as much as me. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Shut up and just watch it a few times .. you will see","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" People who skewer this film just don't get it. You should buy the DVD and just let it play in the background. It's hard to understand the first time you see it, but it really grows on you. I believe the filmmakers new they were on to something. The characters are like a doped out Abbott & Costello. It's basically twisted slap stick. This film has it all; aliens, cult groups, large scary animals, mutant women, mystery, suspense, doofus teenagers, so much packed in. Where's the Dude's car? Give it another chance, see it over and over ... you will get it. They say I have to write ten lines for this review? What more can I say about this classic film. You will love it ... over time. "},{"Title":"Why, Oh Why Do I Like This Movie??","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I appreciate a good film, I dig Citizen Kane, Kubrick, David Lynch..etc. There should be no feasable reason that I find this movie appealing, yet I do!  I'm not a moron, but this dumb, dumb, movie is so watchable it's a crime not to grab a tub of popcorn, a couple beers and dumb out for an hour and a half and see this one. You'll lose a few IQ points on the way, but it's worth it. "}{"Title":"What? Me Funny?","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  When I read some of the comments hailing Danny Leiner's brain-dead comedy, DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR? as 'brilliant', or even 'funny', I worry about what we are reduced to accepting as humor, these days...Calling this film a welcome relief from A BEAUTIFUL MIND and THE PIANIST...hmmm...those were dramas, weren't they? How does DUDE compare to other COMEDIES?Comedy is the one discipline that cinema truly excels in, and occasionally even improves upon. While the printed word, theater, radio, and television can each provide an intimacy in Drama that can match, if not exceed, motion pictures, the medium of film can record humor in a way that makes it both timely and timeless. Think about it...if you view a ninety-year old Mack Sennett comedy, today, it can STILL make you laugh, can STILL astonish you with it's daring risks, and can STILL define slapstick humor more effectively than much of what passes as humor, today. Hollywood has not always been kind to the innovators of Comedy, but without the motion picture, we would not have their legacy...Chaplin, Keaton, and Lloyd; Will Rogers, Laurel and Hardy, W.C. Fields and Mae West, the Marx Brothers, the Ritz Brothers, and, yes, even the Three Stooges; Abbott and Costello, Crosby and Hope, and Martin and Lewis; Red Skelton, Danny Kaye, Woody Allen, Belushi, Ackroyd, Martin, Chase, Murphy, Murray, Carrey, Williams, and Sandler; Richard Pryor, Chris Tucker and Chris Rock...from origins in dance halls, the 'legitimate' theater, vaudeville, burlesque, or television, it is film that will ultimately preserve their heritage, for generations unborn.Film is not only the medium of the performer, but of the creator, as well. From Sennett to Capra and Sturges; to Woody Allen (again), Mel Brooks, and Blake Edwards; to Penny Marshall, Penelope Spheeris, Kevin Smith, Christopher Guest, Zucker/Abrahams, the Wayans, and the Farrelly Brothers...there are generations of Giants creating and redefining Film Comedy.So, where does DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR? fit into the Cosmic picture? Does it offer the inestimable comic talents of a Myers and Carvey in WAYNE'S WORLD? Kutcher and Scott??? No WAY! Is it as blissfully good-natured as BILL AND TED'S EXCELLENT ADVENTURE? Not a chance (and George Carlin's participation would have certainly helped!) Is it as 'out there' as DUMB AND DUMBER? Are you kidding? Could DUDE even stand up to the cinema 'classics' of Pee Wee Herman, Don Knotts, or Jim Varney?DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR? is the kind of claptrap that gives the impression that ANYBODY can get financing to make a movie. That it made money is more a testament to unrelenting 'media hype' than to any measure of quality.And to read that some people considered it 'brilliant'...Heaven help us!  "},{"Title":"I think the title says it all.","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Before seeing this movie I knew it ranked with the greatest of all time.The title of this movie is the greatest title of all time. Civilization, dozens of thousands of yearsold has converged upon this point, this precipe if you will to produce Dude, Where's My Car? Some will say this is a second-rate Cheech and Chong flick. I will point out that none of them were titled Dude Where's My Car   I can understand why people might think this movie is terrible. It is extremely stupid. But this movie does not aim for intelligence, so why should it be judged in that fashion? Rather this movie hits all the bases it needs to drug references, pop-culture references, women reduced to body parts (and the men made fun of for doing it)...in fact nary a movie has come out that has been a better parody of the male gaze. All Neo-Platonists should see this movie before scoffing at the works of Derrida and Foucalt. At least Nietzsche could butter his own bread (for a while). What a wonderful movie. Schibbies. "},{"Title":"Stupid as anything, But.......","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Watching this movie I noticed two things; first was while it had some crude moments it was nowhere near as bad as the gross-out levels of most current comedies, second was I found myself actually laughing at it.Along the same vein as Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure or Dumb and Dumber, this movie toots along in it's own little universe with two likeable stoners at the helm.  Basically park your brain and relax, after suffering through Joe Dirt it was good to see a movie that actually fun. "},{"Title":"Humph.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  After The Twins meet The Sexy Chicks (We're not guys.  We are sexy chicks), they (twins) keep referring to them (chicks) as those sexy chicks with the big breasts.  BIG breasts?  The chicks are positively willowy, every one of them.  Did the guy in charge of casting bother to read the script?  Where's Russ Meyer when we need him, dude? "},{"Title":"it's funny","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very funny movie.  It made me laugh throughout the movie. but it did fall down towards the end when it became kind of hokey.  I really enjoyed it and i suggest people that only like dumb and dumber comedy go see it for a few laughs.  I will look forward to seeing it when it comes to video so i can see it again, and again, and again!    "},{"Title":"Most people won't like this movie -- they are unworthy of it's brilliance.","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This film is being universally decried because it was not released for critical review prior to public opening.  Critics are bitter like that. If they don't get to see it first, they get all whiny and then say that the film will suck.Hence the case with DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR? -- a film of unparalleled majesty.  The jocular, zen attitude of the WAITING FOR GODOT-esque protagonists may be dismissed as juvenile and flatulent by the embittered critics -- again, they will use this to screen their failure to see the effervescent marvel that is DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR?The episodic journey is a jigsaw puzzle artfully constructed by a lunatic, and the audience is privy to its series of gradual revelations as Jesse (Ashton Kutcher) and Chester (Sean Michael Scott) piece together the enigma of their missing night of fun and frolic -- and the location of their vehicle.  The manner in which our heroes face each obstacle and each realization is an inspiration; nothing -- whether it be a gang of jealous jocks, a veritable convention of sci-fi geeks, or a psychotic desk officer at the police impound -- interrupts the high spirits and unflagging optimism of the duo.The hidden twist at the end has been well-concealed in all previews and trailers and is clearly the reason why reviewers were not given advance showings.  Don't wake up and find that this gem of a movie has disappeared from your driveway, as it will certainly be hailed as the film that reinvented the teen comedy for the new millennium.  After all, its mystery is only exceeded by its power. "},{"Title":"Surprised","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie made me laugh, which is something I figured it would never do. Though it had its share of raunch, it was somewhat refreshing to see a movie where the humour did not rely on sexual perversion. The film was reminiscent of Dumb and Dumber, without the polished comedic ferver of Carrey and Daniels. Scott and Kutcher did a find job acting like complete asses, and though the plot took a turn for the worst in the finale...this film was one of the funniest I've seen in years. Don't see it for plot, witty dialogue, or phenomenal performance. See it if you enjoyed movies like Happy Gilmore and Dumb and Dumber. "},{"Title":"Totally Brainless Fun!","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This cheerfully brainless teen comedy is predictably crude and slapdash but also unpredictably funny.  Ashton Kutcher (That 70s Show) and Seann William Scott (Stifler in American Pie) make an engaging pair of blissfully stoned-out, clueless slackers on a quest to find their missing car and make up with their girlfriends after waking up from a night of wild partying, of which they can't remember even ONE detail.  The day takes them on a series of misadventures as they try to retrace their steps the night before and meet with a bunch of bullies, babes, sci-fi cult members and other colorful characters.  Critics are sure to hate this one, but for its target audience and those who can appreciate the occasional mindless comedy that doesn't aim to do anything but make us laugh (I can and I'm nearly 40!), Dude, Where's My Car? delivers the goods.  Fans of the classic Bill & Ted films should especially enjoy it. "},{"Title":"This Movie Was Surprisingly Funny","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is very well made. As stupid as the title may sound the movie is very funny and very well thought up. There is really not to much to say on this movie, but it does the job by entertaining the audience.This movie is for the teenage audience, the hot girls , sex jokes, and other things along these lines explain that. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" It was so stupid that I couldn't complete it. After a while I just starting forwarding it, saw that it doesn't get better and eventually shut it. It's almost like a Disney cartoon mixed with a teen movie. Sean William Scott and Ashton Kutcher, like in the cartoons, are always like Oh, let's do this. And after this, we'll do that! And then we'll have sex!The whole idea is really stupid and not at all funny.The makers have tried to make a teen movie in the American pie mould but have also tried to include cartoonish innocence in the characters, which totally doesn't work.And the jokes are lame. None of them work it's not funny at all.This is an awful movie. A must not watch. Don't waste your time.2/10 "}{"Title":"Complete waste of time!","Date":"2 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" No insult to Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott, but these two couldn't carry a movie if it was strapped to their backs and weighed next-to-nothing (not a bad description of Dude, by the way). Secondly, Leiner, in a blatant attempt to get as many people into theaters as possible, whittled away at his R-rated subject matter until it achieved a PG-13 rating. As a result, not only is the final script of Dude lobotomized, but it has been emasculated as well. If those two things happened to a human being, he would be locked away in a quiet cell somewhere, not put on display in a multiplex for everyone to gawk at in stunned disbelief. The film is horribly unfunny, bad written and bad acted.In brief, the story - to the extent that there is one - goes something like this... Jesse (Ashton Kutcher, of TV's That '70s Show) and Chester (Seann William Scott) are twenty-ish stoners who wake up one morning and can't remember what happened the previous night. And what a night it was - according to eyewitnesses, they were waving around money like they had it to burn, managed to get the sexy Christie Boner (Kristy Swanson) to take her top off, bought donuts for the entire police force, spent some time in a strip bar with a transsexual, trashed their girlfriends' house, and lost Jesse's car. Now, Jesse and Chester have to find that car before they're captured by a group of cultists who are convinced that the two morons have a device that will provide them with the means to travel beyond the solar system. In case you haven't guessed by now, Dude, Where's My Car? gets its title from the fact that (1) the two main characters spend the entire movie looking for the car, and (2) their vocabulary is limited to two words dude and sweet (and Sweet, Where's My Car? lacks the same ring). "},{"Title":"Dude!, this movie is funny!","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is a very funny slapstick comedy. The two 'stoners' are a great pair because of how they work well together on the screen. Yes its no great acting film, but it makes you laugh and that is what it aims to do. It is very humorous how th movie pokes fun at all different types of stereotypes and just keeps pushing the bar. Good job on another random as can be 'stoner' flick, which I thought just like many that this movie wouldn't do well at first. Boy were we all wrong as this cheap movie grossed nearly 50 MILLION in the US alone while in theaters. Good job to Seann and Ashton playing parts they have no problem with playing and I am sure it was a pleasure for them. "},{"Title":"Dude, Who Cares?","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Two stoners (Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott) wake up one morning from an amnesiac night and cannot find where their car is. As the dim-wits search they learn that they may have trashed their girlfriends' house, they may have a briefcase full of money wanted by a transexual and they may have a device from outer space that could destroy the planet. Still with me? It is a stew of nothing that is never too funny and never too interesting. A real yawner. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"SHIBBY!!!","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, so its not the best movie ever. But come its an easy to watch movie.Its funny cause its sort of stupid and has those memorable lines like thank you captain obvious! that are fun to shout for no reason. I recommend this movie if your not a arrogant sh** who thinks they know so much about a good movie. This movie is for anyone who likes a outrageously dumb movie to watch for fun!SHIBBY!!!  "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I don't normally go for slapstick humor, but I think this movie is hilarious.  I've watched it a few times in pieces on HBO, and the stoner humor is pulled off wonderfully by the two lead actors.    I love the scenes like the tattoo one in the tailor's shop.  Of course there is some plain dumb stuff, but not enough to make me annoyed  (unlike the movieserving sara.) "},{"Title":"It wasn't THAT bad.....","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  OK, I'm sitting home on a Monday afternoon and there's nothing on TV. I see this masterpiece is on Cinemax and say to myself What the hell! How bad can it be? It wasn't all that awful. There was nice eye candy and a few funny scenes. Would I be happy if I paid $10 in a theater to see it? No. But for free it killed an hour and 20 minutes decently. The amzing thing is that according to IMDB they're actually going to do a sequel. "},{"Title":"Self-consciously stupid and very amusing","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Let me begin by saying that I don't like things like Scary Movie, I consider the wasted time I spent on Corky Romano to be probably the most depressing 90 minutes of my life, and I intentionally avoid watching garbage like Jurassic Park III so that when people at my video store ask for a recommendation I can't give it.  All of that being said, I thought Dude, Where's My Car? was hilarious.There is a very big difference between this movie and things like Joe Dirt (which is rented way too often for me to still believe in human intelligence).  The difference is that Dude, Where's My Car knows full well that it's stupid.  Most bad comedies like to masquerade as an actual film, but this one was written with the mentality of creating the absolute stupidest movie ever created.  It takes intelligence to be this amazingly dumb and, by virtue of new levels of moronic entertainment, original.There are numerous jokes about drugs (which occasionally wore on me), lots of jokes about the female anatomy, and the two idiots to end all idiots. On my first watching the initial twenty minutes were painful, but it was all so ridiculous and stupid that I couldn't help but laugh.  This isn't Annie Hall or Monty Python, and it knows it.  And that's why it's so freaking funny.  7/10 "},{"Title":"A humorless journey.","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I was not expecting much from a film called dude, where's my car except humor.   While the film is not totally devoid of it (I can remember two scenes that were hilarious),there is only about 3-minutes-worth in an 80-min long movie, and we are left with an annoying catch-phrase that unfortunately did catch on in my HS (Shibby).  The plot is schizophrenic and stupid, but interesting nonetheless due to how bizarre it is. grade D "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's my money back?","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I went into this movie thinking, I know this will be bad, but it may have a few good laughs. In the words of Damon Wayans, Hated it! The only way I would watch this movie again is strapped to a seat, Clockwork Orange style. "},{"Title":"totally weird!","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I think it's one of the best comedies ever made. I barely expected more than another American pie when I went to see this movie but hell - this one kicks arse!!! It's unlike anything you've ever seen before. I don't think it's half as much fun if you 're watching this movie alone but watching this movie with a couple of friends after partying all night makes it most definitely one of the best comedies you're ever going to see! I got it for 7 bucks and it's really worth it. Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott do a fine job but it can hardly be said that this was a difficult job when it comes to acting. Jenniffer Garner stars in it as well and it's probably the only movie in which I like her.By far the most unusual, brainless and unconventional comedy I've ever seen, yet one of the very best! "}{"Title":"Dude, How did this get greenlit?!?!?","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR? (2000) *1/2 Ashton Kutcher, Seann William Scott, Jennifer Garner, Marla Sokoloff, David Herman, Hal Sparks, Kristy Swanson, Andy Dick (cameo).  (Dir Danny Leiner) Cheech & Chong. Bill & Ted.  Wayne & Garth. `Dumb & Dumber'. Now `Dumber and Even Dumber' could be appropro in trying to pinpoint this brainless, airheaded stoner comedy unleashed in these new post-milllennium days of potty humor and adolescent hi-jinks that smacks of plain stupidity. Best buds and pizza delivery guys Jesse and Chester (Kutcher of tv's sitcom `That '70's Show' and Scott late of `American Pie' and the far superior `Road Trip') awaken from a fog of scattered memories of their partying night before to their squalid LA apartment and realize they've forgotten the birthday of their shared girlfriends - The Twins - Wana and Wilma (played by Garner and Sokoloff who don't look anything alike even with the glaring obviousness of Garner being a head taller than Sokoloff). So begins the eponymous quest as the two lunkheads try to locate Jesse's auto which results in a long day's journey into muddled plot including the fate of the universe in an object referred to as the `continuum tranfunctioner' that is being searched by - now pay close attention here - a phalanx of  interstellar Hot Chicks,  two Teutonic aliens and a small cult (led by E!'s `Talk Soup' host Sparks who has his work cut out if he is attempting to follow the footsteps of his Academy Award nominated predecessor Greg Kinnear)  as well as violent encounters with some dunder-headed jocks, a tough transsexual stripper hellbent on getting his/her $200,000 back from Jesse & Chester, their angry pizza owner boss,  and a barely recalled sexual encounter with the original Buffy (still sexy beyond belief Swanson in a too brief cameo as a wet-dream with the surname Boner; that's the level of subtlety on display here).  Throw in their Yoda-inspired pothead buddy (Herman late of `Mad TV'), a surreal encounter with ostritches and an imprisoned poacher played by an uncredited Andy Dick (can't really blame him here) and a slightly amusing (ok I'll give them one laugh here) Chinese take out drive-thru verbal thrashing to the unseen order taker's constant refrain of `.and then.'  perhaps perfectly illustrates the frustration level one endures in trying to find some traces of humor (or hell, originality) in this ineptly unfunny film. How this laugh-free screenplay by Philip Stark got green lit is beyond comprehension (which could pretty much sum up the film as a whole). The only signs of life - ok the only time I actually woke up - was at the film's climax when the dudes p*** off the Hot Chicks so bad that they morph their amazing sexy bodies into one entity, a scantily clad, sexy giantess that unfortunately is dispatched too soon.  She has the right idea in tearing up the show and destroying anyone involved.  "},{"Title":"It could have been so much better","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  ** Warning, possible spoilers ** I enjoyed Dude, Where's My Car because the humour is so base and the characters so shallow that you do not have to think hard to understand what is happening, which, at the time, was a welcome relief. The basic premise is that two Los Angeles men, Jesse and Chester, wake up in their house without a clue as to what happened the previous night because they got so drunk. An answering machine message from the pair's annoyed girlfriends (who are twins) kickstarts them into trying to piece together what happened, with the ultimate goal being discovering Jesse's car and recovering the gifts that the guys had bought their girlfriends for their one year anniversary. The humour is coarse and childish, although at some times it was highly original. One joke that the film relies on is the over exaggerated stereotypical groups in the movies who are all after a mysterious (and somewhat superficial) continiuum transfunctioner. The introduction of this element takes the film from stupid to ridiculous, because these groups do not laugh at themselves, such as the gay Nordic guys or the Zoltan group and while a little of this is humorous, every new group is treated the same by the writers - Jesse and Chester are at first bemused, but they laugh at them and dismiss them or attempt to take advantage of them. I would have liked to have seen the guys completing the jigsaw of their evening, so that we could build up a chronological picture of what actually happened. What the film actually does it drop in some piecemeal information without explaining or contextualising it and thus, it leaves the viewer in limbo by moving onto something as equally as unrealistic or senseless. For instance, the fact that Jesse and Chester bought dougnuts for the entire precinct is never touched upon again in the rest of the movie and it simply throws up more questions that are left unanswered, such as why did the guys go to the strip club in the first place, or what happened when the guys met the cops? After a fairly whimsical chase for the continuum transfunctioner (the identity of which could be guessed at easily, but this was undoubtedly the point), Jesse and Chester save the day in a neat twist in the only part of the movie where the guys apply themselves or do anything useful. I couldn't help thinking that the plot could have been done better. The jokes, I thought, were generally fine (And denn? etc.). A tighter, more realistic plot which reflected the decisions that the guys would have made, as innocents and stoners, would have served the film better. A more explanatory script could have strung together the descent parts of the movie together better and would have not left the audience feeling empty.  "},{"Title":"The stupidest (but hardly funniest) movie ever","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I saw Road Trip expecting an unfunny collection of sex and drinking jokes. Like I predicted, it was entirely sex and drinking jokes, but somehow it managed to be clever and outright hilarious. I went into Half Baked with the same mentality. Again, I was surprised by how clever and laugh-out-loud funny the movie was. So after that I expected Dude, Where's My Car? to follow this same brilliance-from-idiocy pattern. I was sorely disappointed when I saw the film. A good 90% of the jokes are terribly cliched, the plot is absurd, but never that comical, and the run-on jokes (two in particular) seem to run on, and on, and on...The fault of this movie does not rest on the actors though. Ashton Kutcher is usually quite funny on That 70's Show, and he brings that same lovably moronic personality to this film. Likewise for Seann William Scott, who was terrific in Road Trip and American Pie. But alas, the material is so weak that the duo don't come off as humorously idiotic, but just idiotic. Some of the minor characters brought a chuckle (mostly due to ludicrous outfits), but sadly, that was the extent of the laughter this film elicited.It wasn't the least funny comedy I've ever seen (although it's close), but it certainly was the stupidest. In Dumb and Dumber, which was the stupidest movie I had ever seen before this one, only the main characters are idiots. In this film it seems everyone in the whole world is an idiot, and that also includes the writers and the unsuspecting moviegoers who shelled out for this. Dude, where's my $5 back? "},{"Title":"I can't believe they made this movie!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Pure unadulterated drek. Absolutely terrible story telling, lame plot devices, and not a single funny joke in the whole movie, make Dude, Where's My Car one of the worst movies of last year. Could they have put together a worse motion picture? Somehow... I doubt it.  "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's the Exit?","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I went to a free advanced screening of this film, and I was still tempted to walk out after the first 10 minutes and demand a refund.  A movie ad-libbed by a class of 3rd graders would have been more entertaining, and one would at least have been able to understand where the writers were coming from.The whole plot of this movie revolves around two moronic stoners trying to figure out what happened to them the previous night; they can't remember because they were incredibly high and wasted and stupid.  I can only assume the film makers went through this exact process after they woke up and found out they had produced this abominationWriter Philip Stark Dude, where'd this script come from?Director Danny Leiner I don't know, man, we were wasted.  Wow, this is awful!Ashton Kutcher Dude!  Sweet!  Sweet!  Whoa!  Sweet, dude!  Dude, sweet!Sean William Scott *drools on himself*Even people (including myself) who enjoy movies that are So Stupid, They're Funny will find themselves nauseated and insulted after even brief exposure to this comedic black hole.  I hope that those responsible for inflicting the world with Dude, Where's My Car? are very, very sorry.  And poor.  And covered with fire ants. "},{"Title":"Movies this bad should be illegal.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I like bad movies as much as the next guy, as long as they're bad enough to be entertaining.  This movie had no redeeming value whatsoever.  NOT funny, NOT even bad enough to make fun of it.  It just plain sucked.  Too bad too, because I liked Road Trip, and I'm a fan of That 70's Show.  "},{"Title":"Worst Film Ever!","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Firstly i'd like to point out that i'm a big fan of movies. I enjoy most films and really liked Road Trip, American Pie, and other similar films.Dude wheres my car however is not at all like these in the sense that its not really funny at all! This being the main point of the film the rest was just pointless. I watched it all the way through because i was hoping the whole time for it to pick up but it never happened.I don't mean to be too harsh but i've seen most main stream films and i would rate this (along with Cable Guy) as the worst of all of them. "},{"Title":"Stupid, yet stupid","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  An unfortunate 'Bill and Ted' wannabe that doesn't come close to the original. Although this nearly unwatchable film was less than ninety minutes, it really strained my die hard rule that I will never walk out of a movie. I think anyone that liked this movie must have been in the same state of mind as the main characters when they lost their car. If thats the case, why not watch an infomercial or a test pattern instead? "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's my plot?","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  There are few movies that touch me in such a way that I feel the need to comment on them. Dude, Where's my car is one of them. It starts out well enough, with two stoners trying to find their car after a night of partying. I mean everyone can relate, right. As they journey on their quest to find said stonermobile they meet all types of wacky characters. A transvestive they owe 200,000 dollars to, a pot smoking dog, some guy that talks like Yoda, hot alien chicks, two Nordic guys, the hottest of the hot- Chrissy Boner (I kid you not),a group of thug jocks and Space nerds dressed in bubble wrap. Whew! My head hurts.I guess the point I'm trying to make is that like Jesse and Chester after seeing this movie I feel like I was out all night slamming Jagermeister shooters. Things like a plot and jokes aren't needed when you have that kind of crazy lineup of characters, right. Wrong. I feel dumber for having watched it. It tries to be a 2000 version of Dumb and Dumber, and it succeeds at just getting it half right, its plain dumb.  "},{"Title":"Who Released This Bomb?","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I like stupid movies. Naked Gun 2 and 1/2, Chicken Run, so on and so forth, but this movie was not simply stupid, it was poorly done. I stayed with it for twenty minutes before leaving. The acting was so wooden and unbelievable. Just not convincing at all. Avoid it like the plague. "}{"Title":"I just can't believe it","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I can say without hesitation that Dude, Where's My Car is the most awful, unwatchable movie I've ever seen.  Hands down.DWMC operates at a level of stupidity rarely seen in any film.  Granted, the movie's stupidity is completely intentional--it's what the filmmakers wanted.  But it obviously never occurred to anyone that the stupidity should actually be *funny* in some way.  Stupidity alone does not a funny movie make.  It needs comic timing and balance to work, and DWMC is only interested in stupidity for stupidity's sake.  There is nothing else in the entire film.  It's just two hours of idiotic dialogue, unflinching sexism, and unfunny jokes that are repeated over and over again until you want to throw your soda at the screen.Also, the events of the story are too insane and random to work into any kind of whole.  Good comedies, even outlandish ones, nearly always take place in a reality with some kind of ground rules.  DWMC is set in a world where anything can happen, and it only hurts the film.  The screenplay tries incredibly hard to be unpredictable, throwing in more bizarre characters and situations every couple of minutes, and the film just ends up overloading our senses and boring us.  Every scene is arbitrary and meaningless and out of nowhere.  In a movie where anything can happen, what does it matter that anything does?No force on Earth could coerce me into seeing this film again.  I'd rather spend two hours holding a red-hot poker up my nose and eating dead spiders. "},{"Title":"This Movie Will Make People Hate Teenagers!","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have ever seen! Not once through the whole movie did I even crack a smile. Now I admit I went into the theater with the pre-conceived notion that it was going to be bad but then it just blew me away with how bad it was. It was incredibly formulaic with it's different groups of people(jocks, nerds, and stoners). Oh my GOD my hatred for this movie is overpowering, I can't bare to think about it anymore. "},{"Title":"One of the worst","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" There is brain dead comedy, and then there is BRAINDEAD comedy. This is the latter of the two. Seldom have i seen something as unfunny as this movie. It's typical that it's about two stoners, because i genuinely believe that you have to be stoned to enjoy this.Both Seann William Scott and Ashton Kutcher are actors i expect nothing from. But this is a low point even for them. That the actors are completely lame and the story pathetic is not the biggest problem though. No, the biggest problem is that this is just NOT funny. Every joke they try to pull in this movie goes on forever. They repeat it until it has a snowballs chance in hell of being funny. Sitting through this is actually painful since you know you could have done something better with your time. Like staring into a wall. Or maybe drive against traffic on the freeway... Actually more or less everything is better than this.Seldom have i so strongly felt a movie deserves a 1/10-rating. This is truly one of the worst. Ever. "},{"Title":"Possible Worst Movie Ever?","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This absolute waste of time,money, and space on store shelves is called Dude, Wheres My Car?  This brainless comedy stars Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott.  The two guys go out partying and basically lose their car and must find it.  While they are searching we encounter aliens, odd russians, and many other characters. However, does any of this really matter? No.  This movie is quite possibly the worst movie ever made. I am the first to admit I do enjoy dumbed-down comedies from time to time but how dumbed down can a movie get?  The first thing you'll notice is that this movie is almost a complete rip-off of a good movie called Half-Baked. The jokes are made for 6 year olds and even they would find them dumb. (Ex Ashton Kutcher  I've got an idea...Lets Eat   William Scott No dude,....lets eat!) The story is extremely pointless to begin with and how the director managed to make it even more pointless is beyond me. Basically just avoid this movie at all costs!  I am sorry my review isn't very in-depth but this movie doesn't deserve an in-depth review. Ugh. "},{"Title":"Dude, why did I see this film?","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  What can I say.  This film was nothing but trash.  It had the basis for a good comedy but the story was wasted on jokes of very poor taste.  What really made this film bad, was that film seemed to make a joke out of people who had gotten so drunk they could not remember what happened. Overall, don't even rent!  (1 out of 10). "},{"Title":"It's tragic","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I actually payed to see this at the movies - and i actually don't know why. It would have to be one of the worst films ive ever seen - really its the most tragic thing i've seen in so long. It would have been funny if the jokes didn't continue on and on and on, until it got past the point of rediculous and just made you embarressed for the actors - even though i'm sure they thought it was a riot. Don't subject yourself to this load of rubbish, its a waste of your time and money.  "},{"Title":"Who's On First","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Movies like this are made like chewing gum a cheap commodity that occupies you if you're normally sleepwalking. It is nothing but a collection of various jokes in one bag, so the best we can hope for is that one or two of the jokes are good.And by that, I mean you actually think about it a few days later and chuckle. And naturally the best of those are the ones that are cinematic, that really couldn't exist in any other form.This actually has one. Abbott and Costello had a bit they did for decades. One would ask the other about a fictitious baseball team. The players on the team would have names like Who and Whatever and Nobody and Whatshisname. The question would start with Who's on first? and the answer would be Yes. Things would elaborate with the frustrated asker furiously slapping his face.Here, we have this done better it is shorter, remolded cinematic ally and set in a context that both fits into the larger picture and allows the joke to make sense. We have two stoner buddies who wake up with no memory of the previous night. There are many jokes related to what happened, but only this one matters.They are trying on some clothes and we see that they have new tattoos on their backs. One says Sweet, the other Dude. Naturally, each cannot see their own tattoo so they ask what it says. Each response is thought to be a comment not an answer. This goes on and on and is repeated a bit later.Not perfect timing, but close enough. Not enough to ask you to spend time and money on this gum, but something to watch for &#151; or chuckle about later &#151; if you do. Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Dude, where's my novacaine?","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is the story about two guys who have failed to evolve from being drooling chimps.Just how awful was this movie?So awful that the ending line was our boyfriends are so suckey.I'm just glad I found find five bucks in the cup holder of my theater seat to make up for the mistake of paying to see this horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible horrible movie. "},{"Title":"An insult to immaturity","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" American Pie. There's Something About Mary. Austin Powers. Juvenile, yes. Funny, yes. Dude, Where's My Car? Don't even ask. As I sat through this steaming turd of a movie, I tried to pinpoint the age at which I would have found this hilarious -- I couldn't go far enough back. Maybe the second trimester? And this is coming from someone who finds the Uranus joke kinda funny.Every time you think that the movie will somehow steer itself back to its flimsy excuse for a plot, it spirals off onto some newly irrelevant tangent. There ARE a few moderately amusing bits I have to admit that the blind-camp counsellor getting packaged got a chuckle out of me. The Monty Python spoof had promise but was delivered clumsily. If only the writers hadn't been, like, you know, stoned when they saw the Holy Grail. Sigh.  "},{"Title":"Never seen worse","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I saw this movie and have to tell it this is the worst movie I've ever seen in my entire life.I don't understand that this still gets a 4.7 / 10 rate.Even if you like movies in this genre like Dumb & Dumber, you still get annoyed by the bad, boring 'jokes'. It's not funny at all, never! The whole movie is pointless, extremely boring and frustrating. I don't understand what the director was thinking when he made this awful movie. Is it funny to hear 2 friends say *dude where's my car? -dude where's your car? *where's my car dude? -dude, where your car? *.....For about 10 minutes long?? No it isn'tAvoid at all cost. "}{"Title":"Dude, where's my refund?","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I wish I'd walked out of this stinker. Every single joke was telegraphed, and really not funny to begin with. I can stand obvious jokes when they're funny (i.e. I knew that was gonna happen! Hahahaha!). When they're not funny? I get the urge to leave.I expected an interesting story, one that would make sense, and one that slowly revealed the events of Jesse and Chester's adventures the previous night. Instead, I got a plot that revolved around a transsexual stripper, a Heaven's Gate-like cult, some aliens, and a bunch of stereotypical jock types (anti-stoners, really...how original).I kept telling my friend, Let's hang around. Something funny is bound to happen. Man, was I ever wrong. Not even the outtakes over the end credits could save this stinker. From start to finish, Dude is a waste of celluloid.Avoid Dude like the plague. Don't waste 90 minutes of your life like I did. "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's the Screenwriter?","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Dude, Where's My Car? (2000) Dir Danny Leiner / Cast Ashton Kutcher, Seann William Scott, Marla Sokoloff, Jennifer Garner, Kristy Swanson Very stupid comedy about unawareness, which in this case involves excessive boozing. Jesse and Chester wake up wasted and unable to remember what went on the night before. Obviously they didn't remember the part where they signed to be part of a stupid comedy. The story is a continuous chain of events where they encounter alien worshipers decked in bubble-wrap, a yard guarded by ostriches, transsexual seeking a briefcase, and a giant woman roaming through a fun house. What was director Danny Leiner attempting here? It is like several ingredients mixed together that doesn't work. There are interesting visual elements but the cast is a total washout. Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott play idiots trying to impress Marla Sokoloff and Jennifer Garner. You must be very intoxicated to be this drunk. Viewers will likely not sympathize with them let alone laugh, and Sokoloff and Garner are cast as two of the stupidest girls on the planet. To add to that they get mixed up with people and things that are about the same intelligence. Kristy Swanson also gets mixed up in this road kill piece of garbage. Extremely vulgar and pathetic script written by people who not only forgot where the car was, but were apparently under the influence of something terrible. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"A Special Kind of Stupid","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Two potheads wake up after a night of partying and cannot remember where they parked their car.Some stupid humor works and some is just stupid. This tends to lean more towards working, though there are plenty of stupid moments that are just beyond belief. There are also a few crude sexual jokes that I could have done without, but I suppose that is the audience. (Do you regret this one, Jennifer Garner?) There should be no surprise that at one point this was a Beavis and Butt-Head script.The great cast and sporadic humor make this enjoyable. Not great, maybe not a classic. And if it is to be called a stoner comedy (which is a stretch), it would not even compare to the likes of Half Baked. "},{"Title":"This movie has zero comedic value","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" My friends coated me into watching this movie one night and I couldn't make it more than about thirty minutes in. I actually wanted to shoot myself. Not to kill, of course, but to injure myself bad enough that I would have gone to the hospital for an extended stay with plenty of drugs. Hopefully during my drug-induced state I would have been able to forget what it is I just saw, unfortunately I did not have a gun and the stupidity has been ingrained in my mind such that no amount of drugs could possibly save me now. This movie is not funny. There are indeed stupid-funny movies out there. This movie can only be considered purely stupid. And it begins with the lead actors, both of which are not funny. Ashton Kutcher is awful at everything he does, and this movie is no exception. Sean William Scott does nothing but grin his stupid grin with a cheap stoner facade laid on top and spew idiotic lines every now and again. There is absolutely no amount of praise that any actor in this movie deserves, and to give any kind of praise, to both the actors and the movie as a whole, would be to liken oneself to a rock. Correction, I think even a rock would be better at judging this movie than most people. At least you could count on a rock to not laugh. But the acting is not even the worst part. In the thirty minutes of the movie I watched, not once was I compelled to genuinely laugh. Of course a few cheap laughs were drawn from my throat, but that was only as a result of my friends laughing hysterically at the movie and my own nervous reaction to what I believed to be the loss of my friends' sanity. The set ups for the jokes make zero sense. They leave their house at the beginning and stand on the curb for five minutes going back and forth with Dude, where;s my car? Where's your car dude? Dude, where's my car? Where's your car dude? and so on and so forth given in the terribly portrayed stoner voices that fall flat. How is that funny? Indeed it is stupid, but stupid to the point that it is funny? Absolutely not. Repetition of the same stupid line over and over does not equal comedy. Then they visit their stoner friend with his stoner dog. WOW! HAHAHA a stoner dog! That's so funny! He's hitting a dog-shaped bowl! Oh wow that dog smokes pot hahahaha just like all of us this is so funny! Yeah lets focus on the stoner dog and not the shakily thrown-together plot that they are desperately and of-handedly trying to unfold before us. Of course I suppose coherent and reasonable plot is not necessary when people are only watching the movie for its stupidity value. The worst part of the movie that I saw was the Chinese food scene. That is NOT funny. Again, repetition of the same line over and over does not equal comedy. The scene drags on, and for some reason the longer it went the more my friends laughed. Why they laughed is beyond me. There was nothing funny about that. How can saying and theeeeennn?? fifty times over be considered funny? It's not, its just stupid. This movie is an absolute waste of time, and yeah I realize that the people who enjoy these kinds of movies have absolutely zero regard for what it takes to make decent cinema, but I mean come on. The fact that people think this movie is even remotely worth a person's time really gives me doubts about our future. This is terrible. If you have not seen it yet and do not wish to waste your time on a stupid movie with horrible acting and tired, cheap jokes, avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"A candidate for one of the most suggestive and scared films in history","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Quite a lot of punctuation in the title for a small minded and dopey stoner comedy like Dude, Where's My Car? which pairs the likable, but too toned down Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott as two buddies trying to piece together what happened the night before and answer the simple question dude, where's my car? The guys awake in their trashed apartment and realize that some event of uncertainty was conducted with their presence and they can't for the life of them figure it out.Soon it isn't long before they are subjected to a group of scientists questioning the whereabouts of a tool known as a Continuum Transfunctioner which has the ability to destroy the universe as we know it. The boys also must find their car to assure their twin girlfriends get their anniversary presents the boys bought and, in reward, they will give them their special treat. The premise is ultimately way too goofy and far out to be enjoyable. I would've liked it more if we got more Kutcher/Scott screen time instead of flashing back and forth to the girlfriends, then the scientists, then the hot girls, then more scientists. I'm trying to figure out if this was a test of sanity amongst the audience or a test of fatigue.What bothers me the most is how the film suddenly wants to focus a lot on the crude and sexual humor, but then almost limits itself from it. For example, there are numerous scenes conducted on the fundamentals of women's bodies. We have a group of, maybe seven, women following the boys around trying to get answers. They come in dark black outfits and are beginning to say in some scenes let's show something. We all know Kutcher and Scott can be far dirtier than this writing. Kutcher can be vulgar and sometimes over the top like his character Kelso on That 70's Show (and he's not playing too much different of a person in this movie) and Scott worked on American Pie as the foul-mouthed and crude Stifler. Why doesn't the film make these guys into way more realistic and way more cruder guys? I can't believe I'm saying this but if you're going to make a comedy, a stoner comedy, make the characters vulgar and not as one dimensional. Not to mention their over use of their annoying catchphrase.I thought for the first half an hour that Kutcher and Scott worked great as the unlikely heroes and came off as a live action Beavis and Butthead. However, the film gives them no dialog to work it and the whole movie is just one suggestive theme after another begging to go further than its PG-13 rating.Dude, Where's My Car? is a very one note comedy that doesn't really want to tap into anything more than an average late night watch. I don't think this is the type of movie meant for criticizing. Regular audiences, mainly teenagers, will find most of the humor hilarious. Most adults will find it annoying and relentless. I'm the ladder category that found it to be only funny when Kutcher and Scott were on screen. The rest of the time I was just trying to keep in tune with the arbitrarily constructed science-fiction plot leaching onto the film. This is a film about piecing together what happened the night before. It isn't called Dude, Where Did You Leave that Totally Weird Space Thing? We Could Totally Use it Right Now! Also, the big question is never answer. And it isn't the title question. It's the second most asked question is the film - what the hell happened that night?...Starring Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott. Directed by Danny Leiner. "},{"Title":"Idiocy is Classic !","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Here (Dumb and Dumber) meets (The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the 8th Dimension) rightly. It's mild fun, clearly made by couch potatoes, namely good viewers. It celebrates watching TV, old movies, and idiocy. Idiocy as doing nothing but watching TV and old movies !Some said it's a Hangover movie. Well, I don't like the term. It's a buddy comedy for the 1990s, where the 2 buddies are dumber than each other. But this time it has a loose and funny fantasy factor. I loved that script. The crazy ride it goes through, the teams it creates, and even the homage to the 50s movie (Attack of the 50 Foot Woman).. All of that formed such a special world that catches me every time. Sure imagination is a reason for this movie's singularity.The loyalty for the leads' adolescence is beautiful. It belongs to this phase in everyone's life in which the time is being passed between laughs, mistakes, dreams of love, and many many incomprehensible matters. Thus being a teenager equals being an idiot someway or another. However while enjoying the sweet times of that, the movie doesn't forget making heroes out of those dudes (or duds !) to deserve the girls and the car at last. So the car could refer to some kind of lost maturity, and accordingly the title (Dude, Where's My Car) could mean something like (I'm losing my mind !). Actually the notion of this movie as one with deep anything is laughable, but that's what it could reach.Of course there are many turn-off moments. Filth is essential in the American comedies lately. Moments like watching the 2 leads kissing are so cheap and emetic. I watch the censored version for that matter !Generally it is as colorful, light and sugary as cotton candy. It evokes nostalgia for the creativity and the bohemianism of the middle-class teens (that me and my friends were). It declares that rap music videos, cheesy old movies, pizza are idiot pastime for idiots, however that idiocy produced classic pastime. And finally, it assures, more than anything, that watching Discovery channel can save your life ! "},{"Title":"Incredibly Funny!!!","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" It had been a long been a long time since I watched this movie, and it's still very funny and awesome to me. I forgot about a couple of things. Two stoners with hangovers named Jesse and Chester wake up and can't remember anything about what happened the previous night. They receive a phone call from their angry girlfriends on their anniversary and try to find the gifts that they had gotten them. When they realize it's in a car that's nowhere to be found. Throughout the day, they must deal with hot chicks, creepy space dorks, look for the Continuum Transfunctioner, find the money for a transsexual stripper and much more. I have just one question; DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR?!!! "},{"Title":"That title says it all as our likable losers set out to find their car. And then?","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott play two wasters who wake up one morning, after a particularly heavy night out (it would seem), to find themselves with no memory of the previous night's events and one missing automobile (hence the title). Sound familiar? Yep, it's a premise that has been used before and after this movie to varying effect (most brilliantly, many would say, in The Hangover) but the fact that this movie stars both Kutcher and Scott and is designed primarily with a teen demographic in mind, or so it would appear, is probably enough to turn off many film fans.That's a shame because Danny Leiner's movie is a whole lot of fun for those who can take it in the spirit it was intended. It often appears to be nothing more than a celebration of stupidity but it's actually one of those cleverly stupid comedy movies I often end up liking the most.Kutcher and Scott are a lot of fun in the lead roles and are ably supported by the likes of Jennifer Garner, Kristy Swanson, Andy Dick in a cage and . . . . . a Chinese Food drive-through speaker.The plot starts off silly and just gets progressively more so, including the eclectic additions of an alien-worshipping cult, a gender-challenged stripper, ostriches, forgotten tattoos, a continuum transfunctioner and even a super hot giant alien. How can you resist?See this if you like Beavis And Butt-Head Do America, Harold And Kumar Get The Munchies, Dumb & Dumber. "},{"Title":"Funnier Every Time You See It!","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This movie just grew on me. The first time I saw it the only part I laughed at was the Chinese food drive-thru scene, which made me laugh so hard it hurt. Having seen it quite a few times since (my kids watch it over and over) I now find most of the movie to be quite amusing. Yes the film is stupid, but deliberately so. Giving this film a bad review must mean you lack a sense of humor. No wonder it's developed a cult following. I can just imagine how much fun the actors and crew had making it. Life's too short to take everything so seriously all the time. This movie proves that a little idiocy is good for everyone! I guess you could say this is a slightly watered down modern day version of Cheech and Chong. "},{"Title":"Where's your car, dude?","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" As I submitted my rating of 5 (sorry, lovers) I noted the demographics of user ratings. My segment should theoretically like this movie better than everyone else, because we're the guys who were teenagers when it came out. I saw it when I was 19; I wasn't a fan, but I listened to the commentary track, and realized how many details were cut from the movie to get the PG-13 certificate. Many years later, I found it on broadcast television. Now the edited for television version has some additional cuts and ADR lines to secure a network-friendly edit. Chop once for the MPAA, chop twice for MyTV. I'm finding some parts truly funny, but then I wait and wait for something else to happen. It's not consistent enough at anything for me to consider it well-done. The under-18 segments rated it higher than the males 18-29. A laugh-out-loud moment came when I realized that six times as many males than females had submitted a rating. We dudes may not love the movie, but at least we watched it. "}{"Title":"So where's your car dude?","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This movie just doesn't really know what it wants to be, and it doesn't even seem to care as long as the profit's any good. It tries to have some kind of edge but they always have to cut back on the raunchyness very quickly because apparently they really had their heart set on a PG-13 rating. So you have these stoners, but of course we don't actually see them do drugs, and for all we know they're just regular morons, who are constantly getting into situations because they're stupid and possibly stoned. The script tries to stay dynamic by putting in a far-fetched plot with a cult and a lot of sci-fi material and it pretty much works. Things get so silly you can't really hate the thing anymore. The leads are pretty goddamn annoying, but some gags do manage to be pretty good somehow. The scene with the Chinese restaurant was funny, to name one. Still, pick a direction and go with it. If you're going to write a movie with these basic ideas, at least have the guts to put your money on an R-rating instead of pulling up the hand-brake and aiming it towards teenagers. It's not too bad though. "},{"Title":"The stupidest funniest film I've ever seen. Notice how there's no comma between 'stupidest' and 'funniest'.","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I was afraid, I so afraid that about twenty minutes into Dude, Where's My Car? I said to myself Oh God, this is the worst film I have ever seen. Thankfully, it didn't end up like a Son of the Mask or a Thunderbirds and miraculously managed to turn my opinion around somewhat from 'the worst film ever' to 'an average, brainless comedy'.To have a film's title revolve around a funny quote the two dimwitted heroes of the piece state halfway through is a ludicrous enough proposition but what really follows is a singular line journey of events that range from the utterly bizarre to the totally random to the blatantly unfunny. Dude, Where's My Car? Is just a series of daft, unrealistic and meaningless events that make out to be connected in some way. The film is listed as a sci-fi but the film is so off the wall and random, including the scientifically fictitious events in this film just seem to blend in with any other happening and thus; make it believable that it could happen in this filmic world we're seeing.Some of the comic examples used early on to try and get us to laugh include an exchange at some traffic lights between a romantically linked couple (a sort of 'we go, you go' game), an event at their girlfriend's house that results in all their hard work of clean up becoming undone and an exchange with a Chinese 'fooooood' takeaway order box. These particular events unfold in a pretty meaningless and random order and I'm sure that you'd probably find yourself in funnier situations if you went out with a group of friends during the day for a random drive as I didn't laugh at any of these scenes.There is one such scene in a strip club that is suspiciously open at lunch time hours where our two pothead heroes find themselves owing money to a transsexual stripper &#150; although I laughed at this as soon as 'they' shouted 'where's my money?' in a rather masculine tone; it was because it took me by surprise more than anything else. It's here that a plot is becoming clear, that there is a back-story as to what happened last night and the film started to gain points with me instead of loose them. What follows after that is a further series of stupid, random events only this time I actually found myself engaging and maybe smirking now and again &#150; suddenly we care because perhaps there is something at stake.From here, it becomes more and more apparent that the sci-fi trick is going to aid them in showing us these dumb events as each get more and more bizarre. The fact several leather clad hot chicks with big breasts appear whom change their deal from 'find us the device and we'll give you erotic pleasure' to 'find us the device and we'll give you oral pleasure' could be slated as being the most basic of basic mistakes made but with the feeling of something at stake, these random and often unfunny occurrences seem to be leading somewhere &#150; a feeling I wasn't getting twenty minutes in. I found the film to be so ambiguous; I actually cared what would happen in the end.Dude, Where's My Car? will not be for everyone with some painfully unfunny and probably offensive to some material as well as some pretty shameless representations of Scandinavian, Chinese and French people; Dude, Where's My Car? let's its heroes get bullied about until they're right where it wants them and just lets random cause and effect situations play out &#150; only recommended as a last resort. "},{"Title":"Stupidity can be hilarious, but it can also be, well, just plain stupid","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I remember seeing the trailer for this movie on TV, but didn't see the movie until years later. By then, I had known all along that it was an extremely silly comedy, and that the main characters were two idiots, but to me, movies like that CAN be very funny, so I gave it a try. Around the beginning, it looked promising, but for the most part, I did not laugh, and may have been disgusted by some parts! I eventually tried watching it again, but didn't think much differently of it.Jesse Montgomery III and Chester Greenburg are two young stoners who go out partying one night, but when they wake up the following morning, they can't remember a thing about it! When they look outside, they discover that their car is missing, and they obviously can't remember what happened to it, so they go out to try and retrace their steps. Unfortunately, the missing car is only one of their problems! Last night, they trashed the house of their girlfriends, Wanda and Wilma, and don't have anniversary gifts for them, so Wanda and Wilma are obviously not pleased! In addition to that, a transsexual stripper demands that Jesse and Chester return her/his suitcase of stolen money! The two stoners even find the fate of the entire universe in their hands, and must find a device called the Continuum Transfunctioner!There's a part early in the film where they go to the drive-thru of a Chinese restaurant, and when Jesse makes his order, he just keeps hearing and then? from the speaker box, even after he's finished making the order! That is probably the funniest moment in the movie, though the Dude, what does my tattoo say? Sweet! What about mine? Dude! What does mine say? Sweet! What about mine? joke is also a highlight. Apart from those two gags, there aren't too many notable ones. Some of the gags may even be close to terrible, such as the transsexual jokes, and the interaction the hot chick aliens have with a student at a school for the blind. It also seems that combining Dumb & Dumber with the sci-fi genre wasn't such a good idea.I get this slight feeling that maybe I'm being a little too harsh rating this movie less than a 5/10 (I'm not 100% sure), but I see no reason why I should give it a rating any higher than 5. Even if you like comedies about two idiots on a silly adventure, this movie could easily disappoint you, except maybe if you watched it while, let's say, under the influence. If you watch it while sober, the chances of you enjoying it may not be as slim as I might assume, but definitely not as good. In conclusion, more thought probably could have been put into Dude, Where's My Car?. "},{"Title":"dude man","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" dude isn't meant to be watched for your report due in English class tomorrow, obviously. There is a reason it is less than an hour and a half. But for those eighty seven minutes your laughing out loud.yes, later you may think that was really stupid, or why is that ever funny but admit it, you laughed and you know it is funny.Obviously, they are some parts that are perverted and sexual, but watching the preview what do you expect? the movie is about two stoner's, but you don't have to be high to think it's funny. Just don't go into thinking it's going to be some intelligent sweet romantic story. It was worth it for anyone who doesn't mind having a good time. "},{"Title":"This was a very funny movie","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I have to agree with those who don't understand why this movie has such a poor IMDb rating. I just watched it and thought it was really funny... very stupid, but funny. The thing that can sink this type of stoned, suburban, Jeff Spicoli style movie, is if it starts going into places where it doesn't belong. Like getting too serious, or introducing a different type of humor. Dude, Where's My Car sticks to its aesthetics -- stupid as they are -- throughout, and never sells itself out. Therefore I think it works, and is in fact a well-made teenage comedy. I think this will only appeal to a very specific audience, but you can say the same thing about a Kieslowski movie.So... if Jeff Spicoli, Bluto & Stifler are your heroes, you're going to enjoy this movie a lot. I sure did, and cracked up several times.PS nice to see David Herman in a small part. He's a brilliant comedian, best seen as Michael Bolton in Office Space. People need to "},{"Title":"Stupid?  Yes.  Funny?  HELL YES!!","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Dude, Where's My Car? from 2000 is one of my very favorite movies. I love stupid movies like this anyway, OK, SOME of them, and this one was/is an absolute treat. I love Seann William Scott and Ashton Kutcher and of course it's icing on the cake having those two in this film. This film is stupid, yes. But so funny!! This is one of the funniest stupid movies ever. I love it!! The plot basically focuses on two potheads, Jesse and Chester, played by Kutcher and Scott, who wake up one morning with no memory of the previous night's events. They're unable to find Jesse's car and basically go on a quest to find it. Which involves their twin girlfriends's trashed house, expensive gifts they don't' remember buying, such as cell phones, a car, and jumpsuits, a suitcase full of money that belongs to a transvestite stripper, and the need to find a device called the continum transfunctioner. Sounds ridiculous? Of course it does!! All stupid movies like this have ridiculous plots. But I think that's what makes it so entertaining. The jokes don't fall flat in this film and some of the events that the guys are involved in are so funny that it'll bring tears to your eyes. Seann William Scott and Ashton Kutcher were perfect for this film. They're comedic abilities were right on cue. Of course this movie won't go down in history as one of the greatest films ever made but it certainly is one of the funniest pieces of mindless entertainment. I love this film dearly and it makes me laugh every time. This movie isn't for everyone and those who aren't fans of stupid movies like this shouldn't watch it. You'll definitely have something negative to say about it if you're not a fan. But I love Dude, Where's My Car? and I'm glad I have it in my collection. This film is so funny!! Thank you for reading my review! "},{"Title":"Dude, it's a Lama!!!","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" 4.7 out of 10, well maybe, considering if people don't like a movie they usually just give it a 1/10. So technically speaking, just under 50% of voters didn't like this movie. So why wouldn't you like a movie, with 2 stoners, a sci-fi spin, and lots of hot chicks? Perhaps you're over 40, or maybe you are conservative, and think these 2 characters are a shameful bi-product of the failing education system. But enough about the people who didn't like it.Many label this a stupid movie, which is spot on, it's stupid, which is what makes it funny (in my opinion). Watching these two bungle their way through this adventure, with ad nausium jokes is definitely not for everyone though. Some stand out moments include a drive thru Asian woman, who continually asks ...and then?. ...and no end then!!! ...and the-een???Also a blind kid who takes advantage of his disability to cop a feel on a hot alien babe. After watching Paycheck again recently (Ben Afflect, Uma Thurman), there is some storyline connection between both movies, but they are as dissimilar in style as this movie is to Bill & Ted. Anyway, good stupid fun for those willing to give it a chance.and then? "},{"Title":"Dude!!! I love this film!!!","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Dude! This is such an amazing film! From the start i was laughing. Jesse was funny and Chester is stupidly amusing. I like the plot and everything is so neatly fitted. Well written, well acted and well worth watching! I love the way you can just sit back and let yourself get confused and dumbfounded as the film unravels. Everything carries something else on. I think that Jesse and Chester are the best double for a stupid film I have ever seen. I particularly liked Jesse and the tattoo part cracked me up completely. Well worth watching! 10 and a half out of 10!! "},{"Title":"A Master Piece in its own right.","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Dude, Where's my car? is a film that doesn't attempt to be smart. This should be evident from the title. However, the film is so good at not trying to be smart it passes a point where it seizes to be an idiotic mess and becomes a master piece in its own right.The wide cast of characters keep the film's plot fresh and in spite of ridiculous plot-elements the film manages bust quite a few guts with its utter retardedness. The film's plot actually has a pretty smart setup, recovering from an amnesia is always exciting in a film, but the film is luckily not a one-joke film. The amount of variety makes most comedies seem very bland by comparison.The film is a brilliant no-brainer, but a nightmare for lovers of intelligent cinema. "},{"Title":"Is there a funnier movie around?","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Sure, anyone can rant on how immature and vulgar the jokes were, but I'll still say this movie was a hoot! I humor was an organized random ,if you will. Random and wacky, but controlled so that it didn't seem crazy and awkward. Ashton is a great budding actor, particularly with respect to comedy. It may not be entirely appropriate for the below 15 age group, and adults over 40 may get a laugh or two in places, but dismiss the movie and stupid. If you approach with the proper attitude ( fun-loving, with a good sense of humor that's not easily offended), it'll be a scream! Two thumbs up from me! "}{"Title":"Definitely better when drunk","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Saw this when it first came out, and I cant say it made any real impression then. Last night after drinking with a friend, this was on when i got home.The 2 main characters wake up and as the day goes, they find out they cant remember much. Except they have anniversaries with their girlfriends, and cant find their presents.Most of the funny stuff revolves around sex and/or drugs/alcohol. First time round, this seemed like a run of the mill college movie (except the main characters don't seem to go to any college). It probably still is, but this time, me being drunk, I had a slight smile on my face through the movie.Feel-good movie for a time when you are intoxicated. The gags are a bit lame if not. "},{"Title":"I can't believe it's so bad","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Some people told me wow, it's a nice movie, I've watched it, but I can even watch it again! And so I rented it. Crap.The only thing that kept me from walking out of the room in the first 15 minutes was the fact that I was the host and there were, like, 10 people here... I didn't laugh at any scene, the jokes are all so stupid, it looks like the movie was written by 13-years-old guys. Ashton and Sean William never looked dumber.I haven't even classified the movie, 'cause if I did so, I would have to give it at least one star, and that would be unfair.Seriously... if you ever consider watching this movie... DON'T! "},{"Title":"Very original and idiotic idea; but Seann and Ashton make it work","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Yes, we all figured it out; Seann and Ashton are, umm, special comedians. But you know, they actually have a lot of potential. If they weren't in this movie, I don't know what they would do. Don't get me wrong, everyone else was good too. Actually, only Jennifer Garner...well anyway...Jesse and Chester, two bumbling stoners, wake up one morning from a night of partying and cannot remember where they parked their car which prompts them on a journey to find it and along the way, they encounter a variety of people who include their angry girlfriends Wilma and Wanda whose house they trashed, an angry street gang, a transsexual stripper hounding them for a suitcase full of stolen money, a cult of alien seeking fanatics, and a group of aliens in human form looking for a mystical device that could save or destroy the world.OK, you know what? It really doesn't deserve to be a 4.7. It really wasn't that bad.It should get a 6.0 - 6.5 area. It succeeded at the box office. Yes I realize, it barely did, but none the less, it did. This is a very underestimated comedy. Usually, the only thing that makes me laugh are the people on my boyfriend's football team and the TV show Friends.But this did it, so it did a pretty damn good job! I mean, sure it was pretty predictable, but that's what most comedies are predictable! After all, it's really the detail things that make you laugh, right? I think that that's what made me laugh, not the plot like those usual sucky comedies. Just give this movie a chance; it has potential. Besides, we all need a good laugh once in a while, and that's why Seann and Ashton were born. "},{"Title":"good film","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is one of my favorite comedies of all time. Contrary to popular belief, the plot was very well put together. Besides being hot, Ashton Kutcher and Sean William Scott are perfect for playing the dumb guy; the guy who never really seems to get it and always makes funny comments. I haven't even seen this movie in at least three years, yet as I read the quotes I found myself laughing out loud. I suggest this movie to everyone with a sense of humor. It has great quotes and great acting. I can't even think of anything bad to say about this film. Actually, the only tasteless joke was the one about panties and going on a ride....if you see this movie, you'll know what I'm talking about. The point is, from start to finish, it delivers much humor and the good kind of nonsense. "},{"Title":"Great film, watched by idiots who don't get it","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Yet again as i trail through IMDb i see EVERYone slating this movie... oh its unrealistic... yeah its a movie, oh its immature... yeah its a movie... oh its not funny, yeah maybe if you permanently have a stick up your ass! This movie is one of the funniest films EVER, kicks the ass off American pie! if your expecting any form of decent story, forget it! this is all about cheesy jokes, poking fun at teenagers / young adults (does it matter if they are USA or UK etc? its a general poke of fun). Gags every scene.. i know me and my friends even years after first seeing this movie have been known to recite the whole tattoo scene on many a drunken night ;) and above all this movie is just pure fun! if you like decent fun in a movie and Don't EXPECT PRIDE AND PREJUDICE! then go watch this film and laugh your ass off! if you want a believable storyline, in depth characters and drama then leave well enough alone.I for one love this movie and think it should be mandatory viewing for all 15+ year olds in the UK! "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I wasn't really a fan of Ashton Kutcher, until I saw Just Married. I loved that movie and Kutcher was very funny. Not that I became his biggest fan after that movie, but I think the guy has some potential. Don't get me wrong, he will probably never win an Academy Award, but he possibly might give some other good comic performances in the future. Anyway, Dude, where is my car? is an enjoyable comedy and it deserves some more appreciation than the 4.7 rating it currently has.I loved the first part of the movie the most. I give 7 for the first part and 5 for the second part, because it wasn't that funny. The jokes where sometimes a little over top and the story became extremely stupid. Over all, this was a fun movie to watch. Not great but certainly watchable.Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott are an excellent on-screen duo. Furthermore there where several hilariously stupid scenes as well. Give it a try. I enjoyed it.6/10 "},{"Title":"What's so bad about this movie?","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. It's got a lot of really funny scenes. Most of the jokes are original. The story keeps flowing, there is a multitude of characters appearing so that it makes the movie interesting to watch. I still fail to find fault with this movie. I mean, it's no Comic Genius (It's no Dr. Strangelove), but it's comedy that normal people can enjoy, but for some peculiar reason, don't.I am no stoner, and neither are any of my friends ), but this is one of the movies we all saw and enjoyed thoroughly. For it's enjoyability itself, I give it a 10.A note to those who think they can do better  Try. A Kubrick doesn't come along every day. At the end of the day, you'd have made a movie much worse than this. "},{"Title":"The movie Ernest Scared Stupid grew up to be","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I loved this movie. I thought it was purely brilliant. The plot was never laid out in any of the trailers, and we are left to believe it was going to be an MTV-type movie about partying too hard. When the actual plot arrives, it immediately breaks all the rules and goes straight for the utterly ridiculous, from the moment Jesse (Kutcher) wakes up with Trivial Pursuit cards stuck to his face. As the story unravels piece by absurd piece, the viewer is given only hints as to what Jesse and Chester (Scott) did the previous night, hints which add up to what has to have been the most ridiculous and crazy night ever, but as they don't' remember a thing, we never get the whole story, which honestly is the most hilarious part.We learn that, at some point, they trashed their girlfriends' house, partied with some strippers who now adore them, accepted a briefcase full of stolen money from a transsexual stripper (which they then used to buy a sports car), made out with a seriously hot girl whose muscle-head boyfriend doesn't treat her well, and ran afoul a group of cultists and some space aliens who entrusted them with a weapon capable of destroying the Universe. As I tried to fit all these puzzle pieces together, I found myself cracking up, thinking What in the hell DID they do last night??. And, of course, the money to save their skins from a murderous she-male stripper, the anniversary gifts to save their troubled relationships with their girlfriends, and the weapon to save the Universe are all in their car, which they cannot find.Ultimately, if you are looking for fantastic cinematic achievement, then go back to Art School you stupid hippie blowhard. If you are looking for a movie that doesn't take itself at all seriously that will make you laugh, this is the one for you. "},{"Title":"People are being really hard on this movie!","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" It seems to me that everyone on the internet has a problem with remaking old movies. Grumbling beings when anyone mentions the upcoming 'Honeymooners', 'The Longest Yard', or even 'The Lord of the Rings' and 'Star Wars' franchises, but in this case, people have a problem with updated rehashes of classic material WITHIN movies! Maybe some of the jokes aren't BRAND new (comparisons to Abbott and Costello in this movie are plentiful), but it's not the jokes themselves that are important, it's how well they correlate with the storyline - or on the other extreme, how random they can be without detracting from that storyline. Look, the casting in this movie is excellent, even the small roles are filled well by Kristy Swanson (Boner!), Andy Dick, and Brent Spiner (Data of Star Trek fame in an uncredited role), among others (even though I don't understand how Marla Sokoloff and Jennifer Garner could possibly be mistaken for 'twins'). Furthermore, the story, and especially the ending, are certainly witty and yes, dare I say it, original despite the '50 Foot Woman' gag, and the jokes, despite being a bit retro, are delivered well by two guys who really aren't even comedians - as opposed to say, the Dumb and Dumber movies which were MUCH more pedantic than this movie! The rips in this movie aren't even really rips, but satire of movies such as 'Star Wars' and '50 Foot Woman' and seem completely random. Like elementary school writing assignments where the teachers give students the opening line, this movie goes to places the viewer could never imagine from that opening line, the simple yet perplexing question, 'Dude, Where's My Car?' By the end of the movie you're wondering if someone changed the channel, but in this case I think it works! Not to mention the Chinese Food scene and the tattoo scene are some of the funniest weed-induced dialogues this side of Ridgemont High! So don't be so hard on this movie. It wasn't very presumptuous and has gone on to become a stoner classic! And what's this? It was derived from a script for a Beavis and Butthead live action movie? It all makes sense now! "},{"Title":"A very stupid movie  that is fun to watch anyway","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Put simply, this movie is about two stoners who wake up from a wild party the night before with no memory of what happened last night or what has happened to their car. Their search for the titular vehicle takes them on a quest of literally cosmic proportions.I was prepared to hate this movie before seeing it on satellite (there was nothing else on), but as I watched it I ended up laughing and actually getting involved in it. Yes, it is very, very stupid, juvenile, and often crude, but then again it doesn't try to be anything more than this. It reminded me of Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure, which was another dumb but fun movie. The movie is also one of the first appearances of Jennifer Garner, playing one of the girlfriends of the two protagonists. Speaking of which, Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott are great in their roles, although whether it is good acting or just them being themselves is certainly debatable.If you see this movie expecting sophisticated comedy, you'll be sorely disappointed, but if you are in the mood for fairly mindless comedy, this will fit the bill admirably. "}{"Title":"On of the most ludicrous, far out comedies ever made","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The Bizarre innuendo, the conflicting sides, the stoner methos. It's like somebody took The Big Lebowski, removed what little sense that movie made, added a second stoner character, and made it less important, less intelligent, and almost as funny. But perhaps that's a bad comparison, I don't really know.This movie is so dumb it's brilliant. The purposefully campy acting, the nonsensical plot points, the throw away characters all add up to the worst day Jesse and Chester ever had, and trying to find a car, ends up finding Andy Dick locked in a cage.That really sums up the movie... Andy Dick locked in a cage. "},{"Title":"Dude, where's my $4.75","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The first 10-15 minutes of the movie were ok, and the and then chinese drivethrough window had me cracking up and the tattoo thing was mildly entertaining--that's it.  THe rest of the moive just went downhill once it started going into the space girls, the sci-fi characters--at that point you lost interest and lost your ability to laugh.  Bad , just bad. and the giant girl monster at the end, don't even get me started!! "},{"Title":"dumb with some good phrases","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  the story in itself was really pathetic, but it had 2 funny cute guys that are willing to do pretty much whatever it takes to make a buck. the word dude is used so many times, i had to pull the calculator out a couple of times. i didnt really count since i did lose count, and didnt want to rewind the movie. i still believe that ashton kutcher holds the image of the dumb guy with the majorly cute hairdos. i could possibly see him overcoming that image and maybe stepping into the serious side. maybe do a thriller or something, not chasing ostriches and trying to locate the car while looking for some extraterrestrial ball that nerds are trying to recover. that has nothing to do with a car, come to think of it, none of what they are trying to do has anything to do with them finding the car... maybe the pre-teens thought it was funny..but i found it so so funny. i wouldnt really waste my time.  (C- D+) "},{"Title":"A Good bad Movie","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Usualy i'd rather pull out my own teeth without painkillers and dig into the socket with a rusty knife then watch another teen comedy, but when i saw this film, self dental distruction dident seem to much fun. I mean, yes the story is almost completly made up on the fly with little or no planing, and the ever so anoying ashton kutcher and sean williams scot play the films leads, but what the end result is a film that dont takes itself serousley at all, and an odd yet funny (depending how you take the jokes) little film.You see, being somewhat of a picky movie person, i do not run out to the theater every weekend just to see what evers playing. There has to be somthing somewhat new or instering to me about the film, otherwize its simply not worth the almost 10 bucks to see it.I have a classification system when it comes to films, being a film is an above average peace were strong acting and good story keep my attention, regardless of what the topic is,  a epic is somthing in the likes of star wars or lord of the rings, blending both story, action, adventure and drama, a movie is average meaning that its nothing special and turned out of the hollywood machine to make a few bucks and fade from memory.  This piece is a flick, yet a good flick at that.The plot is simple, two stoners loose there car and they have to find it. Simple, non complex, something real. But then the story changes as they encounter more and more oddballs and struggle to unravel the mystery of wear's my car!Thats about it. It offers a few laughts, some missfires, and some just odd plot points, but in the end you had a fun time. "},{"Title":"What A Waste Of Talent, (Updated Version)","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" There no doubt in one mined that this movie is stupid and unfunny joke, but tell the truth it is quite entertaining (if you re first time viewer and try not to analyzed anything) Over all the movie have a very good ideas but badly written.The story of the two losers, waking up to find out that they can't remember what happen to them the day before. Only to find out later that they are after by the angry twin girl friends, aliens, transsexual stripper, Aliens nerds and some gangs members. Isn't it like The Bourne Identity? Yeah yeah, I know - how can I compare the two movies, but what the hell? They both have no memories; peoples were after them and so on. Anyway the movie is stupid and is only for the viewer that like stupid movie. Reason To Watch · Loads of young talented actors, · Very stupid (after all you know it a stupid movie, why not make it extreme)Reason Not To · If you like to analyzed, then forget it, · Talented Young actors turn bad, · Good plod turn really badRating 4/10 (Grade E+)------------ ------------ ---------- ---------- --------- --------- ----'Dude Where's My Car' -wait, what do you expected from Ashton Kutcher's movie. I think almost every people got the same answer for this guy - 'A really stupid movie'. Apart from 'That 70s' Shows' this guy really has nothing to offer his fan. (He should thank the series for his reputation). 'Dude Where's My Car', is one of his trademark -'stupidity'. Somehow his film is even worst than Adam Sandler's movies, (can you imagine that). The movie is really non-sense, no story line, and no nothing. Mara Sokoloff, Jennifer Garner, Alison Sweeney and S.W.Scoot should not have wasted their talent on this garbage. They even came up with 'Seriously, Dude Where's My Car'. This shows how the movie companies are dying of making money rather than quality.Max 4/10Recommendation Borrow it from your friends or just forget about it "},{"Title":"When we've lost all hope for modern filmmaking, a saviour finally comes.  ANd it likes to be refferred to as Dude.","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, where is the love?--for this masterpiece of film?  In the next fifty years I believe you'll be hearing the names Clark Gabel, Sean Connery, Carry Grant, Robert DeNiro, and Ashton Kutcher all in the same grouping.  The film is about two boys, who, when high misplace their automobile, and upon waking up, have to retrace their swirving steps back to the land of pink elephants and talking ostriches.  But it is so much more than just that.  It is both a symbol of Adam retracing his steps back to Eden, as well as the two boys' journey in search of their own souls.  What they find is more than thier girlfriends' breasts expanding.  What they find, is the foundation on finding find itself!!  For the past two years, Ive sat yawning in theatres at bore-fests such as A Beautiful Mind, The Pianist, About Schmidt, and Road to Perdition.  Upon finding Dude, I once more regained my faith in the film industry.  This will join soon the giants of cinema  Jurrassic Park 3, The Adventures of Pluto Nash, Ishtar, and Waterworld.  Dude, where's a spectacular film?  Right here mama, right here. "},{"Title":"Shibby this is not Dude, where's my brain?","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, Where's My Car? (2000) Ashton Kutcher, Seann William Scott, Jennifer Garner, Marla Sokoloff, Kristy Swanson, David Herman, Hal Sparks, Charlie O' Connell, D Danny Leiner.Juvenile comedy about two pothead morons waking up in the morning with hangovers to find they misplaced their car and try to recap the wild events of the night before.Lowbrow and witless, with goofballs named Jesse and Chester, in the tradition of Bill and Ted, or Cheech and Chong, or Harry and Lloyd. Andy Dick and Brent Spiner appear unbilled. Followed by SERIOUSLY DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR?Running Time 83 minutes and rated PG-13 for language, drug content and sexual humor.RATING * ½ (out of ****)     "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's the laughs?","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Correct me if I am wrong, but this is a comedy, is it not? If so, why is it not funny.I cannot believe Ashton Kutcher has made a name for himself in movies. So far he is batting a big fat zero for the movies he has been in. Looks like another Freddie Prinze Jr. (Just how did Freddie become a star making the crap he does.)There is not much acting going on with either of the actors. I felt like I was watching another Bill and Ted movie, minus Keanu and Alex. The only difference being, Bill and Ted was a lot better than this poor excuse of a comedy.At least Ashton has done the right thing and refused to do a sequel unless it is star studded and directed by MArtin Scorsese, because going by this movie, it will be a cold day in hell before that ever happens. "},{"Title":"Stupid, but funny","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I can understand when you think this movie is total crap. I can also understand when you think this movie is pretty darn funny. I agree with the last opinion. With this movie, they don't make them more stupid than this, I had a great time. There are some really good laughs and the stupid things are so stupid I just had to smile.Again, there are probably more people who will not enjoy this at all, especially when you have reached a certain age, but if you allow yourself to not think too much you can enjoy it very much. Seann William Scott (Stiftler from 'American Pie') and Ashton Kutcher (Punk'd) are hilarious. "},{"Title":"Need to be in a mood for light hearted fun.","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The movie was a bit lame. However, it is worth seeing once, especially if you are in the mood for some very light hearted and sometimes silly, sometimes stupid jokes. Pleasantly surprised with the lack of swearing for a teenager targetted movie. When it started I thought, I dont think I can sit here and watch all of this, but surprisingly I did. Parents be warned, there are some scenes that though meant to be funny, do contain homosexual and transvestite style scenes/references (no nudity) and they are meant in a comical context, but as such, May not be suitable for your younger kids.Overall, a bit of a fun movie. "}{"Title":"Dude, Where the comedy?","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Jesse (Ashton Kutcher) and Chester (Seann William Scott) are a couple of hard partyers who wake up after a very long night on the town to discover they've forgotten the gifts they bought for their girlfriends Wanda (Jennifer Garner) and Wilma (Marla Sokoloff). The gifts are in Jesse's car, but they are not too sure on the details of the previous 24 hours that they have no idea where they parked Jesse's car. Jesse and Chester set out to find the car and along the way they discover that they had an even more eventful evening than they thought. Ashton Kutcher and Sean William Scott (AKA Stifler from American Pie) are perfect as the dumbfounded stoners. Dude, Where My Car? wasn't as funny as I hoped it would be, but still has some funny moments, view at own risk. "},{"Title":"doling out the invectives to critics","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The problem, not just a, but THE problem with almost every single criticism this film has endured, is that they never show where the film is wrong. The critics of Dude...? cannot pinpoint what is wrong, and other go-betweens feel stupid or embarrassed for having laughed at this film.  Personally, I think this film would have made Charlie Chaplin laugh himself silly.  It's nonsensical, it's filled with drug-humor (this taboo alone doomed the film to cult status at best within the American audience) ... The reason this film is so denegrated by critics reflects (remarkably) its inverse Schindler's List.  Both of these films escape the truly critical eye for the viewer's guilt  with Schindler's List the viewer is either genuinely sympathetic or guilted into lauding it as a 'cultural event' while the viewer of Dude...? genuinely laughs in sympathy for similar situations, but is guilted into recognizing the stigma of drugs within polite society.Both films have niche target audiences, but whereas the former is capable of transcending its target audience by guilting humanity into sympathy for a dramatized crime against humanity (i.e. if you cannot understand this you are inhuman), the latter is criticized for an equally accurate portrayal of two stoners in California whose lives are just plain weird.Examine your perspectives before criticizing something as bad.  This film is funny and weird.  I have no idea how to rate it--it is worth watching at least once.  Furthermore--as confusing and less-interesting as an Igmar Bergman film is with alcohol, this film is all the funnier and involving for that consumption.  Enjoy.-Xnoybis "},{"Title":"Dude.","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Any way you slice it, DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR? is not a good movie. Not by any means. In fact, I would even say it's terrible. But there are some moments of humor that make it almost worthwhile.Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott are perfect for the roles of two stoners, Jesse and Chester, who wake up one morning and have no idea what they did the previous night. They have a lifetime supply of pudding, their girlfriends are p*ssed, they have a transsexual stripper asking them what happened to a suitcase full of money, and they have several groups of people asking them about the Continuum Transfunctioner, an object that is somehow a link to the universe. They must have been pretty wasted.Alright, so the movie is terrible. I'll admit. And while the humor is stupid, it's still pretty funny. After you see it once or twice though, it's not very interesting. 4 out of 10 for the humor alone. "},{"Title":"one priceless scene","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie, Dude, Where's My Car should not at all be confused with, say, Dr. Strangelove or even The Naked Gun. In spite of the scene where the dudes encounter the ostriches (with their known brain capacity) there's not much going on here. This is not to be taken seriously. If they are making a sequel to this, they have much to improve on. "},{"Title":"Sweet Movie","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great funny little film. I saw it and my butt off, but go in with low expectations and you will love it too. I for one can not wait for part 2. Dude what does mine say? Sweet. There are a few classic moments that should have a greatest hits reel some where. "},{"Title":"Sweeeet, Duude!","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"       Whoever walked in the movie theatre and expected an Oscar-Winning comedy, should get their heads checked..  Do you guys not even look at the movie posters or DVD cover when you watch a movie at a movie theatre or buy a DVD? Those of you who actually do would've known early on to check your brain out at the door, and just sit back and relax and have a couple of laughs and good times with your friends...  I mean isn't that what movie-going is about anyways?     As for the movie itself, when I saw this movie at the movie theaters a couple of years ago, I did look at movie poster, and I did check my brain out the door and had a blast watching it with a couple of friends.  THAT is what moviegoing is about and this movie provided it for me..  I liked it so much that I will get it on DVD the next time I go to the video store and YES, I also look at DVD covers before I buy my DVD's...  Thanks!! "},{"Title":"waste of time and money.","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I love comedies, even ones that are supposed to be stupid funny, but this movie is pathetic.  No one over the age of 16 should find this movie funny, but everyone has their own tastes i guess.  There is a 2 minute scene where all they say is dude where's your car? Where's my car dude?.  How is that funny?  If you want humor that a 12 year old can write, go see this movie, freddie got fingered, and kung pow.  If you want hillarious comedy that has little meaning, go see old school, dumb and dumber, something about mary, or jay and silent bob strike back, those are comedies. "},{"Title":"the best film in the universe","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  i cannot believe some people out there think that this film is not good! Do you need glasses? The film is absolutely ace the storyline can get tedious at times but the humour. oh the humor is fantastic the voicebox at chinese foooooooood takeaway is the best and the What does mine say what a gag. oh and the continuum transfunctioner is real but only 3 crystals are flashing what should i do?  "},{"Title":"lame excuse for a comedy","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Mind-numbingly stupid comedy which takes an already ridiculous story idea and only makes it worse by padding it into a full-length movie. Scott and Kutcher star as two bumbling, dimwitted stoners who have a wild night out on the town. Unfortunately, they get so wasted that when they wake up the next morning they have no recollection of what happened or where they parked their car. Even worse, their girlfriends are unhappy with them, they owe people they've never met money, and they're the only hope for finding a scientific gizmo that could save the world. Dreadful, brainless film is unpleasant, desperately protracted, and excruciatingly unfunny. It's like watching a live-action version of Beavis and Butt-Head but without the wit or amusement. * "},{"Title":"Stupid And Funny. Funny And Stupid (POSSIBLE SPOILERS).","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I've always heard how bad this movie was when it first came out and was expecting the worst when I finally decided to watch it on cable when there was nothing else on the other 299 channels. While it won't win any critic's awards I laughed my butt off from beginning to end. Everything from stoner dogs to hot alien chicks to weird speaker boxes gets the royal treatment here. Ashton Kutcher (THAT 70'S SHOW) and Seann William Scott (AMERICAN PIE) bring a certain goofy charm to their roles. Cheech & Chong would've felt right at home in these roles back in the '70's. So if you're in the mood for a good stupid, funny comedy rent this (along with POOTIE TANG as a possible double feature) or catch when it airs again on cable.  "}{"Title":"Shibby!","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  (Spoilers) I decided to watch this film one night on Movie Max, and i thought it'd be the same, puke, knobs, tits, booze, drugs kind of humor, and it is.....sort of.This is hilarious, 2 hungover guys try to find there car after being given the Continuem Transfunctioner and get wasted, of course it's not that easy, there journey is littered with chinese taylors, hot space chicks, super hot giant aliens, twins, and a repetitive chinese drive through speaker box.Ah yes, the best scene, after going to a chinese drive through, the speaker box keeps saying and then and drives hm to shattering the speaker box, classic.See This Film, NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Bad Story, Funny Movie","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw this at the cinema, I laughed quite a bit.  Yet I realized then that this was one of the worst stories I had ever heard in my life.  I knew this wasn't a very good movie overall.  Oh well!  The actors and some of the funny scenes in this movie make up for the bad story.  The story being so ridiculous is funny in itself.  I can't bring myself to dislike this movie too much.  Wouldn't recommend it to an older crowd, though. "},{"Title":"No spoilers","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, Where's My Car is a good film, not as funny as American Pie, and not something special to go and get but if it is on and you are a teen comedy fan you should definitely watch it I thought this film was going to be like American Pie, but it take bizzare and gives it a twist. do not watch this if you like realism in your films but for someone who just wants a laugh this is the film for you "},{"Title":"And then???","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I've just bought that movie a couple of weeks and I feel that I didn't waste my money.2 dumb young guys woke up a morning and and every things seemed strange to them they have lost their car with the birthday present's for their girlfriends inside, a transsexual stripper who reclaim his money, some strange people like a Zoltan club, 2 strong alien and 5 sexy aliens-girls in jumpsuit asking them the continuum transfunctionner that they don't even know...You should enjoy this movie with all of your pals and you guys are gonna have a big laugh with the And then-gag or What does my tatoo say?-gag!!!!  "},{"Title":"Do not answer the question.","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This film is going to go down in history as that film, and it's not a good thing. That film is defined as something so bad it has to be seen. I must admit, I am a fan of juvenile humor, as long as it's smart in its own pathetic way (Dumb & Dumber, a classic).I had heard about this film and heard both yin and yang about it. As curious as I was condescending, I picked it up on DVD. I was ashamed to pay for it at the check out, but hey...Basically, the story is self-explanatory in its title. Did I laugh? Maybe twice. But that's not good enough. Two laughs is like watching a drama or Mrs. Doubtfire. But this film had two things going for it The stoned dog and the Chinese Takeout piece. That's it. My main beef isn't with the actors, but the director and the script. The director couldn't keep this film rolling as I counted down the minutes on my dvd player. The script was horrendous. I mean, shame on Fox for putting up even a million dollars for this junk. The script meandered from one stupid set piece to the next. It wasn't even structured in the comedy sense! The whole movie felt like an after thought. Let's just put this in, since we can't think of anything else to do... I'm happy Jennifer Garner climbed her way out of this piece of trash. But for those who are curious about that film, don't touch. Please. Go rent a Charlie Sheen movie. You'll get more laughs there. "},{"Title":"A Poor Man's Cheech and Chong?","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  They are the Cheech and Chong of the new millennium, well maybe I am exaggerating a little, but they are all we have to work with. This movie is a cult hit. If you like Ashton Kutcher in That 70's Show and you like Sean William Scott in the American Pie franchise then you will like this movie. This movie is for people, like myself, who love corny dumb humor.It's not a movie that deserves awards but it will keep you entertained. If you don't find it funny then you need to get a sense of humor.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Funny!","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  For all those people who trashed this movie,What were you expecting, an Oscar-worthy film? I saw it for the second time last night and I still think it's pretty funny in a very goofy kind of way. It sort of reminded me of Dumb and Dumber, a movie people seem to love or hate. It's the completely inane story of a couple of horny potheads who wake up after partying and try to put together the events of the night before, with alot of surprises along the way. Just relax and enjoy the stupidity.  "},{"Title":"TWO THUMBS WAY DOWN!!!","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I saw the commercials for this movie and thought, I'd rather watch paint dry and peel off than waste my money on a piece of s&@! like this. The writing is terrible, the acting was lousy and if most people's idea of a comedy is an hour and a half of sheer stupidity, this is the movie for them. And if you like movies that are so awful that they make Anna Nicole Smith look like a Harvard valedictorian, you'll love Varsity Blues, The Jackass Movie and any movie with Tom Green. By the way, my worst nightmare has come true THERE'S GONNA BE A SEQUEL TO THIS ATROCITY IN 2004! IF YOU'RE SMART, WHATEVER YOU DO, SAVE YOUR MONEY! AND YOUR INTELLIGENCE! DON'T SEE IT, FOR THE LOVE OF GOD!!! "},{"Title":"Super funny movie, for funny people","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Many people didn't appreciate the movie, and the ratings from the media were also not very high.  But I personally enjoyed it, enough to buy the dvd I guess... No it's not going to win any Oscars or awards, and something tells me that the makers weren't trying to.  If you're a viewer who doesn't watch many movies, and is a super critic... then I don't recommend this movie, but if you're reasonably goofy, and for lack of a better term high on life... possibly on other things too.  Then you'll laugh at this movie. Definately not for the senile movie critics.  Actually geared more for the generation that uses the term Dude.  "},{"Title":"if you think this movie sucks...","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" ...you haven't seen the masterpiece of all cinematic comedy suckageFreddy Got Fingered.By comparison, DWMC is a breezy summer stroll not much substance, but fun enough while it lasts.You all need to lighten up.  Better yet, watch (as much as you can stand of) Freddy Got Fingered.  Then come back and apologize to DWMC. -)Dude, what's mine say?Sweet!  What's mine say?Heheheheh. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as expected","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I refrained from seeing this movie ever since it came out. From the trailer, I expected yet another lame teenager flick capitalizing on sex and drugs to put dumbasses in the seats. I finally caved in and rented it on a recent night when practically nothing else of interest was available that I hadn't seen already.First, let's get this out of the way, yes, the movie is stupid. The humor centers around the leads' getting thrown from sticky situation to even stickier situations, without comprehending what (and why) things are happening to them. And the acting on the two leads is beyond horrible. You can always see through their act, and can tell they're not being natural (and it's not like acting like a pothead takes skill).But other than that, it was a happy surprise. The movie is actually very clean, despite the PG-13 rating. I mean, that's what Bring It On got, and that movie's full of negative values, rides on sex and the typical popularity is the most important thing message, and even has worse humor than this one, and yet it has a higher score on IMDB. Go figure. Anyway, like I said it's very clean. There's no gratuitous sex, and not even any drugs consumptions (the pothead acting is because supposedly the leads got high the night before the movie begins), and said leads are (a surprise in teenage movies) nice, polite, and even respectful of other people.If you're like me and have been avoiding this movie for similar reasons, seriously give it a try. It's NOT as bad as they make it out to be, and the huge difference in characters compared to other teenage movies is a breath of fresh air. "},{"Title":"Oh...","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Well, I am SO glad I watched this on HBO instead of paying for it in the theaters or video store.  The movie has some points, but, if you want to make it a worthwhile movie, I suggest that you become what the main characters are called...stoners.2/10 "},{"Title":"Seriously, this (movie) stinks.","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I happened to see this so called comedy on TV and didn't have any great expectations about it. In fact, I just wanted to see how bad it was, and jeez was it bad. Even for a gross out comedy this must be a real stinker. The plot is non-existing and the whole film consists of a series of funny setpieces. The fact that none of the scenes seem to connect with another was obviously not a problem for the filmmakers. The jokes are extremely lame and it feels like they've taken jokes that were rejected from other films and glued them together to make a film. You can tell that it's a low budget film and everyone involved appears to do their worse. It's desperately unfunny and disturbing to see thirtysomethings Scott and Kutcher act like stoned teenagers. Probably, the film is aimed at teenage boys, because the absurd amount of women degrading material in it would likely have females heading for the exit or eject button.That a sequel is on its way is just another sign that the American film industry has some serious creative and artistic problems. "},{"Title":"What a movie!","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Well,this is one movie I watch often and often,know what?my girlfriend brought home this video the day I wasn't in my best of moods and within fifteen minutes of watching the video I was laughing like hyena,this film performs magic whenever am down,so each time my girlfriend sees am not in my right moods she will sayhey dude,where's my car?the film might look stupid but its stupidity performs magic to the heart,it performs a surgical operation in the heart(causes you to laugh anytime you remember some scenes no matter how annoyed you might have been)I recommend this movie to anyone that wants to relax his or her mine. "},{"Title":"Shibby!","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't know that this teen comedy had a sci-fi element in it until I read about it on IMDB.  Then, I watched the film, and I have to say that it was brilliant! Granted, it is rather dumb, which I guess is why a lot of people on this site didn't like it.  But I like a good dumb movie once in a while, which is why I liked this one.SPOILER WARNINGS Jesse and Chester are two slacker room-mates who wake up after a party with no memory of what happened the night before.  A message from their angry girlfriends,  the Twins, informs them that they trashed the girls' house the night before and that today is their anniversary.  The boys are glad that they remembered to buy them gifts the night before. But the gifts are in their car, and their car is now missing!So, our heroes try to find out exactly what they did the night before.  As they go through the day, they get mixed up with your typical teen movie characters the angry boss, the sexiest girl in town, the jock bully etc. Then things start to turn weird, first of all when they found out that they absconded with $200,000 which belongs to a ticked-off transexual stripper. Then, the sci-fi element kicks in as the boys discover various parties looking for a device called the Continuum Transfunctioner which they apparently got hold of the night before.  These parties include a cult of nerds (most of whom have names beginning with Z), a group of jumpsuit-clad 'hot chicks' who offer erotic pleasure in return for the device, and a couple of blond-haired Nordic gentlemen.  Confused? I don't blame you.The film is ultimately very funny.  There are a couple of groan-inducing moments, such as a scene with male model Fabio.  There are also a couple of cute touches (the Transfunctioner turns out to be disguised as a Rubik's cube).  The performances of Ashton Kutcher and seann William Scott as Jesse and Chester are very good. They're both dumb as hell but likeable.  The other characters are okay as well, but not really developed.  The characters get a lot of strange lines as well eg when the jumpsuit chicks, who turn out to be evil, metamorphose into a giant woman, one of the Nordic guys says 'we will now use the power of the Continuum Transfunctioner to banish you to Hoboken, New Jersey!'.  What's so bad about New Jersey?  Anyways, I recommend this picture to any teen movie fan.  It's a laugh a minute. "},{"Title":"What the hell was that?","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Oh, my God!  What a stupid ass movie!  It tried so hard to be funny, but it failed 10x.  I was SO disapointed when I saw this.  I thought it was going to be funny as hell.  Sure, it had a few laughs...but it was just plain bad!  And the worse part, there's going to be a sequal?  I would save my money if I were you.  I give it F "},{"Title":"And THEN...?","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  WARNING Spoilers ahead.I've seen all sorts of comedies. I've seen comedies which pretended to be dumb, comedies which WERE dumb, comedies that were so dumb they were smart and comedies so dumb that they were unentertaining.Everybody knows that this film, which was a critical disaster, was practically run out of town before anyone could give it a chance. I mean hey, did it really have much of a chance anyway when up against The Grinch and The Emperor's New Groove? And it was out in theatres for, what, a few days? A week? Not sure, can't remember...So my 15-year-old sister and I decided to rent it on a lark out of curiosity after a night of enjoying various back-to-back epidoes of our favourite current sitcom, That '70s Show.And THEN...?Well anyway, the first thing you should know about Dude, Where's My Car? is that it's one of those movies that is attempting to find a niche with other such numbskull buddy movies as the Bill and Ted titles and Wayne's World. The second thing you should know is that it's nowhere near as horrible as critics have led everyone to believe.While it isn't a big budget let's pull out all the stops!!! thrillride comedy like Bill and Ted (it's much more laidback than that), it isn't as lousy as, say, Mars Attacks!, Elvira or Police Academy--and it is CERTAINLY NOWHERE NEAR as godawful lousy as the atrocious Wayne's World flicks, two movies which I found less preferable to being dragged over carpet tacks and covered in salt. This one is slightly less big budget than the first Bill and Ted title but not quite as low budget as Attack Of The Killer Tomatoes, if that helps you get the idea.And THEN...?Well, while watching the opening credits I then did find myself smirking while going HUH? in a dazed sort of way, as I realized just how kooky this movie wanted to be. And as it continued for the first few minutes, my jaw kept dropping as the details of the famous unremembered party from the previous evening for our two heroes piled on. Ashton Kutcher plays a sort of zonked-out version of his popular role from '70s, while Seann William Scott (who I'm not familiar with, but I understand he was in American Pie) gives off facial expressions that remind me of a mellowed-out, toned down Jim Carrey... which I serious believe was the hoped-for effect he was going for here. And he pulled it off.And THEN...?Well, then I was taken through the various gags. I can't say I laughed a LOT at the entire film, but I did smile and smirk a lot. Oh yes, and the movie does have quite a few chuckles and even a couple of hearty guffaws.The Chinese Foooood bit is very funny, especially since it's so easily relatable by anybody out there (even fast food workers on their day off!), as well as the whole tattoo bit.And THEN...?Well, then I noticed that this movie is actually a lot cleaner than other likeminded movies of the same rating (PG-13). Sure, it has innuendos and all, but it doesn't have any actual toilet humour in it that I can recall. The only parts that might raise eyebrows are gags involving a crossdressing hooker and Fabio.And THEN...?And then I noticed little routines I thought unnecessary. That routine with the blind boys was uncalled for, and the dog wasn't particularly funny, either. Fortunately, there weren't too many of those. But that scene with the longhaired, bearded wacko in the cage made me roll my eyes with impatience, especially since he was so annoying that he made that bit seem longer than it actually was.And THEN...?Well, by the time I got to the ending I had actually had quite a fun time watching all this silliness. While I was expecting a bigger ending (no pun intended!!!) from this movie along the lines of the Bill and Ted films, it was still a silly enough ending to leave me feeling satisfied. My sister loved it, by the way--right from the moment it started. I don't know if that means anything significant or not.And THEN...? ...and then I came to the conclusion after the goofy final credits that Dude, Where's My Car? is actually a quite entertaining failure, rather than the piece of dreck you'd expect it to be. And it looks like we're about to get more according to the IMDb listings, there's a sequel called Seriously Dude, Where's My Car? apparently scheduled for sometime in 2004. And, no doubt, we'll hear a certain fast food talk box squawk on forever in that one, too.And THEN...?This movie would work great for popcorn fun on a Saturday night, and with the right audience it could really become a campy hoot. And I, for one, am glad to have seen it. It's been a long time since we've gotten this sort of comedy without tons of toilet humour inserted all over the place, so this one was a relief. Give it a try sometime for a lark.And then and then and then and then...? "},{"Title":"Dude, where are the laughs?","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is absolutely terrible. There is one funny scene in the whole movie. But I laughed when I saw the preview. Which is the bad part. Only the funny parts are in the trailer. Wanna see the movie? Download clips or the trailer. Laugh as hard as you can, for the rest of the movie sucks.ok, so maybe I'm being a little harsh. You've got to give it credit for trying to be funny, yet it fails so terribly by wasting everything on a trailer. Overall grade D-  "},{"Title":"Some Laughs","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Well I saw this and laughed quite a bit, but it really was a bad movie overall.  I wouldn't go so far as to say this is the worst movie I've seen, but I could understand if others said such a thing.  Good thing it had some known actors in it, or else it would have been totally worthless.  Really, there's just a few great jokes in it that you will take away.  If you watch the previews, I'm sure you'll hear all of them.  These actors are funny just to look at, but that's not enough.  This deserves one viewing, but if you don't finish it, that's okay.  You won't miss much. "},{"Title":"This is not quite Citizen Kane...","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Two deadbeats wake up from a hard night and wonder what they are did with their car.Completely bonkers comedy that plays like a low budget version of Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. The jokes that follow are so desperate that you laugh at the idea of someone actually writing them down and demanding money for them  Blind kids playing baseball - what could happen now? Looking up the skirts of  women! Funny homosexuals!  Running oral sex references! Cults in bubble wrap clothing!Too many jokes for them all to be bad, my favourite woow - morphing is cool!The best joke is that they are going to make a sequel - probably using some of the comedy that didn't quite make the grade this time around!  "}{"Title":"great","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  i love this movie, take it for what its worth, everyone whos crying like a baby here about how it wasnt of oscar caliber or the plot wasnt strong needs to get a life, what did you expect?its very funny  "},{"Title":"Sweet!","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The legacy of Bill S. Preston, Esq. and Ted Theodore Logan continues to show itself in Dude, Where's My Car? The Oscar nominations came out while this very silly but frequently funny movie was in UK cinemas, leading Twentieth Century Fox to put out posters proclaiming it Nominated For No Academy Awards and with the title changed to Dude, Where's My Os-Car? Not that it deserves any, but it's not in line for any Razzies either.Less crude than Seann William Scott's Road Trip but just as funny, he and Ashton Kutcher (redoing Kelso from That '70s Show, which also generated this movie's writer Philip Stark) play a pair of stoner friends who make Father Dougal from Father Ted seem like a candidiate for MENSA; they wake up to find their fridge filled with pudding, angry messages on their answering machine from their twin girlfriends, and a missing car. Their quest to find it can be described as many things, predictable not being one of them - in fact, the movie gleefully tosses all credibility to the four winds and hasn't got a single intellectual bone in its body, not even bothering to dwell too long on what experts in the field call the mushy stuff; the movie simply wants to make you laugh, and does.Putting aside a slight energy flag in the middle and some questionable gags (I have no problem with a blind boy having a feel off the leader of the five jumpsuited women pursuing our heroes... don't ask... but our heroes getting run over by people they're trying to pick up rides from is another matter) Dude, Where's My Car? is a stupid comedy that knows it's a stupid comedy and is all the better for it. A lot of people hate it, but just imagine how much worse it would be if it had starred Pauly Shore; now that would have been torture. This film has everything for the guy who simply wants to switch his brain off and relax; two likeable leads, an undemanding plot, a stream of off-the-wall moments, an economy-sized running time, the sight of Kristy the original Buffy Swanson and Jennifer her off Alias Garner, plus Playmate of the Year Jodi Ann Paterson running amok in the climax. What more could you want? Plus, any movie whose song credits include Playmate of the Year, Claire Danes Poster and I'm Afraid Of Britney Spears can't be bad. And then? "},{"Title":"Neatish experiment that doesn't quite hit the spot","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  First things first - who is this film aimed at? I'd say fans of Porky's, Animal House and American Pie (a veteran of which plays Chester here) looking for the same kind of testosterone-happy, slobbish teen humour. And the film doesn't quite pull it off. That doesn't mean to say it's a bad piece. The sheer ludicrous nature of the comedy makes it cheerful and refreshing, and the disingenuous leads make for some madcap foolishness that mixes American teen comedy with elements of old-style black-and-white farce - the 'taking out the rubbish' scene with the dropped bottle top does this beautifully. There is also a touch of the detatched, Austin Powers style, and anyone who liked Mike Myers' work would probably get most out of 'Dude, Where's My Car?'. Like I said, though, it doesn't quite make the grade of 'Porky's', etc, for a few reasons. The calamitous side of the film doesn't quite come off because of our lack of interest in the characters. In 'American Pie', for example, there is an agonising build-up to each of Biggs' misfortunes which the audience are really sucked into. Chester and Jesse in 'Dude', though, are not built up as individuals in the slightest. Now you may say quite rightly that this is hardly the film that needs deep depictions of the thought process of each character, but making the parts completely two-dimensional is a mistake. The set-piece gags still work, but for the film as a whole to be engaging and slick, not only does it need a more flowing, dynamic script, but we need to have just that tiny iota of character detail to keep us truly entertained as well as simply content, even if it is totally puerile stuff we're looking for in general. And about that script. Again, some of the set-pieces are great, and it's a matter of fact that the script's not predictable in the slightest, but it still alienates occasionally. The 'and then' Chinese restuarant and the 'Dude/Sweet' tattoo scenes just wound me up. Comedy of this sort needs to be more quickfire, and not fall into the Austin Powers trap of laughing at its own jokes, as this film seems to do too often. Basically, this film aims for a niche audience, and doesn't hit it. The movie doesn't have drama, tension, depth or anything remotely sophisticated, but that doesn't matter in itself - what matters is that 'Dude, Where's My Car?' is just that tiny bit too shallow, too indifferent and too insipid to provide the laugh-fest that a premise like this (and it is a very nifty idea for a film) should produce. Of course, this doesn't make it unwatchable. If you want something to engage you, don't watch it. If you want some really great comedy, don't watch it. If you disapprove of the smutty filth that's on TV today, don't watch it (and also get a life). If you want something deep and meaningful, don't watch it. If you've got a brain cell dying to be used, don't watch it. Watch it if you've got a pizza to eat and some beer to drink, most of which you will later fling around the room like the free spirit you are. Above all, watch it without any great expectations, just being prepared to take the laughs as it comes. Not a bad shot from the interesting work-out-what-happened-as-you-go angle. Guaranteed to entertain people whose parents wouldn't approve of them seeing it, and also anyone who likes stoner jokes. "},{"Title":"Funniest Sci-fi ever!","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Right two irresponsible pizza delivering potheads Chester and Jesse wake up but can't remember anything about the night before. They encounter their girlfriends who are angry because Chester and Jesse trashed their house. They can't find their car and they set out to find it but they went to the places they went to last night and they encounter a transexual stripper looking for a suitcase of money that they have, a cult of nerds looking for the continual transfunctioner, two nordic people also looking for the continual transfunctioner and alien women looking for the continual transfunctioner.There are loads of funny jokes and this is well worth seeing. Whoever doesn't like this doesn't have a sense of humour. "},{"Title":"Bill and Ted meet Howard the Duck","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw this on HBO and it is the most moronic movie I've seen lately but has to be one of the funniest as well. Ashton Kutcher and Sean William Scott are hilarious together. They make a perfect Bill and Ted of the modern day. The rest of the cast is good as well.The plot of the movie itself is more like Howard the Duck where you don't know where the thing is going. But if you enjoy ridiculous movies with no redeeming qualities then you'll love this one. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's Your Plot?","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen this movie and I think it's retarded. The plot is stupid and thin and it's so easy to figure out what happens in the end. I'm not going to spoil for you people who haven't seen it. I think the actors who played the potheads should have their heads checked out. The producers are creating a sequal called Seriously Dude Where's My Car?. That is so stupid. If the first one was crummy, the second one will be really crummy. Generally speaking, a sequal doesn't do as well as the first movie, except the case of The Godfather Part II. Of course Dude Where's My Car cannot be compared to The Godfather Part II. The two movies are entirely different. If you want to see a movie with little plot and with stupid jokes watch this move, but if you want to see a better movie, I'd suggest seeing something else.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as it seems","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  When I first say this film, I didn't think it was funny. But when I say it again on TV, it was pritty funny. I guess when I was in the theatre that day, I was tired. The movie was funny because it was about two stupid guys who can't do anything right, and the jokes are so stupid they become funny after a while. I'm actually looking forward to seeing the second one in 2004, just for a nice laugh. I give this movie a C+ "},{"Title":"come on","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  If you're going to see a movie with a title like, Dude, Where's My Car? with the expectation of intelligent humour, then don't whine at the loss of your five quid.  This is the stupidest movie I have ever seen and TWO people dragged me to it, on separate occasions.  I had the worst expectations for it (I'm the kind of person who gets a kick out of reading subtitles for three hours), but once I got the stick out of my arse I had a great time. Go see it expecting a wandering plot, stupid jokes, and a hint of sexism, and you'll laugh until you cry. "},{"Title":"This movie gave me a head-ache","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I went into viewing this film thinking it would have a couple of laughs, primarily stupid toilet humor. I was wrong. Instead, this tripe of a picture, which tries to be funny, actually made me feel sick. I did not laugh once, nor did I even crack a smile. This film was so awful, my friends and I couldn't even try to make fun of it while watching it. It was like we were memorized by the shear stupidity and boringness of the film. One friend, who remains anonymous, passed out and was technically dead for 90 seconds. And you want to know the worst part about this is? They are wasting ACTUAL money to produce a sequel!!! Right now, I feel by typing this much, I have wasted thought on this nightmare. I will go now and will never speak of this film again. My score -5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I luved this movie","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I read all these comments about people totally putting down this movie, but personally, I loved it. It was a hilarious comedy!!! Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott were extremely funnie in this movie. A comedy about two lovable goofballs, what's not to love?? I totally agree with Kim Novak who posted another comment who loved this movie also. Rent this movie today and have a great laugh!!! P.S. Ashton Kutcher is HOTT!!!!!! "}{"Title":"I love this film!","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This made me laugh so much!  Now the reason I rented this was because Seann William Scott was in it and I found him really funny in Road Trip and he dosent dissapoint in DUDE either.  Also Ashton Kutcher is very funny too. Im a big fan of THAT 70s SHOW.  I think it could have been a little longer but apart from the length its rib bursting action to the very end!  Now I dont give a crap what the critics say this is supposed to be a comedy and it succeeds so give the film a break, OK.  I cant see them making a sequel but hopefully AMERICAN PIE 3 will be good (it needs to have Stifler in it though!) 7 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"Shibbie","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Unbelievable this film is unique in its sort. Typical humor played by two great guys who are shibbie as hell. In other words great movie! It doesn't happen too much that I see a film twice in 12 hours, but I did. This movie is on the best in his sort. Thanks for making me laugh... and then? I'm talking about the whole thing! And then? I thought it was your friend! And then? We will give you erotic pleasure! And then? They haven't been outside! And then.. "},{"Title":"Wasn't it supposed to be funny????","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This film is simply NOT funny. Not funny at all. Stupid gross out humour has gone way too far and we need to get back to real comedy. But Americans are easily brainwashed into watching this garbage so Hollywood will make more dumb unfunny comedies. The only good thing is seeing the gorgeous Jennifer Garner gagged with bubblewrap. "},{"Title":"Like going to the dentist...","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I can sum up this movie in a brief sentence,it is like going to the dentist and having your teeth drilled with no anesthesia!I dont know what possessed FOX to release this movie let alone FINANCE this piece of $&%^?!I rented it last night and I found it to be the most annoying movie I have ever seen.What really got me is how they take a joke,which was hardly funny anyways,and stretch it into a 5 minute scene.An example,when they go to the drivethru at the CHINESE FOOOOOD restaurant and the endless banter between Ashton and the ordering box,it made me want to throw the TV out the window!There are too many jokes like this that make up the movie and go nowhere.You probably have to be stoned to watch this crap! I love Ashton Kutcher on the 70's Show and Seann William Scott as Stifler in the American Pie movies but this is no American Pie or American Pie 2,not even close.If this is what teens of today find funny(im 29)then the film world is in BIG trouble.Oh well ,I guess if you enjoy this type of dribble then you should watch it but if you want real laughs watch Something About Mary or Dumb and Dumber because those were funny! (I feel sorry for anyone who paid to see it at a movie theater) "},{"Title":"One of the worst films ever made","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen many bad filsm in my lifetime that were meant to be funny but simply fell flat on their faces. Mafia was undoubtedly one of the worst motion pictures ever made in this genre until Dude Where's My Car came along - a film that is so painfully unfunny, only pre-pubescent boys or those on heavy medication might actually find anything in it even moderately funny. The jokes are amazingly bland and, trying to laugh, I barely found myself cracking more than a half-assed smile - which was aimed at the film's atrocious plot more than the jokes. If you value your mind and time, avoid this terrible film at all costs. I love comedies and this one was simply the lowest of the low. One of the very worst films ever made. "},{"Title":"Stupid, Yet Funny","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen many dumb comedies in my lifetime.  From Airplane to American Pie critics have panned most and raved about a very selected few.  While many dumb comedies try to be appreciated by both critics and fans, and while many try to incorporate a message into them,  Dude Wheres My Car tries to none of these things.  While many people have expresed hatred for this extremly stupid film, it is stupid yet funny.  The gags and jokes are funny, and while dumb films can be supremely annoying (ie. Saving Silverman, Tomcats) the annoying aspect of Dude Wheres My Car work out for the better resultin in funny gags.  This film wears its stupidity on its sleeve, appartently just trying to appeal to the preteen/teen group of people who tend to appreciate the dumb, stupid, and brainless films, such as this one. Stupidity can work out in hilarity ad Seann William Scott and Ashton Kutcher, the films stoner stars, know this, acting stupid for the entire film, resulting in a set of hilarous gags worth seeing. For Adults F  For Teens B+ "},{"Title":"Silly fluff with really cute boyz","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Its mystery is only exceeded by its power. This movie is exactlywhat it sets out to be, a silly comedy with two extraordinarily cutestars having some wildly improbable adventures. It's very much inthe tradition of Bill and Ted. The jokes work well, the star dudesare seriously sweet, and it all comes together in a beautifullyexecuted piece of cinematic cotton candy. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Excellent Film","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Don't understand the low grades this film gets, as it will certainly become a classic comedy. It's funny from the beginning to the end, and while it has its share of slap-stick and sophomoric wit, it nonetheless stands out as a very clever movie. The music, sound effects, acting, and direction dovetail nicely. I thought it was a silly movie the first time I watched, but three more viewings has sold me on it. Try it again, and you will be surprised. No kidding! 8 out of 10. (And then...) "},{"Title":"Silly fluff with really cute boyz","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Its mystery is only exceeded by its power. This movie is exactlywhat it sets out to be, a silly comedy with two extraordinarily cutestars having some wildly improbable adventures. It's very much inthe tradition of Bill and Ted. The jokes work well, the star dudesare seriously sweet, and it all comes together in a beautifullyexecuted piece of cinematic cotton candy. "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  It was hilarious. I practically cried in some scenes it was so funny, especially the ostrich-llama scene.Ashton Kutcher and Sean William Scott completely cracked me up.They played their parts so well. This is one of my favourite movies of last year, in it's genre. "}{"Title":"Dude, I Actually Liked It","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  As much as everyone says this movie was horrible, they most not have seen Crossroads.  Anyway, this movie may not have been a big hit with those executive types, but with teenagers and stoners everywhere this movie hit the spot.  Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott played the perfect pair of stoners.  And I loved how they didn't know anything that was going on around them.  And my favorite scene dealt with the Chinese Foooooood, but you'll have to see the movie to understand what I'm talking about.  So the writing wasn't that great, but you know what, stoners don't talk all intellectual anyway. "},{"Title":"One of the best worst movies ever ;-)","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  First of all, why do some people always say Worst Movie ever ?? Methinks, those guys have kind of 10-50 worst movies ever...This is, as stated, obviously meant to be absurd, surreal and dumb. I really enjoyed the very original ideas. Before I saw it, I thought it to be brainless. Well, TRY to write this weird stuff yourself and you'll see it's not easy. Wayne's World and Dumb and Dumber were hilarious, so is this one. And if you liked all of them, try to get a copy of the German thriller-comedy Erkan & Stefan, which is similar to this one, although even better in terms of camera, acting and score.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Stupid, but Really Funny","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Before I saw this movie, I was worried that all the funny parts had been shown in the trailers. I was pleasantly surprised that the movie was packed with laughs and more creative than I thought possible. Even though the humor was probably primarily direct at teenage guys, it seemed to rely on a more intelligent form of comedy than the typical bathroom humor of Road Trip or American Pie. My take funnier than Road Trip, not as funny as American Pie. If you're a fan of those types of movies, don't miss out on Dude, Where's my Car? If not, you may still want to take a chance on it. "},{"Title":"STUPID MOVIE!","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was worse than I thought! It's trying to be funny al the time but I laughed(giggled) about two times. I would not recommand this! When you watch it you just want it to end. If you're a The '70's show fan you might think this movie is good, BUT IT AIN'T! I love That '70's show and this movie isn't half as good! DO NOT PAY TO SEE THIS, That my comment! "},{"Title":"I'll never order Chinese without laughing again...","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  DWMC? is an an under-rated silly film that delivers more laughs than most comedies. It simply follows two pot-heads thru the day as they encounter bizarre characters in the search for their car. Mark (Andy Dick ) and Pierre (Brent Spiner) were hilarious. People who criticize a movie like this really need to relax and lighten up. What did you expect from the title, dude?  "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Surprised","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this film. Last year, I refused to see it, expecting yet another of one of the recent teeny bopper films, where half the jokes revolve around sex and sexual descriptions. While this film DOES have a few jokes about people thinking about sex, they comprise of about 1/4 of the film. There are also no sex jokes. Instead there is a lot of original material, revolving around space aliens, chinese food drive throughs, ostrich farms, and how do I get the directions to where my car is from the DMV lady. It was actually highly enjoyable!  "},{"Title":"One of the Most Funny movies EVER!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is without a doubt in my mind one of the Funniest movies ever. Probably the 2nd, because Senior Trip is the best Comedy. I can not understand why this movie got dumped by the critics. I have only one logical explanation The critics MUST be over 60 years old. If a team of 30 Teenage Misfits were the judges on this movie, I'm sure we'd all getting one Free-of-Charge copy in the mail soon. It is important for one to know what to Expect from a Movie like Dude, Where's my Car?. I'll tell you, It's no Secret, You can first off Expect a lot of things that don't Make ANY bit of Sense. That's what makes this movie so Funny. Did you expect a Movie with a Title like Dude Where's my Car to live up to Gone With The Wind Standards; I Hope not.This Movie has to be the best recent comedies and should have been Critically reviewed by the Appropriate age Group. SEE THIS MOVIE!My Rating 10 OUT OF 10People who liked this movie might like Senior Trip, Road Trip, Dumb and Dumber, and Tommy Boy. "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's the fun?","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Could there be anymore uses of the word dude??With this fact, this has to be the ultimate dude movie. Its scatty plot, its references to women and drugs. The general plot consists of two dudes who wake up one morning to discover they have no idea of what happened the night before. They have no clue to where their car is and along their way to finding it, they find out what actually happened.The funniest scene in the whole film is when they are getting suited up after finding a suitcase of stolen money (which is being tracked down by a transexual stripper) and they notice they both have tattoo's on their back. One saying dude and the other sweet. Repeatedly asking each other what their's say, leading to them confusing each other thinking theyre just complimenting each other.The film consists of a thousand laughs and i will never get bored. A must see for all you fellow dudes. "},{"Title":"Grab your bong and enjoy!!!!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Yes this movie is stupid and yes it's bad but you have to admit ithas a certain charm. It's been on cable a lot lately and I kind of loveit now. And at least Tara Reid or Tom Green arent in it. Seriously,rent this movie if you feel like laughing. Or if you want to seeAshton Kutcher and Seann William Scott make out.  "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the critics. Make ur own mind up.","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This film is PHAT. Best recommended for a night in with your mates after a few beers. I think maybe a bit more directed at the male sense of humour, but then again, I liked it!!Have a rent of it, if ya don't like it, forget about it and move on, but Dude, this film is Sweet! (and that joke does not tire in my group of friends) "}{"Title":"Dude, Where's my Brain?","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Well, I will admit I was leery going into this film.  Yeah, it has all the elements a one big dumb studio film.  And it is...for the most part!  Slightly raunchy humor, toilet humor, sex jokes, a pot smoking dog, aliens, nerds, hot chicks, and the attack of the 50 foot hot babe!I can see where critics slammed this movie...but one this people don't see to realize with this kind of movie...you have to check your brain at the door!  I can't fully watch this film from start to finish with your brain still intact.  What fun is that?  Chester and Jesse remind us of character like Bud and Doley (Bio-Dome) Bill and Ted (Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure), and many other brain dead male duo's.  But this is okay...They really seem to have a serious friendship, and would die for the other!  Though, they are dim-witted and utterly metally retarded...they respect each other and are best friends...it shows in the performances! Kristy Swanson is totally wastes, however, in the silliness.  I don't even understand why she would have signed on for such a small part!  The other O'Connell brother is excellent as the jock bully!I mean, come on!  This movie is funny, silly, stupid, utter nonesense, hilarious and just a fantastic time for all.  Even if you think this movie is garbage...just remember it was not filmed to be an oscar winning movie...just fun!  8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This Movie Is A Masterpiece","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Unfortunately, it got such awful reviews, because people who went to see it were expecting something else. This is one of the most inventive and original comedies ever made, and in my opinion, it will be a classic. (!) There are three ways a movie can be funny. There's the laugh you get when you show the audience something SHOCKING (a boy and a pie). There's a laugh you get when you make people think of something else that's funny (Bill Clinton). And there's the genuine laugh from something new and original. The first two are cheap, and that's what everyone who went to see this movie expected. But they were disappointed. In Dude, where's my car?, _all_ the comedy is original, and inventive. There's no references, almost no parody (well, there's a subtle, clever, parody of Jurassic Park), and nothing very shocking at all. Still, this movie is insanely funny. There's even physical comedy! This movie, like Mel Brooks and Woody Allen's dumb comedies, is the product of a television writer who finally is allowed to unleash his creativity on the big screen after many years of being a joke-factory. The result are fantastic. Congratulations to all involved. Ron Maimon "},{"Title":"Not riotous but not horrible either","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has its moments.  They are few and far between, but its not torture.  The leads have a certain amount of charm and screen presence and I admired them for their willingness to look and act stupid a lot of the time.  I doubt that's easy for an actor.  There was one very striking scene - they pull up alongside Fabio and some chick on the highway, and both couples want to look the most hip (its been done before, once or twice...) so they are duplicating each others actions.  At the end of this routine, Fabio and the girl kiss, then the guys do!  Pretty amazing in a movie like this, and they didn't ride the car off a cliff afterwards!If you watch something like this expecting it to be life-affirming, or even great, then that's more your fault than anything.  Yes, its insulting in parts, and you might roll your eyes, but you're supposed to!5/10. "},{"Title":"Only one way to see this movie","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, so you sat down and figured you would watch a great masterpiece of the cinema, so you rent dude, where's my car?. Well, maybe not a masterpiece, but a very funny movie overall. I recommend seeing this movie for the first time, with a big bag of chips and a few cans of pop at your side, put yourself into an altered state, and laugh until your sides hurt. This is not a brilliant movie, nor should it ever be watched with that intent in mind. Sit back, shut off the brain, and have some fun!!! "},{"Title":"Shibby","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  At the right old age of 28, I actually enjoyed the movie.This movie to me is a combination of Wayne's World and Bill & Teds Adventures, yet it works. The plot in its self is bizare to the extreme, yet the Evil Space Gals gives this movie a bit of kick. When targeting a movie towards a young market it has to be simplistic and full of potty humor, and Dude Where's My Car? is no different.Just do your self a favor, leave your mind to the side and enjoy the movie.Shibby!!!PS the sound tracks rocks my world. "},{"Title":"Somehow this managed to tickle my funny bone","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Not the best movie in the world, but after a while these moronic characters actually managed to illicit a laugh. There are some nice moments. Overall I'd have to say that the ostriches were by far the best bit. "},{"Title":"Very funny at times","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a typical teenager comedy which will remind you a lot about the Beavis and Butthead type of humor.The movie is about jesse and Chester,played by Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott,which dont remember what they they did the day before,and therefor runs into a lot of problems,because it seems that they did all kinds of crazy stuff the day before.The movie consists of stupid humor and you really have to understand that kind of humor to really enjoy it. I enjoyed this movie a lot,and thought the humor was excellent and stupid. The two actors plays their roles really funny and really looks like two stupid potheads.I saw this movie on DVD and therefor got to see a lot extra,like the deleted scenes etc. After having watched the whole movie one time,I watched the movie a second time with the audio commentary by director Danny Leiner and actors Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott. This must bee one of the best audio comentaries ever,because those guys are really funny.I found myself laughing almost as much as under the original movie.They really explains how much work who lies behind this sort of movies.Like the kissing scene between Chester and Jesse.We also get to hear about what that did not make it into the movie. So the audio comentary is simply just those three guys sitting and joking through the whole movie while drinking a couple of bears.All in all this is a comedy which is not to be taken seriously and not to be thought of as anything else than a silly movie with stupid humor. I had a great time watching it.  "},{"Title":"It's hard to hate a movie that's SUPPOSED to be bad...","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie was strictly OK. It wasn't as funny as I had hoped. However, the performances by Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott are hilarious! And it has moments that will probably become legendary in the world of teen comedies. Here are some examplesAnd den...???!!! --- What's mine say? 'Sweet'! What's mine say? 'Dude'! What's mine say?All in all, if you have basically nothing else to do,  I think you should give this movie a shot. It's not for all tastes, but hey! What movie IS?My Grade C+/B-  "},{"Title":"The scandinavian guys =)","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I'm a Scandinavian guy myself, and I must say They got it just right! Hehe those scandinavian guys with despicable scandinavian accent. Totatlly hilarious. I dig this movie, it might be a bit on the light side (as many funny movies are), but so what I enjoy beeing entertained... "},{"Title":"A great laugh - for the non-serious of the world!","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  If you can say the word dude properly, then you'll love this film. Get in a few beers with your mates and just go with it, you'll find yourselves saying dude and sweet for ever after.. Yeah, you'll need a certain mentality, so no serious film critics should bother, but for the rest of the world GO FOR IT! "}{"Title":"Worst Movie of All Time","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This has got to be the absolute crappiest movie I have ever watched in my entire life. Not only the plot makes no sense whatsover, the jokes are done to death. Like the gag about ordering chinese food at the drive-in. How many freakin times can you say and then? The people behind the movie should be tared and feathered and paraded on the street. Man, just thinking about this movie kills my brain cells.   "},{"Title":"A Waste of Film and Time","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  First off, how anyone could compare some of the jokes to Monty Python-style ones, makes me feel ill. Monty Python were funny. Dude Where's My Car, TRIES to be funny and FAILS miserably. Sure, it may not be intended to be a riveting masterpiece, but still, if you're going to make a movie, at least TRY. The real point to this film was to simply rack in money at the box office, nothing more. No entertainment value in this movie whatsoever. In fact, while I was viewing it, I vomited in my mouth.Get a chimp on a typewriter, and make the star some cute guy. BOOM! you have a hit... When will the made-for-stupid-teen films cease spurting out of Hollywood's bowels? Do yourself a MASSIVE favor, and stay away from this film at all costs. "},{"Title":"ALL HAIL JEFF!","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Though the title isn't great and it's misleadingly entitled as a comedy, when there no laughs in the film whatsoever, i feel this movie still has a lot to offer the world of movies.  Not least in the form of 'Jeff' the greatest character to come out of the silver screen since Olivier's Hamlet. He gently manages to manipulate the movie away from the appalling plotline and onto his cowardly and nervous attempt to be accepted in a society as an equal human.  Rightfully does he get a subtitle informing us of his name, for he is the true star of the movie.  Witness- his joy as he plays the keyboard at Zoltan's arrival! his pain when he has his bubble suit rather unfairly burst! his final and most poignant kissing scene! I think we all know a future Hollywood star when we see one... even if he does have a silly name in real life. "},{"Title":"Brilliant dumb comedy","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I avoided this movie for months, thinking it would be awful.  I was so pleased when I finally watched it.  The plot is self-consciously ridiculous, but the dialogue delivers one laugh after another.  Like a Monty Python movie, _Dude, where's my car_ is sublimely over the top.  Interesting hints at homoerotic tension between the two main characters. "},{"Title":"Smashing success at what it tries to be-- VERY FUNNY!!!","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, Where's My Car? is a great movie-- if you see it for what it is, what it tries to be, and the context from which it plays. It's one of those old timey daffy, zany comedies.That genre is harder to produce than it may seem. Lots of genre wannabes and rip-off producers vainly attempt to stamp out yet another goofball slacker flick, only to emerge with dreck such as Freddy Got Fingered, or virtually any Chevy Chase movie. Martin Lawrence, for my taste, also falls ino this category. He seems to have talent, yet perhaps his handlers have mislead him into stale and flaccid rip-off attempts of the original genius, he true and brilliant Eddie Murphy style of comedy. Whatever....Dude, on the other hand, works brilliantly because the jokes all work. Mostly. From the beginning untill the end (and even into the credits), there is much to laugh about. Sure, a few of the set-ups don't work really well. For example, the arm getting stuck in the window scene, with the sadistic impound cop lady, was tedious. It ran on for 3 minutes too long, in my view. But MOST of the stuff was funny-- and as odd as this may sound, there were layers of humor, single, double, and triple entendre, and subtle side gags as well as the main screen slapstick. That means upon your second or third DVD viewing, you'll find new things to appreciate.Wonderful, if you like this kind of thing (and I love it!). "},{"Title":"Don't kid yourself...","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie blows.  I know there are some people out there that are trying to save this movie by saying stuff like just enjoy it for what it is but let's face it ... this movie is a disgrace.  As an alumni of Second City and ImprovOlympic myself ... I am embarrassed by the the number of fellow grads that showed their faces in this film.  How sad.  You weren't funny then ... not funny now.  Sell outs.-GRJ "},{"Title":"Great comic relief","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The movie is awesome. Whatever you read, if you need to laugh and relax, this one is worth a ride to the video rental.In fact, if you laugh at the trailer, go rent it. I know it look lame, but that's where the fun comes from. "},{"Title":"Dumber than I excepted and better too.","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a really stupid movie. Even dumber than I excepted, but also better than I expected. It just had a goofy charm that worked a lot of times, but it stumbled sometimes too. Just when you think it can't get any more absurd, it does by a mile. Kutcher and Scott relish in their roles. The bit players are a mixed bag though. Overall, Dude, Where's My Car? is incredibly dumb, but it still has a goofy charm that works often. **1/2 (out of four)   "},{"Title":"Dude What's The Point Of This Movie?????","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is very bad. I cannot stop making jokes about it because it is that bad. I feel sorry for Sean Scott Williams who is a talented actor and should be getting better roles than this. Dude, Where's The Script?Totally over the top, rip off, male version of Clueless "},{"Title":"Better than most of the new-wave-teen-flics","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I've no idea why this got such a critical mauling. The title of the film sets expectations low, but the actual film manages to pull itself head and shoulders above the rest of the new post-Hughes teen movies. All pretence of structured plot is surrendered from the start and the entire film consists of non-sequiteur scenes with completely surreal pretexts. The film pays homage to a large number films. The two main characters are lifted almost directly from Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure, the plot contains direct tributes to Monty Python's Holy Grail and there's a twist of Wayne's World with zest of Cheech and Chong. While by no means Oscar material the makers have endeavoured to provide something more than the normal s**t-gags/tit-flashes and whilst the cinema going herd seems to have missed this, I for one appreciated it. "}{"Title":"burn any effigy of this movie","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I hoped this film would provide a few laughs & I'm still looking for them. This was a pathetic film which went nowhere & just kept keeping up with lame jokes which went on & on. One stupid part where the two guys were taking out rubbish topped the lot & the rest of the film took some topping. If this was supposed to be like bill and ted's films with a galactic plotline well Bill & ted can relax because there won't be a sequel to this trash. Whoever wrote this story must have be stuck after about 2 lines because that's where they should have ripped up their script & started on a new one. The two dudes in this film were so stupid & annoying that they could never be funny & with a stupid supporting storyline which seemed to just get worse & worse. Forget seeing this film. Anyone who does & enjoys it is thicker than all the clowns that worked to make Dude where's my car.  "},{"Title":"Best Movie of 2000, suckas","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Heads up, I make mention of some details that make better sense if you've actually seen the film before you read it. Atypical for a review, true, but, well, it's more of a breakdown analysis. A little bone thrown to those effing whiners that claim this movie is dreck. Rock on.I feel the need to defend this film against the onslaught of attacks it has unjustly received. It seems many people went to see a movie called DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR? expecting something deep and insightful. I once again come dangerously close to losing all faith in humanity. But if the current President of the U.S. didn't push me over that edge, I don't believe this trifle will, either. And, truth be told, despite that there is nothing deep about this film, there is a bit more to it than some of its fans seem to let on.Some people believe this movie has little plot, if any. I think it has a very concrete and obvious plot two guys ask where their car is for ninety minutes. There is, of course, the parallel plot of the quest for the continuum transfunctioner, and there are an abundance of minute details that seem random until they reappear later in the film to tie the loose ends together. Thus it is an intricately woven tapestry of the detail in which we have two guys asking where their car is for ninety minutes. Despite the cheesy metaphor, I am serious. The screenwriting was quite clever.But it was just for laughs, and there were a few less-than-brilliant moments. The weed-smoking dog comes to mind. But, then again, it served its purpose later in the film. But, an interesting thing to note while on the subject, for a movie about two stoners, the only one to toke was a dog. A little strange, maybe, but the movie would have been horrible otherwise. Stoned people aren't that funny or interesting, if you've noticed.The one off-balance part of the movie was the scene with Brent Spiner (whose French accent was hysterical) and Andy Dick. I like the two of them, and I definitely liked the scene, it just seemed to be out of the flow. I guess, to me, Andy Dick humor is just that shade more coarse, enough to nudge the mellow out of alignment. Or, another possibility, I may just be hypersensitive. That's probably it.And speaking of Seann William Scott's stellar performance...suffice to say stellar.I guess I overstated it in the title. It can only be the second best movie of 2000, topped by WONDER BOYS. But perhaps I could say WONDER BOYS is the best sophisticated comedy of last year, and DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR? is the best unsophisticated comedy. Come on, kids, with a fridge full of pudding, llamas, a character named Mr. Pizzacoli, and Bust a Move...what more could you want? Just relax and stop being so afraid that someone might catch you laughing. "},{"Title":"The PG-13 Me Myself And Irene","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"      This film is just about as wacky as hell and fills 83 Minutes with potty humor and sex jokes. But , this is what I had expected about this film which leans towards Sci-Fi , Action , and a shameless parody of what happens when you get waseted and get involved with Transexual stripper, aliens, and ostriches. If you love potty humor and need a fix for humor this is it. "},{"Title":"A horrible movie","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was not good. first of all, alot of the stuff couldnt happen. i can realize if you dont remember where your car is. the alien S*** was very gay, i just cant explain it. this  the 2nd most dumbest movie for me. the first is A return to Salem's Lot. dont rent these videos!!!!! "},{"Title":"Funny and better than the reviews","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is laugh out loud funny in a lot of places. There is a plot that is simple but holds together. This movie has no pretensions, unlike some of the reviewers, and it is hard not to figure out that a movie called Dude, where's my car isn't aiming for the Oscars. Personally, I found some of the movie hilarious. I would say if you like this sort of movie generally, then don't be put off by the reviews. If you are into Ostrich humor, don't miss it under any circumstances!!! "},{"Title":"Sucked All Forms Of A**","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  While I consider myself to be a lover of all films stupid (I personally list Strange Brew, Disorderlies and Mystery Men among my faves) this movie could not suck more. If the saying goes, through enough S*** on the wall and see what sticks, then this movie is the paradigm. They could not have tried harder to make it look like a slacker, we don't care movie. Meanwhile, it is a desperate attempt to be hip. Note, the oft-used shibby reference and the Yoda-esque friend. What is worse, is that this movie did have potential, it really could have been funny. Instead, it was like watching the dorky kid in Speech class try to fumble through an assignment. You really look for something to latch on to and help him out, but, like the movie you just have to sit and stew in your twist uncomfortableness. I mean my God, I'm even jonesing to watch Son-In-Law after this fiasco.  "},{"Title":"Watch it through -- it's not as bad as it looks","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I expected I'd have to disengage my brain to watch this video, but it still took me three tries to get through, and I'm glad I insisted on making the video store earn its 99c.At first I thought it was all dumb stoner jokes, but by the end I was in the film's groove, and it was all making sense.For maximum enjoyment don't give up right away, and review the cast list to catch all the cameos. "},{"Title":"a stupid movie, but damn is it funny","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  ok so yeah, dude wheres my car wasnt made to make people think...it was made to make you laugh, and everytime i watch it, i laugh more. this movie is stupid, but you have to expect that. throughout the whole movie i was laughing and laughed even more through the commentary on the dvd. (which features kutcher, scott and director, leiner) in a no holds bar convo about the movie. if you're in a bad mood or just want to laugh, definately rent this movie. "},{"Title":"A fun comedy","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  On a friday night where I just felt like staying at home I rented this DVD and it's actually a funny flick. The plot revoles around two dudes trying to find their car and some other stuff. Seann William Scott steals the movie as always and he should have had top billing. Anyway just rent this flick and watch with the fellas and have some fun. "},{"Title":"Underrated and Hilarious","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Remember when movies where funny?  Remember when you saw your first  saw Ferris Bueller's Day Off?  Remember how funny Airplane was the first time you saw it?  OR Up In Smoke?  Dude, Where's My Car is that funny.  It manages to involve sex, drugs, and violence without resorting to vulgarity to milk humor from the situations.  A laugh a minute, for sure. "}{"Title":"Not a brilliant film, but what did you expect? It's great!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, so it isn't the most intelligent, thought-provoking film released this year, but did you really expect it to be?  I mean, come on!  Any movie with Dude in the title is not going to dominate the Oscars.  It's a great movie to watch with your friends, and that boy Chester is so cute.  I like this film a lot and I now own it.  Go rent it at least.  Give it a chance. "},{"Title":"and then?  and then?  and then?","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I will never understand why some people will go to see Godzilla, Independence Day, or Dude! Where's my car? expecting Shakespeare!  Please! Anyone who goes to see a movie called Dude! Where's my car? and then complains about how stupid it is, deserves to have wasted their $8.50 and 90 minutes.  I, too thought it was moronic, but I knew that going in!  I also laughed out loud several times.  I object to stupid movies that are not supposed to be stupid, (Congo!), but I found this to be, for want of a better term, 'Enjoyably stupid!' Weird characters, a few directors' quirks, and good acting.  3 out of 5! "},{"Title":"A Hilarious Smash Hit!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, Where's My Car? is a hilarious comedy! I was laughing throughout the whole movie! Ashton Kutcher, Seann Willaim Scott, and Marla Sokoloff are hilarious! This is one of the funniest comedies of the year! This movie is VERY funny! I give it a 10 out of 10!!!!!!!!!!!!!  ) "},{"Title":"Dude, This movie sucks.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is dumb, and i feel less intelligent than I was before watching it. I do usually like goofy/stupid movies like Dumb and Dumber, and Half Baked but this one I just don't get. Please DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Move Over Allison Hayes","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS INVOLVED? I guess I'm in the minority of people who actually liked this movie. I not a big fan of the idiot buddy pictures with Wayne and Ted, Bill and Garth, Dumb and Dumber, because they were all far more irritating than funny. Jesse and Chester aren't as annoying as they are inasmuch as they have a far too simple view of the world or seem to. Simply put, they seemed to be sharing a brain, but there's no idea as to who has most of it. This movie on the other hand does remind me a bit of the old Road To pictures with Hope and Crosby. Stricken with a Lost Weekend kind of phenomenon, the guys endure a scavenger-hunt like search for their misplaced car in a world without parents or morals. It almost seems like at one point the people along the way are taking their amnesia-like status for granted by making up all sorts of wierd events for them, the actual sequence of these events are yet to be determined. The search never gets really funny, but it never gets boring as they run into two different alien races, brain dead jocks, a self-taught guru, drag queens, their girlfriends, former Buffy Kristy Swanson and a Chinese take-out lady who is part stolen from Wayne's World and the Chinese episode of Seinfeld. They also run into Star Trek's Brent Spiner who is playing a hermit ostrich wrangler and a caged poacher who acts like Chris Elliott. My favorite scene is the giant woman sequence. Although too brief and too underplayed for fans like me of the genre, this is the sequence that really makes the movie for me and turns the movie from a braindead comedy into a more enjoyable fantasy. Doing her best Allison Hayes impression, Jodi Ann Paterson is a hoot to watch as she terrorizes what looks like a theme park. The movie is a long build up to this incredible point of view sequence. Paterson is augmented by excellant special effects, but it would have been a lot more interesting if the giant were played by a more recognized actress such as Kristy Swanson. I have to wonder if this was originally supposed to be a take-off on the Fifty Foot Woman movie, but someone combined the plot with a script about two buddies. As a whole, this movie almost deserves to be riffed by Mike and the Bots at MST3K, but it it is still interesting to watch by itself. "},{"Title":"Dude, what were you expecting?","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  People on here make me laugh. You went in to this movie thinking it was going to be an Oscar Nominee? I am always saying, if you read my other reviews that Hollywood is always cranking out a teen movie a month and they are paint by number crap. Sure, this is no Brain surgery but I sat down with some friends and we laughed. The thing is, this is nor your typical teen comedy, it has some stoner guys, yeah, but they meet a lot of weird people on their way to find their car. Stoner Dogs, Alien Woman and Men and killer Ostriches.  If anything, I think it mocks the teen genre. I excepted it for what it was, fun and I had a good time. Its right up there with Romy and Michelle and Dumb and Dumber. Sooo, Dudes, check it out., Party a bit and have a fun time. "},{"Title":"Dude, where's my brain?","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  That's right -- I set it aside for 83 minutes.  Don't get me wrong -- I really liked the movie, but if you're looking for something with character development, a plot that makes sense, etc., then look elsewhere.  If you're looking for a pair of goofy guys, who are trying to determine what they did the night before, then this is your movie.  They're kind of like the Bill & Ted of the new millennium.Overall, it was a fun movie with adolescent hijinks, although it does not deliver the laughs one of the Scary Movie movies would.  Seven out of ten. "},{"Title":"Dude, pass this one up.","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Now, I knew this was going to be silly and brainless so I just watched it to get some laughs but unfortunately even those expectations were too high.  I like to watch this type of movie from time to time because it's nice to just have a laugh at something silly and not to have to think too hard about a movie.  But this movie is very disappointing.  It does have some funny moments like the scene at the drive-thru that you all probably saw on the trailers but overall it was just plain bad.  I must say that the outtakes on the DVD were funnier than the whole movie.  The plot had promise with two guys who wake up after a night of hard partying and can't remember what they did or where they left their car but add aliens, ostriches, and a pot-smoking dog and this movie goes beyond the realm of ridiculous.  I left this movie more confused than it's lead characters.  I would definitely pass on this one. "},{"Title":"An amusing movie, but definatly not Cannes material.","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not usually a fan of 'low humor,' however I thought this movie was quite amusing.  Think Cheech & Chong meets Dumb & Dumber meets Ferris Beuler, with a little Men in Black, Friday and Half Baked thrown in.  The story follows the antics of two stoners (Kutcher and Scott) after misplacing their car during a night on the town.  The movie is chock full of humourous characters; a transvestite stripper, a pot smoking dog, a French ostrich trainer, hot alien babes, strange nordic aliens, and more.  It definately isn't a thinker's movie, but if you enjoy the occational Adam Sandler movie, I think you'll find this flick enjoyable. "},{"Title":"GOOFY AND LIVELY","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, Where's My Car? really surprised me. This is a goofy and lively comedy that made me laugh more than I expected to. Surprises like this are what make me love the movies.The film owes a debt to Cheech and Chong, the original pothead duo immortalized in a series of award-winning albums (Los Cochinos, 1973, which included the hilarious Pedro and Man at the Drive-In and the memorable Sergent Stedenko) and films (the best of them is Up in Smoke made in 1978). I know a lot of people who are going to complain to me about supporting a film in bad taste. Well, it IS in bad taste. And while I have given bad reviews to Tomcats and Freddy Got Fingered, those films were excrable in their treatment of women and mankind in general. Dude is good natured and funny.The filmmakers pack a lot of jokes into the brief 83 minute running time. But many of these jokes hit their intended targets so successfully. That is so rare these days. Another refeshing thing about the film is that it doesn't resort to the usual excremental humor so often found in today's youth films. Also, Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott make an effective comedy team. Material like this can go flat with the wrong casting. This casting is right.I'm not going to say anything about the plot because one of the film's pleasures is all of the nice surprises that pop up unexpectedly. It's great to see a comedy try so hard and succeed. Do see Dude, Where's My Car? today. You might be pleasantly surprised.***1/2 out of 4 stars "}{"Title":"Dude, what does it say? Sweet! Dude, what does it say...?","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  What can I say about this film? A good yardstick would probably be, if you liked Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure this is right up your alley. I found it somewhat entertaining, the high point being the tatoo scene and also the girls who say,We are not guys. We are hot chicks. Those moments entertained me but there was some stuff that was absurd. Not nearly as entertaining as Adam Sandler's movies, but not nearly as bad as it could have been. A mildly entertaining movie probably best for those 17-24, and probably more for guys. I wouldn't let anyone under 16 watch it, because there is some offensive stuff that could probably have earned it an R if the MPAA was on their toes (and they're usually not-case in point Titanic). 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dude, what were you expecting?","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Reading some other reviews of this movie, you think they watched it expecting a rendition of Hamlet! This is a duo comedy in the tradition of Bill and Ted. Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott are the funniest duo of potheads since Jay and Silent Bob (although potheads are only funny in the movies). The film is full of quotable quotes, like and then! (you'll get it when you watch it). With all these cruddy gross out movies, plain stupid but fun comedy has gotten unpopular. If this was released in the early 90's there would be an NES game for it. SWEET! "},{"Title":"So funny and so good.","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Today I rented the Dude Where's My Car movie. It was so funny and so good. Tommy did not like it and I cannot figure out why. Does it not have hot girls? Does it not have funny scenes? Other than the drug references (something I do not condone), it is very funny. Tommy called it brainless and tried to show me where it is not funny, but you can't show funny, you've got to feel it. Tommy just doesn't get it. We never had things like this back home. Our customers do as everyone of them laughed and bought things. This is exactly the type of movie I want to see over and over again. I even want to go to a strip club because it seems so funny. I'm Todd M. and this gets four stars!!! "},{"Title":"Where's my $8.50?","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Stupid Stupid Stupid me!  How could I possibly see a movie called, Dude, where's my car? and expect any thing, but stupid.  I went to the movies to see this which was my first mistake.  You should see it on video if you have like an hour and a half to waste.  I noticed the first person who wrote comments for this said they love stupid movies.  I like to see cheesy movies and laugh at them, but this movie wasn't even funny.  I will give it some credit.  Some things were funny and there were some hot girls in it, but that's it.  They pushed the I'm Stupid envelope way too far.  I like Seann William Scott because I think he's a funny person.  Reminds me a tad bit of Jim Carey.  Just how he acts goofy in movies, but I think this movie insulted his acting/comidiac abilities.  Go see the movie, but be warned they stretch it out way too long, act way too stupid, and makes you question why this didn't go straight to video! "},{"Title":"Really Awful","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see this with a couple of friends. We were expecting a dumb but fun movie this movie was just so horrible we all walked out. The whole thing reminds me of the annoying guy who intentionally acts stupid while high and thinks he is really funny. I can see that kind of person liking this movie but that is it.BTW, I've seen Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventures recently and it is hilarious. "},{"Title":"The funniest parts of this movie . . .","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" . . . were the commercials before it started, and that's the most positive thing I can say about it. This movie is not funny, it's not entertaining, it's not even dumb. Calling it dumb would be paying it a compliment. No amount of weed and / or beer could make me enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Very funny if you are the right audience","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I heard only bad things about this movie going in.  Sat down to watch it not expecting much but I thought it was hilarious.  I usually dislike stupid humor comedies like this but I really laughed through this  one.  You really go to be around your college years to totally enjoy this one.  And experience with nights of being very wasted is almost essential.  If you don't meet this criteria I can see why the movie would be dumb.  But if you do meet it, I think you may find this movie to be hilarious and lots of fun.  "},{"Title":"Pretty damn funny","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" First, for those of you commentators with a plot fetish yes, the plot is thin.  Then again, Monty Python films are even more thin.  Plot does not drive comedy, it provides a framework on which to hang jokes and serves as a backup when the jokes aren't funny enough or are too widely spread out.That said, this was a damn funny movie.  Basically, if you liked Bill & Ted and your frame of mind has not changed considerably in the intervening time, you'll like this movie.  I'm sure some of will you will argue that Bill & Ted was a far superior movie, but, realistically speaking, that's just because the spectacles of memory are all-forgiving.  If you hated Bill & Ted, though, you will definitely despise this movie.  It's dumb, surreal, and really funny. "},{"Title":"Dude, What a Movie!","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I don't care what the critics say, I heartly enjoyed this movie.  It was a laugh riot. It may not win any awards, and it may be pointless, but it is still a great movie.  Sometimes, movies just don't have to make sense, and you can just sit back and enjoy them.  Forget good acting, forget reality, and just enjoy this movie for what it is A stupid, pointless romp through insanity.  I haven't laughed so hard at a movie in quite awhile (well, at least not since WATERWORLD!).  Sure, there are plot oversites, stupid dialouge, and bad acting, but somehow, it just combines for one very hilarious movie.  I can hardly wait to add DUDE to my video collection. "},{"Title":"Not enough...","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw that everyone voted really low for this movie - it shocked the pants off me!The movie wasn't bad at all, in fact if you like both the Bill & Ted movies you shurely like Dude, Where's My Car?. If you rate the Bill & Ted movies first & second place, Dude, Where's My Car? deserves a good solid thirth place, I had an exelent night at the movies & laughed my butt off )Regards, - Alain D-PaC Dassen, Maastricht / The Netherlands - "}{"Title":"Dudes, take it easy","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I think most people are being a little bit too hard on this movie. Now it's not the funniest movie ever made nor the worst(hasn't anybody seen Mr. Magoo?). It has about half the number of laughs as American Pie(probably less) and the plot completely sucks. Seriously, it couldn't be any worse. And that whole world destruction gag was sad, not funny. Comedies and world destruction don't mix.But before I flip out on the movie I gotta admit I laughed several times. And that's what comedies are all about, laughter. And I didn't leave the movie theater thinking I want my money back. I just thought I should have waited till it came out on video. So judging by the number of laughs I call this an average comedy. It's not hilarious but it doesn't completely suck either. So if you have some time to kill and you like movies like Bio Dome, maybe you should go see it or wait till it comes out on video..WARNING If you're over 25, you probably won't like it so you should think twice before you see this flick "},{"Title":"excellent in HIS class; a lot of dumb fun!","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  first of all i must say that i'm afraid that most people will compare this movie with other movies outside his class. if you compare this with for example saving private rian, than you're crazy... you should always rate a movie within it's own class. this is a comedy, and when you like comedy's, then this is extreamly funny. the movie is fast, short, and a lot of dumb FUN! "},{"Title":"** Fun But Not Even Fun Dumb","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I guess if you're not expecting much from this slacker comedy than you won't be disappointed. I wasn't expecting much myself, but even at that low an expectation level most of this badly written film still played like a bad high school skit in the worst possible way. Ashton Kutcher of television's That Seventies Show and American Pie's Seann William Scott play pizza delivery boys who wake up after a night of heavy partying to find that their car has been stolen. Then extraterrestrials get involved or something. The boys are very pretty but never believable as grungy stoners, and the film cannot be enjoyed much since there is not one whiff of an inspired moment in the whole thing.  "},{"Title":"Totally awesome movie!","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  It's been a while since I laughed as hard as I did when I saw Dude, Where's My Car?. It was so funny! A must-see for anyone with a 'weird' sense of humor. There was just so many funny things said and done, and I could totally identify myself with the main characters, Jesse & Chester.Imagine waking up not knowing what you did the night before. And then imagine you find out there's practically a price on your head, set out by giant female aliens and a transvestite-stripper. And your girlfriends hate you because 1) you threw a party at their house (which you don't remember) and the house was totally trashed, and 2) you forgot your 1-year-anniversary. And you still have no idea what else you did last night...  "},{"Title":"Mindless Humor","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  If you don't want to think, and you want to watch a good movie, this is the one to see.  There is no real plot or anything, but it's just good teenage humor.  I laughed the entire day after I watched this movie. I totally recommend it. "},{"Title":"stupid, funny","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  There are two things that can be said about this movie. One it is really stupid. Everybody's stupid, the jokes are stupid, the plot is stupid. Actually the plot almost doesn't exist, nobody cares about it. Two it is funny. Most gags are good and yes, they make you laugh. Sometimes laugh really hard. If this is enough for a movie to be good, then it is good. Otherwise it's not. My vote 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dude, This is pretty funny!","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  First of all, if you were expecting to see an Oscar-winning spectacle--get the hell out of here and don't bother us with your comments.  This is no more than good, funny escapism for 90 minutes (almost).  Sure, some of the gags are just lame beyond belief.  And by the 45-minute mark, the film loses all direction and just meanders from scene to scene, without a plot in sight.  But this is not meant to be plot-driven, nor character-driven.  It's driven by its tongue-in-cheek humor aimed at a cult audience.  I don't expect this humor to appeal to everyone, especially if you're over the age of 25, but I thought it was pretty damn funny.  I was not only laughing at the gags, but laughing at the fact that...well...I was laughing at this stuff.  I went to see it with my friend Joey, and we were about the only ones cracking up (Well, there were only about 6 others in the theater).  We looked like a couple of stoners--just like Jessie and Chester.  We came in, with big anticipation.  We were mimicking the scene where the two guys had tatoos on their backs that said Dude and Sweet.  Dude, Where's My Car is a Bill and Ted movie, with a little less intelligence.  Some movies cater to teenagers, but there is still a selected group of adults who are capable of enjoying it.  With this movie--it's STRICTLY for the teens and young adults.  So if you're looking for good laughs--not intelligent, satirical Woody-Allen type laughs--you will probably enjoy this mindless vehicle.  But as I said, THIS IS NOT FOR ALL AUDIENCES.  I'm sure some will regard this one of the worst films ever.  Personally, I prefer to knock movies that NOT supposed to be bad.  Movies with prestigious cast members that were simply overrated and over-blown.  But hey, it's your prerogative.  But if you're some arthouse prude who prefers to watch Remains of the Day--Dude, get off our backs!!!!!P.S.  There's some really hot chicks in this movie.  Remember  they're not guys; they're really hot chicks.  You'll get the humor in that statement after you watch the movie.  Have fun! "},{"Title":"Dude, this is sweet!","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, so looking at the title, you already know that this movie isn't going to be mentioned many times at the Academy Awards, but, if teenagers ran the Oscars, it'd definitely run away with a few!!Ashton Kutcher ('That 70's Show', 'Texas Rangers') and Seann William Scott ('American Pie', 'Road Trip') star as Jesse and Chester, who wake up one morning with no recollection of the previous night's awesome party, and they have no idea where Jesse's car is!Enter Wanda (Jennifer Garner) and Wilma (Marla Sokoloff), twin girls who happen to be Jesse and Chester's respective girlfriends. They're really angry at the boys for trashing their house at the party, and think they will get nice anniversary gifts from the guys... only problem is, the gifts are in Jesse's car.As they try to find their car, they also find out about what happened at that party (transexual stippers, thousands of dollars, Christie Boner etc.) and end up in a whole heap of trouble, too.Not hilarious like I first thought it would be, but undeniably funny, 'Dude, Where's My Car?' is a great teen flick that will boost Ashton and Seann's careers even further!  "},{"Title":"Very Stupid, but Hilarious!","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was very funny.  All the little stupid jokes made me laugh really hard.  It was very funny acting especially Seam William Scott's face expression throughout the whole movie.  Of course it had alot of stupid parts, but if they make you laugh, hey, why not watch it, right?  I recommend this movie to anyone who liked American Pie and Road Trip. "},{"Title":"Monotonous","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This film was terrible.  The jokes were below elementary level and were milked for all they were worth - which was not much.  I was expecting an equal to Road Trip, American Pie etc crossed with Bill and Ted.  What I saw was a film that was a few notches below Bio-Dome - and that was really bad.  Unfortunately, some of the so called 'jokes' are so bad that they just stay in your mind for ages, such as the tattoo scene, asian take-away scene and the ever so unappealing dude Where's My Car scene.  It's actually the material that's bad, not the actors -with the exception of Kristy Swanson, whose career seems to have taken an excessively steep nose dive since the Higher Learning, The Program, Buffy etc...The film is a no brainer, which can sometimes be good for relaxation - but is it really meant to send you to sleep?  Avoid. "}{"Title":"GREAT!!","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I don´t know how some critics say this movie stinks! and at the same show they say how great movie Vertical Limit is! well seems to be that they don´t have any idea of a great movie?!Well this movie rocks perfect for hang over days when you aren't into those movies where you have to think hard what is going on! "},{"Title":"Horrible...","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Concise. That's what I'll be on this film. For some reason,I decided to give this movie a watching,in fact..I was forced to watch it AGAIN when my nephews came to visit.(Appeasing smaller children can be HELL). I had hopes that,perhaps,it would funny along the lines of a Leslie Nielson or Mel Brooks production. Fell short, to say the least. Sure,there were some funny moments. I particularly liked the Chinese food ordering bit. To cut to the chase, this movie was quite bad. Rather stupid and just not one I would care to see..EVER again.  "},{"Title":"A grueling, gnarly workout for the laugh muscles!","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  If you're looking for an intelligent show, don't see this. But if you like non-stop laughs, this is a must see! Some won't appreciate the silliness, but this is a great movie that pokes great fun at a couple of dudes that have killed off all but their last remaining brain cell. And yes, it does appear that they share the same one. "},{"Title":"Dude, I think I'm gonna be sick from all the times I rolled my eyes!","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, where's my car could easily be known as one of the worst movies of 2000. But don't worry, it's not as bad as Supernova. But after about 100 times of seeing the trailers of Dude, Where's my car on televison, I'd think you'll be tired as me too. I mean, I liked Sean William Scott in American ie AND in Road Trip, but now his role is a total insult to intelligence.Ashton Tucker and Sean William Scott play two idiotic stoners who wake up all hung over and banged up, and they can't find their car.......that's the plot. There isn't even anything funny about it except the part that even I wasn't sick of the chinese food order. That was just about it.For those of you who paid immense amount of money to see Dude, Where's my Car, I pity you. If you want funny, hilarious movies, see Miss Congeniality and Meet the Parents. "},{"Title":"Funny? C'mon...","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I was expecting this movie to be funny after I saw the trailer, but boy I was wrong! The movie is not funny at all, except for one scene at the Chinese restaurant. Moreover, this movie is full of dumb guys and gals! But I must say that the two leads were doing well, and they were brave enough to do that particular car scene that will surprise the audience (no, I'm not telling you...). Anyway, you can always rent this one instead of seeing it in the cinema! "},{"Title":"hahahahaha","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This film is not only funny, entertaining and exhilirating it is damn right hilarious this is a DVD and a video i will indefinantly buy.  The way they use women to a point where any more is said there would be an outcry in society but it is cleverly put accross a big hit with 14-18 lads especially.Overall        5/6 "},{"Title":"How bad can one movie suck?  Pretty bad!","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  My bud Bubba and I had a few hours to kill, and given the limited choices at our disposal, we decided to see this.  I had seen the commercial, and it looked at least somewhat entertaining.  Needless to say it wasn't.Ten minutes into the movie, I knew we were doomed.  I realize that some movies are supposed to be stupid, that's part of the deal going in.  Well, this movie was stupid, but it was rarely funny.  Most of the very few funny parts were shown in the commercials, so I didn't get much else when I plunked down the cash to watch it.This movie sucks badly, don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"WOW...This was bad","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  So bad it hurt.  Destined to be a USA Up All Night movie.  I seriously haven't seen anything worse since Battlefield Earth.  The movie actually has a decent ending,  and that made me happy!  Girls may enjoy this movie since it completely is relying on the fact that you find Ashton cute and witty...sadly he is neither.  His lovable dumbsh*t character on the 70's Show proves to be not much of a stretch. "},{"Title":"Too slow and too bad.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  It is a pretty fine movie but it is only good at the last 20 minutes of the whole story. The first one hour is rather empty and dull, nothing that seems funny anymore. The way the story is make similar to some other teen movie which i seen before. Probably the best way is to change the style and make it more effective.The performance is good and most of the casts have act very well but the comedy has out of the way, the humour has gone completely. This movie should be plan well. The final part are really exciting, this is excellent idea to give the monster a different look. "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's the Plot?","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Man, this is truly one of the dumbest movies I have ever seen. I don't consider this a movie, just a bunch of camera shots that just almost happen to be in the right order. The plot, oh wait, never mind, there was none. The only thing funny about this movie was the thought of wondering, Who came up with this plot? And how old is Kristy Swanson? My god. Just because she was in Buffy the Vampire Slayer back in 92 doesn't make her a sex symbol eight years after.D- "}{"Title":"Bill & Ted for the 21st Century","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  OK, so that's not entirely true; while no time travel is involved, this still fits into the same category as B&TEE. This is just a park-your-brain-at-the-door-and-enjoy type of film. Anyone expecting the brilliant shenanigans of a cerebral film such as Chicken Run (come on,people they weren't even aimed at the same audience) will be sorely disappointed. The adventures of two pothead pizza delivery boys is not going to be on the same level, but the movie is what it is good, DUMB, fun. The cameos are an absolute delight, and unlike a lot of abysmally awful films, the best jokes were NOT IN THE TRAILER. I really don't know why everyone is complaining about this one. I knew right after I saw the trailer that this was one to check out at the discount cinemas. Not that the quality is poor, but this is not the type of film you go see on opening night in a state-of-the-art theatre. Its humour will come through on any screen. See it with someone who will appreciate its stupidity. One more comment And dennnnnn.......... "},{"Title":"Dude, Sweet!","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see this movie on Thursday, and since then I haven't stopped talking about it. It was the best movie I've seen. Basically, it's me and my friend Suzi in four years, only we'd be female. I don't know why they say if you liked this you'd like Men In Black. My recommendations would be Wayne's World and/or BASEketball. Trust me, this movie is nothing like Men in Black, cuz MIB sucked. P "},{"Title":"Gen-X Existentialism Make Dude A Transcendental Classic","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Not since the seminal late-70's work of Bruce Springsteen has the car served as a metaphor for post-modern disillusion and the exploration of a cultural wasteland driven by hopelessness and nihilism as the searing new drama Dude, Where's My Car? Drawing on the work of Bergman and Fassbinder, we are introduced to the mythic quest of two protoheroes whose Quixotic attempts to find nobility of action elevate them to the level of mythic self-fulfillment.Caught up in a Bacchanalian revelry, the two young men (Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott) awake to find that their car is missing. Thus begins their search for the elusive vehicle, which becomes as much a search for their own souls as it becomes a material search. Retracing their steps they encounter a vibrant assortment of odd characters invigorated with the deftly surreal touch that draws on the work of the great Italian director Frederico Fellini. While their efforts may be viewed by some as comical, this superficial analysis ignores the very serious and almost humorless examination that director Danny Leiner brings to the film's execution. He is too busy grappling with Kierkegaardian existentialism and basic spiritual elements in play. His is a sober and austere exploration of the fundamental human question, aren't we all just dudes and aren't we all just searching for our cars.Perhaps the most refreshing element is to see such a religious message explored with such sincerity. The car that they are searching for is not really a car, but their desire to obtain a higher consciousness and a spiritual awakening goes beyond such crass considerations. In today's movie market, the typical approach by studios would be to market a string of teen sexual comedies which promote the worst kind of cinematic values, empty comedy of superficial and dubious merit aimed at a teen audience not concerned with quality or integrity. Instead, Dude rises above the meandering and displaced nightmares of depravity. It is truly a wonder to behold.  "},{"Title":"VERY Entertaining!","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, where's my car is a very funny film with LOADS of laughs. Sean William Scott and Ashton Kutcher are both very funny, good actors and played there parts VERY well. I enjoyed this film very much. Dude, where's my car is a must see. And Then....! ;) "},{"Title":"Just mediocre","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Before I start i should say one thing. Reading through the comments, a lot of people have said that people criticising this film were expecting to much. That's rubbish. I saw this film knowing full well what it was going to be, i'd seen the trailer, and even the name gave that away.My problem with it was it wasn't funny. As a 'stupid' movie it was nowhere near as funny as Waynes World or countless similar films. Bits of it were funny... the drive-thru restaurant and the ostrich farm. But just because a comedy film is stupid, that doesn't mean it doesn't have to be funny. The funny gags were stretched far further than they merited, and too much of the film was just filler.If you want a good mindless film, try Meet the Parents or Wayne's World on video. If you want a good comedy, get Being John Malkovich out on video. Watch this if you want, but don't expect to find it too funny - even if you're the biggest mindless-film junkie on the planet ) "},{"Title":"one of the best films I've ever seen","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I don't care what anybody says; this film is very funny, CLEVER, well acted and brilliant. It may seem a lot like other films but it isn't, it's actually a lot more surreal and funny than them. Don't even say come on, you can't expect a movie called *Dude, Where's My Car?* to be any good/a masterpiece/a comedy classic because it's all of these things in my humble opinion. This druggy, crazy, convoluted adventure is superb. Of course it's silly as well, but so is *Blazing Saddles* and *Monty Python & The Holy Grail*, and the sheer  what-the-hell? bizzaritude of scenes in which people come face to face with ostriches in back gardens, Andrew the monkey and countless other hysterical moments of absolute comic excellence rank this film with those ones. There's nothing wrong with being silly anyway, and anybody that thinks that there is needs to get their heads out of their bums, for, in the words of Willy Wonka, A little nonsense now and then is relished by the wisest men, so there. Only intelligent people will appreciate this film fully.     "},{"Title":"Very Very Funny","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was so utterly stupid and I loved it. This is one of those movies where you should just throw any cares about plot,acting and storyline and just accept it for what it is a funny no-brainer comedy. Un-predictable movie(I think the only people who could predict this movie would be the directors and actors)and should be saved for cheap night.  **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Pee-wee's Big Adventure meets Bill + Ted Excellent Adventure","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Danny Leiner is a genius. Best film of 2000, next to High Fidelity. Stoners Jesse and Chester re-live a night of intoxicated mayhem in a series of events that span the gap between Pee-wee's Big Adventure and Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. Despite the fact that a number of pretentious idiots are too stupid to realize it, this film is brilliant. If anyone invested any thought into watching this film, they were as pleased as I at the ostrich scene, the music video scene, the hot chicks and every other well-planned comedic device/mind-bending plot element of the movie. I can't wait to own it on DVD. P.S. Film critics' preconceptions were never more obvious than they were in reviews of this picture.  "},{"Title":"Dude, its fun, and to todays standards, clean","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Ok i want to know why people went and saw this movie if they ended up not liking. Did the commercials actually make it look like the funniest movie ever? They didn't even have any good parts in the preveiws! The best parts were left in the movie. This movie was quite enjoyable, and this is coming from a film student who studys movies like Citizen Kane and Gummo. Us teens going into our twenties grew up with films like Bill and Ted movies and the goonies. Isn't it about time that there is a crazy movie for kids to watch? Sure there was some naughty sexual refrences, but remember growing up and watching Spaceballs, or any John Hughes flick. Its almost like a silly adventure movie. For those who laugh at movies like Scary Movie, then either go to a public restroom and laugh at the urine puddle on the ground, or watch this to realize what makes a real fun movie.  "},{"Title":"Come on, what do you expect?","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Look, this movie is what it is and I have to admit I liked it. I don't ever recall the trailers or TV ads building this movie to be something it isn't. Come on, just glance at the title! It's a sophomoric movie, chock full of mindless junk. At times, it's dull and the jokes are predictable and even insulting. But, guess what, by the time it's over, it's also pretty entertaining.So I'm pretty amused reading all these reviewers who seemed to walk into the theater completely clueless about what they were about to watch. Oh, Dude, Where's My Car?, what a wonderful piece of cinema. Here's my wallet, Mr. Movie Theater Owner, sir, take out what you want. And then walk out all huffy and irritated, and write reviews here, demanding their money back and arguing How could a studio executive give an okay to this crap?You want to know why? Because Saturday Night Live and Adam Sandler have made a cottage industry out of movies like this. Because they're easy to write. Because they're relatively cheap to make, so if they make only a tiny amount per screen, they're considered an enormous success. Because they know there are suckers who will slap down $8.50 to see it, if only so they can write reviews panning it to make themselves feel superior in the process. You shouldn't get angry at the movie theaters or the studio execs -- you should examine your own thought processes that managed to convince you to plunk down the money to see it. Guess what, people, if you buy a gun and shoot yourself in the foot with it, you don't get your money back. It's your own fault.Dude is what it is. I recommend it -- not because it's the greatest piece of cinema or even a great comedy, but because it's harmless fun, a harmless escape for a while, and, sometimes, that's all you want out of a movie. "}{"Title":"I walked out and saw what women want","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was about nothing and wasn't funny. Everyone in the theater was forcing laughs. The preveiw was funnier. I walked out and saw what women want. What a relief. Not that I loved what women want. It's just that compared to dude, where's my car, what women want, is probably the greatest movie ever made.  "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs Up (my nose)","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Hey Fox, I have an idea for film that you're going to absolutely love. It's based on the life of Ferd Gaberphal, my pet rock. It has action and suspense; like the time my cat knocked him off the dining table and onto the floor (so he does his own stunts) He is a master of improvisational comedy; like the way he just sits there, with that look on his face, commanding roars of laughter.  Of course, there is plenty of gratuitous sex; like the time he tried to score with a dinner roll during Thanksgiving (rock and roll?) So if you on a cash it on this cinematic gem, before Universal or Paramount snatches it up, contact my agent. I figure if you bought Dude, where's my car, you'll buy anything. Also, a heads up. Next month is the Million Moron March. Imagine, a million morons descending on our nation's capitol demanding more quality films like, Dude, where's my car; so be sure to send out your film scouts on that one, otherwise you might miss out on some great stories! "},{"Title":"Homeric Odyssey or Boy Band-like Porn?  It's both!","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Finally the American cinema has come of age.  Though on the surface another moronic teen comedy, this is actually adapted from The Odyssey of Homer and Jethro, a chronicle of the adventures of an heroic young man (slyly bifurcated here into TWO heroically delicious young men) in search of the 21st-Century equivalent of Home -- his car.  Though tempted by sirens and attacked by monsters (both earthly and extra-terrestrial, e.g., Fabio) our hero's (heroes') relentless questing is finally rewarded. And so is the audience's. "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS!!!..A MUST SEE!!!","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  this was by far the funniest movie i've seen this year...the way the whole movie plays out is just hysterical!!! i advise u not to eat popcorn anytime in the middle of this movie..i did and i pretty much choked!!! if u dont want to see this movie, U BETTER CUT DOWN ON THE SHIBBY!!  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies i've seen all year","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Most adults would think this movie is stupid and they might not get some of the jokes. I think this is a movie that only teenagers can appreciate. Ashton Kutcher and Seann Scott did a great job in this movie. I recommend it to anyone who is looking for a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Okay use of free movie tickets","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I never would have gone to see this movie if I'd had to pay for it, but we had a couple of MovieWatcher freebies, and that negated the I'm not going to pay full price to see such a short and probably stupidly silly movie issue. ... So ...Some stupid movies, really stupid movies, work much better on the small screen than on the big screen.  Men in Tights, I didn't walk out on only because I just had NOTHING else to do that afternoon.  Yet when I saw Men in Tights later on cable, it seemed funnier.  A LOT funnier.I'm pretty sure Dude, Where's My Car is going to work the same way.The first half hour or so was pretty dull and awkward.  But the gags slowly got, well, a little better.  Yeah, it was a waste of time, but it was a better waste of time than watching History Channel reruns.The two leads acted well, and the resemblance between the (apparently unrelated) twins was shocking.  Brilliant casting there.  No, seriously!  -joseph "},{"Title":"Decently Entertaining...","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I left this movie feeling pretty happy about seeing it. I think too many times people go into movies like Dude, Where's My Car with the wrong intentions. Of course you aren't going into the theater thinking Hmm, this is possibly going to be a piece of comic brilliance... so DON'T! I saw this movie, laughed a few times, died laughing a couple times, and left not feeling like I wasted my money.Dude, Where's my Car is a movie about two guys who can't find their car in the morning and can't remember what happened the night before. Throughout its entirety the two friends search around their town picking up clues of what had happened the previous night while trying to find their car where they had left anniversary gifts for the girlfriends.Filled with plastic, yet decently pretty girls and raunchy sometimes hilarious humor, Dude, Where's My Car is a simple comedy targeted toward the younger audience (especially males) and that is about it. "},{"Title":"Sweet, dude!","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  'Dude, Where's My Car?' is very dumb. It's also a riot. Two stoners, room-mates Jesse (Ashton Kutcher) and Chester (Seann William Scott, who we all remember from Road Trip and American Pie) wake up one morning, trying to figure out what they did the night before. They then get a surprise call from their girlfriends, who are twins, indicating that the relationships would end unless they give a good explanation as to what happened the night before. It seems they also forgot the anniversary, you see they've been going out for a year. Oops. The boys try to find their gifts in Jesse's car. Dude, where is it? What follows is a hilarious chain of events as thre boys go on a quest to find the car. However, they get caught up in some business involving a device capable of destroying Earth...   This movie is a lot of fun. It's a bit like 'Dumb & Dumber' with a sci-fi edge, which in my eyes is a good thing. If you had to fault it, some of the jokes do fall flat and the plot may confuse some, but otherwise it's a fully watchable and entertaining slice of comic brilliance. "},{"Title":"Hey, that was pretty dumb","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  After getting over my initial disappointment because Traffic was sold out, my sister and I opted to see DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR.I feel sick. I feel like I wanted to go dinner and eat a hearty meal and I ended up eating cotton candy for two hours.This movie had some funny moments. That's about it. Isolated moments. Don't blink, you might miss them.The two main guys can be funny. Too bad most of the material wasn't.But then, again...I am not the target audience for this film.  So if this kind of light fluffy fanfare is what you like.....5/10 "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's My Sense Of Humor?","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know how anyone could NOT like this movie.  It was classic!  This is definitely going on my favourite movie list.  It was hilarious. Maybe people should just loosen up a bit and realize that these types of movies aren't made to make sense.  They are made to make people laugh.  This one definitely does the trick. "}{"Title":"Dude, Where's the plot ?","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I went out with a couple friends and would up seeing Dude.  I don't think my friends will ever talk to me again.  The point of the movie is about two stoners who wake up one day to find out that they've completely trashed their girlfriends' house, won a lifetime supply of pudding, and somehow misplaced their car.  The kicker THEY DON'T REMEMBER A THING.  So they head out on a road to nowhere to find the missing vehicle.  Along the way they run into many characters such as a band of cult members hoping to get into space, and Andy Dick playing a guy chained up in someone's basement for the last couple of years.The terrible part is that throughout all this are stale bimbo jokes, lame Bill and Ted knockoffs, and nearly every stereotype that Hollywood obviously thinks every 18 or 19 year old interacts with.  You've got nerds, bullies, big breasted chicks, whatever you want to come up with.This isn't to say that this wouldn't make a good rental or something to watch on HBO, but to see it in the theater is not the best waste of money out there. "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I thought Dude, Where's My car? was sooo incredibly funny! It's a big much to do about nothing. It's about these guys that can't remember what they did the night before. The things they did the night before all seem to tie into the missing car.I had my doubts when I first saw the title, but I enjoyed it. Everything that happens is out of the blue. Things you'd never imagine seem to find their way in to the movie. There's this one part w/a Chinese restaurant..and well you'll just have to see! It cracked me up for hours afterwards!  "},{"Title":"Sad Stereotypes that are Not True","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, Where's my Car does what it was meant to do and does it very well entertain.  It's stupid, of course, but it knows it's stupid, becuase it's supposed to be stupid.  It's actually a really funny and clever satire on a lot of things, one being science fiction movies, and that just makes it all the more fun.  You can tell that everyone involved must've had a blast making this movie, and that just makes it a blast to go to watch it.  I mean, this is what movies are made of, what movies are supposed to be like, just plain fun. "},{"Title":"Like, Dude -- Sweet!!!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is the DUMB & DUMBER for the year 2001. It's a zany teen spree about two stoners who go on an epic journey not only to find a car but also to find the meaning of the universe -- or something like that. Whatever the story means, it's silly, stupid, surreal, existential, and lots of fun. The movie never takes itself seriously, so sit back, dude, and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"Awesome, Hilarious Movie!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have to say this is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen! I loved it so much I went back and saw it for a 2nd time! I think it got bad reviews because the people were too old to understand the real humor. Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott are AWESOME actors so that makes the movie even greater. I would definately recommend this movie to anyone who loves comedies. "},{"Title":"Really funny, but could have been funnier.","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw the movie an hour ago, and I thought it was really funny. Obviously not very thought out, but quite entertaining.  Personally, I didn't find Chester to be very believable as a pot-head. I don't know why all of you guys are saying that the ending wasn't good, I think it was pretty funny!  > "},{"Title":"Stupid, Demented, and Funny","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw Dude, Where's My Car? today with my best friend.  We were having an argument about what movie we were going to see, but he dragged me into seeing this. The story is about two stoners (Ashton Kutcher, Seann William Scott) who wake one morning after a hard night of partying to find that there car is missing.  So they set off to find it, but get caught up in many misadventures along the way.  They encounter nerds who are obsessed with outer space, alien babes, jocks who are intent on beating them up, and an annoying Chinese food restaurant speaker box. Let me just say that this movie is stupid as anything.  I also think that the D- Entertainment Weekly was very deserving.***/***** "},{"Title":"A black hole","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This film not only insulted the intelligence of its target market, I think it was actively sucking the IQ points out of anyone who looked directly at the screen. People left the theater looking very disoriented; some looked like they were trying to forget that they entered the theater in the first place. I have nothing against stupid movies, some of then can be quite fun. Whatever this was, it wasn't very fun or entertaining... and yet it wasn't bad enough for the category of garbage. Perhaps it ought to be sealed in a terrarium so it can continue to grow in a most, rich environment. "},{"Title":"I felt stupider for having seen it.","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Before seeing Dude, Where's My Car? I had only seen one movie that I ever truly disliked. Usually anything at least keeps me entertained for a few hours, even if it is not a great film.However, this movie was so bad that, on several occasions, I almost got up and walked out of the theater. I went with three friends, all of whom felt the same way. It seemed like the movie tried to play the same game as Dumb and Dumber, but failed miserably.Parents, do NOT let your children see this movie (unless you actually LIKE contributing to the degeneration of our society). It should easily have gotten an R-rating simply for its lewdness. The movie was trashy and disgusting.Secondly, the jokes in this comedy are so foolish, predictable, and immature that I have a hard time figuring out who actually finds them funny. Personally, I felt stupider for having seen it.Unfortunately, Dude, Where's My Car? took up 75 minutes of my life, and I want them back. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've seen in the theater.","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Please promise you won't go see this movie. I was actually upset after leaving the theater. No plot whatsoever, I thought it would be along the lines of American Pie or any Adam Sandler flick. There was not one time I remember smiling, let along laughing. I was so mad I thought about leaving early, and I have only done that once in my life, due to a headache no less. Nothing redeeming about it. Awful. The fact that this movie is making money disturbes me. It's a shame more people will see Dude, Where's My Car than Best in Show which is actually funny. "}{"Title":"Dumb, but funny","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, Where's My Car?-With a title like that no one should expect anything, but what it was, a Dumb, but funny movie.  I would definitely compare it with Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure.  Both movies have two clueless, yet lovable guys, that make you laugh no matter what. It has a few surprising story lines in it, that you just wouldn't expect, and I guess that's why you would classify it as being stupid. It's also kind of gross, but you can decide for yourself how bad it is. I recommend this movie to people who enjoy a good laugh, and a movie where you don't have to think too much.  I love movies like this one, because you got cute guys (Ashton Kutcher), laughs all around, and a few suprises.  Dude, go see it, it's worth the 5 bucks. "},{"Title":"Screamingly Funny (Juvenile, moronic, deadpan humour)","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Don't eat popcorn during the last 10 minutes of the film.  I did, and almost choked from laughing.If you like South Park, you'll love this film.  Basically, if you took Eric, Kenny, Kyle, and Stan, moved them to LA, and waited 10 years or so, you'd end up with Chester and Jesse.It's not as funny as the ads say (what film is?), but it is worth the time and money.  Just don't take it (or yourself) too seriously.It pokes fun at numerous victims, such as alien worshipping cults, aging ex hippies, dogs, fast food takeout driveup windows, various other Los Angelan phenomena.And then? "},{"Title":"Poor Movie, Poorly Done","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie had a plot that was so terrible, that not even the long drawn-out running jokes could keep it afloat in my mind. It was certainly entertaining but the acting as well as the screen play itself was revolting. The actors played themselves and not very well at that. The plot line was not at all credible, even as fantasy. There were just a lot of one-liners that stick in peoples' heads pasted together with cheesy and unconvincing transitions from one to the next. One scene in which the bad alien woman assumes the form of an under-clad giant who gives onlookers a free show was reminiscent of a recent N*Sync video that lacked all and any good taste.This movie was throughly rotten and not worth the $9.50 in NYC that I had to pay to see it. However, if you want to see a cheap, cute movie that would only appeal to the 12-20 set, then by all means, go and see it. I wouldn't suggest wasting the money for the cinema, though.C- "},{"Title":"better than I expected","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  ok I walked into this film with low expectations, but the funny thing was as the movie went on it got funnier and funnier I kept thinking it wouldn't get any funnier but it did, and let me say I was impressed and had a real good laugh. Funniest film I have seen since American Pie and Dumb and Dumber never did I laugh all the way through a movie. The 2 they picked for the parts were just right, they got em down right. Thanks for giving me some laughs for about an hour or so really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Stupid?  Yes.         Surprised by that?  No.","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  As I walked out of the theater I heard many patrons complaining that this movie was stupid.  Did this somehow come as a surprise?  You went to a movie with Dude in the title and it wasn't a western.  What could anyone have possibly expected other than stupidity?  I was practically dragged to this movie and got exactly what I expected and then some.  The two leads give likable and game performances and the film actually has several fairly funny moments.  Yes the film is excruciatingly juvenile at times, (OK all the time) but if it wasn't, what good would it have been?  The thinking man's stoner comedy?  I think not.  This movie is designed to appeal to 15 year old boys and bless its heart for it.   "},{"Title":"The most hilarious movie of the year.","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This was the funniest movie I've ever seen. It's about two pot heads that lose their car after a night of partying. They have forgotten every thing they did and are retracing their steps to find their car. If you like funny movies this is the one to see! "},{"Title":"Surprising Comedy","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was quite enjoyable.  I was surprised by how much I laughed during this movie, and that it was never unbearable as is seen too often in comedies these days.  Some reviewers have compared this to Dumb and Dumber, I say that is a very poor comparison.  A far better match would be Bill and Ted's excellent adventure.  The two leads start as bumbling morons and end as bumbling morons.  But along the way they seem to learn a thing or two and have a brief shining moment, before going back to being slackers.  Another refreshing aspect is that there is very little gross-out humour or sex humour.This movie might not be for everyone though.  Some people will see it as stupid, without depth.  So if you desire a movie with depth, or are offended by occasion drug jokes (very tame actually), objectification of women (again rather tame) then you might want to stay away.  But most of the younger crowd will have a good time watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  When I walked out of the movie theater after seeing Cabin Boy I was mildly amused by the ludicrous nature of the film but there remained that overall feeling of disguist over having spent $6.00 on such a waste of time.  Now, nearly six years later, comes an even more entirely untalented movie and I use such a generalization because there was nothing redeeming about this miserable work.  The story was contorted in ways that made Madonna cringe, the acting was on-par with my nephews adaptation of Barney's Happy Holidays, and the feeling one walked away with was one of pity for everyone involved in making this massacre.  I never write reviews because movies are subjective but this movie was so awful that I hope nobody is forced to sit through the entirety of it.  It made me want to bludgen my eyes with a spork from the concession stand.  Miserable.  "},{"Title":"Pitiful Film","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I strongly believe that Dude, Where is My Car is one of the most poorly written, poorly conceived, and poorly executed films of the past decade. The plot is silly and highly unimaginative. The characters are burlesque but not the Buster Keaton way. The characters in Dude... are simply annoying and not funny in the least. Dude Where is my Car? ranks up there with Computer Beach Party, and that is a compliment. Save your money and buy some vegetables and a six pack of Busch tallboys.  "},{"Title":"laughed so hard I cried!!","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I sincerely loved this movie.  It was so stupid and so funny.  I can't name another movie that has made me laugh so much the first time I saw it. The strange thing is that I am an intelligent, successful, relatively normal 28 year-old woman.  Not the 15 year-old stoner-boy this is targeted at.  Go figure. Give it a chance and check it out.     "}{"Title":"C-  (average-but a pretty low one)","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The movie starts off really funny, but as it goes on, it continuous to become more strenuous, over-drawn-out, stupid, impossible and inane.  A couple pretty funny parts, but overall pretty dumb.  The first half  is hysterical but the rest is just unfunny gags that have worn out.  The whole alien thing really wrecked this one!  If the whole movie had just been them trying to find their car it would have probably been a comedy classic! But the whole alien gag turns it into trash- not humor.- C- (average- but a pretty low one) "},{"Title":"Not even worth the Eight Bucks","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I wasnt expecting a masterpiece, but this movie failed even the lowest expectations. The plot is so outrageous and the acting so bad, I didnt even laugh once. Jokes are stupid, obvious and not the slightest bit comical. Full with randomness, the plot makes no sense. Like I said, I was not expecting a cinematographic masterpiece, but this joins the ranks with Biodome and Caddy Shack 2 as possibly the worst movie I have ever viewed in my entire life. "},{"Title":"It should make you ashamed to laugh at humor this low, almost.","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Walking out from the movie, I almost felt guilty laughing so hard that I actually stopped breathing.  The plotline is completely unpredictable, simply because of the complete randomness.  The movie is in the exact same vein as Dumb and Dumber and Something About Mary, no class, but just too damn funny to walk out of.  There was actually a part of the movie I laughed so hard, I not only stopped breathing, but I actually had to plug my ears and close my eyes, because if I laughed any more, I would have thrown up.The unfortunate aspect of this movie is that it only appeals to members of the human race with a Y chromosome and the age (mental or physical) of fifteen.  The jokes are crass and full of the lowest forms of humor, but I will be damned if I didn't laugh myself silly at this flick. "},{"Title":"The Best Comedy Of 2000!","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is definitely the best comedy this year.It is well made,funny,and has some good actors.The plot is pretty good,and has many funny one-liners.The part at the chinese restaurant was too long,but that is one of the only bad things about this movie.Dude,this Movie rocks! "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's My Money? (Worst Movie Ever)","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Seriously, dude, this was the worst movie I have ever seen. . .ever. Because I am a teen, I have teenage friends who wanted to see a movie like this.  Walking in, I knew absolutely nothing about this movie, other than the fact that the dude from American Pie and the dude from That 70s Show was in it, and that they didn't know the whereabouts of their car.Ok. . .the movie starts with cheezy graphics that you might expect to see on a teenage girl's notebook (neon pink kittens, shooting stars, buff guys wearing tank tops, etc.)  Little did I know, these images were setting up the plot of the movie.  I guess I should mention that this movie was supposed to be a comedy.  After a wild night of partying, Jesse and Chester can't remember one thing, and they wonder why they can't find the titular car.  This sets up scene after poorly written scene of the two dudes retracing their steps and being all-around unfunny.I tried to laugh. . .I really did, but I was physically incapable. Take for instance a scene where they hide a pizza by throwing it on their ceiling, thus temporarily sticking (oh know, I wonder if the pizza will fall back down?. . it did, dammit, four times).  How about another scene where they pull up next to romance novel cover model Fabio.  After revving their engines, trying to outdo the other, the climax is the two dudes kissing each other.  Really, is that all they could come up with?  Two guys kissing? Ok, here's another attempt at comedy.  The two dudes are carefully carrying several giant trash bags when they accidentally drop a bottle cap.  Should they put away the trash and come back for it later?  Oh no.  They need to pick it up now, and that involves a painfully unfunny scene where they try to pick up the cap with their toes, ultimately leading to the toppling over of the trash.  These are only highlights.  I cannot do justice to how bad this movie was.I'm not even going to begin with all the unoriginal, boring, sci-fi plot twists of the movie.  I guess the reason this movie offended me so greatly was it's honest attempts at comedy.  They really thought it would be funny to talk about the planet Uranus several times.  The makers of this film were seriously trying to make a comedy here.  Unfortunately, it was 100% laugh free, and not even well-made at that.  I find all of Pauly Shore's movies unfunny, but at least they're well made.  I could understand a person liking a Pauly Shore movie; I could not understand a person liking Dude, Where's My Car?.  I wonder how and why this movie was made.  Who put the green light on this picture?Not even a cameo by Donkeylips from Nickelodeon's Salute Your Shorts could make this movie worth the seven dollars.  I kept waiting for the punchline.  I guess the punchline is this film's box office returns. Sadly, droves of teenagers are going to turn out for this movie, and I seriously hope people don't like it.  If they do, I pity the future.This was a bad, bad, bad movie.  Possibly the worst comedy ever. Dude, I'm serious, where's my money? "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's the jokes?","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not a stiff shirt person when it comes to comedies.  I like a silly film, just like everybody else.  I enjoy the wacky humor in AIRPLANE and NAKED GUN.  The sick and disgusting humour of DUMB & DUMBER and SOMETHING ABOUT MARY.  And the sophomoric humour of AMERICAN PIE and ROAD TRIP.  But the new comedy aimed for teens is supose to be a silly film called DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR?  And I will say this now, DUDE is a strong contender for the worst film of the year. The plot, which is as thin as a sheet of wax paper, has Jesse (Ashton Kutcher) and Chester (Seann William Scott) who both wake up and don't know what they did the previous night.  Thier girlfriends, Wanda (Jennifer Garner) and Wilma (Maria Sokoloff) are mad at them since it's their one year anniversary, and they didn't give them gifts.  So Jesse and Chester go outside and, (gasp!) Jesse's car is gone.  So now as they walk around the city looking for the car, they meet people who know more about what happend the previous night that Jesse or Chester do.  The group of people include, a group of girls in wet t-shirts, a transsexual stripper, a sexy blonde who's dating the biggest body builder in town, a cult group that worships aliens, two mysterous men with accents, and five sexy females who keep offering erotic pleasure if they get a foreign deivce. That's it pretty much, if I put too much above, it's because all this movie really is one joke bit after another.  The problem is that none of the jokes are funny, in fact they are horrible!  Jesse and Chester are Bill and Ted, Beavis & Butthead, Dumb & Dumber all put together, but at least those duos are funny, Jesse and Chester you don't care about.  You know when a comedy is bad is when there are more fingers on your hand than jokes in a film.  I only counted three chuckles, the rest are bad.  An example is Ashton Kutcher yelling at a Chinese food restruant drive thru intercom with it's server keep askin and then?  This bad joke goes on for three minutes, it's like someone telling you a bad joke over and over and over till you just want to scream! And the continuty is very poor as well.  Ashton's character supposedly had intercourse with Christine (Kristy Swanson).  The thing is that Ashton is in his 20's, and Kristy Swanson is in her mid 30's.  I can not buy or believe that story.  And very beautiful Marla Sokoloff and Jennifer Garner play twins Wanda and Wilma.  Yea, they are twins born about seven years apart!  They do not look like the same age at all, Jennifer Garner looks years older than Marla Sokoloff. The acting, well, if you want to call it acting.  Kutcher is playing the same role he plays on THAT 70's SHOW, except dumber and more boring. Scott isn't his sarcastic self, instead he's suppose to act like a chimp, but a chimp is funnier.  Jennifer Garner and Marla Sokoloff deserve better than this.  And the rest of the actors look more worried than the 1984 SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE cast when it was considered it's worst season. The good things about this film are these three things and *CAUTION* *SPOILER'S WARNING!* 1.) the line up of women pouring water on their t-shirts  2.) Playboy Playmate of the year Jodi Ann Paterson as a giant attacking a miniture golf course  3.) the galatic gift that Jesse and Chester got from two aliens that make Wanda's and Wilma's breast expand.  I do agree that it makes me sound like a sex fiend or pervert, but those were the only things that kept my attention for this movie. What can I say about this film, well I do enjoy bad movies.  I have SHOWGIRLS on DVD, and after nine months BATTLEFIELD EARTH is beginning to be one of the most unintentional funniest film of all time. But DUDE is just bad, how bad you might ask?  Think POLICE ACADEMY 5 or BABY GENIUSES bad, where no one is laughing, not even the court jester. I'll finish my review with this, the quality of DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR is like this  take the word dude drop the letter 'E' from dude and you get dud. Stay far away from this feature. * (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Dude, this was funny!","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This was a pretty funny movie. It was like one of the move dumb movies I've ever seen. But the dumbness is what mad the movie funny. I honestly when I watched the movie I didn't know what to expect. But over all I liked he movie. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good comedy.  "},{"Title":"A Fun Movie","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Don't expect any deep meanings in Dude, Where's My Car... but if you're looking for an entertaining night out with not too much gross-out humour, this is probably a good movie.The plot requires you to buy in to a lot of totally unreal plot possiblities, but this is not American Beauty we're talkin' about here.  Its a comedy with its sole purpose to be a comedy.I'd even go as far as say its a good one for the family.  The sexual jokes may be more appropriate for the older kids, but there's nothing graphic, drugs are not glamourized (and while central to the plot, aren't a big part of the on-screen presentation), and its simply a fun movie.Don't go in expecting much, and you'll come out enjoying this flick. Going in expecting a cinematic masterpiece, and you'll be as grumpy and grouchy as some movie reviewers tend to be, both here at IMDB, and across the movie critic industry.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"DUDE, THIS MOVIE IS GOD AWFUL","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Borrowing copiously and unconscionably from such 4 am stoner classics as Half Baked, There's Something About Mary, and Baseketball, Dude, Where's My Car? tries to join the ranks of these films but fails miserably.  The script seems to have been written by a crack team of thirty-something MTV producers (for proof of this, watch for the inexplicable music video break a third of the way in) and 17-year-old employees of Abercrombie and Fitch.  The behavior of the film's mind-numbingly annoying protagonists, Jesse (Ashton Kutcher) and Chester (Seann William Scott), is supposedly due to their frequent smoking of marijuana, although the only character we see partaking in the activity is a dog. On the morning after an unforgettable evening, we follow the potheads in their search of Jesse's car.  Apparently, the night of partying involved trashing their girlfriends' house, receiving a lapdance from a transsexual stripper, and getting wrapped up in a quest to save the universe from destruction.  How these events tie together really doesn't matter, as director Danny Leiner's main goal is to make the film move as quickly as possible from sight gag to sight gag.  This would be a good thing, if only the jokes weren't set up with the subtlety of a Denis Leary routine and executed with the grace of a Wayans brothers' skit.  Fortunately, the film puts itself out of its misery after 84 minutes, but not before Jesse and Chester can say the words dude and sweet enough to make a stereotyped surfer cry. It seems as though Kutcher and Scott were told to play slight variations of their respective characters in That 70's Show and American Pie, a strategy that ensures plenty of goofy face making and bland staring will ensue. However, they're unable to create quotable comedy in a mediocre movie, as Norm MacDonald did in Dirty Work and Trey Parker and Matt Stone did in Baseketball.  Each actor has his moments and one-liners, but both lack the dry wit of the former and the beer commercial fun of the latter. In the end, Dude, Where's My Car? is simply a silly byproduct of late 90's teensploitation that will no doubt fall off the face of the earth along with other wastes of time like American Pie and She's All That.  "},{"Title":"Dude, where's my refund?","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I have a story for you. This group of people who on a Friday night decide to go see a 'film' called Dude, where's my car? The previews look fairly amusing, and what could be better than a good comedy? They drive to the theatre and purchase their tickets for $8.25. They sit down and the previews roll. Not bad. Then the movie begins. From the opening credits alone, the group cringes. The movie is horrible. Just plain awful. Genuinely unfunny. Not once did any of their group even emit a slight chuckle. The acting was cheap and exuded a cartoonish humor. The dialogue seemed fit for a low-budget after school special. The plot, while acceptably coherent, was retarded. The movie seemed like the result of a group of certified idiots' ramblings after a day of smoking illegal substances. It was the worst movie any of the group could remember in all their years of watching movies. It was worse than Highlander Endgame, if that is humanly possible. After the show ended, they walked sullenly to their car, not saying a word. After ten minutes of silence, one of them spoke. Dude, he said, Where's my refund? "}{"Title":"Film has some potential but never got going, disappointing and dumb","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, Where's My Car is about two potheads who wake up to find their car missing and no knowledge of what they did the night before. Based on this, an actually decent premise for a teenage comedy, the film loses all direction and lose my friends and me. The majority of the jokes attempting to make the audience laugh never succeeded and the ones that did only caused mild chuckles. I now understand why this film was not allowed to be reviewed by film critics. Nonetheless, it is mildly funny and if you truly want to see it I suppose you should. Otherwise, save your money for upcoming films like Cast Away and Traffic.1.5 stars out of 4  "},{"Title":"The greatest story ever told?","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I give this film 10./10, not because it's the best film ever made, or even the best comedy film ever made ... although I'd say it's close - but because it does exactly what it sets out to do, and does it perfectly - and hilariously. I place Dude alongside 'Lost in America', 'Office Space', 'Dodgeball', and 'Zoolander' as a pinnacle of modern American screen comedy. Why? These are films that create a goofy universe that works perfectly to house their stories and characters, everyone in them is uniformly hilarious, and they stand up under repeated viewing as enduringly uproarious comedies that are distinctive, engaging, and both funny as a whole, and filled with memorable, quotable moments that will stay with you forever - like the now-legendary And then? routine.Even though the overt stoner elements were somewhat toned down from its original conception, it still works fine, and in fact probably better for general audiences, because it's not beating us over the head with obvious stoner schtick , and stays focused on the general hilarity Jesse and Chester's whacked-out odyssey. The script is great, the direction is tight and pacy, Ashton and Sean William are perfectly, fantastically cute and dumb, and the supporting cast is just marvellous - from Hal Sparks' superb turn as the pompous Zoltan, to the wonderfully sassy police lady at the car-impound lot, to Chris geek- in-cage-.com Elliott. And I still rate Charlie O'Donnell's brilliant encounter with the super-hot aliens as probably the single funniest delivery of a line in the history of comedy We are not guys - we are hot chicks. ... Yes, you *are*!I can see why some people might not like it, and when I was first shown the opening scenes this movie by a friend, I remember thinking This looks diabolical. But, soon after, it was shown on TV late one night, so out of regard for my friend (who is rarely wrong, and also turned me on to 'Office Spaace') I watched it, and within a few minutes I was laughing so much that I'd woken my wife up. Our whole family are now dedicated fans to this film, and all I can say in conclusion is that if you haven't watched it, and you like a good screwball comedy, then this is a MUST-SEE. Hats off to all concerned. A classic of the genre. "},{"Title":"Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott Make a Funny Pair,But the Plot Is Just Too Stupid,","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Dude,Where's My Car? is a mediocre movie with a very stupid storyline that is all over place and ends too quickly.I thought the movie would be similar to Harold and Kumar,the story sounds stupid but they make the best of it,that wasn't the case with this movie.I did think that Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott were very funny and clearly got on well with each other and they had me laughing a lot,especially the scene where their trying to tell each other what's written on their tattoos,but they just wern't enough to make up for the fact that the plot dosen't really go anywhere for about the first hour,and when it does its just ridiculous,and the several scenes in this movie that are a complete miss.There are some funny scenes,but I wouldn't recommend Dude Where's My Car? unless you are under thirteen because its just too ridiculous to really enjoy.Two potheads wake up from a night of partying and can't remember a thing.They have made a lot of mistakes the following night,but all they really care about is finding their car. "},{"Title":"After a night they can't remember, comes a day they can't forget","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Two potheads wake up from a night of partying and can't remember where they parked their car.Another stoner comedy. The movie lines with some potential actors, and a potential plot, but overall the movie TRIES and sometimes FORGETS to be funny... Now the film, again, had some potential and I had some expectations beforehand. The two lead actors have had some good roles, but then some bad roles, but I came with the expectation they would become a perfect pair for a stoner comedy. Wrong... The film's plot starts off wonderfully, and a little funny. Then the movie progresses into a sci-fi film. Again, the movie pretends to be what's not. It takes and uses what other films like this one had done, so expect it to be a little cliché as well. But the thing that really irked me was the fact the actors didn't care nor want to be even in the position. Their lines had potential and what not, they their delivery and execution were careless. They came to the film for money and that's that, the chemistry between the two were not even passable. They seemed stale as cardboard to me, and that's not comedy, that's attempt. The last thing I'd like to get at is how they used bits and pieces from other films. I'm not going into full detail, but Dude, Where's My Car didn't care for anything and ended up being yet another stupid preposterous attempt at creating a stoner comedy, albeit it's potential. I do not recommend the film at all, unless you can withstand the stupidity, or you can watch something a bit more clever and funny... Whatever floats your boat, but this film really isn't that funny. 2/10. "},{"Title":"I understand what it is - its just not funny","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I know, I know. I get it! BUT it really is awful. Sorry. I understand funny films like that but that is a bad one. It starts off as bad but funny and then acceptably bad but then it tangents off into goodness knows what. It's crammed with all sorts of odd things. I know everyone has to start somewhere and i don't knock Ashton or anyone else for being IN the film. There are lots of guy humour films - and maybe this appeals to some guys and girls but i wouldn't include this in the bumper pack of funny feel good films.Its not funny- just sort of cringe worthy and made my 16 year old brother go huh? How was that made into a film? On a positive note - it probably stemmed off a whole load of noughties 'what happened to us last night because we were so wasted and can't remember' films. "},{"Title":"Dude, where's the good laughs and plot?","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Jesse (Ashton Kutcher) and Chester (Seann William Scott) wake up after a night of partying so hard they don't remember anything. They can't even remember where Jesse put his car.Eventually, they discover that their adventures including taking a large sum of money from a transvestite stripper and trying to find extra-terrestrial technology. All the while, trying to get their twin girlfriends (Jennifer Garner, Marla Sokoloff) anniversary presents.Let me say first that this is a really stupid, predictable movie. However, there are a lot of chuckle-worthy gags throughout the movie.About 99% of the jokes, sight gags and oral, is completely predictable. They were mostly horribly set-up to the point that you see the joke coming seconds before it happens. The other 1% only produced a fairly good chuckle.Character development, for the most part, is poor. All the characters are one-dimensional. However, the development of Jesse and Chester were uniquely laid out as we get to learn about them through the film.The performances from the majority of the cast were pretty weak, mostly due to what they were given to work with in the script. I think that they knew they were given a horrible script and didn't put their all into it. It sounded to me like they were just repeating what was on the pages they were handed. If you ask me, Kutcher and Scott were the only ones that were believable in their roles.The supporting cast was one of the weakest I've ever seen. These characters were very cliché, and were pretty forgettable. There was no substance in them at all. They were either just there, or used to poorly advance the plot.Then there is the special effects. There are a few, and they aren't edited into scenes well at all. In fact, even though this movie is nearly a decade old, the special effects in the climax look as if they were two decades old, and didn't age well.The soundtrack is pretty forgettable as well. I don't remember any piece of music in the entire movie. Nor do I remember if any songs in the movie were either classic tunes or covers of popular songs.I would suggest that you skip this movie. Only see this on television if there is nothing else on and you are bored. "},{"Title":"shockingly bad","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" There are some films that are so pitifully bad that they actually turn out to be fun. And Dude, Where's My Car is not one of them. This is one of those films that are so pitifully bad that it's atrocious and almost unwatchable. The target audience is, of course, adolescents and young adults, but even though I was an adolescent when I saw it, it didn't spark any enjoyment out of me, overstayed its welcome, and save for one two-minute scene, was a complete waste of my time.It features Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott, two fine actors who should have strayed away from this mess, as stoners who find themselves with a partial memory loss after a long night of partying and amongst not being able to remember where they parked their car, they forget another things and it just unfolds up unto the point where countless people including very hot chicks and science geeks are demanding to have some oh-so-powerful device called the continuum transfuctioner or something of the sort from them.I'm not going to bother listing examples of how bad this film is, I think the plot description I just listed does all of that for me. I'll just make this brief and warn you off by saying that except for one brief scene which had me roaring with laughter and actually starting to think that this movie might turn out alright, it's nothing but a waste of time. A shockingly dismal motion picture. "},{"Title":"Dude, You Seriously Slipped Up!","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Dimwitted, yet lovable Ashton Kutcher (as Jesse Montgomery III) and Seann William Scott (as Chester Greenburg) awaken from a night of partying, to discover the former's car is missing. They try to retrace their steps, and find their wheels, while being pursued by intergalactic aliens and a transsexual. This film is, as it states in the opining, based on actual events; I recall many mornings trying to recall where the car was left. Not sure what the other actual events rooted in reality might include. Mr. Kutcher and Mr. Scott act stupid, not stoned; actually, only a dog gets wasted. There is a lot of silly sexual innuendo, but no sex. The leading men appear bare-chested; and, the women are tight, albeit fully clothed. The hit soundtrack highlight is Young MC's Bust A Move. The movie looks like it was a lot more fun to make than it is to watch.*** Dude, Where's My Car? (2000) Danny Leiner ~ Ashton Kutcher, Seann William Scott, Jennifer Garner "},{"Title":"Dude, I want my 83 minutes back!","Date":"15 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" My Take Crude and totally unfunny would-be comedy.DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR is just a series of jokes stringed together to make a plot. Well, the film's an hours of bathroom jokes, smutty humor, rude misbehaving, annoying stupidity and worse, an hour spent on seeing two idiots call each other by Dude and Sweet. DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR is probably not the worst comedy ever, you could get yourself caught up in something worse, but that's only saying that this film deserves to be a candidate.Sean William Scott and Ashton Kutcher play two down-right dumb teenagers (even if one watches Animal Planet, doesn't make him educated) Jesse (Kutcher) and Chester (Scott). It all starts when they spent an entire night partying, and by morning, they forgot where they parked their car. Dude, where's my car?, one of them asks. Then after-wards, the two are involved in a quest to find a device called the continum transfuctioner, when they are sent by a bunch of sexy secret agents (who promise to give them the pleasure if they find it), as well as two male agents, either of which could be a horde of aliens who want it for their own evil cause.For a comedy, who needs a plot. But it is a crime to make a dumb sophomoric comedy that isn't funny, and DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR, although not totally unfunny, isn't a very enthusiastically funny comedy either. The movie is crammed with all possible jokes and humor in a teen comedy, it's rarely very funny. DUDE uses bathroom ans smut jokes of the bountiful order, but they're more gross than they are funny. In other words, avoid at all cost, unless you just want to know how the longest 83 minutes of your life would feel. Rating 0 out of 5. "},{"Title":"As Bad As Saving Silverman","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Released in the same year as the vastly unintelligent Saving Silverman and the It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World remake entitled Rat Race, this is another example of what NOT to do with celluloid. It would be better used, had it been wrapped tightly around anyone who wanted to view this work, in order to disable their viewing capacity.Honestly, this is only mildly amusing at best. It would not be so repugnant, had even one modicum of intelligence, wit, or creativity been employed herein, but unfortunately, such is not the case. There exists herein ONE funny scene and that one scene was so widely shown prior to the release of this film, as to completely preclude the actual viewing of this film.All in all? Skip it. You'll love yourself more for it, in the long run.It rates a 4.6/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"Stupid. Dumb. Idiotic. Anything but Funny.","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" A film which tries hard to be like an American stupid/funny movie (Dumb & Dumber. The Stupids etc.) but ends up being all stupid and no funny.I always was of the opinion that Ashton Kutcher could not act and you know what? My opinion about him has been strengthened ten times over by this movie.Sean Scott comes off a little better though as he has been playing similar stereotype roles (american pie, final destination) of a dumb American teenager; which is no credit to him in anyway.All the cast/crew in the film seem to be extras as the entire film concentrates totally on the two 'Dudes', which I found a little annoying. Also, some scenes & sequences are totally unasked for, which can be forgiven given that this is a dumb movie, but since they are no funnier than Mount Rushmore, they don't serve any purpose at all.Recommended only if you are a retard or if your IQ is below 50. "},{"Title":"What a waste!","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I LOVE STUPID MOVIES!!! In fact one of my favorite films is RUN RONNIE RUN, however - this film doesn't even come close to the brilliance of David Cross and Bob Odenkirk.The worse thing about a film like Dude, Where's my Car, is realizing that it had the potential to be quite a good film - IF IT HAD A PLOT. Recounting a drunken night of two annoying adolescent youths COULD have been FUNNY! With a little more characterization and a bit more of a believable plot line.This film is patronizing young people! Chicks are all bikini wearing hotties and guys are all muscle frat boys who drink too much. It's the typical 'teen comedy' - but it's even patronizing to teenagers. Also, even if you were wasted - I reckon you'd REMEMBER getting a f*c*i*g tattoo!! (err, and it would be red and sore the next day!!) They didn't have to make it 100% realistic, I realize that - BUT Run Ronnie Run is ridiculously unrealistic, BUT THE CHARACTERS WERE DIFFERENT AND FUNNY!! To make a silly film funny, it takes a good script and good character. Not stereotypical characters and boring jokes. "},{"Title":"Bad and definitely not funny","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" What I think is that this extremely tasteless movie tries to do, with the use of bad taste and the piling of clichés upon clichés combined with a plot totally lacking credibility, to push in the direction of a 'funny bad movie'but ultimately fails to provoke the desired effect. Or, to explain this a little bit better instead of making fun of EVERY character in the movie, it seems to deliberately spare the two main characters, which are, in my opinion, quite obnoxious, and even tries to arouse a certain sympathy for them, while at the same time, it ridicules everything and everybody surrounding them, to such a degree that it even becomes quite offensive, and it is there that the failure lies, because, in order to make a 'funny bad movie'(in my opinion) the necessary condition is that EVERYTHING and EVERYONE, including the lead characters be ridiculed, and it is obviously not the case here, suggesting that some categories of people can be freely ridiculed without any restriction and others not. The conclusion emerging from that can be summarized in one word DISCRIMINATION "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy about two potheads!","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR?, in my opinion, is an excellent comedy about two potheads! If you ask me, Jesse (Ashton Kutcher) and Chester (Seann William Scott) were very funny, even though they were potheads. In addition, all of their mishaps were hilarious. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone was ideally cast, the direction was flawless, the production design was spectacular, and the performances were top-grade. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent comedy about two potheads. I guarantee you you'll enjoy it, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. Oh, yes, and don't use drugs. "},{"Title":"An insult to an ostrich.","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Two potheads lose their car and forget what happened the night before. The go looking for the car but end up in a lame plot that involves twins who look nothing alike, a guy who cages them, a pot smoking dog and the space cult that wants the continue whatever.The only part that I liked in this movie was the part where they order Chinese foooooooood and she keeps saying and then. That was pretty funny but the rest of the movie sucked. When they were hauling the garbage, it was probably a representation of the whole movie a pile of trash.Kutcher can do a lot better and I have seen it in Butterfly Effect. I don't know why he made this movie but I know that he can better.After seeing this, you might say, dude where's my movie? And then? AND THEN? Where is my GOOD movie? "},{"Title":"Wow, what a waste.","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I knew this movie would be a little stupid, after all, it's a comedy. And I expected to be a little disappointed but, I had no idea that I'd actually feel angry afterward. I fell asleep within the first half hour. Like I said, I knew it would be stupid, I like stupid movies Harold and Kumar go to Whitecastle, Jay and Silent Bob films...but, this...was awful. This movie might be funny if you're under 16 and currently stoned. Just don't don't expect to be amused if otherwise. Your friends may tell you, oh it's so funny...it's about pot and stuff. And pot equals funny! They're lying, they just want you to suffer through it like they had to in order to feel better. Bottom line, skip this film. "},{"Title":"What a load of rubbish","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This has to be one of the worst US Comedies of all time, when I initially watch this movie I went into the cinema with high expectations as I am usually a fan of the non senseical US teen comedies.I have never been so disappointed in my life.Dude, where's my car? Where's your car dude?...etc.dude... what does mine say.. sweet what does mine say...etc.This isn't humour, it's barley English.Avoid this film like the plague. I would rather let a crack sadistic team of midgets loose on my never regions with razor blades than watch this movie for a second time. "},{"Title":"terrible","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I like all kinds of films.That includes silly comedies.Not this one however, for all the reasons that other people have already eloquently put in their comments before me.Sadly, I went to see this film in the cinema, together with some friends.People make mistakes, I know that now.Until today, it's the only time ever that I stood up in the middle of the movie and walked out of the theater (better things to do).And I was not the only one.Awful ! Why didn't this film go straight to video, I wonder? Is there anyone who really likes it (apart from one or two jokes) "},{"Title":"You have to be high if you liked this film","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I rented a copy of Dude, Where's My Car to see if it's as bad as the critics says it is. After I watched the movie I made out the fact that the critics were wrong, the film was worse then what they said.We have two dudes, Jesse and chester who just had a big night of partying but they don't remember what happened the night before when they woke up. They get a message for their girlfriends, the twins, and they talked about how their house is all trashed up thanks to them from the night before. Jesse says it'll be all right because they bought their girlfriends gifts. When they go outside to get the gifts in the car and go to the twins house they ask themselves a big question, Dude, Where's My Car? Together they must retrace their steps from the night before to find their car and patch up their relationships with only two clues, a fridge full of pudding and a match book from a local strip joint. They soon encounter hot alien chicks, a manly female stripper wanting a suitcase full of money, an annoying fast food lady, nerd alien hunters, wild ostriches, and hunky alien dudes to find their beloved car.When watching this movie I kept telling myself, this is a stoner flick. It's supposed to be stupid...well this film was beyond stupid. You have two idiots who retrace their steps from nothing because they were too wasted from the night before. This is the kind of movie where it had a good story but they made it too stupid even though it could of been a lot better. Sure you get a few laughs, a stoner dog, a crazed man in a cage, two dudes fighting over what the tattoos on their friends back says, and so on, and on, and repeats. This film is a perfect concoction of bad acting, bad scripting, and over all, bad movie! Not recommended unless your going to be wasted at a party and you won't remember it the next day. "},{"Title":"I Did Like the Alien Jumpsuit Chicks","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I liked the Alien Jumpsuit Chicks and wish they had been the main focus of this project. Instead we get Stiffler and that Puck'd guy trying to do comedy. Now Stiffler is simply incapable of being funny, but he is entertaining (when playing Stiffler) because he is so irritating. Unfortunately in Dude his character is not Stiffler. The Punk'd' guy is not funny but he is somewhat entertaining because you wonder how someone who should be working at the Topeka Dairy Queen is getting paid for this kind of stuff.Anyway the movie is incredibly stupid, but it is supposed to be incredibly stupid, and it is intended for a target audience of the incredibly stupid; maybe even less intelligent and discriminating than the folks P.T. Barnum was referring to when he said nobody went broke underestimating the intelligence of the American people. Its simple of mind target audience was illustrated at my local Blockbuster where the resident drones and wigger girls were laughing and snorting like pigs as they recounted their favorite scenes.For me the biggest laugh came from watching a then unknown Jennifer Garner (who was pushing 30-born April-1972) trying to play the uptight teenage girlfriend and keep up with Lisa Sokoloff (born Dec-1980 and the only cast member who is actually an acting talent) playing the other uptight teenage girlfriend. Seeing their talent disparity in light of their subsequent career paths was a graphic illustration of the entertainment anti-meritocracy. Although finding Kristy (Dec-1969) Swanson back playing teenage bit parts was some consolation. "}{"Title":"Dude, Where's My Refund?","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Ever wonder what it would feel like if your brain was being eaten by those Scarabs from 'The Mummy' movies? Well, two minutes into this monstrosity and you'll soon feel the pain.The story is about a bargain bin Bill and Ted who set out on a journey to find their missing vehicle. Along the way they encounter a variety of strange characters, inane jokes and plot-twists; including geeks, aliens, ostriches and a device known as a 'Continuum Transfunctioner'.Nothing about this movie was entertaining, original, charming or smart. It tries to be the next 'Dumb and Dumber' but it ends up being 'Dumbass and Dumbass'. The pairing of Ashton Kutcher and Sean William Scott was either very brave or very stupid. Taking the two biggest idiots in showbiz and giving them their own movie. Crash-Boom-Bang!Ashton Kutcher is an over-rated moron with all the acting talent of Elizabeth Hurley. I won't bother seeing the 'Butterfly Effect' because of the diarrhoea effect it'll have on me. Sean William Scott will forever be typecast as a dumbass. If he's not playing a character similar to 'American Pie's' Stifler, then he's playing some reluctant messiah (who happens to be a dumbass) in 'The Matrix' rip-off 'Bullet-Proof Monk'. Dude, where's my career?If aliens ever came down to earth and saw this garbage, they'd say `No, there's no hope for these people. We can't save them.' Its movies like this that's creating a whole generation of morons.-5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The credits are funnier than the film","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  A story that hinges on two stoners who can't remember what they did the night before or where they left their car. The humour is infantile, to the point of incredulity, I mean, how did this film get commissioned and how can I get that kind of money to make my film???There is one funny joke and that comes across better in the preview. I am not sure there is anything else worth saying.  "},{"Title":"American Pie was actually funny...","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I'd class this film in the teen comedy genre (like American Pie) which, as a teenager myself, would expect to enjoy and can relate to.With 'Dude, where's my car?' I can do neither.Instead of enjoyment, throughout this film I was annoyed. I can imagine how the stereotyped groups in the film would react (the blind, Chinese, French, homosexuals, transvestites) and despite being in none of these groups I thought this was laughing at someone else's expense was unacceptable. They couldn't even get the two apparent German homosexual space characters right; the two of them sounded Welsh! (No disrespect) If the writers wanted to use the spoof kind of humour, why didn't they take notice of Austin Powers, and why mock such groups instead of mocking teenager's lifestyles like in American Pie in an intelligent way. I mean, if these two 'idiots' are supposed to stoners then what indicates to the audience that this is the case, they resemble no stereotype I am aware of of stoners?The jokes in the film are very poor and some last for far too long- such as the Chinese takeaway scene and the tattoo scene, and you begin to get very angry as the joke continues beyond your temperament. The storyline is utterly ridiculous which I suppose is what is it meant to be but it is far too over-exaggerated. Two teens get intoxicated and can't remember what happened the night before, so what? Do you need to get stupidly drunk to be popular? Didn't think so. I did also notice that the director tried hard to avoid continuity errors- he always made sure that when the two main characters either ate or had rubbish bins tipped on their heads they'd bear the scars afterwards. The group of apparent 'stoner bashers' are likely the group off Grease, what's that all about? The film is real cheesy but not in a half-decent, 'scary movie' kind of way. The SFX towards the end are terrible even though the film was made in 2000 and called breasts who-who's is going to far; its not remotely funny (like the entire film then, really)I'm afraid I can't think of anything good to say about this film, apart from it's thankfully less than 2 hours long.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely terrible","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  What an awful movie...I couldn't even manage to get through a half hour of it.  And I was high -- shouldn't this be the type of movie that's funny after you smoke a bowl?  It's not.  It was annoying as hell.  It's not even remotely funny!  It's just irksome and nerve-grating. In other news  Ashton Kutcher is not funny and he looks like a butch chick.   "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's My Brain?","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"    Ashton Kutcher, of TV's That 70's Show and Sean William Scott of American Pie stature, have teamed together for what some would say a Bill and Ted comedy, but I would have to say a Dumb and Dumber trip in itself, without half the laughs. First off, let me say I think in a way, this film is underrated. What were people expecting, Citizen Kane? But then, we can compare it to other comedies, and we find ourselves wondering how a film like this could be made. It's a real hit or miss, and there are more misses than hits, but sometimes, just sometimes, there are some funny moments. At the scene with the blind child and the blind people handshake, I could detect some Farrelly brothers humor, and I would not be surprised if the writer(s) of this film were trying to take after their idols, Bobby and Peter Farrelly. However, this is not near as funny as Dumb and Dumber, and if you though that film was bad, you'll hate Dude, Where's My Car? It is in no way for those easily offended. I don't like when people say this is a rip-off of Bill and Ted. It actually isn't; Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure had many more laughs, and the main characters weren't high on pot the whole way through the film. I would have to give this mindless, wandering film 2/5 stars. It's not as bad as some say, and not as great as others speak of it.John Ulmer  "},{"Title":"A STUNNING EPIC MASTERPIECE!!!","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude Where's My Car is a captivating satire on what we like to call society.  All of us Americans rely to heavily on materials to make us feel better or to make us forget things.  This prevents us from learning the important things in life portrayed in Dude Where's My Car.  Sean William Scott proves time and time again that a picture is worth a thousand words.  Sean steals the movie as a torn teenager from a society filled with baby boomers refusing to leave the upper offices.  Sean struggles hard to remember where the car is which is a huge symbol throughout the movie.  The car is in fact their want to do the best they can in life and to forget all the bad times and build upon those to improve their lives.  Searching for their car is half the journey towards individualism and speaking out for freedom.  I know Americans would love to feel free to do what they want and Dude Where's My Car is trying to teach us that.  Forget all the materials we possess because the after all it is not the materials that make us, we make ourselves.  Thanks Dude Where's My Car, I'm looking forward to your thought-provoking sequel. "},{"Title":"A STUNNING EPIC MASTERPIECE!!!","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude Where's My Car is a captivating satire on what we like to call society.  All of us Americans rely to heavily on materials to make us feel better or to make us forget things.  This prevents us from learning the important things in life portrayed in Dude Where's My Car.  Sean William Scott proves time and time again that a picture is worth a thousand words.  Sean steals the movie as a torn teenager from a society filled with baby boomers refusing to leave the upper offices.  Sean struggles hard to remember where the car is which is a huge symbol throughout the movie.  The car is in fact their want to do the best they can in life and to forget all the bad times and build upon those to improve their lives.  Searching for their car is half the journey towards individualism and speaking out for freedom.  I know Americans would love to feel free to do what they want and Dude Where's My Car is trying to teach us that.  Forget all the materials we possess because the after all it is not the materials that make us, we make ourselves.  Thanks Dude Where's My Car, I'm looking forward to your thought-provoking sequel. "},{"Title":"You could do worse, but you can do a whole lot better.","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Final Score (calculated average of various classic cinematic qualities)3.4  (out of 10)Obviously this is a dumb-and-proud-of-it movie.  It's not supposed to win Oscars, just meant to entertain.  You get exactly what you pay for.  But dumb can be good and dumb can be bad.  The plot finds two stoners, stumbling through one odd vignette after another, looking for something trivial while big, wild things are going on all around them.  Wait a minute...this is The Big Lebowski.  With a sci-fi twist, of course. In fact, the Coen brother masterpiece (which ranks a perfect 10 on my scale) could have just as easily been called Dude, Where's My Rug?.Ashton Kutcher leads, playing exactly his Michael Kelso alter ego on FOX's That 70s Show.  It makes one wonder if he can do anything else - even if it's just playing a different version of a dumb guy.  Sean William Scott- the funniest thing about American Pie and Road Trip- phones in a performance basically playing Ashton Kutcher.  Then we've got TV cuties Marla Sokoloff and Jennifer Garner just standing around filling air as the girlfriends. There's a lot of standing around in this movie.The chief problem with Dude is that the movie and everyone else in it are just as stupid as it's leads.  There's no one to play off.  All the best stupid-and-know-it movies (like Lebowski, Wayne's World, Dumb and Dumber, Beavis and Butthead and so on) featured stupidity surrounded by intelligence.  When the whole world is on the same wavelength as Jessie and Chester the lack of compare/contrast seriously squashes any potential laughs.  That's the big problem the movie just isn't that funny.  It's more like a kid flick that was rejected from Nickelodeon for a couple of drug references.On the plus side, it's bad, but, it's not painful.  It's pretty inoffensive and has a bright vivid color pallette. It's briskly paced and easy to get through. It goes from one strange, pointless subplot to the next and each time something new comes around the bend you stay tuned, hoping it might be interesting.  The best little vignette features a pack of killer Ostriches and Andy Dick in a cage, but even that is more novelty than actual laughs.Still this movie might become a kind of semi-cult classic simply because of the strange (yet unoriginal) world it creates.  Come on people, there's so much better out there in dumb comedies. You don't have to settle for this. "},{"Title":"Comedy?","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I guess this movie does qualify as a comedy.  There were plenty of jokes and gags in every scene.  It doesn't matter that only a few were funny.  Still, I prefer to think of this film a light hearted sci-fi.  Sci-Fi Lite. I believe that's what I'll call it.The Sci-Fi Lite plot was the only reason I didn't change the channel.  And possibly the fact that there might be a somewhat humorous joke in the remainder of the film.As an alternative Sci-Fi Lite film I would have to recommend Star Trek IV The Voyage Home.  It has a better plot, funny jokes, and whales.  In addition, it's even lighter!  "},{"Title":"Pretty good parody of the teen scene. Enjoyable if you're in the right frame of mind!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Before I make comments, I have to wonder about those 943 who rated this film 1.  What the heck were they expecting, The Godfather? With a title like Dude Where's My Car? you have to go in expecting this to be a madcap, over-the-top farce, and that's exactly what it is. I think it deserves good marks for accomplishing what the writer and director set out to do. Someone who doesn't want to see this type of film just shouldn't, but seeing it then rating it 1 is a bit juvenile. Like a vegetarian who takes a bite of rare steak and says, Oooh, this tastes awful.Now, my comments. I have a 29-year-old son whose apartments over the past few years have looked about as neat as the one in this film. Plus, I found out last year that the same thing happened to him, not quite as extreme, but he woke one morning and couldn't remember where his car was. I suspect it happens a lot, but you know it never happened in the 60s when I was a student! In this film, the two protagonists wake up and not only can't find their car, they cannot remember anything about the night before, and are surprised to open the refrigerator to find a year's supply of pudding!some SPOILERS - So, this film is about their search for the car. Everywhere they go, they encounter people who know them, they get great reception, but they still remember nothing. There is a transsexual who claims they took his case full of money. Some strange guys who claim to be from outer space, looking for their continuum transfunctioner which will prevent the destruction of the universe. The hopeful Earthlings in suits made of bubble wrap. The five aliens who turn into this one, giant woman. And, of course, their girlfriends who are twins and hosted the mind-blowing party the night before.At one point, trying to find the car, they end up in a prison-cage with a fellow who had been there 3 years, 4 months, and 7 days, but who's counting?  As they leave, being freed by correctly answering a question he had heard on Animal Planet, he tells them Email me, ok, FreakInCage.com.  They finally figure out the Rubik's Cube is the continuum transponder (shades of time-travel using a DeLorean), it gets to the right pair, and they are able to give their girlfriends a first anniversary gift, necklaces which make their chests grow noticeable larger.Dude Where's My Car is a dumb movie, but a very well-done one at that. For its genre the writing is very good, with a lot of subtle references that I'd bet many missed. It reminds me a lot of Dumb and Dumber, another that I think was pulled off very well. And, it is much better than films like Scary Movie and the two American Pie films which have no subtlety and focus too much on strongly R-rated attempts at humor. Dude Where's My Car is a much more intelligent film, and intelligent enough to know it has nothing in it that should be taken seriously. Except the fact that after dating a year, they had not even slept with their girlfriends yet, and were not scheming to do so. I wonder what movie the 1 voters thought they were going to see??  "}{"Title":"Cheech & Chong + Bill & Ted = Dude & Sweet","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Silly comedies do serve a purpose in this crazy world. As it has been proved in many movies, setting up the joke is just as important as the payoff.In Dude, Where's My Car?, many of the gags wore thin real fast and I guessed the final payoff 5 minutes after the flick started. I do confess that there were a few funny scenes and Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott do have some nice chemistry as the whacked-out duo. (I only checked the movie out for the title!) There were just not enough good gags to maintain the laughs through the film's 83 minute running time. "},{"Title":"As bad as the critics made out!","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Rarely funny, B, awful. The only funny scene is at the take out restaurant. Worse movies exist, but not many. And I have nothing more to that. "},{"Title":"Do *not* go and see this one!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is definitly a bad movie. It's just one of those movies where you get the idea that the director didn't know what to do with his sunday, so he decided to make Dude, Where's my car?. So that's it no (or nearly) scenario, pretty poor acting which all ads up to a really bad movie.Go and see something else! "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  If I wasn't so lazy I would have gotten up to change the channel.  Watching this movie was sort of like driving by a bad accident you don't want to look, but you are compelled to view the carnage.  I thought that Austin Powers was the only movie I had ever seen with no redeeming qualities... until I saw this tripe.  This movie makes a compelling case for censorship.  1/10 "},{"Title":"It took an effort to get a film worse than Star Trek V and Plan 9 From Outer Space, but they did it!","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Read the title.  Yep, they made a film worse than Star Trek V.  I didn't think it was possible, but they did it!  No plot, no humor (the ongoing And then joke was funny once, but not the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and many more ordinal times!)  After seeing this movie for free, I wanted a refund.  I could go on, but this movie is not worth the effort. ZERO / 100 "},{"Title":"hideous, absolutely hideous","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  and then, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then, and then ,and then, YOU CHOADS THINK THIS IS FUNNY! This is a horrible comedy that appeals only to slack-jawed yokels and idiots. Sad, so sad, that this movie appeals to someone. May god save their souls. If I could give this movie a 0, I would. 1/10  "},{"Title":"So funny that u can't breath","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a masterpiece. Everything in this movie is so funny. I don't think that a movie must have any Intelligency funny jokes. I like movies like this way. Shibby. U don't need to think, U can be so stupid u want to be and u understand those funny jokes like me. This film is so greeeeeat. Aight? "},{"Title":"Warning to all you might actually watch all of it.","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERSDumb catch phrases, moronic characters and a lame-brained plot. One could say the script writers knew where this was going as soon as the producer laid it out. It explains how our two losers become universal heroes. It also explains how there was actually some pretty funny dialogue within this joke itself. DUDE keeps your attention as best it can by doing the dumbest things. But everyone knows better.Two, err, dudes wake up from a party at their place to find their car is gone (which holds their girlfriends' anniversary presents). Their mission to find it crosses with an interplanetary plot to destroy the world.One could only wish that they would be gentle in creating this dud. But all the mayhem comes at you non-stop and there is no breather as our two buffoons run into different encounters every minute. And although the overall production and mindless banter thrown around is more than shoddy, there is some sort of consistency that makes DUDE watchable, and at times funny. You are warned DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR is awful garbage and what's worse, you might actually sit through it all. "},{"Title":"Like, terrible, dude.","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Bill and Ted. Beavis and Butt-head. Bush and Cheney. History has always been full of dumb but loveable couples.And then, these two what's-their-names and screw it all up.I am all for stupid comedies. I love them. I go ga-ga over Scary Movie. I like Animal House. I think Chevy Chase should have won an Oscar for Vacation. But this is *unwatchable*, pure and simple.I only laughed once during the whole movie. Didn't bother to finish it, then changed my mind, watched the ending, and was tempted to burn the tape to avoid anybody renting it again.Seriously, save your money, rent a classic like Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure, or go to sleep. This movie is worthless. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as i thought it would be. it was worse","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  when i rented this movie i knew i was getting a bad teen movie.  But was i in for a surprise.  this could have been one of the worst movies i have ever seen.  i think i could have been more entertaining to see the making of dude where's my car.  just to see what the hell happened.  did these guys take this movie serious?  or was it just a couple guys screwing around? "}{"Title":"Dude, Where's my sense of picking out a good movie??","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I'm sorry but this film just plain sucked. I couldn't laugh at any part of it because there was nothing to laugh at.You are wondering why I watched it then................ cause someone held a gun to my head and made me or cause I was drunk. The worse part is that I don't drink anymore (or at least didn't until this movie).Well I guess it's back to AA for me,,,,, I just have to stay away from the baaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaad movies. "},{"Title":"Insanely stupid... yet oddly endearing.","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This has got to be the stupidest movie I've seen all year.  All during the movie I was muttering What the Hell *IS* this?!?  Actually, you don't watch this movie so much as you stare at it in disbelief.  Let me tell you a few of the plot points.  You've got two hot Swedish guys who are also aliens in charge of an enchanted Rubix Cube.  You've got a musical number in the middle of the movie that parodies every rap video made during 1995.  You've got Evil Space-Babezilla.  And then you have the Evil Ostriches.Kumbayah, the Evil Ostriches.They've seen Jurassic Park one too many times.  They live in a zoo run by a Frenchman who keeps Andy Dick in a cage for some reason.  They are also holding our heros' car hostage.So, as you see, this is the most insanely stupid movie I've seen all year.  I *really* wanted to hate it.  I really did.I did not hate this movie.I have regained sanity enough to give Dude three stars.  As demented as it is, it is NOT boring.  I also highly recomend it if you want to stare in utter shock and disbelief at something for 83 minutes. "},{"Title":"comedy?","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie ain't no comedy. There's almost nothing to laugh about. This film is a success (well, at least in Holland it is) because commercials want you to believe that this movie is a movie like american pie, or road trip. But these where real comedies, movies with funny moments. In 'Dude', I think I laughed only once, about a scene with a smoking dog. That's all... Maybe, after drinking a lot of beer, this could be a comedy for you but otherwise, stay away from it. My rating 1 point for the movie, 1 point for the dog and 1 point for Kristy Swanson (I have to admit, she looks nice in this one) -> 3/10 "},{"Title":"You must be joking","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The fact is that the films purpose is not to fall in line amongst films such as American Beauty yet to level itself with the other recent toilet humor films American Pie and Road Trip. Doesn't that fact that these three movies star the same actor say something about his talent? What was Marla Sokoloff thinking, she is one of the most talented actors i have come to see and i find her in a pointless and stupid movie. I tried at times to laugh at things that were stupid in order to satisfy the person whom chose to see the film, but i just couldn't do it. the movie did not even hold my interest. and i wonder why not. the script was something a ten year old could write, the story was not funny and predictable and just plain idiotic. in all it was a bad movie, a tasteless attempt in the line of films American Pie successfully began. i wasn't expecting a award winning film, but this was just pathetic. on a good note however, the early gag of the take away and then? order was something that made me smile. but no. I'm sorry, no. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your precious money...","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was ridiculous.  There were absolutely no redeeming values in it AT ALL not the acting, plot, script, scenery, costumes, NOTHING.  And what's more, the movie gives us teens SUCH a bad name, and no one in real life ever acts like the characters do.  Its just inconceivable.  Whatever you do, DON'T waste your money on this embarrassingly horrible movie.  It makes your head ache and your eyes close. I'd give it a strong F+ "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's My $8.50?","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  In the past, a number of films have succeeded in entertaining with deliberately stupid humor.  Dude succeeds in being stupid with only an occasional chuckle.  Two brainless stoners have lost their car, their memories of what happened last night and an object that could save or destroy the universe.  Everytime they turn around, somebody else remembers them from last night.  Although the premise is intelligent and loaded with possibility, this live-action Beavis and Butthead run it deep into the ground throughout the first half of the film;  they continue to rehash the same joke over and over beyond that killing what would have otherwise been an enjoyable concept.  This is a film about stoners for stoners.  Anyone else should probably wait for the video and then only rent it to pass the time while doing housework;  that way, you catch just enough of the humor to keep you entertained while not overdoing it. "},{"Title":"Stupid, in a good way. Kind of.","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This was one of the absolute stupidest movies I have ever seen. It had hundreds of jokes which were just really corny, or which dragged on far too long. Several scenes involve the same two lines being repeated over and over. For example, if you've seen the trailers, you're already aware of the And Then... Chinese Food window gag. What you may not be aware of is that the joke actually goes on for over two minutes. If you're not sick of jokes like these after seeing the trailers, you'll definitely be sick of them by the end of the movies.The lost car plot eventually gives way to a second extremely corny sci-fi plot which could appeal to nobody. The characters are reminiscent of the characters in Bill And Ted's Bogus Journey, with low-budget futuristic wardrobes and emotionless dialogue which goes nowhere.Overall, I would say this is a good movie to laugh at. The random choice of wardrobes, accents, props and plot turns lead me to believe that perhaps the movie's plot was the result of a bad round of Mad Libs.Keep an eye out for Michael Bower, A.K.A Donkey Lips as Big Cult Guy #2. "},{"Title":"More to see than what's in the trailers (but not much more)","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was actually pretty funny. I mean I knew the premise, I knew a lot of the funny lines and parts, so I was expecting to actually have a let down when I saw the movie. But, I was surprised. The movie held my attention most of the time. It felt a little long towards the end. Ashton Kutcher does a good job, and Seann Scott continues plays another one of his stupid college-aged roles. Talk about getting type cast. Oh well. I was wondering how they would wrap up the movie and it has an interesting twist at the end. "},{"Title":"The worst movie of all times.","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Dear readers, I'm sure that you must have watched, hundreds of stupid movies, but none compared to this. The plot of the movie is not well conceived at all, totally illogical, & senseless. The story revolves around a trans-functioner from a outer space that is introduced in the middle of the movie. Two female leads (Jennifer Garner & Marla Sokoloff) are casted as guest stars, only appeared on screen not more than 5 times in short scenes. Both male leads don't know anything about anything & they don't remember anything. I was bored down to tears & most of the times I had to forward. All actors are over acting through out the movie.This is most worst movie that I've ever watched. Jesse & Chester are shown stupids beyond the human limits. I regret my 130 hrs that I can never get back.so please do yourself a favor & avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Dude, where's my brain?","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Now, Dude, Where's My Car became kind of a pop culture known fact, I have seen parodies on this movie and of course, no one will ever forget this title. But seeing how Ashton Kutcher and Sean William Scott had the lead roles, this was never a promising film. But still I think I wanted to check it out for myself. You know how you hear nothing but bad reviews on a film, but yet you just have to see for yourself how bad it really is? Well, that's what happened when I rented Dude, Where's My Car? But of course you know the saying curiosity killed the cat? Well, curiosity killed my brain cells for a few moments. This is just such a ridiculous movie on so many levels where the acting is horrible and the story is just too silly.Jesse and Chester wake up from an apparently wild night from a party that their twin girlfriends threw, one problem, they don't remember a thing. When the girls promise them a surprise for their anniversary, but take it away due to Jesse and Chester's clear view on life as partiers, Jesse and Chester think as long as they give them gifts, they'll get laid. But the gifts are in the car, but one problem, where's the car? It's gone, they go on a quest to look for it, and end up finding out the strange situations they were in that whole night.Dude, Where's My Car is one of those brainless comedies that really had no point in being made, it was just a silly story and a waste of money. Just I know another good movie could have been made with this money. But in some sick way I think this is going to be a cult film down the line in a few more years. It's just a typical stoner flick, nothing special, not to mention it's actors are just not that promising. But we actually had some good cameos, and that's the reason for my kind rating.2/10 "}{"Title":"What a bunch of whiners","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" To Everyone who totally ripped it out this film... You must be uptight square boring w****** this film was just a jokey comedy which WAS funny, u shouldn't have bothered going to see it if you knew it wasn't your type of film. You all complain because it wasn't like Austin powers or American pie, but if it was like those movies you'd all still complain!!! this film is obviously not to be taken seriously as it was just taking the p**s so y don't u all chill out stop being so serious! I cant believe there's so many bad reviews on this film and most are completely rubbish and whoever said ***SPOILER*** that in the end it was a dream was so wrong because actually the guys get their memories wiped by the gay Nordic dudes so they cant remember what happened! and those gay guys were Nordic not German and the so did NOT sound welsh! where did u get that from?!?!?! all i know is that dude wheres my car isn't 1/2 as bad as all you people make out! "},{"Title":"Dude, awesome!","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I went into Dude, Where's my Car expecting an idiot teen comedy, with many reviews criticizing the movie of focusing to lowbrow humor. Instead I found what could be a spiritual successor to Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. DWMC doesn't focus on shock value and bathroom humor like Austin Powers for example, instead it provides a constantly moving flow of absurd situation comedy. The viewer has no idea what to expect next, which provides a truly refreshing movie experience in this age of treadmill plot lines and run-through situation development. You have to keep your wits about to catch many of the subtler jokes, while the recurring themes keep making you laugh throughout the movie. The characters and their lines are absolutely spot on, and while the movie starts a bit slow, it's quick to start going and only gets better as it proceeds. One of the best movies I have seen in a long while. Totally awesome! "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's the humor?","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Ugh...where to begin. This is the story of 2 loser type guys who fall into an adventure of sorts while looking for their car. That's about what sums up this film. I chuckled a couple of times during the film, but couldn't help but be mostly insulted by the less than sophomoric attempt made to make this movie funny. Writing - bad. Acting - lacking. Comedy - where? The main characters of the film are poster kids for an 8th grader's daydream of being a little older and cool. For a better, funnier, and more classic goofy buddy film, check out Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. Party on, dudes, because this flick ain't shibby. "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's My Vodka (or else I'm not making it through this movie)","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  All right, rubix cube!That was the positive portion of my critique.  This is a movie that makes Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure look like brain surgery.  I'd describe the parts of the plot I hated if there even was a plot.  Maybe that's the joke.Come to think of it, after the Dude/Sweet fight, my memory fades a bit.  I think the lack of oxygen to my brain as I attempted to choke myself might have something to do with it.  I was happy to wake up 20 minutes later to discover that I missed nothing! Unfortunately that temporary happiness quickly left me as I discovered I wasn't even half way through the movie yet.I speak here today not only as a movie patron, but as a crappy movie survivor.  Those memories will haunt me to my grave (and to my car). "},{"Title":"Director, Where are the Jokes?","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  To be honest, if a film's only highest is the gigantic hot woman, and seeing breasts enlarged by a device, you're probably watching something erotic. Well, no! You are in fact watching one of the worst comedies I have ever seen.  From the start, it's not funny. In the middle, it's not funny, and with the ending highlights being those space women forming into a large, gigantic babe, with big breasts and a revealing skirt, and the hero's girl friends getting their breast enlarged, it's just not funny or clever! Even Repossessed tried to make it look funny to see a lady's enlarged while working until they exploded! None of these so-called jokes do not make me laugh, make me chuckle or even make me smile! The Jokes are irritating, frustrating for the die-hard comedy fan, and I was just hoping that the next job is going to be funny (which it never was)!  This failed to get a single award, which I can say is the best thing about this film. It's a shame it didn't get any Razzies, which unfunny cinematic tripe truly deserves!  Overall, this is dull, unfunny, and a waste of your time even watching it! I just hope before I die, I get 90 minutes left to live to compensate watching a truly dreadful comedy!  "},{"Title":"The only reason to watch this film is to see the beautiful Mitzi Martin","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The only reason to watch this film is to see the beautiful Mitzi Martin, the lead alien Hot ChickOr... if you happen to be trying to extract information from a terrorist, and need a new sure-fire torture device, just make him watch this film over and over.... guaranteed he'll talk within a day!-Glenn   "},{"Title":"Dude, how did this get funded?","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  No, seriously -- how did this get funded? The writing is terrible, predictable while the humour is flat, cliché and sometimes racist. It amazes me that stuff like this gets made. Ashton Kutcher and Sean William Scott are totally typecast from this movie onward. "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's my money I spent on this wreck.","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Valley boy/girl movies have been SOOO done and this movie adds another to the growing pile. Whatever the people who made this movie were smoking it was some very bad stuff. The plot was a haze & the jokes were definately not lit. As for the California babes, see Clueless. Nothing could bring this movie out of the bong water in which it resides. If you lose your car on the way to the movie rental store to rent this movie you should thank your lucky stars.  "},{"Title":"The Stupidest Film I have EVER seen","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, Where's My Car is a HORRIBLE junior high school, elementary school level movie.  It should have gone direct to video, at best.  My two idiot friends dragged me to see this movie despite all my protests.  I begged them, begged them to death that we see something else, but they insisted.  They thought the title was funny and probably indicated a funny or hip type of film.  WRONG.  And I'm sure some sleazy executive in Hollywood thought Wow what a hip title, it will attract all the young people!.  WRONG.  Well my friends suffered with me.  Well we ALL suffered.  It was a terrible film.  Not one of us laughed at this stupid junior high school level film.  Stupid, stupid, STUPID.  I did get to say I told you guys.Its not even stupid in a good way, but in a bad, bad, BAD way.  Avoid this movie at all costs.  This is the type of dirt bag film where the producers should have just taken the budget and donated it to charity.  At least something good could have come out of it.  "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever created.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I'll only say this about one movie it is the worst I have ever seen. Iwould have found greater solace in staring at a blank wall for an hourand a half.I don't know how they pulled it off, but the writers managed to makethis movie vile, crude, and not funny at the same time. I guess we'resupposed to laugh every time we hear the phrase big hoo hoos.Do not watch this movie. It will leave you feeling sick.    "}{"Title":"Mid movie change","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Starts out as a somewhat funny light movie with the idea that something funny and realistic has happened to his car. But midway through it gets pretty stupid and very unrealistic. Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure works much better, because you know the level of fantasy involved in the movie and its stays pretty constant throughout. "},{"Title":"I thought the movie was funny, but it had a horrible plot.","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't like the movie because it had a horrible plot.  I would recommend it to anyone who liked the movie Dumb and Dumber.  Again another movie that made me laugh out loud,  but because it made no sense and had a horrible plot I would never watch it again.  I don't think that a movie based on pot smokers partying all night, forgetting where their car was and gaining alien support at the end classifies as a good movie to me. "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's My Can of Whup Ass?","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This movie blows major chunks, and has almost single-handedly destroyed my obsession with Seann William Scott.Please don't get me wrong - I dig good teen gross-out movies. In my opinion, Animal House is a classic, and so are American Pies 1 and 2. I even like Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure and Porky's, fer cryin' out loud.DWMC, however, is so appalling, so insulting, and so horribly wrong that I may need therapy in order to determine why I even ventured to go there in the first place. To think that legitimate actors (SWS, are you listening?) willingly starred in this embarrassing piece of CRAP defies logic, so it had to be the money talking. In which case, the actors truly do suck ass, and in even larger quantities than I originally suspected.As if the movie itself wasn't bad enough, I beg you, don't watch it with the audio commentary on, because it will just throw you into the worst kind of funk. These people vote, they drive cars, and soon they'll breed. When the boys (Seann and Ashton) start discussing what a chick's bowel movement smells like? Um...I'm sorry. Somebody needs to be smacked upside the head, and it's not me. There's no excuse in the world for that kind of sophomoric commentary. It's not funny, it's just...icky. "},{"Title":"Dude!!! we've seen this one before","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This formula sucks. Beavis and Butthead, Wayne's World, Bill and Ted, and Dumb and Dumber, (Except this is way dumber dude) 2 dudes. One w/ brown hair the other blonde both dumb asses. Stuck in a situation that is basic (and to anyone else uneventful), but due to their stupidity towards problem solving you have a plot. In this movie however the plot evolves every 5 minutes in order to keep it alive. You'd like to think its funny, but it really isn't. Ashton Kutcher needs to go back to that 70's Show, because him starring in a movie just isn't working. We're not laughing with you dude. Seann William Scott isn't as bad and he has played in other movies that are good, but unfortunately this movie is about as funny as its title. "},{"Title":"I'm utterly disgusted","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I am honestly shocked on the amount of good reviews left for this movie. I'm 21, and I don't think I'm old, but my goodness... I am scared to actually think that this movie appealed to ANYONE. Considering most of the people leaving good reviews for this movie probably also watch Yu-Gi-Oh, and pokemon, etc, I can't really say I'm surprised. This movie tries to hard to be stupidly funny, and only succeeds in the former. I tried to find comedy in this, but honestly couldn't. I think that Sean William Scott has a great personality, but not in this movie. Ashton Kutcher, to me, is just a talentless hack, who should go back to his runway shoot, and leave comedic performances to people who understand the definition of comedy. This movie wouldn't have been funny to me, even if I was as high as a kite, and tripping on mushrooms. I never write negative reviews for movies, but I had to for this one. I'm sure curiosity will lead a lot of people into watching this flick, but for Chrissakes, PLEASE don't spend any money on this. This has to be honestly, the worst movie I've ever seen in my life. I was so angry at the amount of time watching this movie wasted in my life, that I would've smashed the VHS against the wall, if it wasn't my friend's rental from Blockbuster. I am really surprised that this made it with check marks through the producer's hands, and ended up a movie. GOD FORBID IF THIS BECOMES A TREND. If this generation looks to this and smiles, I think we need some new role models really friggin quickly. This is the same reason that SNL has unfunny morons like Jimmy Fallon laughing at his own jokes every Saturday Night. There must really be a shortage of funny comedians, or maybe America is just getting STUPIDER?!? So anyway, see the movie if you must, but have someone you really don't care for rent it, and bring it to your house to watch. You don't want the $4 rental for this movie on your conscience.  "},{"Title":"pathetic!!!","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  i just have seen this movie and can not believe how many people even remotely enjoyed it. a friend recommended it saying it was dumb-funny. it was dumb definitely , but never funny. the storyline was appalling at best and never in this  there was a funny scene. if you want to watch a movie that is dumb and funny , you would be better off watching dumb and dumber , steven spielberg's highly underrated 1941 or any of the zucker-abraham-zucker's trio movies ( airplane 1 and 2 and the naked gun series ). this was the most unfunny comedy i have ever seen on a par with bill and ted's movies  or the master of disguise  utterly boring. 0 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of the worst of all time","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I was at a friends house and we started watching this movie. After 5 minutes, I'm like I can't believe this, we can't watch the rest of this, but we did anyway, figuring it had to get better. Wrong...... This was the longest 80 min of my life. I didn't even come close to laughing. Maybe it'd be funny if you were 13 and hadn't seen all the jokes already done 18000 times, but unless painful stupidity is hilarious to you, don't see this! I haven't seen that many movies, but I'd have to say this is the worst I've ever seen (and I have seen hobgoblins, which is #7 in the bottom 100). "},{"Title":"They got paid for this ?","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I find stupid movies just as funny as the next person (Dumb & Dumber Road trip etc) but this isn't stupid, it's utter crap. The jokes are lame, the plot is lame, the acting is bad and the movie is 83 minutes too long. I did not laugh one single time. So what's the verdict ? A solid 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Am I only one who really liked this?","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  It's seems to me that everyone is out to bash this movie. It's really wasn't bad people. I LOVED IT!!! It's about two stoners named Jesse (Ashton Kutcher) and Chester (Sean William Scott) who after they lose their car try to remember everything they did the night before. During the day the come across their girlfriends Wanda (Jennifer Garner) and Wilma (Marla Sokoloff) who are mad at them for forgetting their anniversaries, their strange neighbor Nelson (David Herman) and his dog Jacko, the town bully Tommy (Charlie O'Connell) and his girlfriend Christie Boner (Kristy Swanson), a bunch of jump suit alien chicks, the Nordic dudes, and a bunch of cult members and their leader Zoltan (Hal Sparks). There are even cameos by Fabio, Andy Dick, and 'Stuttering' John Melendez. People, don't believe what the critics said, this is honestly a very good movie. So as Jesse and Chester say Shibby and go see this movie. "},{"Title":"Rated UA(under average) for..","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" ...some good mindless, jokes with sexual or drug content; pretty to very pretty women;  pretty good rock music; Sean William Scott's great grimaces; not taking oneself too serious; lack of story and integrity; stupid intermezzo's; clichés; jokes that fall flat; dumbness of main characters that is not even funny anymore; bad supporting acting; bad directing; bad casting and explicitly bad writing.4 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Are you serious?","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I know i deserve the suffering i endured through this movie.  At least i got in the movie theater free, although maybe i should have been paid to watch this movie.  To be fair though, the movie does have Stiffler and the guy from, That 70's Show, who are usually very funny.  BIG MISTAKE!  When a movie makes Bill and Ted's Excellent Vacation look like Citizen Kane you know you are in trouble.  Stay away! "},{"Title":"Why would someone want to make a film this bad?- that's a better title.","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is possibly one of the unfunniest films i have ever seen and I am very annoyed that I wasted over £5 on this waste of celluloid space. It is certain that there will be comparisons to films such as American Pie and Road Trip but they are both well ahead of this, highly unoriginal and, frankly, dull pothead film. It is possible to say that the two leading men could make a very good comedy two-some if given the right material but they should steer clear of stuff like this in future. I am happy to accept that this is a film for the American sense of humour but maybe it should have stayed over there. Unfortunutately I have to admit that some of the gags were almost funny but this is trying to be a laugh-out-loud film but failing miserably. Dude, Where's My Refund. "},{"Title":"Give me a break","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I like stupid movies, Bill and Ted, Just one of the Guys, Deuce Bigalow, this is not a movie in that caliber. It was not a stupid movie, it was a horrible movie! It had funny parts, but those were few and far between. The plot, which would have been okay if not for the ridiculous ending, was just dumb. This is a movie you expect to leave the movie saying it was funny, but I just couldn't get over it's stupidity to mention anything else. This is a movie to save your money and just wait until it's rentable, and then be glad you didn't see it in a theater. "},{"Title":"I could have forgiven it being so damn silly if I had been laughing","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Jessie and Chester wake up after a great night out, unable to remember what exactly they did.  However they cannot find their car, which they assume has gifts for their girlfriends in the trunk.  However as they try to retrace their steps they start to piece together a night that involves a suitcase of stolen money, break dancing strippers, hot chicks, a missing alien artefact and a missing car.I have watched plenty of teen comedies and spoofs so I am not adverse to silly humour, but I must admit that the film still needs to be fun for me to accept it.  The plot here is utter nonsense of course, but then, chances are you never expected it to be anything other than that.  It isn't a problem that it is so very silly and thrown together, but it is a problem that the stupid plot is not totally hidden behind consistent laughter.  Jessie and Chester are amused/aroused by anything that happens, mainly because they are stoners.  The downside for the majority of the audience is that we will be stone cold sober when watching this, and therefore much of it will be stupid rather than funny.The humour is obsessed with breasts, stereotypes, sight gags and a worrying smattering of homophobia.  Again, I have no morals and will laugh at anything if it is funny, but the majority of this stuff just isn't funny at all.  I did laugh about 4 or 5 times and there were some routines that I did find funny (the Chinese restaurant forcing you to order more, and the tattoo fight) but the majority was dumb rather than anything else.The cast is OK and surprisingly deep in well-known faces.  Kutcher and Scott don't have to do much at all and both just seem to enjoy playing such simple characters I never thought I'd see Scott play a character more basic than Stifler but here it is!  The support cast is made up of `hot chicks', `gay joke' characters, nerds and jocks.  I was surprised to see people like Garner, Sawanson and Spiner in the cast.  I guess they, like me, thought this was going to be a great fun, wacky comedy that would get them seen rather than the rather lame comedy it is!Overall this is very silly but if I was smoking then I guess I might have found it hilarious.  As it was I was sober and, despite being in a silly-comedy type of mood, I was left rather cold by this.  The one or two funny gags are repeated several times till they lose their impact and the rest of the film is one silly, basic episode after another.  Dude, where's the consistent laughs and real sense of fun that the audience should have had? "},{"Title":"funny...not!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"    I truly regret the near two hours I spent in the theatre on this one not to mention my six bucks gone. I'd sooner watch a documentary on the mating habits of lint than sit through this garbage again. The commercials of course,show good parts to get you to go watch a movie, but when they show the ONLY good parts of a movie,you've got to expect to be a little more than irate after leaving the theatre. NOT recommended. "},{"Title":"In my top 5 worst films ever made","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is awful, no matter what your 13 year old neighbor tells you. There are NO laughs at all. The most laughable cast of stock characters in recent memory (closely rivaled by the fast and the furious).Avoid this film at all costs. I would have walked out of it in the theatre but I felt as though I was witnessing a historic failure of filmmaking I couldn't possibly ignore. This movie is a gut-check for American cinema and proof positive that society is on the brink of collapse. The next flood can't be too far away. Give me 'battlefield earth' any day over this pathetic piece of crap. "},{"Title":"do not waste you time","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Oh please, take my word for it. This movie is trash. I did not once laugh through-out this pathetic movie. Do not waste your time. I have already spent too much time on it, but again, do not watch this movie. Avoid it at all costs. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've ever seen....","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I tend to like stupid movies, too, but the only funny thing about this one is that someone, somewhere, thought it was a good idea to make it. The acting, and I hesistate even to use that word, is terrible.  The plot, if you can call this meandering mishmash of meaningless muck a plot, is ludicrous. Not one joke works, and most are painfully unfunny. If you're thinking of seeing this movie, do yourself a favor and just throw the $7.50 in the garbage disposal.  The end effect will be the same, except that you'll have 90 minutes of your life to do something...ANYTHING...else. "},{"Title":"This movie gives credible stupid movies a bad name!","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  At first I wasn't going to waste my time writing a bad review for this movie, I figured everyone had said enough already, but I looked at the comments and more than half of them were positive.  I simply cannot believe anyone could find this movie humourous.  It's been said that you have to go see it with the right attitude.  Well DUH!!!  You don't go to a movie with a title like Dude, Where's My Car? and expect a classy comedy.  Don't get me wrong, I love movies that are considered stupid.  I loved Jack Frost (the horror), Dumb and Dumber, etc.  So I went in expecting exactly what you're saying to expect, but that's not what was delivered.  Not only was the movie predictable, poorly acted and in poor taste, but it was annoying too.  Of the three times I laughed in this movie, they ruined it by running with the joke for five more minutes.  When they got their tattoos and the chinese drive thru come to mind.  Not even Saturday Night Live overkill their jokes this badly.  And it wasn't that the jokes were tasteless (which I usually like) but that they were really really really juvenile.  They had jokes in their that were reminiscent of jokes I used to say in the 6th grade.  In fact, I believe that the only way anyone could like this movie is if they have the 6th grade mentality.  Anyways, this would have been the one and only movie that I've ever walked out on, but my friend was the one who drove me there and he wouldn't leave.  Only watch it if you have 8 bucks that you've been dying to waste and have an hour and a half free time you want to spend being annoyed. "},{"Title":"I have a few choice words for the movie exec. that gave this movie the go ahead!!!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  When it comes to bad movies nothing compares to how bad this was.  This film drips with the kind of pointless, mindless, dribble that only a stoner could conceivably enjoy.While watching this movie I eventually tried to laugh at how bad it was (as I did during the Haunting), but that didn't work because the way this movie kept getting worse left me in terror during what seemed like four hours of hell.I have only walked out of one movie in my life Dracula Dead and Loving It. And this would have been the second had it not been for the mindless individuals I found myself attending this movie with.When I was considering what to write in the summary line.  A few things came to mind here is one of themI want my money back. nah more like I am calling my lawyer because I'm suing for punitive damages.This movie makes good movies look much, much better, and that is my only solace.  "}{"Title":"Dude, Where's MY Brain?","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  In short, please spare yourself.  This is positively the worst film that I have ever seen.  I may not like every film, but if I like the trailer that usually indicates how I will feel about the movie (I really liked Little Nicky).  I also viewed this movie with a large group of late teen early twenty guys which usually even makes the worst comedy tolerable. This movie left me with a really bad taste in my mouth as if I had been forced to eat the steaming pile of crap that I was watching.  I must admit that the trailer for this movie made me laugh EVERY time I saw it, but sadly that is more than I laughed for the entire span of the movie itself.  The premise for the movie seemed to be made without any thought and it seemed like the writers were saying, Hey wouldn't it be cool if girls offered them oral??? Put it in.  Bad plot as well as a truly unfunny movie gets this movie my first score of (1) as well as my first posted movie review.  If you choose to watch this movie may god spare you ). "},{"Title":"Terrible movie","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie had no plot line and in the last 45 minutes in the movie it just turned outrageous. i am 14 and this movie was directed to people my age but all of my friends say it was the worst movie they've seen also.  I would have walked out on it if it wasn't for the $8.50 i spent to see it. "},{"Title":"uh...duh?","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  wow.  okay, so color me optimistic, but i really thought that this movie might have some smart moments in it.  it was clear just from the trailers that Dude is a bill & ted's knock-off film, but bill and ted DID have some smart commentaries hidden in there, if you looked hard enough, and it WAS genuinely funny.  so i was hopeful.  how wrong i was.not only is this film a grossly immature, predictable, boring adventure in T&A, it's also blatantly homophobic and, mask your surprise here, totally sexist.  i mean, hey, who am i to suggest that maybe, just maybe, we don't need a view of the skirt of the woman who is all set to destroy the earth?!? and maybe there's something weird about killer ostriches, but it's certainly not funny. and without saying too much about the ending, i will say that it reminded me of a chant we used to sing on the bus when i was in the 5th grade...which is appropriate, i guess, since that's apparently the maturity level this film is aiming for.  in that case, well, job well done!the one thing i WILL say for this film, though, is that it has turned movie theaters into venues for my newest spectator sport jock watching.  the theater was PACKED with white, zit-faced, pathologically heterosexual guys who you just KNOW will end up doing beer bongs in a fraternity one day soon. and it was REALLY entertaining to watch their synchronized reactions to the film.  they were almost as predictable as the film itself.you know it's sad when you go to the $5 matinee and want $4 back at the end. it's even worse when you want all $5, plus a few dollars more for the intentional infliction of emotional distress.  "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's The Plot?","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, Where's My Car 1/2*Dude, Where's My Car is about, you guessed it! Two guys who can't find their car! AND that's not the best of it! They don't remember anything that happened last night! How funny! The whole movie these dudes traipse around looking for their car. And they end up in situations involving strippers, transvestites, and (amazingly) aliens. These adventures are insanely pathetic and insanely stupid. And (amazingly) they have girlfriends. Gee, guess what happened! That's right! They forgot their anniversary! AND! The presents are in the car, WHICH is lost! AND their girlfriends get mad at them, then they are pretty much forgotten about until about the end.The movies runs about 83 minutes. That seemed like 3 hours. Titanic seemed shorted than this movie. It is painfully unfunny. And I mean painfully in every sense of the word! The movie is surrounded around the words dude and sweet. There's a painful scene in which the two have tattoos. One's says Dude and the other one says, you guess it, Sweet. They batter back and forth for three minutes. Dude, what's mine say? Sweet, what about mine? Dude, what's mine say and so on for three minutes which seems like fifteen.The girlfriends are about the only two characters worth paying attention to. And even they aren't funny. But the two dudes are so stupid. Their stupidness leads them into even stupider places... which leads into even more STUPIDER situations. Thinking back to the tattoo scene again. Oh! AND! Did I mention the scene about the Chinese food? The person the drive up says And then... after everything and the movie expects that to be funny. But, guess what, it's not! At all! It's not even remotely funny! There is one, count 'em, one funny scene. That scene involves a blind kid. And laughing at that makes me feel bad. But, there is one, count 'em, one funny character. He's a stupid police officer named Rick. The movie would have been hilarious if it was about him! But, unfortunately, he's only in five minutes.The jokes... *sigh*... the jokes. Every joke in this movie has been stolen from another movie. For example, there's a character that just shows up and never talk, a la Half Baked. There are sexual jokes beyond belief for a PG-13 rated movie. The movie doesn't have much swearing but it piles sexual jokes on top of you. When I saw this movie, many people in the theater were laughing. May God have mercy on their souls. And the souls of everyone in this movie and the creators. Except for the guy who played Rick! Rick We hardly knew ye.  "},{"Title":"The worst movie in the history of cinema","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is the first time I have posted a review on IMDB, and I'm sorry it had to be under these circumstances.  But I have to tell the world that Dude Where's my Car is the worst movie ever made.  I got in for free and still felt ripped off; the energy I used to walk into the theater could have been better spent rubbing my head with a cheese grater or watching Bonanza reruns.  I won't bother with a summary or analysis of this movie; suffice it to say that the gratingly unfunny incidents pile up very quickly, transfixing the viewer and slowly sucking his/her will to live.  AVOID AT ALL COSTS. "},{"Title":"Screen play, we don't need no stinking screen play!","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  good lord, what can I say about this piece of cinematic horse dump? Maybe the saying is wrong, maybe the real one is If you put a 100 monkeys in a room with type writers, you'll get dude wheres my carThis is just your average mindless pablum sex comedy that will do anything for a cheep laugh. The basic plot of the film is that this guy forgets what happened last night after he has awoken from a drunken stupor. Him and his buddy go outside to find that his car is missing (thus the title) so they go on a hunt for there automobile and go on a sex odyssey.*spoiler alert* So at the end, they find out that these extra terrestrials have there car, and they also give them a device to make there girlfriends boobs bigger (go fig) It turns out it was all just a day dream, and we find our heroes still standing in front of there home looking at this truck which has hidden there beloved car.just 2 words folks IT SUCKS! don't ever see it! please for god sake don't see dude wheres my car!  "},{"Title":"An Insult to Your Intelligence, No Matter How Dumb You Are","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Apparently the 'argument' on the behalf of Dude, Where's My Car? is that silly, stupid comedies have a place in the world. This is certainly true. But, just because a comedy is silly and irreverant, that does not mean it is necessarily GOOD. There is not an original joke in this entire film. Moreover, there is not a funny joke in this entire film. The plot is moronic; straight-to-video kid's movies have more coherent storylines. The performances are downright awful, the sexual content is downright offensive (and I am not easily offended - even in moronic comedy, the subject must be handled tastefully (see the American Pie films)), and the direction is careless. There is absolutely no reason why anyone should see this movie, under any circumstances. If you want a silly comedy, rent Monty Python. If you want drug humor, rent a Kevin Smith. If you want juvenile laughs, rent Billy Madison. If you want a dumb sex movie, rent American Pie. It is an insult to the intelligence of the entire world that this movie was even made. The world is a bleaker place for having this movie in it.  "},{"Title":"Almost painful . . .","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Good Lord, where to begin.  I first went into this movie thinking it was some sort of stoner-comedy about two half-wits looking for their car and getting into misadventures with other colorful stoner types as they try to recreate the events of the previous night.  Derivative?  Sure. Done-To-Death?  Probably.  But God, after half an hour of this movie, I was praying for some sort of stupid stoner comedy.  The plot spirals out of control into an incoherent mess, the jokes are incredibly lame (and most importantly, not funny), and by the time of the film's climax you're simply left begging for it to end.To be fair, the film has it's good points.  Like I said, it wasn't derivative-- it was an original idea with a fresh series of twists.  Good twists?  No, but they were original.  A+ for effort there.  Plus, the film's cast sinks into the material with abandon and perform very well (especially the two stars, Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott-- their chemistry together is good).  But their performances couldn't save this incoherent-- and painfully un-funny-- mess. "},{"Title":"It's been said before, but I'll say it again. This is the worst movie, ever.","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I don't generally expect a lot from comedies, especially teen comedies, when it comes to acting or plot. But I do expect them to be funny. Dude wasn't. I felt it to be an insult to basic human intellect. Comedy is supposed to be original, so repeating lines up to 20 times, and that 5 times in a film that lasts only 80 minutes (though it seems to go on forever) is probably the worst thing you could possibly imagine. Even parading hot babes in leather outfits could not save this film. I don't even mind that there's no story to speak of, or that the acting is lousy at best. The worst thing, of everything that's wrong with this film, is that it didn't even put a wry smile on my face for it's entire duration. If you like dumb movies, I'd recommend seeing the Bill and Ted movies.I would love to say that Dude had some good ideas, but it really doesn't. The film is repetitious, insulting and downright nauseating. Please do yourself the huge favor of not watching this.Rating 0 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's My Brain?","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Not only am I asking myself this question (for having agreed to watch the movie) but I'm sure the producers, director, actors and most movie-goers posed the same question upon seeing Dude, Where's My Car?This movie is the kind of drivel that induces long-term brain rot. Seriously, this movie should have come with a surgeon general inspired label and warned the viewers of its potential effects.Dude, Where's My Car? was beyond dumb, stupid, mindless and all other synonymous derogations. Some people argue, Yeah, but that was the point. I disagree. Dumb, does not have to be this dumb. Think Wayne's World and Ace Ventura or even Dumb and Dumber. These movies were intended to utilize base/obvious humour but they employed a certain amount of wit -- a wit that was shamefully lacking in D.W.M.C.In defense of the movie, the casting was superb. I don't think the agents could have found two males more capable of playing dullards as convincingly as Kutcher and Scott.I wouldn't even try to look for a plot in this movie. Just be thankful when the painfully long 83 minutes are up and you can eagerly rewind the tape and return it to the video store.  "}{"Title":"Dude, Where's The Past 2 Hours Of My Life?","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I hate the fact that I over analyze movies. So i gave that up. I didnt over analyze this movie and it still sucked. I laughed twice. Thats it. This movie is just rehashing the stoner-buddy movie scenario that climaxed at Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. Which is by far a better movie. Where Bill and Ted triumphed this movie fails horribly. It uses its own slang which luckily hasn't caught on in the general public. I won't write anymore because I know I'm being critical of a movie that wasn't made to get criticized. It was made to make money and have dumbasses fall in love with it until the next dumbass movies comes out. Sadly, i know theres going to be a sequel. Darn. "},{"Title":"One word Bogus.","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  A simple no-go for these guys. What could have been the next 'Bill & Ted' simply lacks in the funny tickles department. Maybe it's just personal, but that's where a comedy should excel making the humor personal so you'll love it. Death (of Bill & Ted fame) is spinning in his grave. "},{"Title":"A pure waste of what little talent Kutcher and Scott have.","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I can't believe that I am going to waste my time even talking about this poor excuse for a film.  I do feel that I may save an hour and a half of someone's life if they do decide to read this and follow my advice.  Please do not justify the production of such garbage by wasting your money on a ticket From start to finish this movie was terrible.  I love the stupid Deuce Bigalow-like comedy as much as the next guy but this was not even close. The movie starts out as Jesse and Chester wake up from the night of their life so hungover that they can't even remember what they actually did.  The entire movie is based around the adventure that the two pot heads have as they try to find their car and figure out what they did the night before. Bland humor, old jokes, aliens, trans-sexual strippers and overused catch phrases caused my mind to wander while I sat in the theater.  For some reason the creators of the film decided to add alien beings to the film for no apparent reason.  Ashton Kutcher is funny in That 70's Show and Sean William Scott will forever be remembered as the irreverent Stifler from American Pie, but this movie wasted what little ability they have to make the audience laugh. If you watch the TV spots, you have basically seen the best parts of the movie, which is pretty sad. I consider myself a good judge when it comes to movies, but that aside anyone can see that this movie is all hype and doesn't deliver at all. "},{"Title":"a poor man's Bill & Ted","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  while the premise of this movie actually had potential to be tremendously funny, the implementation was horrendous. there were very few truly funny moments (a really creepy cameo by Andy Dick comes to mind) in this movie, but more often than not the movie's idea of comedy is to beat you over the head with a joke over and over again in hopes that you'll chuckle. if you think this movie might appeal to you, save yourself the agony and just go rent Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure instead. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is by far the worst movie I've ever seen.  I questioned whether it was worth staying till the end at least three times, and I'm really sorry that I didn't get up and leave the first time I thought to.  Don't waste your money on this lame excuse of a movie... burning it would be more fun. "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's My Car?","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This has to be one of the stupidest comedies ever made, not even an amusing title or two well known stars can save it from being a waste of time. Basically pothead slackers Jesse (TV's Punk'd star Ashton Kutcher) and Chester (American Pie's Seann William Scott) wake up, and can't remember anything that happened the night before, and as they try to retrace their steps, including finding Jesse's car (like in the title), more and more people claiming to have seen them the night before show up. These include their twin girlfriends, Wanda (Jennifer Garner) and Wilma (Marla Sokoloff) reminding them of their anniversary (for a present), a dude dressed as a girl - Tania (Teressa Tunney) - demanding a suitcase of money, and some hot chicks, a cult and German guys looking for something called the Continum Transfunctioner. Other ridiculous events in the film include fridge and cupboards filled with pudding, a pot smoking dog, a drive-thru repeating and then (the only amusing moment), tattoos on their backs saying dude and sweet, ostriches attacking, and in the end, the hot chicks turning into the Super Hot Giant Alien (Jodi Ann Paterson), and the Germans (who were the good guys all along, the cult were just nerds) giving them bracelets for the twins, that enlarge their breasts. Also starring Kristy Swanson as Christie Boner, David Herman as Nelson, Hal Sparks as Zoltan, Charlie O'Connell as Tommy, Fabio (who I recognised from Bo! in the USA) and Independence Day's Brent Spiner as Pierre. The jokes are rubbish, well, what are meant to be jokes, Kutcher and Scott can't even pass off for an alternative Bill and Ted, it is just a ridiculous film with no real point. Poor! "},{"Title":"Absolutely the worst comedy I've ever seen.","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is easily one of not only the worst comedies I've seen, but also ranks very high in one of the worst movies that I've seen. This bad-boy ranks up there with the likes of Revolution, and Battlefield Earth, as one of the worst movies of all time. There was possibly one time where this movie actually got me to crack a smile all the other times I was wondering how much pot and/or other drugs the writers and director had to be on to actually do a movie this utterly stupid. "},{"Title":"GARBAGE","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This review does not need to be long and dragged out.  Dude, Where's My Car is one of the worst pieces of cinema garbage I have ever witnessed.  I am not saying this because I am a middle aged and wise, I am only sixteen and actually thought it looked very funny.  Take my advice, the trailer is better than the movie.  "},{"Title":"Waste of a Saturday night...","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know what I was thinking of when I went to see this. I figured it was probably in the realm of Wayne's World or Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. I was wrong. I'm surprised I didn't walk out, but that was just in an attempt to somehow try to get at least a fraction's enjoyment of the $8.50 I spent on it. All the funny parts were in the teasers... except in the movie they're dragged out to a point that Saturday Night Live doesn't even go.Don't waste your time with it.  "},{"Title":"DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME!","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This has to be the stupidest movie I have ever seen. The gags that  were so old and stupid and redone were not even funny. The  actors were 3rd rate at best and wasn't even remotely entertaining.  I wanted to walk out in the first 15 minutes but unfortunately I had to watch the whole thing because of professional reasons.  PUKE! It seemed like it would never end... THE PAIN!!!! "}{"Title":"An aneurysm waiting to happen.","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Throughout this 90 some odd minutes of equine excrement the only joke worth half a chuckle has to do with New Jersey being a rat's nest. Although creative at times this piece of sophomoric humor insults the intelligence of the vapid stoners and teeny-boppers who paid to see it. I love Hollywood. Way to churn out the crap. "},{"Title":"I want my life back","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  In my time I have watched a lot of stupid movies which I have enjoyed on different levels. This movie has no redeeming qualities. After 10 minutes you hate the characters, then the actors, then the actors' parents, then the director, then the screenwriter...etc etc. The characters have neither the surfer cool of Bill and Ted, nor the bumbling chemistry of Lloyd and Harry (Dumb and Dumber). This movie falls flat on its face and I want my 90 minutes back. "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's My Refund?","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Ever wonder what it would feel like if your brain was being eaten by those Scarab beetles from 'The Mummy' movies? Well, two minutes into this monstrosity and you'll soon feel the pain.The story is about a bargain-bin Bill and Ted who set out on a journey to find their missing vehicle. Along the way they encounter a variety of strange characters, inane jokes and plot-twists; including geeks, aliens, ostriches and a device known as a 'Continuum Transfunctioner'.Nothing about this movie was entertaining, original, charming or smart. It tries to be the next 'Dumb and Dumber' but it ends up being 'Dumbass and Dumbass'. Well, that's not entirely true - they did bestow the word `shibby' unto the world.Ashton Kutcher is an overrated moron with all the acting talent of Elizabeth Hurley. I won't bother seeing the 'Butterfly Effect' because of the diarrhoea effect it'll have on me. Sean William Scott will forever be typecast as a dumbass. If he's not playing a character similar to 'American Pie's' Stifler, then he's playing some reluctant messiah (who happens to be a dumbass) in 'The Matrix' rip-off 'Bullet-Proof Monk'. Dude, where's my career?If aliens ever came down to earth and saw this garbage, they'd say `No, there's no hope for these people. We can't save them.' Its movies like this that's creating a whole generation of morons. It's already happening; there are people who actually like this garbage!-5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"No, no, no, no","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, I don't mind the occasional dumb movie that makes you laugh and you wonder why you are laughing at such a dumb movie, but I was in pain during this flick.  Any laugh was a pity laugh and any attempt I made to laugh for the sake of making the experience better was painful and unsuccessful. The two dudes did a great job and you can't complain about Kristy Swanson's appearance.  But no no no no no! After the movie my buddies and I sat there with the typical You know what was a funny part... but that conversation did not last very long.  Hey, got to give them credit though...  They got $7 from me. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Comedy Gem","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Shibby!Easily one of the funniest movies I've seen. All the people out there who are hating on it clearly didn't get the point and the joke is on them. Haters, this wasn't supposed to be a masterpiece or get nominated for the 2001 Oscars. It's supposed to be quirky and stupid! It's a goofy stoner comedy. Seriously, what were you expecting? The moronic humor itself is what makes this film work and it's one of those movies where it's persistently hilarious.(And then.....)The story is simple. Two slackers wake up and they can't remember what occurred last night. There's one problem, they lost their car. The duo goes around trying to figure out where their car is and decide to go on an adventure to attempt to recall what happened the previous night by attempting to retrace their steps. Along the way, the two of them come across issues with their girlfriends, space nerds, aliens disguised as hot chicks, and other crazy stuff that gives us plenty of laughs.(And then.....)Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott have excellent chemistry as best friends, similar to the relationship between Wayne & Garth or Bill & Ted. These two characters are so affectionate to the point where you're rooting for them with all the crazy stuff happening and the many comical innuendos. This movie is so much fun throughout and it never gets old. If you want to spend an hour and a half of fun and are prepared for stupid goofiness, then this movie is for you!ZOLTAN! "},{"Title":"Surreal comedy with a disappointing ending","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This movie was effing crazy.The plot and the situations and the characters are completely surreal. The whole thing is like from some deranged dream induced by reading too many written assignments of 5-year-olds and abusing substances you shouldn't be abusing.I liked how the characters just looked at the stuff like, this isn't so weird that I should comment on its weirdness. They don't make many movies like this. Everything is so realistic and believable now, even though the subject matter is totally crazy. This film was like a LucasArts adventure game where you do things not because they make sense but because of the surreal humor they provide.Unfortunately, as the plot elements come together, the absurdity turns into crackpot comedy revolving around jokes like big breasts are better than small breasts and Germans are gay. The last half hour of the film is a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Dumb & Dumber meets The Hangover","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Jesse (Ashton Kutcher) and Chester (Seann William Scott) are two idiots who party too hard and must remember what happened last night. They have to find their car and their anniversary gifts for their girlfriends (Jennifer Garner, Marla Sokoloff).Sure it's stupid. It's so stupid. It's so very very stupid. That's the point. What makes this works is the two leads. Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott are both likable actors and they make a fun couple of friends. Although the script seems to be written by people who's had too much weed. It's still fun for sober folks. Although it'd help to have just a little. This from Danny Leiner who would bring us another stoner classic 'Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle'. "},{"Title":"Dude, where's my review","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" one of the funniest movies I have seen in 10 years, Sean William Scott and Ashton Kutcher were totally awesome in this movie,, loved all of the sick childish adult humor throughout the movie. after a hard night's partying, the boys wake up,, and want to go get something nice for their girlfriends.. so they go outside to hop in the car, and low and behold, it ain't there,, Dude,, where's my car,, so far the rest of the movie they have to retrace their steps,, ask different people where they were who might have seen them, and along the way boy do they ever meet some of the strangest characters you will ever see. they find out that they went to a strip club,, and they meet some aliens along the way who ask the boys to find something for them,, and a hot trio of woman also want the boys help ,, and they promise the boys sex... mmm well you will just have to watch the movie and see how it turns out,, great movie,, very funny. "},{"Title":"What the hell is this movie doing with a rating of 4.7","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The fact that this movie is rated 4.7 must be a mistake. This movie is funny in every way, with Ashton Kutcher probably being the funniest guy throughout. But with certain jokes like Hello We're hot chicks thats more like 9.5 material not 4.7 - this is ridiculous. This movie had around 30 laughs and I recommend this movie to anyone and everyone to get some friends and have a night watching this awesome movie. It just keeps getting better with every viewing!. I own this movie have seen it like 7 times - one of my cousins has seen it loads more times and altogether my family has seen it, like... huge amounts of times - it's hard to count. Overall this movie is so darn funny I do not think I know anybody who does not like it, except for people on this website, so I rate it 95%. "},{"Title":"bad comedy","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Stoner comedies are not exactly notorious for cleverness, and indeed they are specifically about stupid characters, but this one is striking not for the stupidity or silliness of the characters, but rather for the lack of cleverness, indeed stupidity, and blatant lack of humor BEHIND the film, and going into its creation.This is not a funny film, not really because of bad acting, but because of bad writing and lack of comic skill in the creators. The weak humor is emphasized by a contrived plot, and further highlighted by a banal, conventional, and conventional ethos underlying everything. This is the most commercial and generic of films, and would best be avoided by anyone with ANYTHING else to do. "}{"Title":"Like Einstein once said the universe may have limits, but stupidity certainly doesn't.","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Normally when I watch this kind of movies (comedies for teenagers) I try not to be too harsh in my evaluation of the material. After all, that's what they are teenager movies, right? However, in this particular case, I find it quite impossible.I mean, the dialogue, the sequence of events and the story itself are so childish, so predictable, so absurd... that I find myself wondering if it should exist a below 6 rating just for assuring the intellectual sanity of people who can actually think.I mean, come on!!! Every comedy has a bit of stupidity within - I don't argue that - and some of the funniest movies ever made are quite stupid. But stupidity is like salt... a little bit is just perfect, but a little too much ruins everything. "},{"Title":"1 of the best movies ever 10/10 honestly","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" this movie is 1 one of the best movies ever made, both of them are hilarious, the acting is perfect, the storyboard is perfect, the humour is perfect its really a perfect movie guys, the other comment by craigman is completely rite, plus they r supposed to b stoned and they really looked, talked, even think as they were stoned, pretty much the writer and the director were stoned i guess, if u r looking for a funny comedy, which is really funny not like all the shitty movies these days, watch this movie, i keep laughing at this movie even though i might have seen it for 10-15 times and again every1 who ever watched it thinks its PERFECT. Better watch it high "},{"Title":"whats wrong with you?","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" this movie was so funny you cant help but laugh. unless you are a dried up old hag like SOMEONE who thinks this movie sucks. Ashton K.and Sean W.S. were hilarious in this film. you MUST be uptight to rate this a-list movie a 1. This movie is more for an audience who like bBeavis and butt head (who can rock on by the way!) and south park. Although this movie is definitely not for children under the age of 13, i think that most adults would enjoy this film maybe up to the age of 50 but i am not saying 50 year old people cant have fun. In my opinion this movie is severely under-rated. my friends and i quote this movie frequently. if you have any taste and a sense of humor you will love this movie! "},{"Title":"Repetition as a means of amusing, dude","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Technically, this is terrible. These two are bad actors with shabby timing (though the support is actually inferior in some cases). The soundtrack is almost unbearable at times, as is the film-making in general. The script suffers from repetitis, which is, in my eyes at least, a disease. Much of the humour falls down.However, the film is enjoyable if one remembers to switch one's brain off. The better elements of the script, the ridiculous dialogue included, are so infinitely silly that no one should take them seriously. If only they had concentrated more on the lunacy surrounding the fate of the universe than the stupidity (which does have some highlights). The film is utterly moronic, but still (or therefore) occasionally very amusing. I wouldn't have found myself watching it for the third time (semi-attentively now, of course) if the case were not so. "},{"Title":"17 Rats and mildly sick led","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" From beginning to end, this is one of the greatest movies ever made. This movie was released close to the height of the insanity movement, and was profoundly influential in its evolution and progression within the human consciousness from a mere display of noises and words to a full blown mental disease that has carried all followers and supporters of insanity from its initial inception into the cinema world. This was followed by 'Freddy got Fingered' and 'Hollow Man' with Freddy being the most significant crowning achievement in the cinema world to date. This movie should be worshipped and watched over and over and over again. Do not take this movie lightly. "},{"Title":"This Immature Comedy has a few Big Laughs if you don't take this seriously.","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Two dimwitted potheadsJesse (Ashton Kutcher) and Chester (Seann William Scott), who enjoying being party animals. But one morning, they wake up without knowing what they did the night before. But there is one burning question, they no memory what happen to their car. On the search of their car, they get involve with transsexual stripper, encountering hot alien chicks, male aliens, cult group searching for alien intelligence and dodging killer ostriches. Jesse and Chester are trying to score Special Treats from their ticked-off twin girlfriends (Jennifer Garner & Marla Sokoloff).Directed by Danny Leiner (Harold and Kumar go to White Castle, The Great New Wonderful) made a funny, campy fantasy comedy that was a Box office Hit back in 2000. This become a Cult/Camp Classic, because of Kutcher and William Scott enjoyable comic performances. DVD has an R-Rated commentary track by The director and the two lead actors. DVD features seven extended scenes (Some were trim to get a PG-13 Rating, instead of a R-Rating). DVD also has a featurette, music video, theatrical trailer and t.v. spots. DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an fineDolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. It's a enjoyable comedy but some will dislike kind of humor. Teens will be more forgiving that the Adults. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"U r all mad!","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" oh my god, this film is the best! it is funny and stupid but thats the fun of it! i mean what do u expect out of a film titled dude, wheres my car how can u say this film isn't good! i mean your entitled to your opinion but u cant say there r no funny parts! I'm loving the Chinese food incident where he has the argument with a machine! and saying that it is a film that only stoner's could enjoy, i ain't no stoner!Ashton Kutcher and Sean William Scott are so good as a duo! they ain't a pair that people would expect but they so totally work together! this is a film that i watch over and over and my friends and i have a lot of person jokes on! nd i am loving the rap that Jessie and Chester do! it is the best! "},{"Title":"Misses the mark.... by a mile","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" After a night they can't remember, comes a day they'll never forget.Ashton Kutcher in his last stupid role before deciding to go into more serious acting. Ashton started in the hit t.v series That 70's show it was basically a show explaining what it was like for a group of 17 year olds living in 1976. Ashton played Michael Kelso (1998-2005), the stupid yet funny character known more commonly as Kelso. Like many of the star cast (Topher Grace, Tommy Chong) Ashton left and went into movies. Ashton has since starred in My Boss's Daughter and The Butterfly Effect. In 2000 he starred in the annoying comedy Dude, Where's My Car? Seann William Scott is also quiting these stupid type movies. Seann is giving action movies a shot. Seann first starred in the hit teen comedy American Pie as Steve Stifler. After appearing in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back and Old School he got his first action role in the very, very bad movie Bulletproof Monk. It wasn't until he got cast along side The Rock in the hit action movie The Rundown as Travis that he proved he could do action. He is know signed up to play Bo Duke in The Dukes of HazzardDirected by Danny Leiner. The plot goes as follows Jesse and Chester, two bumbling stoner's, wake up one morning from a night of partying and cannot remember where they parked their car which prompts them on a journey to find it and along the way, they encounter a variety of people who include their angry girlfriends Wilma and Wanda whose house they trashed, an angry street gang, a transsexual stripper hounding them for a suitcase full of stolen money, a cult of alien seeking fanatics, and a group of aliens in human form looking for a mystical device that could save or destroy the world.It just misses the comedy mark.... by a mile. Just watch something else. "},{"Title":"Ho-hum","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" It's one of those movies you enjoy just for a day or two, but then after that it's another one of those many movies that do not make a lasting impression on you. The plot is on middle-school level. It's like the movies that show up at bargain bin stores. I have made home movies which plot is equally as good as this. So, I was only impressed for the week that I had seen it. I did not see a lot of movies in '02, and even then I found the plot to be very ho-hum. In short, I think this movie can be summed up in one wordMEDIOCREIt's not as cheesy as some people may say, but the movie is definitely nothing to write Grandma about.Says, THE ENDING MAN "},{"Title":"It's Own Kind of Wonderful","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I had a somewhat different preparation than most prior to viewing this film. I somehow missed out on all the trash reviews; to the contrary it came well recommended. Michael Moore, he of the 8.5 rated documentary, Bowling For Columbine, paid homage to Dude, Where's My Car? by naming his latest book Dude, Where's My Country?, and it may or may not have been him (I don't remember)who considered it required viewing for anyone who wanted to learn about America. So, to amend the saying, anyone who wants to understand America had better learn baseball, and had better watch Dude, Where's My Country?.I loved this film, and I loved Office Space, for one, two very different kinds of comedies that can reach your funny-bone if you approach them in the right frame of mind. Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure is probably its nearest cousin. For what it's worth, I loved Happy Gilmore but flat-lined on Caddyshack. I guess there's no accounting for taste. Yes, Dude is stupid-funny, but it's stupid-funny very well done. "}{"Title":"Rip off","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Has anyone noticed that this movie is pretty much a ripoff of The Big Lebowski? its set in LA, and it has the exact kind of twist and turns and confusing plot. Its hard to explain but if you have seen both movies you will know what I'm talking about. I think the Alien people are kind of like the nihilists. Ashton Kutcher is like the Dude, and he has no idea of what is going on during the entire movie. And correct me if I'm wrong, but at the end of The Big Lebowski, Walter (John Goodman) says,Dude, wheres your car. I think all this is too similar to be a coincidence.~~~ OPEN YOUR MOUTH!!~~~ "},{"Title":"Well-Stylized Cheap, Cheesy, Campy Cinema","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This Danny Leiner's first smash hit may make the viewers stand in awe of the tradition of cheap, cheesy, and campy cinema in the U.S. independent scene, while proving that the genre has entered a new era--it has been established with formula and now you need craftsmanship to make a good one. Dude, Where's My Car? is well stylized with coherent usages of low techniques an arbitrary story, amateurish acting, free camera movements like a home video piece (and this is in fact well done), an art direction with emphasis on tackiness, titles that appear to be made by an Adobe AfterEffects newbie, and so on. Oh, you can't forget showing your love for the B-grade cinema, as Leiner makes homage to Attack of the 50 Foot Woman in the film's climax.  "},{"Title":"Funny,Stupid, too long","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, Wheres My Car is about 2 stoners who wake up one morning after a very drunken night, to find that there car is missing. Sean William scotts character isn't like his Stifler role its more of a wimpy type roll. Ashton Kutcher plays almost the same character type he always plays exception of The Butterfly Effect. the movie follows the 2 looking for there car then finding out about all the things they did the night before, they find out they had a real lot of money from a transsexual, run into alien hot girls, 2 guys whom seem gay, and have tattoos on there backs... the movie was funny but got boring towards then end it probably should of ended 20 minutes early. i did like the movie though so i give it 5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"i love this film, it is so funny and the characters are so lovely! ;o)","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Some people may not think this film is the best ever, but at that point i have to disagree. i think it is really funny and makes me laugh every time i watch it, the characters are so lovable and i would love to know someone like Jessie or Chester. i love the way Aston Kutcher and Sean William Scott play their characters in a way that makes you think that they are them. i would love to know someone like Jessie or Chester, their girlfreinds are so lucky! i also admire the originality of the bubble wrap suits and Zoltan. i especially like the part in the film where Chester reaches under the counter and Jessie spits on him for lubrication! But i think the thing that will stick in my mind about this film is the repetation of dude! and sweet!  "},{"Title":"i love this film, it is so funny and the characters are so lovely! ;o)","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Some people may not think this film is the best ever, but at that point i have to disagree. i think it is really funny and makes me laugh every time i watch it, the characters are so lovable and i would love to know someone like Jessie or Chester. i love the way Aston Kutcher and Sean William Scott play their characters in a way that makes you think that they are them. i would love to know someone like Jessie or Chester, their girlfreinds are so lucky! i also admire the originality of the bubble wrap suits and Zoltan. i especially like the part in the film where Chester reaches under the counter and Jessie spits on him for lubrication! But i think the thing that will stick in my mind about this film is the repetation of dude! and sweet!  "},{"Title":"Complete trash, though, admittedly, some may like it...","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I got suckered into buying this movie, cause there was a 2 for one deal, and this came in a double pack with the indefinitely superior Office Space. This movie, if you can call it that, is just plain bad. Sort of mildly interesting at first, it turns to a heaping pile of crap sooner than most would like. I did not find this film funny whatsoever, but others swear by it. (Take into consideration these people also thought Office Space wasn't funny.) Anyway, story is just awful, and, well, there are very few things funny about this movie, even accidentally. For god's sake, I'm a 'teen' and people say I should like this, but I'm not stupid. This movie is terrible in every way.  "},{"Title":"Dude, What's with you people?","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I can honestly say that this is one of THE...Most Awsome movies ever. Take two fairly good looking actors playing drugged up but loveable characters, throw in some ironically funny space-dorks, Sprinkle with random humour, and what you get is this creative masterpiece! To be totally honest, I'm getting kind of sick of all those wierdo's who scream at movies because they're Stupid and Have No Plot. Thats kinda the point of feel-good comedies like this, isn't it? Oh well, either way, Dude, Where's My Car? is a great movie for anytime pointless comedy, and for random breakouts of Shibby! And Dude, Where Is Your Car? from some of your movie going cohorts. Not To mention, And Then? And Then, go out and watch this movie, it rocks, and can compare to no other (Except perhaps Scary Movie 3, But thats a different story) "},{"Title":"Pretty funny overall","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I'd heard a lot about this movie (bad things mainly), so I had very low expectations, and I ended up liking it more than I expected. Sure, the main plot of the movie is pretty stupid if you come to think about it, and the situations aren't very believable, BUT that's not the point in this movie. This movie tells us just a funny story, a movie which doesn't require much thinking. If you're looking for a discerning movie, then you shouldn't watch Dude, where's my car. If you just want to watch a funny movie, where you don't have to think about, Dude, where's my car is a good choice.  "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude Where's my car is my sister and my favorite movie. I love to watch it and have people who have not seen it watch it. I own it and watch it once a week. I thought it had a great plot to it and it was very funny. I love funny movies. They had great actors for the movie that really knew what they were doing which made it so much better. This show was a way for me to relax and settle down. I know this movie by heart. It's like aroma therapy for me but many funny movies with Ashton Kutcher or Seann William Scott really get me in that place were you just settle and watch.I love that you think of stuff that can't really happen but you make so it is realistic. thats why this is my favorit movie.  "},{"Title":"Stupid+Funny= Stupid Funny!","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Dude, Where's My Car?Starring Ashton Kutcher, Sean William Scott, Jennifer Garner and Marla SokoloffGenre ComedyRated PG-13This movie had a bit of an unusual plot but it was still very funny! This crazy movie is about two bumbling stoners named Jesse (Ashton Kutcher) and Chester (Sean William Scott) who wake up one morning after partying last night and cannot remember where they parked their car which prompts them on a journey to find it and along the way, they encounter a variety of people who include their angry girlfriends Wilma (Marla Sokoloff) and Wanda (Jennifer Garner) whose house they trashed, an angry street gang, a transsexual stripper hounding them for a suitcase full of stolen money, a cult of alien seeking fanatics, and a group of aliens in human form looking for a mystical device that could save or destroy the world.My favorite part in the movie is when Jesse and Chester are going to get Chinese food and they are going thru the drive-thru and Jesse is ordering the food and the lady keeps saying and then and she keeps saying it after he was doing order and then he breaks the speaker box. My other favorite part was when Jesse and Chester got tattoos and they kept repeating what their tattoos say. Another funny part was when these two guys and these women are arguing over who is really trying to save the world and who isn't! After when I first watched this movie I couldn't even remember what I did (just kidding)! Hilarious overall. "}{"Title":"pretty funny, actually","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  In spite of the low rating here I figured I'd watch this, since I remember liking the trailer, and it's a funny, amiable, purposely dumb movie that, while not quite as funny as dumb movies Bill & Ted or Wayne's World is still quite amusing.  It's got a good idea in which two very dumb guys trying to reconstruct the previous drunken evening discover clues to increasingly bizarre incidents.  It's hit more than miss, and while it begins a bit slowly it gets up to speed reasonably fast.  What keeps it from being a great dumb movie is that the various elements introduced don't really build on each other.  Ideally each new revelation should have upped the wackiness level and felt like it had an insane sort of insane logic behind it, but it's more like you say, ah, that's a cute idea, without getting a sense of any real momentum.  The movie feels like a shaggy dog tale, but that's fine, I really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"sweet !","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  dude this is just one of the best films ever. it is so funny dude that i couldn't stop laughing sean william scott is just the funniest actor ever !!!! he is better in american pie 1 2 n 3 but he is still very very funny ! me n my mates just go on about it all the time its just funny that they do all that journey just for a rubbish car its so funny !! its just stupid rating i would give it is 11/10 it is just that good ! Dgibson89  "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's My insert cunning quip here?","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  First I must say that I was shocked to see such a low rating for this film. Then, when looking at the demographic breakup, I was shocked again to see that women consistently voted higher for this movie. So I checked out the first page of comments about this movie and I was embarrassed to see such biased and unintelligent comments. Thus, I had to write my ownDWMC is solely a comedy. If you're looking for anything else, you will be disappointed by this film. I would classify it as guy humour, but the voting breakdown here would disagree with me, so I'll try to be more specific. This is not a romantic comedy. While the main characters, Jesse and Chester, obviously care about their girlfriends, they have no epiphanies about love and will only serve as bad examples for boyfriends worldwide.DWMC has also been described as a silly comedy. I would agree with that assessment. To me, Jesse and Chester are Larry and Curly without Moe. The movie also seems like it was written around a bunch of funny skits, which were then tied together with a plot of some kind. What does this mean? Well, it translates to no comedic downtime. Everything you see is either a joke or a setup for a joke (which will be revealed very quickly). Granted, the plot gets a little far-fetched in order to deal with the wide range of skits, but if you approach this film prepared to enjoy a silly comedy, the plot will not bother you.I won't bother to give a complete run-down on the plot, as I said, it's not too important. One thing I will mention is that in essence this is a movie about two best friends bonding through crazy adventures. This is probably the aspect of the film that appeals to me the most and transforms it from a funny film to a great movie I can watch over and over again. By writing this review, I just want to give a true account of this film so that those who would also like this film will not be scared away by reading the reviews. Here it is, plain and simpleIf you like Mr. Bean, the Three Stooges, or Monty Python, chances are you will love this movie. If you yearn for the old days of Saturday Night Live, you will enjoy this movie. If you would still like the Simpsons if they removed the social commentary, you would like this move. If your favourite movie is Life as a House, then don't waste your time with DWMC, you'll probably hate it. Either way, if you are going to watch this movie, be prepared for something silly and be sure to rent the movie and not settle for the TV version. "},{"Title":"The Kiss","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is dumb, so dumb that it often isn't funny. It comes from the 'MTV/Corporate-Let's Make A Dumb Movie And Hope We Make A Lot Of Money School of Film Making. The only real reason to watch this movie is to see Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott kiss....now that is hot! "},{"Title":"Dude, a masterpiece?  Sweet.","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, Where's my Car is a cinematic achievement that will no doubt steer the motion picture industry of this decade (and perhaps the entire century) toward a new height.  Dude, Where's My Car came out in 2000 heralding a new golden age in cinema.  I can hardly believe that it has taken three and a half years to finally make it to my DVD collection.  It stands proudly next to the Godfather, Shawshank Redemption, and the like.   I am glad that I am now able to review this movie and give it the attention that it truly deserves.This movie works on so many levels and I hope that I am able to touch on a few of the themes.  The movie starts off with Jesse and Chester waking up from a killer party the night before.  Jesse is portrayed by Ashton Kutcher of `That 70's Show' fame and with this movie proves his versatility as an actor.  It may surprise some of you that he was not given an Oscar nod for his portrayal of the hapless but lovable Jesse.  Seann William Scott, the lovable but rude jock from the American Pie trilogy, is able to shine as the cable TV saturated, stoned Chester.  While at first glance he seems to represent the wasted MTV generation stuck behind the boob tube without any ambition for furthering his own goals or being productive in society, we eventually learn that there is more to this man-child that meets the eye. Chester has a large role in finding Jesse's car and (spoiler) saving the universe.The Twins call Jesse and Chester's place to remind them of their anniversary and to inform them that they trashed their place.  So Jesse and Chester go to find the car to get to the twin's house and give them their anniversary gifts.  Unfortunately, Jesse's car is missing and the story is set into motion.  They realize that they have no memories of the night before. Their epic quest begins by seeking a great sage, Nelson that might be able find their lost memories.  Nelson is truly a Zen master but is unable to jog either Jesse or Chester's memory.  Instead, they go to a Chinese restaurant where they find their first obstacle, a psychic duel between Jesse and the lady behind the take-out counter.  Dude, Where's My Car boldly takes head on the taboo subject of racial and society differences.  No racial stereotype is off limits in this film.  Jesse's banter with the over the counter lady is reminiscent of the dialogue between Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan in When Harry Met Sally.  But instead of touching upon the theme of male-female relations, we learn how difficult it can be to get an order of Chinese take out.  This banter turns out to be too much for our hero Jesse and he is left with only one recourse, physical violence.  So Jesse and Chester are left without take out and without their sage, Nelson.  All hope seems lost when a clue to their previous night approaches.  It is Christie Boner.  She gives them more clues of their missing time.  Unfortunately, for the two protagonists, it is not long before her jock boyfriend, Tommy arrives. The character Tommy may at first seem like an over the top stereotype, but by the end of the film we see his different subtle shades (`stoner bashing time' vs. `nerd bashing time') and different emotions.Like Alice in Wonderland, the more they look for the car, the further down the rabbit hole they go and further away their goal seems.  They find that they have been to a strip bar in league with a trans-gender stripper, outwitted aliens posing as Hot Chicks, ambiguously gay Nordic aliens, culties, law enforcement officers, and a tailor.  Each step of the way they are given a small hint of the night before and one step closer to the car. It seems that the mystery of the location of their car is wrapped in intergalactic intrigue.  Not only is Jesse's car missing, but so is the Continuum Transfunctioner, whose power is only matched by it's mystery.After a series of adventures, they find Jesse' car is sold to some unsavory character and the film comes to one of it's high points.  They end up at an osterage farm.  This scene is very reminiscent of the raptor escape scene from one (or any) of the Jurassic Park films, except a little better.  The true danger is not the large birds, but the farmer himself played by Star Trek's Data, Brent Spiner as Pierre.  Another great cameo is Andy Dick as Marc, the poacher.   When Jesse and Chester's fate looks most grim, it is Chester's battle of wits, and extensive television watching, that saves the day.  I am glad that the makers of this film took the angle that watching countless hours of television is not automatically bad and could come in handy if ever caught by a French mad-man.   Unfortunately for Jesse and Chester, the two are no closer to their prize, but this scene sets up the climax of the movie.The final act takes place at a miniature golf park.  They call all the interested parties; Tommy and the Jocks who have the sage Nelson captured, the culties lead by Zartan who have captured the twins, the Nordic aliens claiming to be the Guardians of the Continuum Transfunctioner, their boss Mr. Pizzacoli, and of course, Hot Chicks.  Again, I don't want to spoil it for those who have not seen it, but the film works out in a brilliant way. We see the true friendship between Jesse and Chester.   It reminds me of the developed relationship of Samwise and Frodo.  What is more amazing is that while the Lord of the Rings movies totaled over 9 hours, we get the same level of companionship in a brisk 90 minutes.  We also see that love will prevail, nay, must prevail.  If I have one complaint about the movie is that the Guardians of the Continuum Transfunctioner too easily succumb to the Giant Alien Babe.  I feel that the Guardians would be a formidable opponent not only by their name, keen euro-fashion sense, but also by their very fit build. I can only hope that there was an extended battle scene that did not make it to the final theatrical release.  It is my wish that the director will have an Extended Edition like Peter Jackson and his Lord of the Ring Trilogy, but I find this extremely unlikely.You will most certainly catch me at the midnight showing of Seriously Dude, Where's My Car, the next installment to Dude, Where's My Car story.  I have some inside scoop that this is a major green light!  I heard that the original concept of the Dude saga was to be a trilogy.  I am happy to hear that the studio has already started making the second chapter and I am hoping that it will be profitable enough to make Really, Seriously, Dude, Where's My Car!?! so that we, the public,  will be able to see the Dude story arc in it's entirety.For rich dialogue, multiple themes, brave innovative movie making, and disregarding political correctness, I  highly recommend this film.  This film stands up to multiple viewings and gets better every time it's watched.9.5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Dude, a masterpiece?  Sweet.","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dude, Where's my Car is a cinematic achievement that will no doubt steer the motion picture industry of this decade (and perhaps the entire century) toward a new height.  Dude, Where's My Car came out in 2000 heralding a new golden age in cinema.  I can hardly believe that it has taken three and a half years to finally make it to my DVD collection.  It stands proudly next to the Godfather, Shawshank Redemption, and the like.   I am glad that I am now able to review this movie and give it the attention that it truly deserves.This movie works on so many levels and I hope that I am able to touch on a few of the themes.  The movie starts off with Jesse and Chester waking up from a killer party the night before.  Jesse is portrayed by Ashton Kutcher of `That 70's Show' fame and with this movie proves his versatility as an actor.  It may surprise some of you that he was not given an Oscar nod for his portrayal of the hapless but lovable Jesse.  Seann William Scott, the lovable but rude jock from the American Pie trilogy, is able to shine as the cable TV saturated, stoned Chester.  While at first glance he seems to represent the wasted MTV generation stuck behind the boob tube without any ambition for furthering his own goals or being productive in society, we eventually learn that there is more to this man-child that meets the eye. Chester has a large role in finding Jesse's car and (spoiler) saving the universe.The Twins call Jesse and Chester's place to remind them of their anniversary and to inform them that they trashed their place.  So Jesse and Chester go to find the car to get to the twin's house and give them their anniversary gifts.  Unfortunately, Jesse's car is missing and the story is set into motion.  They realize that they have no memories of the night before. Their epic quest begins by seeking a great sage, Nelson that might be able find their lost memories.  Nelson is truly a Zen master but is unable to jog either Jesse or Chester's memory.  Instead, they go to a Chinese restaurant where they find their first obstacle, a psychic duel between Jesse and the lady behind the take-out counter.  Dude, Where's My Car boldly takes head on the taboo subject of racial and society differences.  No racial stereotype is off limits in this film.  Jesse's banter with the over the counter lady is reminiscent of the dialogue between Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan in When Harry Met Sally.  But instead of touching upon the theme of male-female relations, we learn how difficult it can be to get an order of Chinese take out.  This banter turns out to be too much for our hero Jesse and he is left with only one recourse, physical violence.  So Jesse and Chester are left without take out and without their sage, Nelson.  All hope seems lost when a clue to their previous night approaches.  It is Christie Boner.  She gives them more clues of their missing time.  Unfortunately, for the two protagonists, it is not long before her jock boyfriend, Tommy arrives. The character Tommy may at first seem like an over the top stereotype, but by the end of the film we see his different subtle shades (`stoner bashing time' vs. `nerd bashing time') and different emotions.Like Alice in Wonderland, the more they look for the car, the further down the rabbit hole they go and further away their goal seems.  They find that they have been to a strip bar in league with a trans-gender stripper, outwitted aliens posing as Hot Chicks, ambiguously gay Nordic aliens, culties, law enforcement officers, and a tailor.  Each step of the way they are given a small hint of the night before and one step closer to the car. It seems that the mystery of the location of their car is wrapped in intergalactic intrigue.  Not only is Jesse's car missing, but so is the Continuum Transfunctioner, whose power is only matched by it's mystery.After a series of adventures, they find Jesse' car is sold to some unsavory character and the film comes to one of it's high points.  They end up at an osterage farm.  This scene is very reminiscent of the raptor escape scene from one (or any) of the Jurassic Park films, except a little better.  The true danger is not the large birds, but the farmer himself played by Star Trek's Data, Brent Spiner as Pierre.  Another great cameo is Andy Dick as Marc, the poacher.   When Jesse and Chester's fate looks most grim, it is Chester's battle of wits, and extensive television watching, that saves the day.  I am glad that the makers of this film took the angle that watching countless hours of television is not automatically bad and could come in handy if ever caught by a French mad-man.   Unfortunately for Jesse and Chester, the two are no closer to their prize, but this scene sets up the climax of the movie.The final act takes place at a miniature golf park.  They call all the interested parties; Tommy and the Jocks who have the sage Nelson captured, the culties lead by Zartan who have captured the twins, the Nordic aliens claiming to be the Guardians of the Continuum Transfunctioner, their boss Mr. Pizzacoli, and of course, Hot Chicks.  Again, I don't want to spoil it for those who have not seen it, but the film works out in a brilliant way. We see the true friendship between Jesse and Chester.   It reminds me of the developed relationship of Samwise and Frodo.  What is more amazing is that while the Lord of the Rings movies totaled over 9 hours, we get the same level of companionship in a brisk 90 minutes.  We also see that love will prevail, nay, must prevail.  If I have one complaint about the movie is that the Guardians of the Continuum Transfunctioner too easily succumb to the Giant Alien Babe.  I feel that the Guardians would be a formidable opponent not only by their name, keen euro-fashion sense, but also by their very fit build. I can only hope that there was an extended battle scene that did not make it to the final theatrical release.  It is my wish that the director will have an Extended Edition like Peter Jackson and his Lord of the Ring Trilogy, but I find this extremely unlikely.You will most certainly catch me at the midnight showing of Seriously Dude, Where's My Car, the next installment to Dude, Where's My Car story.  I have some inside scoop that this is a major green light!  I heard that the original concept of the Dude saga was to be a trilogy.  I am happy to hear that the studio has already started making the second chapter and I am hoping that it will be profitable enough to make Really, Seriously, Dude, Where's My Car!?! so that we, the public,  will be able to see the Dude story arc in it's entirety.For rich dialogue, multiple themes, brave innovative movie making, and disregarding political correctness, I  highly recommend this film.  This film stands up to multiple viewings and gets better every time it's watched.9.5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"AND THEN...?","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Ever wonder what it feels like to have a red hot poker shoved up your butt? It must rank somewhere up there with sitting through this chronically unfunny movie.You'll sit there in stunned stupification as you search for anything to laugh at, but the creators of this movie ate a bit too much lead paint as infants and can't get you there. Hell, they're probably still eating it.I was willing to continue watching just to see how long they could sustain the lack of actual humor, but my friends couldn't. This movie is just as insipid as the other two stupidest movies ever made; Home Fries and Nothing But Trouble. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Although Ashton and his co-star aren't convincing surfer dudes, this movie is hilarious.  This is a great Friday night flick when you just want to see some stupid comedy.  The random comments about the tattoos and the transilluminator or whatever are great. "},{"Title":"SHIBBY!","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  sweeeeeeeeeeeeeet! I loved this movie! Ashton Kutcher and Sean William Scott execute the stoner roles of Jesse and Chester excellently! I can't help but laugh all the way through this movie, an excellent way to waste a couple of hours! Best seen stoned on hash in order to appreciate the subtleness of a lot of the jokes, shibby! ;)***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Great Comedy","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  From what I had read in the press about the movie, Dude Where's my Car? they did not give it high scores.  I thought it was one of the great comedy movies of the year thanks to the over the top acting by Ashton Kutcher. Keep up the good work Ashton! "}{"Title":"OUTSTANDING COMEDY!!!","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This has to be one of the funniest movies of all time, especially with such academic performances by Ashton Kutcher (That 70s Show) and Seann Scott William (Road Trip, American Pie). The film starts with the duo losing their car, and forgetting it's whereabouts. In fact they can't even remember what happened the previous night! What follows is a madcap chase to track down the vehicle via any means possible... this involves going to a Chinese tailors, local vehicle pound and getting thrown in a farmer's jail cell... only to be taken to a barn (that's not red) and wearing bubble-wrap to fool two guards.Truly great, entertaining value for money, I wholeheartedly reccomend this title to any comedy fan! "},{"Title":"Horrible movie, but the commentary track makes up for it!","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Horrible movie, but the commentary track makes up for it! The movie is basically Bio-Dome but they have to save the earth from aliens instead of pollution. Not the best movie but the commentary kicks a$$! "},{"Title":"Stupidity","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  HORRIBLE! It was good up until they met the space girl things and find out about the thing they need to find. It was funny up until then. Then it just got stupid through the whole movie, and I didn't want to watch it. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Definitely better than I expected","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This film to me is like Dumb and Dumber with as teen mix.  It is complete dumb, silly fun and like most dumb, silly fun, I found it funny.  This film could've turned really dumb though and not turned funny, but it is.  The story (as smart as a cork) has 2 teens who need to find the one kids car (Ashton Kutcher as the one and the other one is Seann William Scott) with their girlfriend's and alien existence in the balance.  A funny comedy, one of the best ones of the year, even if there are a few flaws.  Favorite scene a guy is working at a blind kids camp where he gets repeatedly hit in the genitals.  B+ "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's My Shotgun?","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I was somewhat looking forward to seeing this movie and afterwards I was disappointed.  It was almost a total waste of 83 minutes.  There were some funny parts and some parts that 12 or 13 year old kids will use at middle school and will eventually become annoying, but the main story-line was really not that great.  If you really feel the need to see this movie, then by all means, who am I to stop you.   "},{"Title":"hilarious stoner comedy","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Like others said, this movie is dumb, silly and devoid of any shred of intelligence or sophistication....... And that makes it one of the greatest, and one of the funniest, stoner comedies of all times.Go somewhere else for an intelligent movie, but for some mindless fun, especially if you are in the right altered mood, this movie is fantastic.Personally I like all kinds of comedies, smart or silly, as long as they are funny; this one made roll on the floor laughing at times,so I strongly recommend it to any fan of silly, over the top, campy stoner movies In other words..... sweet movie, dudes. "},{"Title":"1 star, just for pity points","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I wish that you could 0 stars, because that's what I would put on for Dude where's my Car? Dude is so stupid. It really doesn't have a point. Two potheads lose their car. Then there's aliens, and monkeys, it's a really, really, really bad movie. But, if you like to laugh at stupid, pointless things..here you go! I laughed at how stupid or high the writer must have been when he wrote this script...because it SUCKS! I usually like every movie I see, but not this one. It really made me throw up. Trust me, don't watch this movie. It has an hour and something minutes, of just stupid joke after stupid joke. It's not funny, it's not even a little bit funny. I didn't laugh at all. I did laugh at the end, I was laughing because I had just wasted a hour of my life watching this lame film. "},{"Title":"Dude, this is the best movie! major spoilers included","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I bought DUDE WHERE'S MY CAR? on DVD the day it came to video and DVD. I watched it and laughed throughout the entire movie. I laughed even harder during the extended scenes on the DVD. Though this movie was hated by critics, I think that audiences will laugh as much as I did. Sure, it's not the best gross-out-comedy I've seen, but it sure isn't the worst one I've seen. At least it was original. There is some outrageous scenes in this movie and I laughed at each one of them. The plot revolves around two stoners named Jesse Ashton Kutcher and Chester Seann William Scott who wake up one morning missing their car. They look in their kitchen to find that they have a lifetime supply of pudding in their fridge and in their cabinets. They decide to go to their neighbor Nelson David Herman for help. He's not much help at all so they decide to try to remember what they did and where they were the night before in this hilarious comedy that will keep you laughing all day long. It has great comedic performances my Ashton Kutcher as Jesse and Seann William Scott as Chester and a fantastic soundtrack. Despite what critics say, it's a must-see movie!! "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's a spoon so I can gouge out my eyes?","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is SOOOOOOO horrid it is beyond mention.  There's only been 2 movies that were so bad I had to turn off.  One was Malcolm X and this is the other.  It always amazes me that there are some yokels out there that actually like these films.  Please do not drag great movies like Dumb and Dumber, Wayne's World, or Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure anywhere near this steaming pile of cow sh**.  Those movies were truly great movies and this one exceeded all bounds of hideousness.I won't go into why it's bad, the others on this comment list have already done so.  I will say that it would only appeal to a small group of incestual, red-neck, partially brain-decayed individuals; or some pre-pubescent teen that wouldn't know a good movie it fell out of the sky and sat on his/her face.Don't see this movie!!!  Trust me. "},{"Title":"Abandon movie!","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is by far the worst movie I have seen this year. The theatre was packed, as most advance screenings are, but there was nary a laugh. If you've seen the trailer you've seen every funny scene but one the boys' infiltration of the Zoltan compound in bubble-wrap suits was pretty funny. The only aspect of the film that saved it from being an utter failure was the performance of Ashton Kutcher, but it is so painful to watch a talented performer surrounded by forced, unfunny situations and male-female caricatures that would seem a stunning distortion of reality in even a John Hughes film. If what you want is a goofy, funny teen comedy rent Road Trip instead. "}{"Title":"More like Dude where's my $7.50?","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  First things first this movie as a comedy is NOT funny. Secondly, as a Pot Humor Comedy, once again NOT funny. If you watched the trailer and said, hey that looks funny. Guess what all the jokes are in the trailer, when its all said and done you'll be saying, Dude, where'd my good taste in movies go? "},{"Title":"Mostly stupid and mindless","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Well, my main complaint about this movie is that it didn't have enough of Ashton Kutcher in his underwear. But it was also not very funny. More semi-nude Ashton would have made up for it, I think. The program guide on the TV gave it one star and called it a `meandering, unfunny comedy.' There were some funny parts. Hal Sparks was pretty good as the leader of the space nerds, as was Andy Dick as the weird fellow in the cage. The rest of it was pretty much just stupid and mindless.  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is not funny. It boring and stupid. At times it is gross. There good actors in it. This was a wast of there talent. Don't wast time and money on this movie. It is pooh pooh. Pooh pooh, pooh pooh, pooh, pooh pooh, pooh pooh. Don't see it don't see it don't see it don't see it. I imagine why people would laughing at this movie. Maybe people would and that is there business. But I am not someone who goes for cheap laughs. No I want to see something really funny. I only laughed a a little bit at one scene. Pretty actresses are no reason for me to see carp movie. I would rather take of big pooh then see this movie. Don't see this movie. "},{"Title":"Manages To Elicit Laughter","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Dude, Where's My Car? is a comedy film about two young men who find themselves wasted and unable to remember where they parked their vehicle.It features Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott together with Kristy Swanson.It was directed by Danny Leiner.In the movie,Jesse and Chester are twenty-something stoners who wake up one morning and can't remember what happened the previous night. Now,they have to find that car before they're captured by a group of cultists who are convinced that the two morons have a device that will provide them with the means to travel beyond the solar system.In summary,the story is about the search of the said car. This is one film that was meant to provide laughs and to entertain.Nothing more.It does not intend to satisfy critics nor to provide a classic movie.And it succeeds.Although the humor capitalized on the film's stupidity,many will find it delightful to watch. Although Kutcher and Scott are first-rate comedians that will be comparable to the likes of Abbot and Costello or Jim Carrey,I still think that they manage to elicit laughter among the viewers. "},{"Title":"If Citizen Kane smoked weed, and did nothing all day...","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" It's a funny movie, what can I say? The story concerns to two stoner buddies, Jessie and Chester. After a night of smoking, they wake up the next day to see that their car has disappeared, and will stop at nothing to get it back.This is a funny movie, it's well written, and the two fronts, Ashton Kutcher and Seann William Scott, are two very talented guys!Jennifer Garner's in it, and she was okay. Nothing Oscar worthy, but she was good!It's a fun party movie, that turned into a fun mystery, into a cool sc-fy flick, but what case of a stolen car doesn't nowadays?I rate the film an 8.5 ticket stub out of ten! "},{"Title":"Slapstick Lives in this Comedic Gem Based on Absurdity","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" From the opening to closing credits this film is possibly dumbest funniest film of its day highlighting the talents of it young cast including Ashton Kutcher, Sean William Scott and Jennifer Garner, to name of few actors.The jokes and situations are so inane and insane that after a few minutes you stop trying to make sense of them,while rolling over in laughter.It's about the adventures two buddies have while trying to figure out what they did the night before. What results is an almost slapstick comedy of bygone days. Anyone who doesn't find this movie funny should see a doctor because they may be seriously ill. "},{"Title":"Even with an unlimited budget and ten years to work on it, I could never make a worse film than DWMC","Date":"12 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" If I had the goal of making the worst film ever and were granted an unlimited budget and all the time in the world....I still know I couldn't outdo this flick. I feel a little guilty to pass judgement on this piece of crap because I couldn't force myself to watch it in its entirety. Believe me, after 10 minutes I kept on watching only because being the perennial optimist I am I hoped it would improve. As it got progressively worse I realized this horrendous flick had indeed the potential of making number one on my list of worst films ever. With a conscious masochistic attitude I forced myself to watch an additional 30 minutes. The pain, mixed with atrocious boredom, became so bad I finally had to give up and quit watching... But, unfortunately for me, I had watched more than enough. It is my contention that you have to be almost brain dead to enjoy anything about this unfunny, uninteresting, poorly written, acted and shot piece of garbage. If you have a couple of braincells left....you will most definitely kill them if you insist on watching this horrible picture...trust me!!! The best advice I can give anyone is do not, repeat DO NOT waste your time or money watching DWMC. You'll achieve the same level of pain by simply cutting a finger off....and it'll be quicker too!!! The only reason I rated this movie a 1 is simply because IMDb does not give us the option to rate it a 0 !!! I suggest IMDb corrects this shortcoming as a 0 is even more than this torture of a film deserves...For the record my rating is -1/10 "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Dude where's my car is simply amazing. There is nothing wrong about this film. The camera-work.. The acting.. Everything is perfect. This is what I call art.Dude, Where's my car will be remembered for centuries, as the only lasting legacy of the human race. I can't wait for Dude, Where's my Car 2. The thrill of never knowing where the car is, makes this film grind others in the dust. Like, in the Sixth sense, pff You always know who the ghost is. LOL! The top rated film on IMDb, The Shawshank redemption, ain't got nothing' on Dude, Where's my car. I cried when they found the car, unlike Shawshank redemption.Hail Seann William Scott.Where will the car be? You'll never know. xoxo Gossip boy. "},{"Title":"boys who can't stop taking drugs","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" i thought the movie was great and funny and crazy and i think Charlie O'Connell is sexy as hack and by the way everybody the bachelor be off the the air for a while now he already pick the girl he want to be with so tell the people of this website they need to update there mess got it!!!!!!! see the people need to update because i am upset when i come to see this person and the don't update him at all they do his brother why not him people!!!!!! So the people need to do their job so i can see who won on the bachelor got it!!!!!! Because it came down to two girls Krissy& Sarah i did not get a chance to see when the finale come on so i think he might of pick Krissy. what do you people think Sarah or Krissy? if you watch the show k don't bull me anymore update this person Charlie O' Connell got it fools!!!!!!!!!!!! "}]