[{"Title":"A dance of violence...","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'Exit Wounds' begins explosively with a terrorist raid on the Vice President, who is surrounded by an array of police escorts&#133;When renegade Detroit detective Orin Boyd (Seagal) takes on the whole Michigan militant group to save the man's life, in true action hero fashion, he is punished for his lack of respect for authority and procedure and sent to one of the toughest precincts in the city of Detroit, the 15th&#133;Once there, Seagal begins his usual habit of investigating things he's not assigned to, and quickly begins to suspect police corruption involving a major heroin operation&#133; Seagal plays a super tough cop who stays in trouble for complaints filed against him for excessive force&#133;He lands in a bad dangerous precinct and before you know it finds himself in nonstop furious action, trying to clean up the streets while taking on drug dealers and dirty cops pretty much all by himself&#133;Seagal is accompanied in this film by rapper DMX and a few other familiar faces including Anthony Anderson who is absolutely hilarious&#133; "},{"Title":"I loved it!  A total blast!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"31 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Anybody should know when you're getting ready to see a Steven Seagal movie you're not getting ready to see a Greek tragedy.  What makes Exit Wounds special is it's all in good fun.  There's no pretentions whatsoever.  In fact, it even leaves a good share of the running time for comic relief.  You have spectacular action in one corner...you have hilarious comedy in the other...what the hell more can you ask for?  Seagal hasn't made an action flick in a while, so it was great to see him again on the silver screen.  He takes a lot of flack for gaining a little weight.  OK, so he's heavier than normal.  So maybe him and Sammo Hung been hanging out in the same buffet.  But Seagal can still kick butt like he did back in Above the Law and Hard to Kill.  His action scenes are always fun to watch.  As I tell people, I'm not easily aroused by action scenes.  I can be just as bored by an action scene as one would get bored during an episode of Masterpiece Theater.  But Seagal's action scenes have a sense of originality and flare.  Big deal.  He's not the best actor.  Does his work require great dramatic acting?  Would a dramatic monologue be appropriate during one of HIS movies?  Let's be sensible.  I think people are way too hard on the man.  He's still cool with me.In the comedy department, we have the uninhibited Tom Arnold.  Arnold plays the stereotypical cheesy talk show host, who takes anger-management classes with Seagal.  There's a hilarious scene where Seagal loses his temper and throws a fit, yelling to the teacher I'm a happy person! with anger in his eyes.  Then Arnold decides that Seagal would be a perfect guest for his show.  Also, we have Anthony Anderson of Me Myself and Irene fame.  He was one of the foul-mouthed African-American brothers in the Farrelly Brothers comedy.  He gets an even bigger opportunity to flaunt his comic chops in this flick.  In fact, him and Tom Arnold have a hysterically funny conversation at the end credits, so PLEASE don't be so quick to walk out the theater.  DMX is not a terrific actor, but he's fairly good.  He proves his discipline as an actor in a more restrained role than his starring role in Hype Williams' Belly.  In that film, he pretty much portrayed a character out of all his rap videos.  So that wasn't a big stretch.  EW gives him more to work with.  Not the role of a lifetime, but meatier than a drug-dealing gangsta.  And did I mention Jill Hennesy is in the cast?  Oh...mannnnn!  She is an absolute knockout!  Perfect eye candy!  Throw in a gratuitous strip club scene(which this film has), and we have the ultimate guy flick. With DMX in the lead, naturally we have to expect some of his songs on the soundtrack.  And he provides some good stuff.  One--which was used in the previews and thankfully was used in the movie too--is a remix of Ain't No Sunshine When She's Gone.  It's quite innovative how they insert an artist's songs into a movie's soundtrack.  There's also a scene where DMX is picking out a car and blasts on the stereo his song Why Do Good Girls Love Bad Guys.  There isn't much depth to Exit Wounds.  In fact, I don't know if there's any depth.  But a film like this is meant strictly for exhibition.  And in that department, it really really delivers!  It's exciting!  It's funny!  It's rousing!  It's a thrill a minute!  You won't be bored for a second!  An hour and thirty minutes of sheer, uninhibited fun!  Exit Wounds won't have you heading to the exit.  In fact, you probably won't even want to go out for popcorn you'll be having such a great time!  Strap in!My score  7 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"The creme de la creme of cheesy action flicks","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went into this movie with the no expectations, except to see a cheesy action flick. This means I desired high-flying, over-the-top action that includes lots of cool martial arts, mushroom cloud explosions, high speed car chases and catastrophic crashes, and ultra-violent death scenes. Boy does this movie deliver!I've been reading some of the other user reviews here on imdb and many are saying this is Seagal's best flick. I would probably agree that it is close. His stiff under-acting makes him perfect for this Dirty Harry type part.The plot is nothing new. Seagal is a strung-out lone ranger cop who plays by his own rules...well you know the type, this character has been used in countless movies. Basically, Seagal's character finally goes too far (by throwing the Vice President off a bridge no less!) Thus, Seagal gets demoted down to the most dangerous precinct in town. Once there, he begins to discover crooked cops and internal conspiracies. With no one to trust and people trying (emphasis on trying) to kill him left and right, Seagal starts kicking ass and taking names.Yes I know, this storyline is as old as they come, but I maintain that cheesy action flicks aren't about great or novel plot lines. No, cheesy action flicks are about great action with all the things I listed above, in which, this movie delivers the goods with a bang. This movie also stars DMX, who is surprisingly competent as one of the main and most interesting characters of the movie.  Generally good performances all around. I never noticed any laughably bad acting. Flashy directing and nice production design are also bonuses. This tired plot even still manages a few interesting twists (I won't reveal anything for those who haven't seen the movie, but lets just say everyone is not how they seem, including the bad guys). FINAL RATING 7/10 - As good as a cliched action flick can be. Semi-interesting characters, a few plot twists here and there, steady, interesting action, flashy directing, decent performances, plenty of cool explosions, exciting car chases, and numerous excellent violent death scenes. This movie is truly the creme de la creme of cheesy action flicks! Recommended for all action lovers!Noob Aalox  "},{"Title":"Seagal proved he still had it, then flunked out again","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Despite Fire Down Below being a No. 1 hit in America, it went straight to video here in the UK and killed Seagal's career for four years. But then veteran action producer Joel Silver thrust Steve back in the limelight, put him on the Slimfast diet gave him slightly better material to work with. After all, an actor can only do as good as the script.From a novel of the same name by John Westerman (but bearing minimal resemblance to it) the plot centers on Orin Boyd, a cop busted down to patrolman after a rough encounter with the Vice-President. Once on the streets Boyd's suspicious nose can't keep him out of trouble with undercover cops who are trying to bust local Drug Boss Latrell Walker&#x85;or so it seems.There are many attempts at irony throughout the movie and surprisingly enough most of them work. Boyd is forced to attend rage control classes in which he meets eccentric TV host Henry Wayne (Tom Arnold) who becomes his wannabe partner. But sadly enough the classes don't work as Boyd continues to uses violence first, ask questions later. And there is a public service announcement too; Seagal survives a car wreck by airbag. A later car crash victim doesn't have one and dies.Dozens of cop movie clichés staple the flimsy script together. And the bad guys are obvious from the moment they appear on screen. Bartkowiak's direction is better than in his debut Romeo Must Die, and adds a heavy dose of frenetic rush to such a fast-paced film. However the set-up and execution of the story is so dull you'll forget about it half an hour after the credits roll.Seagal has learned a little, just a little, more in the acting area but still doesn't know how to express himself much. There's too much frowning and not enough other emotions from Boyd. We do want to feel more from him but he won't allow us. I guess this is just how Seagal is. He just can't get away from himself no matter what role he plays. I wish Seagal would try harder, but he just never bothers with making an effort. "},{"Title":"Guilty Action Pleasure","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Pretty straightforward action flick that is absolutely ridiculous and yet I can forgive it. You see there was nothing I loved more as a child than watching the movie heros fight the bad guys and ultimately take them out to restore peace to the free world. However, somewhere in the mid-90's, these kind of films (which I have appropriately labelled The Big Dumb Action Movies) became a lost art and gave way to newer more complex action thrillers. In some instances this was for the better and in other instances, let's just say you were left longing for the days of old when Johnny Rambo dashed acrossed a battlefield in the jungle with his extra powerful M-60 machine gun and mowed down some Commie scum. One of the men at the frontline of the old action genre movies was Steven Seagal. His older movies were an action fan's wet dream. They had lots of shooting, lots of brutal fight scenes, and the occasional trademark Seagal staredown. Nevermind the fact that the man couldn't act well even if his children were kidnapped and one of the ransom demands from the kidnappers was for not only $5 million dollars but also for Seagal to play at least one scene in a new movie with a different tone of voice and a different facial expression.But the entertainment was there and when I saw Exit Wounds, I was automatically thrown back into the mind of a young boy all over again. Here's a movie that gives an old fan of action exactly what they could ever hope for. Lots of martial arts, lots of great shootouts, and over the top stunts (maybe with a little bit of help from those damn cables and CGI but let us ignore this for the time being). This movie is a lot of fun and I was glad to see Seagal make a return to the kind of movie that people actually will pay to see him in, even if this is just a one time deal for the pony tail sporting Aikdo artist. If it is simple minded action you crave, then you can't go wrong with Exit Wounds, which is really more of a throwback than anything. When you see the legendary action film veteran Bill Duke on the screen with those crazy eyes, you know you're officially watching a Big Dumb Action Movie.  "},{"Title":"Another rapper in a movie?  What?  You say he's good?","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"26 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  `There are good cops and bad cops,' says Steven Seagal when asked about why he chose to star in the film.The need for such a question, however, is unnecessary. Seagal will forever be known as one of our generation's top action stars. He's been on trains, submarines, and over speeding cars. His ability to dazzle his audience with every punch, kick, and flip earns him the title of one of our generation's most memorable action stars. Seagal is modest about his action power, however, and prefers to be thought of as a professional martial artist.Whatever the case, his latest effort in Exit Wounds is another film in Seagal's library of adrenaline-rushing, macho-type films. Produced by Hollywood honch Joel Silver, Exit Wounds is a high-kicking, edge of your seat thriller that tells the story of a cop named Orin Boyd, sent to another precinct in the rough streets of Detroit, where nothing seems the same. Corruption, deceit, and betrayal lay only three lockers away.Much like Seagal's enjoyment for his work in the martial arts field, Orin Boyd is a person who is genuinely proud of what he does for a living. All of his anger and frustration is a result of his disappointment with how little his job means. In one of the most powerful scenes of the movie, Boyd is shown hanging up his whistle after his demotion to a traffic director. A cop in Detroit is everything Boyd lives to be, and when his occupation becomes meaningless, so does his life.Boyd isn't alone in his stance, however. When $5 million dollars worth of heroin disappears, there is an underlying truth to everything, but nothing seems to make sense. All fingers seem to point at Latrell Walker (DMX), a supposed drug dealer and one of the best.DMX delivers the most engaging performance in Exit Wounds. Much like Boyd, Walker is a character that is typical in most cop films, but also one that the audience can identify with. As every actor should, DMX gives as much personality to Latrell as needed. DMX, as Latrell, shows genuine emotions for his family, his colleagues, and for what stands to be right. A perplexing character with his actions, Latrell definitely serves to grab the audience's attention.Unlike traditional cop films, DMX and Steven Seagal are able to both grab hold of the spotlight of the film, but with their own unique charismas. Seagal and DMX's chemistry does not involve holding hands and dancing into the sun-setting horizon. It is a tense relationship between Latrell and Boyd, and as the movie progresses, the truths about one another are unraveled, with each character prepared to either fight, or work together, for whatever cause each one has.Joel Silver is known for setting the bar with his films, both in the action and story sense. Some of the most incredible action sequences in Exit Wounds will forever be embedded in the Joel Silver legacy. Along with Silver's knack for blood rushing sequences, he is also known for pulling shocks and surprises in his pictures. Exit Wounds is the type of film where one must really keep his eye open, for he might miss an unexpected, but crucial, turning point in the movie.As Steven Seagal's comeback film, he should be grateful that his first picture in the new millennium will forever remind his audiences and fans that he is, indeed, one of the best on-screen heroes of this past decade. As old clashes with new, his counterpart, DMX, has displayed his fresh talent on-screen and sets a challenge for him to take on new film's, with more demanding roles. In an age where hip hop and kung fu can co-exist in entertainment, Exit Wounds proves that films nowadays still have the potential of attracting just about anybody. "},{"Title":"Seagal rides with DMX ...to nearly perfect pitch...","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I took in this movie in the theater, in 01' surprised that Seagal was back with Warner Bros. after departing for a while. The first scene was kind of the beginning joke for the rest of the story. I was laughing when he took matters into his own hands and to avoid allowing the 'Vice President to be killed in a firefight on the bridge with the impostor police officers that were there for a killing 'contract'. The 'Vice' Prez sort of looked like a cross between Al Gore and then 'future' now former Vice Presidential hopeful John Edwards all rolled into one. I laughed because the best expression that this 'Vice' Prez had on the bridge was...-clueless. And from the exotic cars and the crazy players that brought game to the screen, this was a breath of fresh air, that year. I think that Steven Seagal played himself, as he always does but just like John Wayne and other big icons, that's what people generally go to see, these stars being the stars they are. I strongly felt that the action and confrontation between Seagal and DMX was a favorable match-up. Corruption in the heart of the downtown precinct. A couple of 'hood-ole'' boys to fight against and expose it. It's an age old tale, but they pulled this one off very well. I recommend to action and martial-arts fans. This one is a lot of fun...(***)Thx--IMDb.com "},{"Title":"A great action film","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Steven Segal makes a great action comeback in this movie. His last good movie was Under Siege was his last okay movie was The Glimmer Man. This movie is about dirty cops and Segal is trying to bring them down. DMX who is one of the best rapper/actors is also a good co-star. The only let down for me was the fact that Steven and Micheal Jai White didn't have a longer fight scene. All in All this is one of Segal's best. "},{"Title":"Don't call it a come back....","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Segal has been here for years and he has a lot of unfair critics becouse he is an unabashed liberal.He is a Budhist as well which ticks a lot of conservative USA's buttons.But with the growing open mindedness in the US population,Segal does not fade away.This action hero epitomises discipline and heroism.This movie was an average action movie but could have been a classic if the martial arts choreography was done better.There were a lot of cartoonish martial arts sequences that did not belong like DMX holding his own too much against Segal,DMX's shotgun trigger tied to belt sequences,and the like.The movie was very entertaining though and the comic relief was done well.Not the best Segal movie but certainly not the worst.Recomended for Segal fans,hiphop fans,action fans and cop movie fans...... "},{"Title":"Welcome Back Steven Seagal","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If there`s one thing I love about Steven Seagal it`s the hope he gives to humanity , no matter how untalented you are every man , woman and child on the planet can watch a Seagal movie and say  Wow , what a guy . A man whose talent has no beginning and he became a movie star . God bless the American dream  ***** SPOILERS *****And what a comeback by Steven . EXIT WOUNDS opens with some fascist militia types trying to blow away a politician standing on an anti gun ticket , only to have our hero ride into the firefight and save the day . Ah but don`t be fooled into thinking this is another holistic PC thriller with ecological overtones because the rug is pulled from under our feet with Steven going after a bunch of drug dealing homeboy gangsters . Wow , what a change of pace for a man who makes ecological statement thrillers . Even more of an earthquake is the fact that EXIT WOUNDS contains a lot of humour at the expense of Steven Seagal . Has our hero found sophisticated post modernism ? Will he realise the irony of his initials being SS who `s made umpteen films where he blows away lots of fascists ? I`m telling you after seeing this film Mr Seagal has gone up in my estimation and Vin Diesel wins my vote as the worst action star Hollywood has ever produced    "}{"Title":"Good ideas.  Bad production.","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  For a plot with a lot of potential and decent acting from decent actors, this film could have been much worse.  Seagall played his typical role as a tough mouthed and tempered cop who can't comply with authority figures. DMX also stars as a supposed criminal involved in the drug game.  I expected how Seagall's part would pan out, however i was surprised on how DMX's presence and acting were not horrendous, though not great.  Overall great  effects and some fun plot twists Exit Wounds not a bad film to sit down and watch. "},{"Title":"Far from great, but at least it's not Seagal's STD dreck he does these days","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Believe it or not, this movie wound up #1 at the box office when it was first released. Seagal's career was heading downhill fast, but this movie resurrected his career, and it became a hit. It made 51 million overall in the U.S. Seagal tried to replicate this formula with another hip ensemble cast in Half Past Dead by having another rapper (Ja Rule) but that bombed at the box office, and Seagal has been in STD hell, ever since. I'm honestly not sure why this became a hit for Seagal. It's certainly not bad, but there is really nothing all that special about it. It has plenty of lame comedy, thanks to the unfunny Tom Arnold, and some admittedly funny lines by Steven Seagal. It doesn't embarrass itself in the action department. It has a great opening, and Seagal does do some of his trademark bone crunching, and seems to be relatively in shape, unfortunately&#x85; Seagal's laziness was starting to commence as well. There are some laughable kickboxing moves, which do not seem to be coming from Seagal. The story itself is familiar. Seagal's Orrin Boyd character is a little bit like Serpico. Orrin is a lone wolf, and wants to uncover cop corruption. Sound familiar? Seagal does seem at least somewhat invested into this project. He does have some funny lines, as I stated earlier in the review. I wouldn't call his performance great, but at least signs of his old charisma are here. There is a pivotal moment, involving a death of someone he is close too, and he seems only slightly concerned. I also didn't buy the forced attraction between Seagal & Jill Hennessy. It was always subtle, but it came across as quite awkward. DMX seems very uninterested in his role, and doesn't react to much of anything. He does have a twist which I didn't see coming, but he looked bored. Isaiah Washington does well as Seagal's partner. Anthony Anderson is terribly unfunny in his role. There is a scene between him and Tom Arnold at the end credits, which is supposed to be hilarious, because they are improvising on the fly. It came across as stupid, and unbearable. Michael Jai White has an OK fight scene with Steven Seagal in the finale. It was quite disappointing in all honesty. Tom Arnold's popularity has always befuddled me, and I felt his character was a waste of time. Bruce McGill & Bill Duke add decent support, whilst Eva Mendes is sexy, but that's about it. According to her, she was dubbed by another actress, and hated the film. I couldn't tell if she was dubbed or not. Final Thoughts I thought it was OK. It won't make your day, but it passes the time adequately. It has enough action to keep you watching for most of the duration. I would certainly recommend it over Seagal's STD stuff5.3/10 "},{"Title":"strong characters and Segal 's character is more grounded in reality than usual","Date":"10 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" for me this is one of Steven Seagal best movies that i've seen so far.but then again,he has a lot of help here.he isn't the main draw her in my opinion.i think he share that distinction(or at least he should)with rap artist turned actor DMX and,there is a roster of great actors in supporting roles.this film has more realism than any lone Seagal movie.Seagal is usually shown as an almost indestructible Superman.he almost always comes out of a fight with little to no physical evidence of the fight having occurred.in this film,Seagal's character has some real fights on his hands.as for DMX,based on this film,he is really talented and has great charisma to boot.i think he is more than equal to the task at hand.he probably could have carried this movie on his own.another good thing about this movie is that there is some character development happening.the bad guys aren't just used as plot devices.at least i didn't think so.for me,Exit Wounds is a strong 8/10 "},{"Title":"Seagal's funniest, a fairly good action/comedy film","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" All Steven Seagal movies have some comedy in them.Seagal always has some funny one liners or some smart-alecky remark.Exit Wounds is I think his first film which is sort of an action/comedy.There's definitely more action but there is also more comedy than his usual films! The film also stars rapper DMX and Anthony Anderson(these two also appear together in the Jet Li films Romeo Must Die and Cradle 2 The Grave).The plot features a cop who does not play by the rules and is sent to a ghetto precinct.While he is there, he tries to uncover corruption in the police force relating to drug dealers.The film is pretty interesting, it has a good plot and good acting.Overall a good Seagal movie.Some say it was his last good movie.Half Past Dead was nowhere near as good as this,I haven't seen many of his STV movies but Urban Justice & Pistol Whipped were also fairly good films. "},{"Title":"I'm a sh*t magnet. Routine Seagal action thriller.","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Exit Wounds is set in Detroit where an attempt is made on the Vice President's (Chris Lawford) life, tough city cop Orin Boyd (Steven Seagal) takes it upon himself to single handedly save the Vice President & start World War III in the process. Boyd's bosses aren't happy, the secret service aren't happy & the Vice President isn't happy so as punishment Boyd is sent to work in Precinct 15, the biggest s-hole in Detroit & undergo anger therapy. Boyd is partnered up with patrol cop George Clark (Isaiah Washington) who quickly stumble across a plot by a gang of corrupt cops to steal impounded heroin from the police lock up & sell it, unsure of who they can trust Boyd & Clark have to go it alone dodging bullets as they try to clean up Precinct 15...This American Australian co-production was directed by Andrzej Bartkowiak & one has to say that Exit Wounds is a pretty ordinary & routine action thriller about some one man army super cop bringing down some drug dealers. The script by Ed Horowitz & Richard D'Ovidio was based on the novel by John Westermann & feels like a mishmash of action film clichés cobbled together. There's the obligatory white cop black cop partnership which never actually goes anywhere, the lone maverick cop whose wife left him because of the job & has to go it alone to catch the bad guy's, the predictable plot twists, various fight & action scenes which have little relevance to the story, some awful comedy relief & a fairly routine Hollywood thriller plot about drugs. Nothing really gels that well in Exit Wounds, most of the events seem unconnected & somewhat random. To be fair to Exit Wounds though it passes 100 odd minutes harmlessly enough, it's certainly not the worst film out there & there's one or two memorably spectacular action set-pieces & there's a funny little nod towards the brutality of Seagal's earlier films in that his character is forced to go to anger management therapy in a fairly amusing scene which also pokes a little bit of fun at his weight & that he is getting fatter & fatter with each passing film he makes. Unfortunately to balance that amusing scene out the ending is truly dire with the two main comedy relief character's talking to each other & trying to be funny, a truly embarrassing scene. While there's nothing hugely wrong with Exit Wounds there's nothing that great about it either, basically it's fairly predictable Hollywood stuff saved by some impressive action scenes.Director Bartkowiak does a decent job, the film looks nice with bright cinematography, some nice angles especially during the opening shoot-out on the bridge, there's plenty of clean lines, fast sports cars, hip music & it has a bit of style about it. The action scenes save Exit Wounds, from a huge shoot-out on a bridge to exploding cars to gunfights to martial arts fights to motorbike chases to car chases to all sorts of explosions, property damage & brutality. It actually looks like Seagal put some effort into the fight scenes in Exit Wounds, in fact Exit Wounds is probably the best film Seagal has made during the twenty first century & the last of his big budget Hollywood flicks with Warner Bros. While filming in Hamilton during the scene when the van rolls upside & skids along the street with everyone inside jumping out a stuntman died after the stunt went wrong, this scene was re-shot later which probably cost a lot since it's one of the more expensive looking action scenes in the film. Apparently filming was also delayed when actor David Vadim was arrested & charged with sexual assault by police on the set!With a supposed budget of about $33,000,000 Exit Wounds did OK at the box-office taking about $20,000,000 during it's opening weekend. The film certainly has that big budget Hollywood polish about it & the production values are high & glossy. Set in Detroit but largely filmed in Canada. The acting is alright, Seagal is OK I suppose. When I first saw the credits & saw someone called DMX I thought isn't that a make of bike? But then I realised that's a BMX... Fine character actors such as Tom Arnold, Isaiah Washington, Bill Duke, Jill Henessey & Bruce McGill are all wasted in small roles but the films still definitely better for having them there.Exit Wounds is a pretty routine action thriller that takes most of the Hollywood stereotype's & clichés & churns out a reasonable flick with which to pass 100 odd minutes. Exit Wounds is nothing amazing but it's not too bad & the action scenes provide plenty of bang for your money, neither the best action film out there or the worst. "},{"Title":"For it's genre, this is a perfect movie!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  To me this is a Steven Segal REVIVAL!  While some who have seen this may have been disappointed in the classic sense of what a good movie is, perhaps your standards were set too high.  To me, this is a classic Segal film with some great urban elements.  I thought that while DMX probably played himself for the most part, he was very cool.  Segal really seemed to get back to his true form in this movie.  I was getting tired of the political overtones in his previous movies.  I think this movie brought back the good old ass-kicking that he is known for. "},{"Title":"I think it's awesome!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Okay, I am a Steven Seagal fan but it was surprisingly good regardless.  I will definitely add it to my collection. The story has some humor and as usual a lot of fighting.  Seagal even lets DMX get the better of him.  Plus they really didn't try to tie him up with a female love interest. "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal is back....","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A decent enough action film with Steven Seagal looking better than ever in the title role. His partnership with rap star DMX is challenging, although Tom Arnold is on hand to provide the humour on occasion. The action is presented at an excellent pace, especially the opening 10 minutes, and the shoot-outs are quite spectacular.   Also, the kung-fu/wirework action set pieces work well with Seagal's Aikido skills, and he does move about a fair bit in the film. The plot which involves police corruption, brings out the best in Steven Seagal, although his acting skills are hammy at best. Overall, a decent film, worth seeing more than once. "},{"Title":"Watchable, but very forgettable Movie","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Seagal plays he usual style role of a renegade cop with no respect for authority. DMX is a gangster with whom Seagal teams up with to find out who has stolen fifty kilos of heroin from the vaults of a Detroit police vault.The teaming up of a hard cop and a hard gangster in a different take on the buddy cop genre was a nice idea, but it raises too many plot flaws and the duo don't have the comedy timing to make it work well.Exit Wounds does entertain with it's action and thrills, but its ultimately forgettable.5/10 "},{"Title":"Is admitting you're a cop always a good thing?","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  High kicking, hard punching Steven Seagal is a renegade cop that fights police corruption inside the Detroit Police Department. Five million dollars worth of heroin is taken from evidence storage and becomes obvious that it is the work of crooked cops. Plenty of action, explosions and vivid fighting...obligatory for a Seagal movie. The very diverse cast includesIsaiah Washington, Anthony Anderson, Bruce McGill, Tom Arnold, the gorgeous Jill Hennessy and an outstanding performance from rapper DMX. The story line and very good F/X take back seat to the dervish martial arts combat.DMX not only plays a double roll in this tale of corruption in the toughest precinct of Detroit; but also is featured on the loud and hard hitting soundtrack. The highlight of which is a DMX remake of the Bill Wither's classic Ain't No Sunshine.. When You're Gone. "}{"Title":"Location Location Location","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Typical Seagal movie.  Someone pushes him around and he fights back.  Always a good watch.  There's a a few cool moves he makes, but don't expect too much from this movie.  The plot moves quickly and really isn't that interesting.  It's all about the fight scenes. One thing that really got to me was the movie takes place in Detroit City but there's almost a Canadian landmark in each scene.  Welcome to Detroit AM CN tower in the background, Sky dome signs, Canadian food chains and even in the first few scenes there's filming right in front of City landmarks.  Why not just say Toronto rather than Detroit?   "},{"Title":"Tempted to write a lot ...","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ... but won't.  I am not a Seagal hater and actually like ABOVE THE LAW and most of his early 3-word-title films.  Unfortunately those days appear to be well over.  Best part of EXIT WOUNDS Seagal's magic handgun in the opening battle that is re-dubbed with the sound of a Skorpion machine pistol.  I had to rewind just to enjoy the mindlessness of this again and again.  He actually shoots down a helicopter with a pistol.  Those are some powerful sound effects ya got there, partner.  I didn't think they did that sort of thing in movies any more.  Ludicrous.  Oh yeah and it is plain as day that DMX has no idea how to fight.  I pity the editor who was saddled with the task of making him look effective in combat.  After seeing this inane piece of drek, I think I'll take a pass on CRADLE 2 DA GRAVE and just rent a REAL Kung Fu movie instead.    "},{"Title":"action packed but little else","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I had believed that Steven Seagal's exit wounds would be as good as under siege 2 which was his best film. Exit wounds does start well with a good fight scene but unfortunately the film lacks pace & too often wonders around going nowhere. IT could certainly have done without tom arnold who turns up as unwanted as a weak bowel. DMX whoever he is seems comfortable in his role but I never really found out what his operation was. The bad cops in the film were good & there was plenty of decent action with them. Steven Seagal once again proves himself as a top class actor with those scowls & frowns & that calmness he displays everytime he appears in a sceneNot a bad film but a liitle long "},{"Title":"Exit Brains.","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Exit Wounds (2001) Dir Andrzei Bartowiak / Cast Steven Seagal, Isaiah Washington, DMX, Anthony Anderson, Michael Jai White Scene after scene of violence with a title that seems to suggest my quick exit with a wounded intelligence. It opens with a scene that bears nothing to anything. Steven Seagal rescues a public figure and authority comes down on him for it. Seagal is sent to anger management seminars and suspects foul play regulated by members of the police force. He teams with Isaiah Washington to find answers as well as support the whole idea of this being the umpteenth bad buddy cop film. This all arrives at the ever familiar violent solution. Sloppy directing by Andrzei Bartkowiak who throws in the justified violence theme for good measure. Seagal isn't any different here than in any other film where he beats up countless people. The only difference is that here he seems to have an unlimited amount of handcuffs. In really awful supporting roles are Washington as well as DMX and Anthony Anderson. Michael Jai White appears in what is as bad as another film he did called Universal Soldier The Return. What is even worse about this junk is how the audience reacted to it. In the screening I attended they howled with glee as someone's neck is impaled on a nail. They must have lost a sense of human decency. This film should be nailed and smashed with a hammer. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Cool Action Entertainment","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I don't get the bad reviews ..Maybe people expected something different? It is a macho action movie that doesn't take it self to serious and it is even better then most of the recent Seagall movies (probably his best since Under Siege). I don't look at superficial details like DMX playing himself again, not so believable characters, the overall mediocre acting, lack of logic or the canned story. It's not a Darabont, Nolan or Spielberg. It is simply supposed to be fun and entertaining not to be deep or intelligent. The hard action is very cool and there is a lot of tempo in it. The sense of humor rounds it off. Seagall delivers a good performance and carries the movie well together with his co stars. It is far away from being worth an Oscar but it keeps what it promises It's a fun, cool, action-packed cop and gangster flick. "},{"Title":"Cops and Corruption","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Exit Wounds is a cheesy action film starring Steven Seagal as a lone wolf type. He saves the life of the Vice President from a right wing militia and for his efforts he gets demoted to a dangerous precinct in downtown Detroit as well as taking anger management classes. Once there, he finds corruption and crooked cops begins to take things in his own hands to sort out the streets. Tom Arnold provides light relief as a chat show host.Once again we see a Seagal action film with a liberal message and I guess the mystery of the head honcho of the crooked cops is rather predictable. Seagal by this time was looking over the hill, but its still a decent if dumb kick ass action film. "},{"Title":"Ain't no sunshine","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Camp is terribly hard to define. One feels it intuitively. - Christopher Isherwood Steven Seagal's Exit Wounds opens with Seagal, an American cop, getting DEMOTED for SAVING THE LIFE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT. What the hell? The rest of the film proceeds along similarly random lines. We watch as Seagal dodges bullets at point blank rage, visits homo-erotic locker rooms, detonates a helicopter with a pistol, takes anger management classes, beats up randomly appearing multiracial carjackers, lets himself get tazered in the nipples, and prove that all black guys aren't career criminals. Even the film's dialogue - It was bureaucrats like you who sent kids to Vietnam in the sixties! - comes totally out of the blue. Watching Exit Wounds is like sucking on a tank of laughing gas whilst ninjas and clowns battle for front row seats at a gay opera.6/10 &#x96; Glorious cheese. "},{"Title":"Exit Wounds review","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Exit Wounds is a good flashy action film that was released in 2001 by warner bros. This film has a good cast of the following actors Steven Seagal, DMX, Isaiah Washington, Tom Arnold, Michael Jai White, Anthony Anderson and Bill Duke.Steven Seagal plays Orin Boyd who is a police officer that plays by the book but gets himself into trouble with his unusual methods.DMX plays Latrell Walker who is a computer genius who poises as a criminal to bust big time criminals.Isaiah Washington plays George Clark who is Orin Boyd's partner who helps Orin out along the way.Tom Arnold plays Henry Wayne a TV host who is in fact taking part in activities that could possibly ruin his career. Michael Jai White plays Lewis Strutt a corrupt police officer that is running a gang consisting of corrupt law enforces to score big time on the streets.Anthony Anderson plays T.K Johnson who is a nightclub owner who is friends with and works with Latrell Walker who in fact has the same mission as his friend.Bill Duke Plays Chief Hinges who is the police chief of the police station that Orin Boyd gets fired from.Overall this film is pretty decent all of the actors do a good job in this film and I liked the twist with DMX's character near the end of the film and I also liked how the film turned out when it was started to get a bit pointless it kicked into action. I rate this film a 7/10 because it is an entertaining film not exactly amazing but good enough to pass the time with. "},{"Title":"Seagal actually slimmed down for this one","Date":"25 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Very good Seagal flick. The opening scene where there is an attempted kidnapping of the VP was first-rate.Excellent acting by Peter Lawford's son as the Kennedyesque politician. This particular action sequence,which takes place on a bridge in Detroit, stacks up favorably to all other action movies. The movie is full of surprises- not knowing who the real bad guys are- very tricky.DMX has a definite presence and I'm sorry to see that his acting career went nowhere.He's definitely first-rate.Tom Arnold and that chubby black dude gave plenty of comic relief. Great car chases,one involving Seagal's love interest - shocking-I didn't see that one coming. The plot in general is confusing, but stick with it. A flick to see again and again.Buy it. "},{"Title":"in jail now","Date":"8 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" this is the only movie that i've ever seen DMX in.. it's very sad to hear he's in jail now,, he's a great rapper, and apparently a decent actor also,, he did very well in this movie opposite Seagal i thought,, probably one of the only people to actually give Seagal a decent fight scene challenging him wise, Steven gets demoted to a dirty rotten precinct in Detroit known as the 15th. there here again gets demoted down to crossing guard,, but earns his way back to solve a case of dirty cops,, DMX plays a guy looking to even a score with some very bad dudes.. Anthony Anderson is a laugh a minute here as a strip club owner,, the acting was very decent, and the storyline as well,, one of the better Seagal movies. look for Sunshine from DMX as the main track,, it really sets the mood for the whole movie. "}{"Title":"Not entirely unexpected","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Don't you hate it when the hero and his mate have the bad guys held up and then the hero's mate swings his gun round and points it at the hero, and it turns out he's one of the bad guys after all? Most recently seen in high profile in SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER Indiana Jones 4? Well guess what? Spielberg didn't think of it. And neither did the people behind Exit Wounds - it was already old hat when they came up with the idea of trotting it out towards the end of this rather routine Seagal vehicle.Seagal is a problem cop, transferred to a problem precinct where the main activity is playing Guess who's not corrupt. We have a black crime boss who has a monumentally irritating comedy fat black sidekick, plus Tom Arnold in screaming over-the-top mode (is he ever in any other mode?).You may come to the conclusion at this point that I found this movie rather tiresome. If Seagal butt-kicking action is your thing - and it's OK, that's why I watched the movie - there's some of that in it, but this film severely lacked anything approaching originality - it was simply tired old formula from start to finish. And not even a good example of the formula, either. "},{"Title":"One of the best Seagal movies!","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Now I purchased Exit Wounds last week for only $4, and while I have heard from what films Seagal made in 2003-2007 were not that good, I knew something unique was going to be in this movie if I was going to watch it, and something unique was really there.Orin Boyd (Steven Seagal) is a stressed-out cop who has been moved to a ghetto precinct due to a ballsy ego to save a vice president, but as he progresses to crack a drug case and meanwhile trying to get along with his new boss, Lt.Annette Mulcahy (Jill Hennessy) he realizes that some kind of corruption is taking place within the department. For Orin, trying to crack a drug case and getting along with his fellow officers is close to impossible, but when he is signed to work with a reserved partner George Clark (Isaiah Washington), who also realizes that something deep is taking place, their teamwork is what counts. As Orin gets a lead on a Latrell Walker (DMX), and his quirky, comical criminal friend T.K. Johnson (Anthony Anderson).. a game of cat and mouse occurs within the streets of L.A. and a war is taking place. With more evidence coming up from the lead drug dealer Latrell, it becomes apparent that much of the operation is taking place by the cops in Orin's own precinct, and now it's up to Orin to stop the inside dirty work of his own department and restore peace in the city of L.A..Supported cast stars Michael Jai White, Bruce McGill, Bill Duke, and Tom Arnold.This movie was really good.. I recommend this to anyone who is a Seagal fan. Awesome cast, awesome story and really just very awesome action scenes, I mean Seagal plays in a form I have never seen and it convinces me strongly, so concluding this review, I say.. go buy or rent it, which ever you prefer.. it's a darn good action flick, its not a intelligent action flick, but it's one that Seagal really shows his redemption as a action star.By the way, the anger class scenes with Seagal are funny! "},{"Title":"A Hackneyed but High-Octane Urban Crime Thriller","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Steven Seagal manages a successful big-screen comeback in director Andrzej Bartkowiak's Exit Wounds, a hackneyed but high octane, urban crime thriller co-starring rapper DMX and Spawn star Michael Jai White, with comedians Anthony Anderson and Tom Arnold. Seagal's popularity as an atypical action hero who wore a prissy little ponytail as well as prayer beads peaked with director Andrew Davis' 1992 blockbuster Under Siege. Afterward, Seagal let his waistline bloat to Buddha-like proportions, and he started dressing like Sitting Bull. Worse, he used his movies as a soapbox to preach about environmental issues. Seagal's last outing in the 1998 militia melodrama The Patriot, where he played a single parent doctor raising a young daughter, never attracted a major studio to distribute it and premiered on cable television. Essentially, Seagal's career appeared washed-up, and then Lethal Weapon/The Matrix producer Joel Silver offered him a deal he couldn't refuse. If Seagal cut the ponytail, dressed inconspicuously, and shed weight, Silver promised to produce his comeback film. Happily, not only as Seagal lost the ponytail and slimmed down considerably, but he also ridicules his weight and ego problems throughout Exit Wounds. John Westermann's novel about police corruption serves as the basis for the entertaining but formulaic Ed (On Deadly Ground) Horowitz and Rich (Thirteen Ghosts) D'Ovidio screenplay. Horowitz & D'Ovidio recycle plot elements from Don Siegel's Dirty Harry, Sidney Lumet's Serpico, John Sturges' McQ, John Glen's License to Kill, Richard Donner's Lethal Weapon 3, and Brett Ratner's Money Talks. Although Seagal has modified his image cosmetically, he portrays the same soft-spoke, anti-authoritarian, Neanderthal Dirty Harry type who willingly breaks the law to uphold it. Exit Wounds recalls Andrew Davis' Above the Law (1988), John Flynn's Out for Justice (1991), and John Gray's The Glimmer Man (1996) with Seagal cast as an insubordinate cop.The action opens with a bang. The Vice President (Christopher Lawford of Thirteen Days) delivers an anti-gun control speech, and maverick Detroit cop Orin Boyd (Steven Seagal) save his life when a right-wing militia group ambushes the Vice President's motorcade on a bridge with enough firepower to ignite World War III. Predictably, the grossly incompetent Secret Service complains about Orin's unsolicited intervention, and his bureaucratic superiors punish him for his heroism. They transfer him to the most dangerous, crime-riddle precinct in the Motor City where his boss is a woman. Precinct Captain Annette Mulcahy (Jill Hennessy of Most Wanted) orders Orin to attend a Fight Club style anger management class where he encounters a loquacious Jerry Springer-type TV talk show host, Henry Wayne (Tom Arnold of True Lies). Seagal prostrates himself throughout Exit Wounds. When he tries to stand up in the anger-management class, he finds it difficult to get out of the desk because his stomach is too big. Later, in an outright reference to Lethal Weapon 3, Orin walks a beat and has to direct traffic.Eventually, Orin uncovers a ring of crooked cops and a mystery man, Latrell Walker (rapper DMX of Belly) on the right side of the law for a change), who behaves like a drug dealer. Latrell and his sidekick, well-heeled nightclub owner T.K. (Anthony Anderson of Me, Myself & Irene), saunter into a new car dealership with a duffel bag filled with $300-thousands dollars to buy a Lamborghini Diablo off the showroom floor just for fun. Interestingly, an African-American car salesman displays nothing but contempt for Latrell while a shrewd white salesman helps Latrell out and wins the commission. Exit Wounds stands racial profiling on its head and tweaks it for comedy by having another African-American use it against one of his own. Everything that Latrell does categorizes him unmistakably as a gangsta. Ironically, Latrell is only trying to spring his wrongly accused brother from jail and expose the dirty cops that who put him there to take the heat off one of their own protected drug dealers. In fact, both Latrell and his brother Shaun are millionaires several times over, so Exit Wounds shuns the stereotypical depiction of blacks as despicable drug dealers and presents its young black males as members of the nouveau riche who acquired their wealth legally. We learn Latrell made his fortune as a dot.com creator who knew when to bail before the bubble bursts, while Shaun awaits his 25th birthday to inherit a mega-trust fund fortune.Producer Joel Silver and sophomore helmer Andrzej Bartkowiak replicate the formula that succeeded so well for them in the profitable Romeo Must Die, but doesn't work as well for Seagal. They give the first half of the movie to Seagal, introduce DMX about 40 minutes later, flesh out the relationships between the heroes and the villains, let Seagal collide with DMX so they can team up and battle the baddies. Unfortunately, the second half of Exit Wounds doesn't measure up to the first.Seagal fans will appreciate the testosterone-laced violence and ample frontal female nudity. Silver & Bartkowiak indulge their squinty-eyed star and give him one of his signature scenes where, although outnumbered, he decimates the opposition with disarming ease. Seagal catches a gang of delinquents in the act of trying to break into his new Dodge Ram truck. The aim of grand theft auto, he tells them, is breaking into a vehicle quickly, and then he unlocks his truck with his remote control to their surprise. While Seagal acts like an indestructible action hero when he guns down dozens of villains and kicks another dozen butts, Exit Wounds varies by thrusting him into hair-raising scenes where his life appears in jeopardy. Things really shift into overdrive when the bad guys heist 50 kilos of heroin from the precinct's property vaults. Just as predictably, Latrell joins forces with Orin to bring these dastards down! Although Exit Wounds doesn't top Under Siege, it shows a freshly resilient Steven Seagal in better form than his last two films Félix Enríquez Alcalá Fire Down Below and The Patriot. "},{"Title":"Everything that a Stylized Mediocre Action Film needs !","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A list of everything the young film maker needs to please Seagel / DMX / fans of the genre and actors1.) Provide a lot of the usual clichés and stereo-types that include a criminal who trying to free one of his partners, the head of the police station who's a jerk and a cop who is assigned to a new police station for not following his orders and nearly risking the life of somebody important.2.) Provide tons of non-stop, over-the-top action sequences that are very unrealistic, will bore non-Seagel fans and is the only reason this film is not at the Razzies.3.) Provide lots of characters who are vastly unlikeable and have criminal backgrounds.4.) All the music is Hip-Hop and Rap to accompany the fight scenes and overall, pretty F.U.B.U.R. nature.5.) Have the film be directed by Andrez Bartoziak, who is notorious for other badly-done action films known as ROMEO MUST DIE, CRADLE 2 THE GRAVE and DOOM.6.) Have the plot be unoriginal and not even close to thrilling and you have a interesting turkey on your hands.7.) Last of all, have the end credits consist of Tom Arnold and Anthony Anderson, who are both minor characters in both this and CRADLE 2 THE GRAVE, be joking around crudely.It will please fans of the actors easily and/or for audiences who don't mind cliché-ridden thrillers that don't require them to think that much. "},{"Title":"Decent one-movie comeback","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's not really Seagal's fault that he was in so many stinkers. All he ever did was pick the awful screenplays from the terrible screenplays. Exit Wounds tries to go back to his early work, it's a no-nonsense action flick. No more Seagal taking on thirty guys who have guns with his bare hands, here he's just a regular cop who happens to know aikido. Like, really well. Also, putting his character in anger management class is a pretty good fetch, I'm sure the writers patted themselves on the back for hours when they came up with that. The Tom Arnold cameo was really not necessary and annoyed the crap out of me, that should be said, but it was funny stuff nonetheless. Another novelty not every scene centers around Seagal, he shares his position with equally great actors like DMX and some fat guy. It's not as bad as it sounds I guess. Also, for a Steven Seagal movie this is actually pretty unpredictable, it takes more than three seconds to figure out how it will end. This is not a good Seagal film, it's more like a good film that happens to have him in it. One point of criticism Ain't No Sunshine When She's Gone does NOT need a rap version. "},{"Title":"A good return","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have been an avid Seagal fan since Hard to Kill(1990), even though I was only eleven. So after Fire Down Below and The Patriot, I was starting to worry. Not the most intense efforts on his part. Both FDB and the Patriot were too slow-moving for their own good. Although when FDB was reaching its end, I still cared. The same thing cannot be said about the the Patriot. By the time it ended, I was glad it was over. Something had happened with Seagal's movies--there was less action, more Seagal looking at someone with a mean look on his face. And, unless I was seeing things, more stunt double work than Seagal doing his own moves, which, as a fan, I didn't appreciate. Exit Wounds is a good return. From start to finish, very little to complain about. Very little, I said, but not nothing. 2 complaints. One is him and DMX. They actually don't partner up until the end of the movie, but the scenes where they fight each other are quite enthralling. When they finally do hook up, it's cool. The second problem is in one scene when Seagal boosts a motorcycle to outrun someone. Except for the closeup shots of Seagal on the bike, in every shot you could see the stunt double. And he wasn't a good one. Like I said, 2 complaints. Otherwise, excellent Seagal fare. Blazing action, easy to follow story, great supporting cast. The cinematography is blazing, with Seagal producing some of his best fight sequences to date. I was very pleased. Leaving the theater, I knew there wouldn't be a sequel, but I had new hope that there would be a reemergence of fresh, new Seagal works. Sadly, that hope was quickly burned out, but, hey, enjoy it while you can. "},{"Title":"Messy plot, but compelling action.","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" So many things went wrong during production that its a wonder the thing turned out as good as it did. Exit Wounds is a curious mixture of Seagal vehicle, urban thriller, and Hong Kong style martial arts film. Though it is wildly uneven, there are some great stunts and good fights. Also be sure to watch the hilarious conversation during the end credits between Anthony Anderson and Tom Arnold.The plot kind of chases it's tail around until finally resolving itself more or less in a violent shootout in a warehouse. Basically it involves Steven Seagal as an aging Detroit policeman who has a tough time following orders. (don't they all in these movies?) After saving the vice president's life in an early shootout, Seagal is punished(!) by being transferred to a tougher precinct. Seagal is not there long before he finds numerous corrupt cops up to no good. The plot eventually stumbles into heroin smuggling and something to do with rapper DMX trying to get his brother out of jail or something. Anyway, just watch the butt-kicking and don't worry so much about the plot. Trust me on this one. Most of the action is very well staged. A paunchy and at times old-looking Seagal whoops his share of butt. He also shoots many, many people. Isaiah Washington, Michael Jai White, and DMX also flex their respective muscles. Most of the fight scenes are shot using the Hong Kong style of putting everyone on wires and having them swoop through the air between punches and kicks. It actually looks pretty neat.Filming was plagued by numerous problems. Seagal badly injured a knee but kept on filming. The early shootout on the bridge had to be shot during two different seasons due to technical problems! Yes! In some shots it is summertime and in others there is snow on the ground plainly visible! Supporting actor David Vadim was arrested and charged with a sexual assault right on the set. Worst of all, a stuntman was killed during a scene involving a van flipping over! Sheesh!!! At least the film still made a little money and kept Seagal relevant for a little longer anyway. Give it a look if you've got some time to kill and like some good old ultraviolence. 6 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"A ripping yarn of derring - do.Very,very funny.","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A lot of water has passed under the bridge since Mr S.Seagal's undoubted masterpiece Under Siege and similarly a lot of pasta has passed under his belt by the look of him.In several scenes he wobbles alarmingly as he trots after some gun - toting gangsta or another. His acting skills have been finely honed to the point where he has added vaguely puzzled  to his repertoire of facial expressions,thus,at one stroke doubling them. But,hey,it's easy to be hyper - critical,and he's never going to be locking horns with Pacino,de Niro or Hoffman in the Great American Actor stakes,and ,to be fair to Mr Seagal,I doubt if he has any aspirations to do so.What we have in Exit Wounds,is a ripping yarn of derring - do with absolutely no connection to reality whatsoever. It's very very funny,Mr Seagal manages to avoid tripping over the scenery most of the time,and the opening sequence where the V.P.'s motorcade is ambushed on a bridge is as good as anything in Heat. I suspect that if you are down with the kids or are young enough to understand what Rap is all about you might get even more pleasure out of the movie,but even an old reactionary like me can enjoy it for its face value. If you're looking for a DVD to rent when you come back from the Indian with a couple of packs of Kronenberg Exit Wounds will fit the bill perfectly.And I suspect Mr Seagal would be more than happy with that knowledge. "},{"Title":"A decent return for Seagal, but really not much else","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I eagerly waited in anticipation for the 2001 martial arts action flick Exit Wounds six years ago because I thought it would signal the return of Steven Seagal, that stoic Aikido master who starred in Above the Law (1988), Hard to Kill (1990), and Under Siege (1992). While it is good to see him back in form (even if he has put on a little bit of weight) after a sharp decline in his popularity, the rest of Exit Wounds suffers from a lot of cop movie clichés and a plot that really just moves through the motions of the typical cop movie.Other than that, Seagal's acting and fighting style haven't changed. He still snaps and breaks limbs with his black-belt Aikido mastery, kills lots of bad guys and saves the day, all without so much as even raising his voice. In Detroit, Michigan, Seagal is hard-boiled street cop Orin Boyd, who is busted down to patrolman after saving the vice president from a gang of would-be assassins on a bridge. It turns into a fiasco for the Secret Service when Boyd tosses the V.P. over the bridge and into the river, and as a result Boyd is sent to the 15th Precinct, the worst in Detroit.It is here that Boyd knocks heads with many of the other officers and becomes waist-deep in police corruption, and stumbles upon their connection to a shady street hustler, Latrell Walker (DMX). The bad cops want Boyd out of the way, so he's busted down even further to crossing guard (this scene alone will get a lot of laughs just to see Seagal doing a few comedic hi-jinks that really seem out of character). (There is also another comic scene where Boyd is sent to an anger management class and busts up a desk when trying to get up out of it after being asked to introduce himself.) But he does find some allies in fellow cops George Clark (Isaiah Washington), Strutt (Michael Jai White), and tough-as-nails Commander Mulcahy (Jill Hennessy).Exit Wounds, adapted from the novel by John Westermann, comes to us from blood-letting Lethal Weapon and Matrix producer Joel Silver, and director Andrzej Bartkowiak (who was at the helm of Jet Li's 2000 American starring debut Romeo Must Die). While Exit Wounds does not do much to change the formulaic cops & robbers theme, it gets by plenty on the strength of Seagal. But this isn't classic Seagal, unfortunately. Exit Wounds was released on the heels of the popularity of The Matrix (1999) and as such, was one of the many action flicks to try to use wire-fu (a technique borrowed from Chinese wuxia films where actors are attached to wires that are eliminated in post-production using CGI to make them seem like they can defy gravity).While it might make sense to see Seagal get with the times, it doesn't fit his Aikido skills. It's very troubling to see a martial artist as skilled as him have to rely on such technology. It's just not like him to go that far. I want to see Seagal snap limbs the old-fashioned way since that's what I'm used to seeing him do and want to see him continue doing. DMX wasn't really all that convincing either as the thug-with-a-heart-of-gold, who eventually comes to be Boyd's closest ally on the street (he was really much better as a supporting figure in Romeo Must Die). And Tom Arnold and Anthony Anderson also appear as comic relief sidekicks television personality Henry Wayne and T.K., respectively, and the two do have one hilarious dialogue during the credits.Exit Wounds isn't a total failure just because Steven Seagal is here and is given something to do. But his popularity for a new generation of fans was short-lived following the failure of Half Past Dead the year after, in which Seagal again relied on fancy technology to get with the times. It's just that we want to see the old Seagal; rolling with the new isn't always a good thing, you know.5/10 "},{"Title":"DMX in a breakthrough performance","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" OK, this is a Steven Segal film, but it is one of his better ones. What makes it special is the addition of DMX, Isaiah Washington, Anthony Anderson, Tom Arnold, and Eva Mendes. Put together a cast like that and you are going to have an enjoyable movie. Not Academy Award stature, but definitely bag-of-popcorn good.This is a get my brother out of jail/catch the dirty cops movie with DMX joining forces with Steven Segal. Arnold and Anderson provide the comic relief, and Mendes provides the eye candy. It'shard not to like a cast like that, and there is plenty of action, both martial arts and shootouts.The music was outstanding, too. "}{"Title":"Junk food...","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Unimaginative, full of clichés off the rack movie. To put it simply, fast food, and not even of the good, juicy kind. Better still, let's call it junk food. I readily accept that an action movie does not have to be an artistic masterpiece, but this one went really low into the gutter, especially considering the cast involved.The screenplay is un-involving, in some instances doesn't even make much sense, it is totally unbelievable. The casting is ridiculous (just have a look at the precinct commander, and if you find her believable in her role...). To make things worse for an action movie, even the fighting scenes are not very good either. Most of them are way over the top, and Steven Seagal is by no means up to most of the stuff he is supposed to be doing in them. He looks overweight, slow and totally out of shape (so considering his acting talent, there's nothing left). It would have been much better if he had stayed in 'retirement'. Avoid if possible. "},{"Title":"Well-filmed but utterly stupid action film.","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Just when you think that action movies can't get any dumber, they hit you with one like this. Amazingly stupid plot has super-cool cop/agent/whateverthehell Segall getting DEMOTED after he saves the life of the VICE-PRESIDENT because of some silly technicality. That alone is enough stupidity for a whole movie. But it just roles on he uncovers the fact that just about every cop he knew or got to know recently is corrupt and involved in a huge drug-profiteering conspiracy. And to make things even sillier, it turns out that the actual dealers are in fact almost like a secret organization that want to expose the cops?! It doesn't get any dumber - it just doesn't. Well, maybe in a De Palma thriller.Plus, we've got Segall's new superior who is no less than A FASHION MODEL cast as A HIGH-RANKING POLICE CHIEF! Hilarious stuff. Or how about that black dealer/good-guy who is not only a martial-arts experts to match Segall but also a computer genius! (How many computer experts/kung-fu-meisters do you know?) This could become a camp classic. Good action scenes, though. "},{"Title":"Nice","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After 3 years from breaking arms and throwing bad guys around, Steven Seagal gets back in the action, and this was a great return. The story was fast paced and exciting, Seagal battles cop corruption with the help of DMX (who didn't do much for me in this movie) in Detroit. Seagal may be getting older but he still gave that great handful of Action that I always want to grasp when viewing his movies. Tom Arnold and Anthony Anderson are sure to give you a few chuckles. All in all it's fun but I don't know why Seagal went on to do Ticker after the success of this. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Comeback is here","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Steven Seagal made this very good comeback movie Exit Wounds. His earlier career was good until in 1996 when he starting in The Glimmer Man, something was happening and his career was being a bust and then in 1997 when he made Fire Down Below, that was a good movie but that didn't help him much and then 1998 when he started in The Patriot (This was before the Mel Gibson film) that really ruined his career and then he took a break and now he made his comeback of Exit Wounds and this was a great movie and I loved the DMX music video No Sunshine and this movie was funny, action packed, mystery, and more. It even had a bunch of great actors in it like DMX, Bill Duke, Tom Arnold, and many more. This is a very great movie from Steven Seagal and this will be known for the greatest comeback from the great one.I give this a 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of Segals best","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Around when Exit Wounds came out Seteven Segals credibility obviously declined. Thats because Hollywood preferred pretty boys who cant do their own choreography and are overrated actors.This movie stands out from other cop movies for 2 reason. 1= Cop Corruption. Never saw it coming. 2= Its hard to tell who's on who's side.Other than Segal there are a few recognizable faces in this Bill Duke, Micheal Jai White, Anthony Anderson, Tom Arnold, DMX and Eva Mendez.The action is great. You get to see a sword fight between Micheal Jai Wite and Segal who has a black belt in kendo.Some of the sequences are a bit of a letdown You'd kind of expect more from the Segal/MJ White sword fight and no way can DMX hold his own against Segal.Overall an awesome movie and should have been the resurrection to Steven Segals career. "},{"Title":"Wounded by life...","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" An ex-secret service agent turned police officer uses his deadly skills to fight police corruption with a gangster and his new partner. Oh god, this movie is just so bored with itself. It's like one of those police movies that vanishes from memory before the credits enter the twenty second mark. Seagal is also a lot more plump and his fight sequences rely more on camera trickery to disguise the fact that he's really getting to old for this crap. That being said Exit Wounds is probably Seagal's best movie since Under Siege. However that says very little, especially given his quality. There is one stand out moment where Seagal is forced to take anger management classes. However this is all brainless, forgettable stuff all the way through. Not terrible or even boring, just forgettable.* * out of 4 (Fair) "},{"Title":"Pretty Good...","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Overall, this film is actually pretty good. From the opening scenes, the viewer is gripped by the amount of action, and I was drawn in by the idea of men dressed as police officers attacking the vice president. There was a wonderful sense of panic as a voice over the radio demanded that no police be allowed on the bridge.The story was actually very good, and gave a bit more depth than Segal just running round shooting and beating stuff up. The crosses and double crosses worked very well, and the plot moved with energy and pace.The acting was of a fairly high quality, and all of the major characters really did work as more than caricatures. David Vadim was particularly good, switching sides continuously with ease. Steven Segal carried off the scenes with a touch of humour, but also class, and his fight scenes still worked well. DMX was a little flat early on, but soon settled into his character, and considering the fairly complex plot points, did well. Anthony Anderson was faultless (as the end-credit sequence with Tom Arnold proves), and it was brilliant to see the super cool Bill Duke kicking some ass again.The music was a little heavy-handed, with a little too much rap and hip/hop music, but considering a rapper was in it, that wasn't too much of a surprise. However, scenes with Segal framed by that kind of music did seem a little out of place.The dialogue also suffered slightly from a forced hand, especially in scenes with urban characters. It was almost as if the writers didn't know how characters like that would talk, and so they just inserted swear words into every sentence. However, as the plot began to develop, the dialogue became more important, and the stereotypes did drop.The stunts and fight sequences were really the best part of this film. They were filmed with such clarity, that nothing is missed. Shoot-outs had brutal hits and loud, unedited gun shots. Fight scenes had an air of realism, and vehicle stunts were fantastic to watch.A good film to watch, that served its purpose and more. One of the better Segal films. "},{"Title":"Good cast, great action","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I don't go out of my way to watch Seagal, because I don't really consider him an actor. I've seen a few of his movies and on the whole they're OK - usually the action makes up for bad scripts etc. This one however, stands up in it's own right. It's actually a pretty good movie, with a decent cast and acceptable plot. There are some impressive martial arts moves from the old man, and some welcome light relief from the excellent Anthony Anderson, who alone is worth the entrance fee.Quite a high body count, and at least one surprising (to me anyway) death mean this is not one for the squeamish, but the violence isn't really excessive. There are some good comic moments, but overall the mood is far too dark to even remotely suggest it is intended to be funny - apart from at the end credits. There are also some impressive motors on show. Definitely worth a look even if you're not a Seagal fan, and credit due for a good effort! "},{"Title":"Big waste of time","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I don't know why I rented this movie. Every Steven Segal movie is the same. He has one expression that he uses throughout the every movie and he runs like a chicken. He tries to be cool, and in MHO he never is, but in this flick he's down right idiotic. As much as Steven Segal annoys me, some of his movies have been watchable, but this was awful. The producers tried to beef up the movie's appeal by adding DMX and some flash, but it's still bad. I heard that it's based on a book, but I can't believe that anyone would want to make this story (or lack of story) into a film. If you're browsing in the video store and come across this turkey, don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Solid Seagal action flick.","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After a string of Box office flops Seagal returned to the top in 2001 with this solid effort which centers on a renegade cop running afoul of police corruption.We get great fight scenes,Some real funny bits of comedy,Blistering gunfights,and car chases.Romeo must die helmer Bartkowiak has a good eye for the action movies.Some nice twists along the way.Seagal is back in above the law mode here.Full of attitude and very lean and mean.He gives a nice performance here. The supporting cast is great also.Dmx is Okay.But annoying sometimes.Jill Henessey is a nice arc as Seagals captain in a nice twist.Michael Jai White makes a good villain for Seagal with his excellent Martial arts prow-less.Anthony Anderson and Tom Arnold do what they do best.Make us laugh.Somebody give them their own movie together.Its sad that Dmx gets too much credit for this.All I ever hear is Seagal jumped on the rapper thing like Jet Li.It was Seagals name above the billing as I remember. "}{"Title":"Seagal goes rogue, wait haven't we seen this before?","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Orin Boyd is a loose cannon Detroit detective who gets on his superiors' nerves with his lone wolf antics. After thwarting a political assassination (by shooting the hell out of everyone) he is thrown into a tough precinct in a rundown part of town. Things only get worse when he accidentally busts a drug dealer who is really an undercover cop and that ruins an elaborate undercover operation. Busted down to traffic cop he gets a chance at real police work again by working the beat with a partner, but things quickly heat up as signs of extensive corruption begin to show and the good guys might not be that good at all.The title is mysteriously irrelevant to this film's story, but it pretty cool for a thriller nonetheless. The film also stars DMX, which puts it in the now world famous franchise known as Seagal and the Rappers. OK, just kidding about that.The film is pretty much what you'd expect from Under Siege era Seagal and that might be refreshing breeze for fans who have had to suffer through garbage like Fire Down Below and The Patriot. The story is interesting, though the trailer gives it all away, but it is not like it wasn't predictable to begin with. Seagal was never about the story department anyway and the movie's real entertainment is the action. Fight scenes, shootouts, chases, car crashes, explosions and general mayhem are all here to please the target audience and with undoubtedly do so. The cast is also pretty good, from the intimidating looking Bill Duke to the boyish looking David Vadim the film makes a seemingly unintentional statement about looks not being everything about a person. However that seems to be trying to delve a bit to deep into a Seagal movie and the best thing to do is just to enjoy it. If your a fan of Steven Seagal that is. 6/10 Rated R a lot of violence, and profanity "},{"Title":"exit wounds","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" i am not a Steven Seagal fan but this film conquers all. it it a typical action movie with some humor in it. you do not know what the movie brings to you, because it is exciting from the moment Seagal get's assigned to a precinct that he does not wanna go. he discovers there is something fishy going on. you will see a Lot of action and this movie could be true, i am not going to spoil details, just rent or buy the movie and you'll see. a real funny part is that Seagal must join a self aggressive group from his boss. Tom Arnold is very funny in it. i also saw the extra's of this movie, behind the scenes and the comment of the producers. they are interesting to hear and you will see nice things in it. "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Steven Seagal stars as Orin Boyd a police officer who finds corruption in the police force so he becomes a one man army to expose them and bash a few heads in the process of this bland and overall poorly written clunker. Exit Wounds is so devoid of thrills and excitement that it becomes quite apparent that neither of the filmmakers have seen a police movie before. There are good police actioners and bad ones, Exit Wounds falls strictly in the latter category. "},{"Title":"entertaining movie","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Orin Boyd (Steven Seagal), a Detroit detective with a unique way of taking down foes. After a busted intervention in a terrorist kidnapping case that humiliates his superiors, Boyd is frowned upon for his tactics is forced to do time in a tough downtown precinct. After discovering the covert drug operation performed by several dirty cops at his new assignment, he decides to break the rules again. While the cops are planning a big time heroin deal with gangster Latrell Walker (DMX), Boyd finds that Latrell is not who he once was, and Boyd prompts him to assist in bringing down the bad police influence that ruined him. Exit Wounds is one of my favorite Seagal films, Seagal along with DMX are great in this. "},{"Title":"Decent action scenes but very confusing","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film was OK. It was unlike any other Seagal movie (it had a hip-hop flavor to it) and I was never expecting to see him in a movie with DMX. This film had very good action scenes and gunbattles but it was very confusing to know who was shooting at who. Seagal and DMX were never even seen together until the last scene so if you intended on seeing this to see them together, forget it. Extremely confusing, it was about some dirty cops who stole a large amount of heroin from the evidence vault at the police station and plan to sell it, and BOOM!! Gunbattles erupt! If you are absolutely in love with action movies then you should see this, but if you dont, stay away. Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"A COMEBACK FOR SEAGAL!","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was an improvement from On Deadly Ground. Ditching that ponytail was a change for him. Having DMX was cool too. All those all stars cast have helped Seagal as well. My favorite was the fight scene between Seagal and DMX. It was a blur the first time, but when you see it more, you get the hang of it. Know the truth is always a must, but when you have a job like DMX's, you can go wrong. Michael Jai White was awesome as a villain, he was smooth in Universal Soldier The Return as SETH! Everyone in the movie were awesome. That's a high kick! Rating 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Not bad, it's the action that you look for. But the action even fails here a bit.","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Orin Boyd (Segeal), one of New York's toughest and devoted cops, discovers that there is a ring of police brutality and corruption. He finds that he is running into a mysterious character (DMX) more and more often as well, a character who may have something to do with all that he has discovered.  Exit Wounds is the type of movie where it seems to work if the viewer tries to not think about realism (Segeal blowing up a chopper, in mid air, with a small uzi / machine gun??). Segeal acts wooden, signaling that he should either retire or try a new genre of movie. DMX makes a pretty good character for himself, although of course he can't act great. There are some good twists and turns, and the action is quite good, but like I mentioned, it lacks in realism.  Overall there ARE some pro's to it, but too many con's to be taken extremely seriously. Pick it up at Blockbuster if you want. 5.3/10 "},{"Title":"the mystical orange warrior returns","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Some people when considering the ultimate police thrillers everfilmed may say 'Serpico' or 'LA Confidential' to which I'd grab themby the wrist and flip them until they say 'Exit Wounds'. Mr Seagalhas become quite chubby in the movie but it doesn't hinder hisability to grab people by the wrist or the ability of the film to grab theviewers attention and not let go. It moves at a break neck pace asseveral action scenes show The Matrix how it should be done (mypersonal favourite sees Seagal disguise himself as a smallChinese man simply by wearing his hat). Seagal immerseshimself into the role of a policeman by cutting off his pony-tail andwearing a policeman's uniform, he truly is a pro. The story is alsotop notch involving corrupt policemen who make t-shirts out ofheroin, it's such a cool idea i can't believe no-one's thought of itbefore. All in all i think it's the greatest movie ever but unlike hisother films it doesn't feature a moose which is a shame. "},{"Title":"Seagal Has Done It!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This has to be the best action thriller I've ever seen! The jam-packed action deserves to be watched over and over. Steven Seagal mastered this movie, and every part of it. The directing, I must say was brilliant, the cast super, and the writing better than others. Great Job. Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Seagal's movies are getting bad and it's not even his fault!","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Steven Seagal is one of those action heroes that has a certain brand of action films that are not for all tastes but certainly not without entertainment value. I personally love watching his films, just because his enormously unrealistic brand of fighting is both so characteristic of him and also because it's just fun to watch, even if a lot of it is so clearly contrived and totally fake. He's fun to watch in the same goofy way that people like Jackie Chan and Van Damme are fun to watch. It's not real likely that this kind of thing can happen in real life, but it is certainly entertaining nonetheless. However, even this larger than life fighting style can be taken too far. Exit Wounds starts off with a politician reciting enormously disturbing (and TRUE) facts about gun violence in America to a crowd while on his campaign for office. So from the very beginning you know what to expect. If you keep in mind that this is a movie that immediately gets you thinking about how terrible the gun situation in this country is and then turns around and literally kills dozens of people with machine guns within the first three minutes of the film, you know how far the intellectual content is meant to go. This is not only a movie that is not intended to get you thinking, it is specifically a movie that is intended NOT to get you thinking. If you're still thinking about the epidemic of gun violence in America four minutes into the film, you've already missed the point. But the movie makes its first unforgiving mistake here, because this is a point that should NEVER be forgotten.Even Seagal's morbidly entertaining brand of fighting is overdone here and made fake and uninteresting by the efforts to make it look all high tech and fancy, vainly trying to copy Matrix-like slow motion and anti-gravity moves, neither of which do anything but make you sigh and slap your forehead. I can't say that I wasn't at all entertained by the fighting scenes in the film, but there are just some inexcusable things like the scene where Boyd (Seagal) walks out of a court-ordered anger management class (after tearing his desk apart because he got stuck in it) to find a bunch of hoodlums trying to break into his brand new Dodge pickup truck, which still has the factory sticker on the window (this is the only commercial that Dodge apparently could afford to put in the film. Mercedes commercials, on the other hand, filled the rest of the movie). Boyd gets out to his truck and finds, as always, one of those groups of car thieves that are somehow under the impression that it takes the whole gang to break into a single car, and if the owner shows up, it's probably best to stay there and talk to him until he beats the hell out of everyone than to scatter and move on to a different car. Boyd puts his smack down and his whole anger management class runs outside and cheers. The event is a success, because Boyd has made his fellow rage-aholics happy, but as always, he grunts and gets into his truck and speeds away.In fact, probably the only person who looks less happy than Boyd in the film is Latrell Walker, a curious character played surprisingly well by DMX, at least as far as the character that he's given, who is angry and mysterious in a criminal way as long as the screenplay needs him to be, before immediately lightening up and turning into a completely different person so that the movie can have a twist. This is weak screenwriting in its most spectacular form. DMX mumbles his way through the first half of the movie, looking about as happy as your average rapper on the cover of your average rap CD/magazine/poster/movie/music video/etc. (spoilers) It turns out that Walker is working undercover to expose a group of corrupt cops and to free his brother from wrongful imprisonment, and neither has a clue in the moon how to do this until the screenplay needs them to. We see a couple scenes of Walker's (or, in this case, Leon Rollins, his un-undercover name) brother talking to Boyd and doing everything he possibly can to convince Boyd and us that he really is a criminal and has a lot to hide. Evidently the weak screenwriting doesn't stop with the character of his brother. Walker/Rollins is independently wealthy, and the fact that he buys $285,000 cars by tossing a duffel bag full of cash at a salesman and saying, `There's $300,000&#133;Keep the change,' leads you to believe that he is, in fact, involved with the massive amount of drugs that infiltrate the entire film. The later revelation that he runs a freaking WEBSITE called `999.com' (Everything you could want for under a dollar) is probably the weakest bit of screenwriting in the entire movie.Exit Wounds does, in fact, have a good amount of twists in it, and twists are a good way to make a boring movie interesting. But it doesn't throw these twists in at an unexpected moment and therefore get a good reaction from the audience as much as it deliberately misleads us to believe one thing and then completely turns around and throws in all this other stuff to completely cancel out everything that it's said so far. It leads us very carefully by the hand in one direction, and then out of the blue shoves us in the opposite direction. In this case, backwards. This structure is embodied perfectly in a scene late in the film where Boyd and Walker confront each other and start fighting. They fight viciously for a minute or two, and then at the drop of a hat, Walker gets knocked to the ground and says, `You want to see what's really going on? Follow me.' At which point Boyd forgets everything he's ever known about any kind of enemy and casually follows Walker into his own territory, which could be filled with all of his buddies and all of their guns if he hadn't immediately decided that hey, we're friends now. He would never do anything to hurt me.Quality or quantity is a choice that you have to make, and in this case, there is a large quantity of plot twists, none of which have any quality at all. About half way through the film the plot jerks you around so much that by the end you want to just turn off the movie and lay down for a while. Action films are supposed to thrill you, not wear you out by taunting you to try to keep up with the twists. The movie tries to be interesting by piling on all these twists (maybe in an effort to make up for the botched martial arts), but if they really wanted to be interesting they might have thought to try to throw in there somewhere a reason that the movie was called Exit Wounds in the first place, other than to have a hugely unappealing title. The justification for such a repellent title may have been more interesting than anything else in the movie.  "}{"Title":"masterpiece comeback","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  for everybody sayin' that this movie isn't that good at all.. i can say .. man.. you must have been in a bad mood.i'm doin' aikido myself and of course i always like somebody doin' the same thing in movies though. steven seagal is a great aikidoka and a great actor.why is everybody always looking for a movie that is straight for thinking or doing a great plot?entertaining movies don't need good acting.. they need a guy who can't get hurt always is cold and mysterious and kicks a** as nobody else!it is the great comeback for seagal. i hope he'll do more of those movies with even more action and more aikido in it!!! GREAT!!! "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I like Steven Seagal, he's a cool guy to watch, his quiet almost whispery talk, the pony tail, the infamous pool scenes. Look much further, you won't find any of that in Exit wounds. They just thought if they put him together with a rapper the movie would be pretty much covered. Just pop in some badly done and recycled action scenes(won't Joel Silver ever give up with this quasy Matrix choreography), some cool songs to go along and you've got a winner. NOT!!!! The only good thing this movie has to offer is Tom Arnold. Anthony Anderson just replays his Romeo must die character, only this time he isn't funny anymore. In the DVD documentary they say they really wanted this movie to be smart, urban, to be able to show that all cops aren't bad, but that there are bad cops. C'mon, who are they fooling, the smartest movie Seagal ever made was Under siege. A movie that tries desperately not to be just another cliche ends up being even worse.    4/10 "},{"Title":"This is the first Steven Seagal movie I've ever liked","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  But then again I haven't seen all his work to really form a proper judgement. The bridge scene at the beginning was very well done. For one thing I live in Calgary(where the scene was shot)and I'm well aware of the area. The story line was more than easy to follow, with more than just car chases, gun fights, martial arts, etc. I recommend it to all. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bought it without seeing it in the theater.  I wasn't disappointed.  I think that DMX was unusual and interesting;  The fight scenes were well thought out; Tom Arnold and Anthony Anderson were a gas; and watching 50 year old Steven show us that he could still do his thing was wonderful. I'm with another reviewer who said  If you don't like this kind of movie, don't watch it. If you are buying it because you want to be instructed on the finer points of Albert Camus...Get a life!  It's an action movie...That's spelled A-C-T-I-O-N.  Good guy versus bad guy... If you like Steve S., like DMX, like Tom A. and Anthony A., give it a shot. You don't like to watch people get shot or have bones broken, I would suggest Veggie Tales. "},{"Title":"Cardboard Dirty Harry","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Steven Seagal plays a rogue cop, who just can't help taking on crime when and where he finds it, frustrating the authorities as he goes along, despite clearly saving lives and catching, or killing, the criminals. This is not new territory, but Seagal brings a blandness to it that is quite striking. The one-liners that plummet from his lips towards the end make Arnie look like Woody Allen. You could argue he's being dead-pan, but to be that you have to have another expression. This he wears when stuck in a burning van, when taking a voltage-gun to the stomach, and I dare say, if the budding romance had continued.....no, I don't want to think about it.DMX  looked good, although why did Seagal have so much trouble fighting him after dispatching 5 huge bouncers in a nightclub? Anthony Anderson was good value, and if you stay to watch his discussion with Tom Arnold during the end credits, you'll pick up a great tip on personal hygiene. Or does everyone do that?Having said all that, you do get what it says on the tin; lots of action, fighting, explosions, and an examination of moral certainty. Well, maybe less of the last..  "},{"Title":"Don't get me wrong, I like action movies...","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  but this one is... (a 4-letter word should stand here)...very bad, and I am trying to be gentle here. What on earth did they think? A terrible plot, combined with your usual special effects and Steven Seagal trying to act... Mistakes that a junior cinematographer could easily avoid, and Andrzej Bartkowiak has a very respectable list of major releases to back him up. So why do we see the van with the doors ripped, then locked again, then wide open, then shut, then the van is on fire, then it is not and so on? Let's conclude. The bad the plot, mediocre effects, profanity in directing and editing, Steven Seagal trying to act (I already said that, I know)... The good Anthony Anderson and Tom Arnold, who save the day, and DMX, who succeeds not to ruin it (mainly, because anybody looks good acting side by side with Seagal). Oh, yes, I forgot - DMX's songs should be in the good list too. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Action packed, awesome combo of DMX and Steven Seagal","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie just recently and I thought that it was really cool.  DMX was really good in his movie, the unusual combo of a rapper and a martial arts expert is kinda weird but I was surprised to see that DMX could kick some ass as well.  The shame is that DMX isn't in alot of movies, he was in Romeo Must Die for like 2 seconds until that bad guy kills him, which was a bummer!  Sometimes there are singers gone actors and they really do stink at but with DMX from rapper to actor he did really well in this movie.  I mean you may see other people comment on this movie but if you are a fan of Seagal and DMX, I suggest you watch this movie because it is a pretty good movie.I always like watch Steven Seagal fighting because it's funny because he is so good at fighting that no one can touch the guy and he kicks everyone's ass, but going back to the movie it was really good.  How DMX and Seagal teamed up and kicked some ass was awesome.  I hope to see DMX in many more movies (he is also a great rapper ;))  But if you want my opinion on this movie it was another Seagal beating the stuff out of everyone that he saw and looking good doing it!  I know that all that I said may not make any sense but what does make sense is to go out and atleast rent this movie because it is a good movie to sit down and watch.  From the Jman to everyone else, peace out! "},{"Title":"A waste of Jill Hennessey","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jill Hennessey, as the love interest, and Tom Arnold as comic relief, are the only redeeming features of this trite Segal vehicle. The plot is predictable, the  blow ups unrealistic, and Segal looks embalmed. I hope Jill gets more and better feature film roles, since she is wasted in boring TV roles, but Tom Arnold was better in True Lies, which features the delectable Jamie Leigh Curtis. Another better action film to watch/rent would be The Replacement Killers. "},{"Title":"Same Old","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There's a mechanism to Steven Seagal films.  thought, I don't see what's wrong with that, as he's perfectly at home in this genre.  If you wish to see challenging cinema, you're not going to watch a Seagal film are you?As a bad boy cop, Seagal is transferred to a precinct that has a serious problem with corruption & crooked cops, run by a former Internal Affairs commander.It's not exactly deep, but there's plenty of the martial arts type scenes that he excels so well in, and it's light hearted enough to be entertaining throughout.You'll see it if you like him, it won't offer too much to you if you don't. "},{"Title":"Thank God for a decent action movie","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  	For too long we have had to sit through silly moralizing drama's, romantic tales, and pitiful comedies.  The action movie has been away from the screen for far too long. At one time Chuck Norris, Jean Claude Van Damme, and Steven Seagal ruled the cinema.  Chuck got out of the big screen and into television at the right time, Van Damme disappeared into direct to video, and Seagal seemed to have bloated himself out of existence.  His last movie was a direct to video joke. Thankfully the studios took a chance on this one and let the action fans get what they wanted. 	Seagal plays Orin Boyd, the longer cop with an attitude.  After spectacularly saving the Vice-President from a terrorist attack he is bumped down to the most unholy of precincts.  This is the place nobody wants to go.  Crime is running rampant through the streets and the cops seem unable to do a thing about it. 	After a disastrous meeting with his new commander Boyd finds himself in an anger management meeting where he meets celebrity wanna-be Henry Wayne, played by Tom Arnold.  The two interrupt an attempted theft of Boyd's truck in true Seagal fashion.  Later that night Boyd sees a drug transaction taking place.  He is able to capture one man but Latrell Walker, rap star DMX, and his associate T.K., played by Anthony Anderson, escape.  Much to Boyd's disgust he finds the guy he busted is an undercover cop. 	Even more to Boyd's disgust he is busted first down to traffic cop and after that fails he is partnered on the beat with the idealistic young George Clark, Isaiah Washington.  Boyd is able to convince George to help him track down Latrell and T.K. They find to their horror that Latrell and T.K. may not be the bad guys that they thought they were and the cops may actually be behind most of the drug running on the street. 	Okay, that's the basic plot and I admit it&#133;it sounds silly. But guess what? You don't go to a Seagal movie for the plot or the character development.  You go for the action scenes and maybe if you are lucky some funny dialogue. Does the movie succeed in that aspect? Oh Yeah! 	Andrzej Bartkowiak shows much the same skill directing this feature as he did with his previous movie, Romeo Must Die.  In fact many of the faces from Romeo also appear in this film.  Bartkowiak keeps the story moving at a quick pace and lets the action speak for the rest of the film.  The fight scenes are all choreographed well. 	Seagal seems to have lost weight and got back into more of a fighting trim with this one.  His action scenes are more in depth than anything he has done in awhile and he even takes a bow to his age with letting the younger bad guy in essence win.  The key to his performance though is the fact that he looks back to his previous success in Under Siege and plays this role for laughs.  He still delivers his lines with the strangely serious gaze but there is a glint of a smirk in everything he says. 	Rap star DMX does a fine job too. He handles all the lines well and doesn't force anything off the screen.  The comedy is provided in this movie on two fronts.  One being from Anthony Anderson's character T.K., acting strangely similar to his character in Romeo&#133; and the other front being from Tom Arnold.  Both are adept at reeling off lines in a rapid pace and one of the funniest scenes in the movie occurs during the credits when the two are just firing things back and forth. 	Is this movie ever going to win an Oscar? No way, but judging on some of the movies that one this year, that doesn't say as much as it used to.  Does it succeed in delivering escapist fun? Oh Yeah!   "}{"Title":"One of the best Seagal film there is","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Exit Wounds delivers us what no one who'd have expected a year before it's release a theatrical reappearance of action hero Steven Seagal. The guy seemed to be sentenced of into b-movielimbo after Glimmer man but this is his comeback, and one for the better in my opinion. Almost everything that was annoying about Seagal to a lot of people has been removed; the ponytail, the zenwisdoms, the seriousness... however, he's still a cop and he's still breaking' bones like pretzels. Apart from a couple of small plotholes (Driving in a yellow Hummer borrowed from Latrell who's undercover immediately gives away Latrell as soon as Seagal is spotted in the Hummer) the story is pretty decent, at least for a Seagal movie.Most of his past movies were simple revenge flicks, this tries to do something different for the man. The styling is very smooth and can be compared to Romeo must die. The hiphopbeats, cool cars, snappy action and nice cast work good. This movie can be seen in some extent as the sequel to RMD due to the styling and cast (a couple of cast members also have roles in RMD). Of course, no selfrespecting actionflick can miss humour and there's plent of it in Exit Wounds, mostly provided by Tom Arnold and Anthony Anderson but Seagal himself also provides a laugh or two throughout the movie, hell the man even laughs himself! All in all a good actionmovie which is sure to please you for 1,5 hour if you don't have prejudice grudge against Seagal.7/10 "},{"Title":"A return to form for Seagal.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought the cast for One Night Stand was intriguing; Exit Wounds has the unlikely combo of Steven Seagal, Earl DMX Simmons, Jill Hennessy, and Tom Arnold. Amazingly, this one works great. BTW, the Video Movie Guide gave this one **. Yeah, these losers are already planning to pin ***** on Star WarsAttack Of The Clones.Steven Seagal was one of the top action stars of the early 90's. Starting with the underated Hard To Kill and all the way to his smash hit Under Siege, he was the best in his genre. Yeah, most of his films had him as nothing more than a one man gang, killing and maiming everything in his path, but they were well written, directed, and his brand of martial arts was second-to-none.However, his career went south with his directorial debut On Deadly Ground with its heavy-handed environmental messages. After some success with Under Siege 2, his career was all but buried with the flops The Glimmer Man, Fire Down Below (another environmental story), and Patriot. Seagal decided to take some time off to regroup, and three years later, he returns with a flourish with Exit Wounds, and it was a hit, and hopefully, the now-wisened Seagal can continue to have success despite being 50+.Seagal plays Detroit Det. Orin Boyd, who is demoted to serve in Detroit's tough 15th district after he went overboard in killing all the members of a terrorist group who were trying to kidnap/kill the U.S. Vice-President (a good opener, reminiscent of a video game). He then gets involved in a case involving the mysterious whereabouts of Latrell Walker, played by DMX. He learns that Walker has multiple identities, but he doesn't know whether he's a good cop, a bad cop, or a civilian. Also, he learns of corrupt cops in his district who are in cahoots with drug dealers and gets the help of Detroit AM Talk show host Henry Wayne (Tom Arnold) to help him solve the case, as well as his partner, played by Isaiah Washington.This isn't a no-brainer; I was interested in seeing what would become of Walker. Also, there is some inventive violence in the fight scenes, with swordplay and a neat scene where DMX uses a powerful shotgun in a manner where he throws it straight in the air, but he has a strap tied to the trigger that allows him to shoot it by pulling on the strap. The acting is decent (although Seagal will never be more than a fair actor) and it goes quickly. I have to say that Anthony Anderson has some potential in Hollywood, his supporting role as DMX's friend is superb and he adds comic relief along with Arnold. This movie was surprisingly good. The DVD version contains two documentaries, one of which features Anthony Anderson on a day of shooting; he shows you how hard the acting biz is, and that there should be a case made for the $25 million a movie types (as well as lower talents in the food chain), that they have to work 70-80 hours a week to make a film. I think he made a good point.BTW, although the film is set in Detroit, it was actually shot in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. You'll see the CN Tower in the skyline as well as other notable buildings, as well as Tim Horton's Donuts, The Bay. and Pizza Pizza. Of course, you'll need the DVD to see these places clearly. "},{"Title":"Comedic Sci-Fi click fails","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ****SPOILERS*****DMX is a horrible rapper, one of the worst in the industry (then again, the corrupt hip hop industry is built on deciept, murder, money and connections, not talent, which explains the rise of a DMX, Ja-Rule, or Angie Martinez while better talents like Common, DJ KRush, or DJ SHadow remain in the underground or barely heard in mainstream.) Anyway, along with being a horrible rapper, DMX is also a horrible actor. Wouldn't it have been wise to pair this horrible actor up with a good actor to at least justify his film time? What does Joel My kung fu films are better than REAL kung fu films Silver do? He pairs him up with Steven Segal, a guy who only acts stiff in all his films. This ci-fi comedy has Segal who all of a sudden has Matrix-inspired kung fu and can punch fat dudes yards away, fly in the air, and break glass like if it was toast. DMX can now walk on walls, fire guns with his belt, and sommersualt like he was actually given the talent to do so by an ancient Egyptian god. The fight scenes are aweful, the film itself is pretty gay (alot of Michael Jai White topless and barely no women in the film, with the lone female lead who dies later with no emotion from any of the characters involved.) DMX is very hateable in this film (he should have stayed the bad guy but it would have offended black folks so the bad guys are a white and black man instead--Segal takes on the bad black and DMX takes on the bad white. It balances out, see? If you want Kung fu, there are better films. If you want Segal, believe it or not he's done better films. If you want a rap star in a film, there are better films. This movie is garbage, but it's a laugh riot regardless. "},{"Title":"Seagals first theatrical movie in a while...","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  To start withSeagal is kind of funny,but he isn`t supposed to be.His acting is nonexisting and his dialogues are bad.He talks so slowly...zzzzzzz.His best movie remains Under Siege(1992) -end of story. So,here he`s back again with his first cinema feature in 6 years.Some said it was kind of funny,like an action-comedy.I don`t get it.It`s not funny at all! Seagal acts like he always have(you know what I mean). Tom Arnold`s part wasn`t especially funny.DMX can`t act at all and his music is bad too.I thought that Romeo Must Die was better.Better action sequences and stunts,but not much more(but better anyway). This is just just another of standard Hollywood action movies. It keeps you entertained,but not much more.If the movie only had some better actors,or funnier ones-it could have been much,much better.Rating-2/10 "},{"Title":"Even the title is stale and makes no sense","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Look I like Steven Seagal, too.  Not so much because he can do the kickboxing, knife-throwing, somersaulting thing, but because of his soft-spoken charm.  He's not a subtle actor but for this kind of role he's a more than capable one.  So compelling is his quiet sincerity (even while delivering weak one-liners) that you don't stop to question why he, almost alone out of everyone in the world, is utterly incorruptible.  Neither Seagal's performance nor the script tells us; but then, neither needs to.That, among other reasons, is why it simply won't wash to defend inexpressibly bad rubbish like this on the grounds that it's a Steven Seagal film.  So what?  Bad is bad, and this is so bad that it makes Bartkowiak's previous feature, Romeo Must Die (which, I might as well admit for the record, wasn't bad) look like a rare cinematic jewel.  It had a story.  What betrayal there was wasn't senselessly complicated to the point of not mattering any more.  The music wasn't great but it wasn't so dopey as to be vile.  I can't recall how often, if at all, it tried to be funny, but at least it didn't try and fail.  Some elements were fresh.  The fight scenes were coherently staged.  (Get a load of the final fight scene in Exit Wounds EVERY SINGLE CHARACTER is involved, in some way or other, yet it's so unmotivated and unimaginative and confusingly shot that we'd have a hard time keeping track of what everyone was doing if there were just three or for people.)  How stale is Exit Wounds?  Hard to say.  It smells as if it's been growing mould for about twenty-five years, but at no point in the past twenty-five years (at no point in history) would a film like this have been fresh.It even manages to get worse still in the opening credits.  One of the supporting actors is Tom Arnold, who does the same venal schtick that was for the most part endearing in True Lies (here, of course, it isn't), as a schlocky talk show host.  Well, over the end credits, for no obvious reason, we get to see his schlocky talk show.  My god!  The sound of a tooth being drilled has nothing on this.  If you've been living in a cave and honestly have no idea how bad American talk shows are you might want to see the footage out of anthropological curiosity, but I suspect it was included to drive people out of cinemas so that the projectionist could stop rolling a minute or two early. "},{"Title":"About as believable as Yasir Aarafat claiming he wants peace","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  3 secret service agents with semi-automatic weapons can't take out 2 bad guys, who, might I add, have already taken out the entire motercade of officers none of whom realized their comrades were all being shot down around them until it was too late.  Then, the hero rushes in, drives straight at them in a vehical with LARGE WINDOWS which the bad guys fail to succesfully hit with even one shot at point blank, he then fells the bad guys, and blows up the enemy helicopter without even reloading his pistol. And for all this, he gets fired, because he violated orders to stay off the bridge.Thats just the first scene, it gets more unbelievable from there.  "},{"Title":"The good old days are gone...","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am a huge Steven Seagal fan, always have been since '88 and Above the Law.  I have been eagarly awaiting Steven's return to making films again after a rather extended period of inactivity.  I was disappointed by this film.Several factors contributed to my opinion.  First, the use of wire-work has no place in a film like this, and the fact that Steven Seagal didn't look anything like Nico Toscani, despite the man being 50 years old now, came from this effect.  Where are the fast, tight leg sweeps... the devastating ridge-hand strikes, etc from the early days?  Where is the CHOREOGRAPHY that Seagal used to write himself?Modern action fans want to be stunned by fighters turning incredible flips and jumping higher than is humanly possible, I suppose because all the other stuff has been done before.  Well, to me, this detracts from the overall presentation because there is no one 'hero' to look up to.  I am saddened that Seagal jumped on the 'pop' band wagon, even if he is trying to break back onto the scene.  I hope his next film will feature the type of action his true fans know and love.Another factor was DMX.  Casting this guy in a motion picture with a role as involved as this character is ridiculous.  This guy is the same whether he's counting money, or dodging bullets.  After about 10 minutes of watching his portrayal, I was reminded of Macaulay Culkin in Home Alone.  The mannerisms, the stale read-the-lines-aloud performance, these were identical to Macaulay Culkin's in Home Alone - the difference - Culkin was 9 years old!DMX's acting coach could have spent a bit more time with him, and judging from the overall rating this movie received, I don't think I'm alone in my opinions of it.  The only thing this picture has going for it is a few big names, none of which amount to much.  I understand the marketing concept Use Seagal to bring in his old fans, use DMX to add 'flavor' and bring in the newer generation, some of whom maybe have not even heard of Seagal.  Those people will think, man, what was all the fuss about Steven Seagal, he couldn't even beat DMX...Do you think Richie ever got a shot in on Gino, let alone a dozen of them... I don't think so.  That's the Steve I am looking forward to seeing in action again.  Anybody seen Richie?.. Anybody know why Richie did Bobby Lupo?  Put 'em in 'orbit' again, Steve! "},{"Title":"For Seagal Fans","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you are a Steven Seagal fan (as I am) and are willing to overlook a rather silly plot, sit back and enjoy the action. Seagal is at his best when playing a bad-boy urban cop as he does in this flick. The movie contains a lot of good action and some genuinely funny moments. Jill Hennessy is lovely to look at but hopelessly miscast as the commander of a troubled police precinct. If you're not a Seagal fan, you probably won't enjoy Exit Wounds. "},{"Title":"my favorite steven seagal movie","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  the first time i watched this i was in a hotel with my dad. after i saw it i was begging to watch it again. so i did.we also watched down to earth,crouching tiger,and double take. orin boyd (steven seagal) is a cop trying to catch the bad guy. he thinks its latrell walker (dmx) but then he finds out a crooked cop montini is the bad guy. "},{"Title":"Horrible movie!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What else can you say? Horrible acting by all, not funny (sorry Tom Arnold), stupid story, bad acting, too many mistakes, obviously filmed in Toronto, not Detriot, and oh yeah, bad acting. Gotta give it credit for actually being considered as a movie, but nothing else. "}{"Title":"Just like the old musicals (possible spoiler)","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First, the review. I rented this tape because I was a fan of Jill Hennessy's from Law and Order. believe me, if that is your motivation, it is the wrong one. Jill is in four scenes a cute meet in which Seagal doesn't realize that she's his boss; A scene where she sticks her head into the locker room while some of the men are changing clothes; a scene in a restaurant in which Seagal tells her date to get lost and she has to pretend to be attracted to old stone face and an extended car chase scene where she becomes the 47th person in this flick to go through a window.That's what the movie is really about people going through windows. The plot make little sense. Seagal graduated from the Easter Island school of acting. The humor is unfunny to anyone not smoking anything. It's all really about people flying through glass. If that's your thing, fine. It wasn't mine. But it did get me to thinking.It seems to me that action films are the modern equivalent of the old Hollywood musical. Both feature silly plots that only serve as a conduit for the real reason people came to see the film. they also feature performers who are better at what they were really hired to do than they are at acting. The old musicals were about singing and dancing. They look great is a That's Entertainment format in which all we see is the singing and dancing, (and only the best of that). They seem less great when you sit through the whole film and look at your watch, waiting for the people to begin doing what they are really good at. The modern action film is similarly constructed, (as is the modern porno film, come to think of it), except that the big scenes are not about singing and dancing but about kicking people through windows, mowing them down with machine guns or smashing up cars and making things explode.Personally, I'd rather see Fred Astaire dance than Steven Seagal kick people though windows. Dances and songs celebrate life and humanity and are full of variety. Action films , (and the pornos), don't seem to have anything to celebrate. And they all look the same.  "},{"Title":"More soft-edge action than you can wag your finger at...","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Why did I rent this?  I don't like Steven Seagal, he's a bad actor and a mediocre stunt man.  Sure, I like DMX, but as a rapper, not an actor.  Maybe it was the ads.  With gun fights and explosions and what looked like a sword fight, I thought it was going to be violent.  My mistake.  There were a few moments that worked action-wise, but no real violence.  How the hell can you put a sword fight in one of these things and not have anybody getting cut up?  And as if being bloodless and silly wasn't enough, they tried to make it funny.  I guess if you really like action movies, but you're afraid of on-screen violence, this might be a good movie to see.  For me, it sucked. "},{"Title":"Seagal is always Seagal","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought that Exit wounds will be something new. Andrezj Bartkowiak directed Romeo must die very nicely and the gravity breaking action scenes were great. Well action scenes were good in Exit wounds too but not as good as in Romeo must die. Plot was pretty much same kindow action stuff that you see in Seagal movies. There ain´t much brains in it but it´s nicely entertaining. "},{"Title":"Typical Seagal fare","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Once again,Seagal plays a neck breaking cop,who kills bad guys.Appalling action movie has laughable action scenes,corny one-liners (Seagal seeing a bunch of bad guys around his truck and calls it a s**t magnet),a wooden DMX, but features the funny Anthony Anderson(see his bit during the closing credits,its the best part of the movie!)Rating **1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"Best Seagal movie ever!","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a terrific movie with a whole different approach to Steven Seagal where he is finally able to show off a little more than what he has been doing in his last few movies. I even got the DVD to see the Making of for Exit Wounds and it was funny to see how they got Steven airborne and how he was able to do so many stunts.Summary for those who haven't seen this movie I suggest you see it Orin Boyd has hit rock bottom with his latest heroic/ Lone Wolf acts. He even gets thrown into the worst precinct and still no matter what he seems to do he just messes up. Until Latrell Walker enters and makes Orin wonder why some of his co workers are providing drugs for Latrell.The movie has some cool actors in it Michael Jai White (Spawn), DMX, Anthony Anderson and Tom Arnold. But still I will give this movie an 8 out of 10. DMX is a great singer I have a lot of his CD's and I am a fan, but his acting is getting worse. After seeing him in Romeo must die, I thought that was it no more DMX, stick to what you're best at but still here we have him again this time in as a lead actor. His acting seems so fake in several scenes. Oh and will someone after seeing this movie explain to me why he leaves in a suit and comes back wearing sweat pants? He's cool and so on but he makes the others in the movie look out of place, especially with someone like Anthony Anderson now there's a funny guy who knows how to act and Tom Arnold really gets into his role, even Steven does great, but not DMX... "},{"Title":"Seagal pulls out a rabbit...","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Orin Boyd (Steven Seagal) is a cop, who doesn't think too much of politics and even though he saves the vice president's life he is fired due to disobeying a direct order, but he gets reinstated yet with another precinct that has the worst reputation. He quickly makes enemies after destroying another cop's undercover bust and gets demoted to traffic knowing now he has hit rock bottom. Latrell Walker is a young rich African American, who likes money, cars and is friends with a bar owner T.K (Anthony Anderson)who has already gotten on Orin's bad side after pinching Orin's grill from his new truck. Orin realizes there is something more to this so after getting his new buddy Henry Wayne(Tom Arnold) to investigate he catches on to some dirty cops selling drugs to high buyers and Latrell is a big buyer.Steven was great in this movie although the smiling thing is just not working for him in this one either. An overweight cop running around getting airborne over cars and doing stunts that surprise you I even got the DVD to see the 19 minutes Making OF Exit Wounds which was a special feature on the DVD and it was funny to see a 6'5 Seagal do stunts like those. But in many scenes for instance the second fight scene with Latrell and Orin, someone else doubled for Steven that's for sure. Still it was a great way for a comeback after his short break. Anthony Anderson was the life of the movie he was so funny, Tom Arnold had a few scenes and his role seemed so perfect for him, as for Michael Jai White he is a terrific fighter and that body of his just made him seem perfect.DMX...okay...note he is a great singer, got a great voice and I'm a fan, but this guy just has to make up his mind, music or movies? Music is what he's good at, but movies...after seeing him for a few minutes in Romeo Must Die i figured I wouldn't be seeing him in any other roles yet here he is in this movie and now as a lead. His characters seem shallow and he can't be them, he seems too fake as Silk in Romeo Must Die and now as Latrell in this movie his scenes were worth a quick fast forward, but the movie was great and the story was great. Get the DVD it's worth a watch to see Anthony Anderson's 9 minutes of goofs in a day in the life of A.A.  "},{"Title":"worse film","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  DMX is a cool rapper, but the film is one of the worst films I`ve ever seen. A stupid cocktail of worse jokes and guns! Steven Seagel played a stupid and brutal cop in a very simple stricken plott.It was a typical action-comedy without any intelligent parts. "},{"Title":"STEVEN SEAGAL'S BEST! NOTE TO RAZZIES HERE AS WELL!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Razzies should stop picking on bad actors, simply because they were never taught how to act and were suckered (let's say) into the business. They are martial artists, not actors and all action stars can't act (Schwarzenegger, Stallone, Van Damme, Bosworth, Lungdren)! WHATEVER! So this isn't about the movie (IT'S ACTION PACKED, WELL-PACED, HUMOROUS AND STEVEN SEGAL'S BEST AND I GIVE IT AN 8/10)!  But leave Martial Artists Who Can't act alone, and as far as I'm concerned the Razzies should only pick on good actors who are expected to act well but act bad instead of bad actors who we all know act bad and do act bad! LEAVE THEM ALONE! We're just in it for the action and possibly a good time.. most likely! OK?  "},{"Title":"Laughable","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There were some funny parts in this movie (anger management class) and then there were some laughable parts.  In one point of the movie I laughed out loud when Seagal and DMX are kicking the s*#t out of each other and then DMX stops fighting and decides to reveal his secret to Seagal and of course Seagal just stops fighting and they go into a building together as if they were friends all along.  That happens all the time right?  Wrong!  Another funny part is when a Hummer drives through concrete and jumps off the 2nd story of a parking garage and of course lands on all 4 tires.  I know this movie wasn't supposed to be realistic but come on.... "},{"Title":"DMX Rules!","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Brilliant action-thriller starring Steven Segal and rap legend DMX in an eventual blood-bath that'll make you wish you could have been right there with them, flying through windshields and falling off buildings!!Steven Segal is playing a cop who comes across a tangled web of lies - and must figure out who's good and who's bad before they end up dead. Meanwhile DMX plays the guy you think is a villian-but-not-really... rent it and find out for yourself!  "}{"Title":"Seagal is back and he's jumping cars, QUALITY!!!","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Exit Wounds is a great cheesy corrupt cop movie that is very cool and features a fat Steven Seagal kicking booty!! The movie has a good cast including a good performance from actor/rapper DMX as a rich clever bad boy trying to screw the corrupt cops to get his innocent brother out of jail!! Steven Seagal hasn't featured in a good movie for a long time(last being Out for Justice) but in this his cheesy portrayal of a cop with a bad reputation shows hes back to his best.Other Actors who star are Bill Duke, Tom Arnold and Anthony Anderson. Tom Arnold is brilliant in the movie and also Anthony Anderson is really good to. I think he has come a long way since his was in US TV show Hangtime as a fat basketball player??? But the sequence with Tom Arnold and Anthony Anderson at the end is pure quality and was not even rehearsed!!With Joel Silver and the director of Romeo Must Die bossing the film it was bound to be action packed with great fight and action sequences and it certainly doesn't disappoint. Also it has a killer soundtrack featuring tracks from DMX, Nas, Trick Daddy, Memphis Bleek etc...This movie is by far no Crouching Tiger or Moulin Rouge but is certainly one of my favourites of the year!!!! Cheesy Action Yeah Baby!  "},{"Title":"ho-hum","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The only reason to rent this movie is if you're a Jill Hennessey fan, and even then she doesn't have a very strong role.  The action is overly predictable, most of the dialogue is strained, and some of the scenes are just plain unbelievable.I was really impressed with DMX.  Having known him only as a rap artist, he really was a good guy to watch.  I've enjoyed most of Seagal's movies even though I realized they were fictitious, but I was put out when he finds himself in an anger-management class after saving the life of the Vice President.Do yourself a favor; if you have to rent this movie, wait until it gets put on the $1 shelf. "},{"Title":"Embarrassing? What's embarrassing is when you can even spell embarrassing or opinion.","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Exit WoundsI liked this movie, I know that the dialogue was crap, but the action was good. Movies like this don't need good dialogue,(it's not exactly going for an academy award) when will you people realise that?Yes, the storyline was predictable, and yes it was quite obvious that the good guys (Steven Seagal & DMX) would succeed in the end, nonetheless, I liked this movie, and the action sequences were quite good. Although the fight scenes were also cliched, they were interesting to watch.My favourite part, I hate to say, was the part at the very end, during the credits, where  T.K and Henry were doing the show Detroit Am.Overall a good film, in my opinion. What saved it, in the very same way as my favourite film The Fast and the Furious was the action and the soundtrack. After saying that, those are not my personal opinions, though people who couldn't find anything good about it, may think so.8/10 (4 stars). "},{"Title":"A great ass-kicking for a true Steven Seagal fan.","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The only thing that makes this movie a little over the average is DMX and his music. Steven Seagal is a tough cop who everybody is trying to kill like in all his other movies. Everybody is kickin everybody in Exit Wounds and I even sort of like it if it's done good like in this picture. But what I really love about this movie is the final episode by Anthony Anderson and Tom Arnold on Detroit AM where they are talking about every thing what's on their mind.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing...thought it would be much better.","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After seeing the trailers for this film, I was really looking forward to this movie. After viewing some of the crappy movies that Segal had been putting out over the last few years, this one seemed like a return to his earlier films. Though it is...it is still a disappointment.Segal plays Boyd, a police officer, who after a rather unfavorable way of rescuing the vice-president (?) of the United States in Detroit, is demoted to the worst precindt in the city. The 15th Precindt. Here, Boyd learns of a group of corrupt cops, and tries to bring them down.The story is a little jumbled, and hard to follow. However, some of the fight scenes are the best that we have seen in years from cool guy Steve. Also, DMX holds up pretty well for a newbie in the motion picture industry.Bonus points do go to the makers of the movie, for using the city of Toronto as the city of Detroit. However, this fact still cannot save this predictable action flick.If you are a fan of Seagal's, then this one is definately for you. However, if you are like me, the casual fan, you may want to steer clear of this one.  "},{"Title":"Exit Wounds, Heck! Exit Signs are more like it!","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Once again, the esteemed Steven Seagal has made it his personal duty to disregard any respect for our intelligence by plaguing the screen and videos with another of his cinema skunks called EXIT WOUNDS. He plays yet another cop who equates violence for justice and replaces education with attitude. The sap thinks that everyone else in the world is one big fat Ceasar Romero, and he's the Adam West to give him the BIFFS, BOFFS, and ZOWIES. Yawn. The same kind of people who would pan such sugar-coated masterpieces as INSPECTOR GADGET and TOY STORY usually pine over this waste of time. Go figure, especially when the heroes of these kiddie films can take down the clueless thugs in EXIT WOUNDS without even trying. Lets face it; every movie Seagal made had no redeeming value save to put more lettuce into his bank account. As long as he thinks that bloodshed and blankety-blanks are what makes his films great, I'll be there to tell him to get a moral value!  "},{"Title":"Careless editing","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"    The story itself was formulaic and predictable, but the idea that he film is set in Detroit is ruined by street scenes featuring signs for the SkyDome - home of the Toronto Blue Jays - and a very prominently displayed Canadian flag. It is quite embarrassing to see such carelessness in a major motion picture! "},{"Title":"it was ok.","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Exit wounds was okay. I heard that it had plenty of special effects, but there`s not much at all. They`re still great when they kick in though. It`s all similiar to Romeo must die really. So if you watched Romeo must die you`ve pretty much seen Exit wounds.  "},{"Title":"Just another action flick.","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Steven Seagal makes a better return this time around (anyone remember Seagal 's THE PATRIOT?), with a tough cop routine. It does not make the same tried and true method any different or better. EXIT WOUNDS is just another formulaic vehicle for actors like Seagal, Schwarzenegger, Van-Damme, etc. Some good scenes, good action and a different pace for rapper DMX. EXIT WOUNDS could have had more dignity to go back on when the test of time hits it.Cop Boyd single-handedly saves the Vice-President's life. For his thanks, he gets sent down to the worst Precinct in the city. To add more insult than dealing with corruption from cops, he gets to do anger management courses as well.Good to know Tom Arnold is still alive. Also, some good little twists here and there. EXIT WOUNDS is very predictable. Everyone knows what is going to happen. Some above average direction, but still you cannot save Seagal when he opens his mouth. DMX does as good as his character lets him. A half-decent action flick but nothing special at all. "},{"Title":"a relieved comeback for Seagal","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Finally Steven Seagal has abandoned the environmental messages,lost the weight that hindered his last few movies,and added more of an injection of humour in his (In my opinion) comeback movie,anyone who is or previously was a fan of the Steven Seagal movies will be familiar with the premise,Seagal is a renegade cop who annoys his superiors with his violent approach to police work,and takes on a group of corrupt cops,that is basically the plot,but plot isn't the reason to watch a Seagal movie,action is and believe me,there's enough of that to keep the audience amused,there is even a vein of humour,if you can imagine Seagal going to an anger management class,there's even an unannoying cameo from Tom Arnold that is amusing,so i would definitely recommend this movie.  "}{"Title":"Ruined by childish humor and lack of brutality","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think Seagal´s earlier movies were good. Above the Law had a good story and was brutal. Out For Justice and especially Marked for Death were very brutal and Under Siege was both brutal and exciting. (Seagal also has a small role in one of the most exciting movies ever Executive Decision.)But unfortunately his movies has become worse and worse, the violence has been toned down over the years, he started to have environmental messages in a couple of movies and here we are now with Exit Wounds.I have heard that it was a box office success but that only tells you something about todays movie audience, consisting of 15 year old kids.  Exit Wounds is Seagals worst movie. The violence is not brutal enough and the movie is ruined by childish boring humor that takes away all realism. The story is very standard, we have seen it all before, there is no excitement and it is of course predictable.  DMX also contributes in ruining the movie. He is some popular (c)rap artist among the kids so why not use him in a movie ? He must be just as tough as Seagal so his fans won´t be disappointed. Everything in the movie is not worthless though. The first action scene, the shooting on the bridge, is good and there are OK fighting scenes, even though nothing comes close to the scenes in for instance Marked for Death.Everyone is complaining that Seagal is a bad actor, but I have never seen a movie ruined by his acting. On the contrary, no one of his movies would be worth seeing if Seagal had been replaced with another actor. And, since he has the same role in all his movies, I think nobody can tell how good or bad he is as an actor, because there is never anything wrong with his performances in this role as a standup toughguy. Seagal has charisma, he has pondus, you can clearly see that you better not mess with this guy.You will not fall asleep during Exit Wounds, but if you are over fifteen you will be disappointed. Please, Steven Seagal, if you are reading this, bring us back the old ultraviolent Seagal, you used to be so brutal that I was laughing.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Action Movies of 2001","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This year has seen too few Action movies.this is Steven Seagals best ever performance in a movie proving a dab hand at comedy.tom arnold should be in more movies he was very funny.the action is great the movie is far better than you could imagine.i liked this movie  "},{"Title":"Woww--eeeee,  this was a bad movie...","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Spoilers ahead 1.)I have seen every single Steven Segal movie ever made. 2.)Despite their complete lack of plot, point, or distinguishing characteristics, I have enjoyed all of them. 3.)I rented this movie expecting more of the same drivel to mindlessly entertain me. 4.)THIS MOVIE SUCKED!!!!!!!!!It looked like it was going to be Steven's best movie ever! From the producer of the Matrix! Same Hong Kong fight choreographer from Romeo must die... DMX as the co-star...Comic relief by Tom Arnold...Political intrigue...Unfortunately, bad writing and HORRIBLE editing made this movie impossible to stomach.What's wrong with this movie? Only enough room to give you the SHORT list 1.)Many movies have an unrelated scene at the beginning just to introduce us to the main character, by showing how he reacts in a given situation(see The Score). This usually works well. In Exit Wounds, however, this intro scene takes almost 20 minutes. It leaves us wondering just what the HECK the vice president has to do with the plot of this movie. 2.)DMX is a HORRIBLE actor. I simply assumed he would be good because ALL rappers are good actors, right? (e.g. Will Smith, Ice Cube, Ice T, Queen Latifa, Ton Loc, etc.) But DMX just SUCKS!! And Steven is not a good actor anyway, so to see the rapper and the martial artist both trying to act in the same scene, with no one to carry them is PAINFUL. 3.) The editing was SO choppy. There is NO pacing, NO discernible climax. It sucks.The only reason to watch this movie is for the fight scenes, which are cool, as usual for Steven Segal. Especially the scene where he jumps over the car.I give it a 3/10 on my Steven Segal scale (Hard to Kill being a 10 and Dangerous Ground being a 5). "},{"Title":"Everyone has to retire at some point","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Very predictable movie.  While DMX and other cast members are very engaging, Steven Seagal has definitely seen better days.  He appears doughy and not nearly as active as he has in the past.  Jill Hennessey was wasted in a small role, but then again, she is also too young to be in charge of an entire police unit.  There are better B movies out there. "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal's best film since Above the Law.","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Exit Wounds is in my opinion Steven Seagal's better film than his previous ones like On Deadly Ground and Fire Down Below.This film brings back the Seagal I enjoyed when he played Nico in Above the Law battling police corruption.Exit Wounds brought me back to those screen moments that I have been waiting to see return to the screen.Exit Wounds stars Seagal as a cop who was transferred to a precint from another precint when it's apparent that he is going to get fired for tossing the senator in the river in an attempt to save him from terrorists.At the new precint he must deal with police corruption where the bad guy is played by Michael Jai White.Tom Arnold also stars in the film as Seagal's buddy.Exit Wounds is one of Seagal's better films. "},{"Title":"Not your typical Steven Seagal movie","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Most Steven Seagal movies all have the same things in them he beats up everyone.In this movie he still beats up on people but it is also funny and it actually has a story to it.Some scenes you can't blink or you'll miss something.This is a really good movie and I recommand you see it. Especially all you guys! "},{"Title":"two thumbs up!","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've never been a big fan of steven segal especially his movies,the only movie that I found great was marked for death.When I saw the preview of exit wounds,it looked pretty good.I was disappointed cause I could'nt watch in on big screen.But I manage to see it at a friends house and boy he really kicks ass.He was like the matrix.DMX is one of my favourite rappers,I am a big fan of his music,he did a great job in this movie and like steven,he could really kick some ass.I give this movie a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but (SPOILERS!!!!)   Premature death kills movie.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a fun movie.  If you love action movies you'll love this.  But, I found the death of the Commander (Jill Hennessey) a little out of place.  They could have used this to create good ending.  However since they'd written a boyfriend into this movie they couldn't get Seagal into a love situation with Jill.  So this isn't a guy beats em all guy gets girl movie.  It's a guy gets em, girl dies guy and guy kills em all movie.  I just didn't like that at all.  They'd built a love interest and they didn't know where to go with it and they killed her off.5/10Quality 5/10 Entertainment 7/10 Replayable 6/10 "},{"Title":"Thank whoever for this return to the action movie","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In the 80's, we were blessed with oppressive, right-wing, ultra violent action films. And the people cheered. Absurdly violent acts would be shown, close up. In Commando, we see a saw blade thrown into a guy's head, for example. In the 90's action movies became weak. They were pushed and prodded into PG-13 ratings. Gun use became prevailent. We would see splashes of blood and THAT WAS IT! Bad guys began dying by bullet wound, dramatic fall or explosion. Now, to Exit Wounds. By no stretch of the imagination was this a good movie. But it took the action movie from Bad to Rad. Here we have the right-wing ultra violence that was expected from every Steven Segal movie of the 80's. The story is ludicrous. Only one twist was even remotley unsuspected and that's only because I left my brain at the door. We get a car wreck where we actually see a face go through the windshield. We get broken legs, we get people being impaled on a variety of items. We get an empty shotgun fight. A sword fight. Fist fights. A lot of gunfights, but very few gun related deaths. And I rejoiced. Thank God, thank Buddha, thank Krishna, thank Allah, thank Jesus, thank Joel Silver. Thank you Joel Silver for delivering unto us an action movie that is truly full of physical action and gruesome death. Now give us more. Preferably without Segal, but hey. I'll take what I can get. My tape of Commando is wearing out.  "},{"Title":"One new Steven Seagal is back","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wonderful movie with Action, Humor, Suspense, and a very good soundtrack. Please Mister Seagal more movie like this And THANK-YOU ALL... "}{"Title":"A Brief Overview","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Exit Wounds (2001) Warner Bros. 1 Hr. 41 Mins. Starring Steven Seagal, DMX, Isaiah Washington, Tom Arnold. Directed by Andrzej Bartkowiak Viewed DVD Tuesday, August 28, 2001. (235)     There seems to be a significant problem in a film when its' plot is unrolled comprehensively in the final half-hour. Such is the case for Steven Seagal's latest action foray &#145;Exit Wounds'. Judging from Hollywood's latest fixation with hip-hop, old school action flicks featuring bass pounding soundtracks by various rap artists that have seemingly turned a profit; producer Joel Silver sticks with the same formula and reteams with &#145;Romeo Must Die' Director Andrzej Bartkowiak to deliver this questionable action flick.       Upon close observation, this film could have been a lot worse. The film bases itself in a great Detroit city yet seemingly it looks a lot like Toronto. From great Canadian retail chain The Bay to giant donut chain Tim Hortons, these are just a few examples of the many slip-ups that occur in this film. The only element keeping us watching this film is to see whom Seagal will impose physical punishment upon next. In every one of his films; this one is no exception, he happens to be at the wrong place at the wrong time. Therefore, giving him a chance to display his martial arts abilities.      There cannot be much said for this film except that it is a violent and surprisingly empty action flick. The first hour of this film introduces us to Seagal's character; Orin Boyd, a &#145;balls out' cop whom after saving the Vice President in a brash manner gets reassigned to a precinct rampant with corrupt cops. Seagal's character is no different from his other characters in which Boyd uses his actions rather than words to convey his opinions and engage in countless gunfights. And when he does use words, he uses his trademark &#145;I just woke up' coarse, raspy voice that makes one wonder if he can articulate at all. Rapper DMX plays Latrell Walker; a heroin smuggling crook who has greater plans on his mind. Seemingly enough, all this takes 60 minutes to develop meanwhile leaving the audience clueless as to who is the antagonist and protagonist.        Into the film's first three minutes we are exposed to an opening action sequence that displays Seagal's abilities and describes the tone of the film that director Andej Bartkowiak wants us to think. He makes it seems as if it is a simply empty, violent and formulaic action film. Yet, in watching the film a longer period of time one can see that this film does not take itself all that seriously.      The film at times, albeit through many misfired attempts, is quite &#145;tongue and cheek'. The director earns my respect in terms of his ability at making us know that the violence in this film is all too surreal. The action sequences are absurd and unrealistic, and Seagal is made out to be a modern day superhero. So much so that one of his rivals even goes so far as saying that he should wear a cape when making an entrance. If one were so inclined to ask where the proof is, witness Seagal's attendance in an anger management class alongside Tom Arnold. Arnold plays a Detroit Morning Show host who aids Seagal on his quest to save the city from this band of corrupt cops. Furthermore, the &#145;tongue in cheek' evidence can clearly be seem within the film's end credits as Arnold and Anthony Anderson engage it what had to be an improvised debate set against the backdrop of Arnold's fictional morning show on topics ranging from masturbation, sex and obese women.     The film tries to be something that it is not yet does neither fail nor succeed in accomplishing exactly what it wants to set out - which is still unknown. As aforementioned, the arduous plot development is unforgivable while the exciting final half-hour barely saves this film from being a complete waste of time.Giancarlo's Rating **    "},{"Title":"Seagal has gone past his prime","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Another &#145;original' storyline for Seagal.  He loses his badge for being a rebel cop in Detroit, and gets assigned to the worst district in Detroit. (Under a smoking hot sergeant&#133;.yeah right!  Hot WHITE woman running the worst crime district in Detroit!)  Of course, Seagal cracks a huge drug case.  And, of course, Seagal still finds a way to shoot 250 rounds out of a handgun, without ever reloading!  DMX should stick to what he does SECOND WORST, rapping!  F "},{"Title":"There were big problems (spoilers!)","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although there are a number of problems with this movie, there are three major infractions that stand out for me. These will be addressed in ascending order of importance. First, did anyone notice that there are only really three women featured prominently? The police commissioner, played by an underused Jill Hennessey, Trish, and one of the strippers at the night club. Of these three, Jill is the only woman who exhibits any strength of character, and is summarily killed off. Secondly, the ridiculous action sequence at the beginning. If he and the vice president were the only ones to survive, despite being thrown in the river, Segal should have gotten some kind of accommodation. The fact that the entire sequence is dismissed as some militia group, and never mentioned again, shows it to be a hollow action exercise, rather than any meaningful plot device. Lastly, the ridiculousness of the abduction sequence makes this a hard movie to watch. Segal's truck is forced into a stationary construction vehicle; men in black masks with automatic weapons jump out of the back of a black van and kidnap him. Then, they handcuff him, take off their masks (giving away their identities as corrupt cops), and proceed to tell him how they'll kill him exotically. Why not just shoot him in his car? For these three reasons, I found the movie difficult to watch, and even harder to enjoy, since these incongruities keep bothering me. "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal at his fattest (no, not phattest) (minor spoilers)","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Steven Seagal is back, and he's fatter than ever! Now let's get this straight. It has been suggested that Mr. Seagal is lampooning his other performances. He is not. This is really the extent of his ability. This is the man whose stint hosting Saturday Night Live has been unfavorably compared to Nancy Kerrigan. Who else do we have in the movie? Michael Jai White, of Spawn fame (infamy), Tom Arnold, DMX, and that fat guy from Romeo Must Die (Anthony Anderson). Not exactly an acting Tour De Force here. The casting has more red flags than the Kremlin on May Day. We also get Andrzej Bartkowiak, the director from Romeo. Not only did he import the shaky camera work, bad angles, and excessive closeups to this movie, but he apparently also feels the need to put gratuitous closeups of naked strippers in every movie he directs.Before I go too far I'd like to say how much I respect Steven Seagal as a martial artist. He was the first foreigner to open a school in Japan (as an aside, he obviously must speak Japanese. Why not use that in one of his movies?) and he's very, very good. In the same way Jet Li is very, very good. And much like Jet Li's talent was obscured in Romeo, director Bartkowiak ruined the talent Seagal actually has by insisting on 1.) Overly cinematic Matrix-y martial arts, 2.) Too many closeups, 3.) And giving the cameraman two vodka martinis between takes. Back to music videos with you, Andrzej Bartkowiak! (The car chases were really nice though)I won't comment on the plot other than to say this. It seemed confusing and poorly edited, but we later realized that the theater was showing the reels out of order. After the movie was over, we told the manager, and he said that the movie must have been showing like that for three days, and we were the first to comment on it. Gives you an idea of what they were aiming for here. Okay, one more thing. A rifled bullet will go through a car door, but a shotgun blast will not penetrate a bulletproof vest. And the same gun that penetrates the armor on a helicopter will certainly go right through somebody's rib cage.I give it 2.0 out of ten, because the car chases were very good.  "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  With Exit Wounds, Steven Seagal is finally back after 3 years of absense, and it`s been 5 years since his last great film(The Glimmerman). Steven Seagal is trully back, tougher than ever, and he plays, once again, a cop. Fire Down Below and The Patriot lacked great fighting scenes and this is something that Exit Wounds has got a lot of! Fighting scenes are as cool as they are in The Glimmerman, Under Siege 1 & 2, Marked For Death and Out For Justice. Finally Seagal fans have a new movie to be proud of, and all fans of Seagal should be overjoyed when watching this film. It isn`t exactly up for an Acadamy Award in terms of acting and plot, but it is great fun! You need to see it! 10/10 "},{"Title":"one of seagal's more profound outings. the revival of american arthouse-films.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  We all have days we just walk into a theater and see whatever is playing. And we all know the plot of a Seagal-movie is not going to impress us. But i just have to state for the record that the plot in this movie is waferthin and as fragile as a house of cards. Director Bartkowiak tries to liven things up a little by playing old tricks on the audience. For instance, the effectiveness of the plot-twists is based on making us like certain characters, who turn out to be on the bad-guys, and vice-versa. After a while that gets really tiresome. If you still find yourself surprised after a few of these 'twists', you might want to consider having your head examined. But as i indicated, the plot is not the most important part of a Seagal movie; it's the action. On that department Exit Wounds is pretty solid, albeit routine and unremarkable. Cracking limbs, whizzing bullets and lengthy car-chases; nothing you haven't seen yet. The really disappointing element here however is rapper DMX's acting-capabilities (or lack thereof). The man has a very limited range of expressions there's 'menacing', and then there's 'REALLY menacing'. Keep practicing, X. Also a little disconcerting were various scenes that were just completely ineffective; for instance there's DMX buying a car, the attempt to tie-in jokes with a black car-salesman-trying to-be-down falls flat. It's a shame Exit Wounds doesn't work on a comedy-level; that's the department this kind of movie can use to make up for lack of story, by writing tongue-in-cheek for instance.  A disappointing effort.         "},{"Title":"finally......","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...Steven Segal makes a movie not only based on his will to fight (well not the whole movie) but still nice dialogs and some funny ass scenes including Anthony Anderson , this time he also shows that he can be quite funny behind that stone face,,,,bravo Steven and last but not least a superb psycho played by Tom Arnold. To sum it up a kickass movie with a lot of laughs "},{"Title":"A banal action movie","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Besides the usual banal fighting scenes and car chases the story of this movie brings nothing new. It's the ordinary story about good cops against bad cops. And it's a men's movie. There's no love scene or affair involved and the only woman who takes part in the story, the glamorous police chief, plays a much secondary part. It's a movie you may see if  you just haven't anything better to do. It may keep u entertained for 2 hours then. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Exit Wounds, wow, this film had to be one of the best Seagal films in a while, ok it might have gone along with the usual cop theme, but so what. It was my favorite film of the year so far and i don't think anything will beat it. I watched the Mummy 2 the other day, to see if that was better, well sadly not, that has some good effects but the Rock was only in it for a short time.  There was one thing i didn't like about exit wounds, there was one minute where i never heard a gun shot, well there should have been one in that minute because i was dissapointed them o( i will give credit for one of the best action scenes at the start when they were on the bridge, because i was sat in the cinema and there where so many gun shots you couldn't here anything that was amazing.Anyway, i have to leave you with my comments, go and see EXIT WOUNDS you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"brief but informative","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a great film, if you like action movies with little in the way of a plot this film is for you. However be advised that there is a high level of graphic violence which even made me flinch in one scene. Segal maybe getting on a bit but can still mix it with the best of them in the fight scenes as can DMX, his co-star, who really shines in his scenes. There are some very funny moments which brakes up the film nicely. Overall this film is exactly what the title suggests, it is a violent action movie (one of the best for quite some time) and doesn't pretend to be anything else.  "}{"Title":"better than i thought","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i was hesitant when paying for my ticket, after watching, with great disappointment FIRE DOWN BELOW , THE PATRIOT (1998) and even THE GLIMMER MAN not to forget ON DEADLY GROUND. All these failed in there attempts particularly the first 2 mentioned. EXIT WOUNDS takes us back to old SEAGAL territory with such memorable actioners like ABOVE THE LAW, MARKED FOR DEATH, HARD TO KILL and OUT FOR JUSTICE, keeping the plot strictly formula corrupt pigs taking overthe streets and drug cartels. Not a stretch of the imagination but with cable like stunts (MATRIX, ROMEO MUST DIE), this delivers your favourite SEAGAL on 6 thugs fight scenes and winning the battle aged 50. I now have a restored faith (temporarily)with SEAGALs work. Theyre might still be a major hit left in VAN DAMME or on a lesser and doubtful extent, DUMB LUNDGREN (sorry DOLPH), i really watch Dolphs straight to vid efforts, no foolin! honest...ps I mentioned every seagal movie except UNDER SIEGE , UNDER SIEGE 2 DARK TERRITORY and his cameo in MY GIANT! there, now u fools have no excuses not to have seen every STEVEN SEAGAL movie. His next project is titled TICKER.  "},{"Title":"Come on, people!","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Okay...I read the reviews, and I have two words for everyone...escapist entertainment. People who say things like The action was unreal and Unrealistic fight scenes don't get the point. It's SUPPOSED to be like that. If you want more realism, go video tape your dog pooping on the carpet. Or just watch Biographies. I remember a time when we could go to the movies, and reality was suspended, and we liked it. Everyone who wanted realism, think about how truly boring you would think it is. You'd be moaning and complaining that there wasn't enough action, or comedy, or whatever. Anyway, enough of the tirade. Exit Wounds was a good Seagal movie. No Under Siege, but good none the less. The plot's been rehashed so many times here, so I'll bury that beaten horse. And, of course, the names remain the same, but the plot's changed somewhat from the book. (Remember those? The paper things with words inside them.) And, the reason the plot was changed up was for reasons of...(say it with me now)... entertainment. All in all, a good distraction for a couple of hours. Oh, and by the way, everyone who thinks Seagal's fight scenes were over the top, or TOO fantastic, Seagal's Aikido is the most realistic martial art portrayal in the movies (save Speakman's lightning-quick Kenpo). Arnold and Anderson worked great together and separately as comic relief, and for those of you who think DMX's performance was wooden,or void of emotion, think about how depressed you would be if one of your family members was wrongly incarcerated. You would probably be seen as wooden or void of emotion as well. Everyone did a good job in the film, and when this comes out on video, I will rent it, much to my wife's chagrin. Finally, for the guy who used deus ex machina and denouement in his review of this film, the arthouse films are in the second theater on the left.... "},{"Title":"Half of Seagal is back","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The man did lose a lot of weight....and in light of some of his socially-conscious tirades, so did the script for this one...I liked it a lot...Seagal's lightened up, shows more of a sense of humour and the action was just plain cool....I kinda like DMX, and was pretty impressed thought he did a nice job, especially when he visits his brother in jail...he definitely wasn't the typical Gangsta I expected to see.  I like Jill Hennessy, too, and Tom Arnold was a weird touch, but he made me laugh...all in all entertaining, if you like seagal you'll like this.  "},{"Title":"Closer to form after recent lame efforts","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, I enjoyed it.  It's as good as the Glimmer Man, but not in the same league as Out for Justice, and far, far better than his recent lame offerings Fire Down Below and The Patriot.  It is incredibly violent.  As far as I know it was uncut in the UK, and looks it, there are a couple of extremely OTT deaths that would never have got passed James Ferman and one scene where Seagal starts punching people with a chain wrapped round his fist, and the most arm breaking since Out For Justice. Stylistically, it looks a lot like Romeo Must Die, (surprise, surprise) and Seagal looks completely out of place in some of the slow motion and Matrix type shots.  The plot makes very little sense and I felt there was a sense of deus ex machina in the dénouement.  The main set pieces, especially the opening action scene, are pretty exciting and well done, but unfortunately, Andrzej Bartkowiak seems to have learnt nothing from the criticisms made by the fight fans about Romeo Must Die; the fights are shot in extreme close up with far too much fast cutting, so you can't see clearly what is going on.  On the whole I came away satisfied; the pace is fast, the comic relief characters Tom Arnold and Anthony Anderson weren't too irritating (I even laughed a couple of times), pretty good supporting cast including Isaiah Washington, DMX, and action stalwart Bill Duke and for anyone who wants to know what Michael Jai White has been up to recently, he seems to have spent most of his time in the gym.  Seagal fans will enjoy this, action fans will get something out of it, but martial arts fans will probably be as disappointed as they were after Romeo Must Die.                           "},{"Title":"Apology to Steve Seagal (with spoilers)","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am a major fan of the martial arts movie genre, be it Jeff Speakman's dragonfist kempo,Bruce & Brandon Lee's jeet kune do, Van Damme's kickboxing/muay thai, Seagal's akido, Wes Snipes karate and whatever made up kick ass styles of action B-dudes like Lorenzo Lamas, Michael Dudikoff and the rest (including H.K. stars Chan and Li with whatever freestyle stuff they do). I have always enjoyed Seagal's earlier violent movies over his recent environment-loving preachy stuff (leave that to the National Geographic documentaries Steve). Mostly I loved it when he was either sending some colorfully dressed pimp through a windshield or completely breaking the whole elbow of a Jamaican drug dealer. It was the kind of disdain for procedure or unnecessary heroics/etiquette performed by most other generic action heroes that first interested me in his films. I was however a little dubious about his martial art noticing that his long frame and arms always seemed to assist him in twisting arms and slapping around only the standard bad guys but had never once seen it used against a larger opponent. Usually I find the action movies to be like arcade games where the lead badass is fought at the end (after defeating the minions and spending all my change), and more often than not is gigantic or has combat skills of his own the hero has to adapt to and best. So obviously my mouth was watering during Under Siege while anticipating the fight scene between Seagal and the massive leiutenant of Tommy Lee Jones character who ate his meat semi-raw, so imagine my disappointment when Seagal instead shoots him and uses his physical skills on only the usual thugs and bandsaw fodder. I have often remarked on this fact to a friend of mine who is a more devout Seagal fan than I, and I feel his worship is now validated by this recent movie Exit Wounds. The nightclub scene with the 2 giant bouncers who first resist his usual akido arm twist (due to enormous size and strength) and force Seagal adopt a different variety of actions (while still using their weight and strength against them) to defeat them was a much needed masterstroke (but a long time in coming). So I apologize for suggesting that Steven Seagal would never fight some massive weightlifter type guy in any of his movies to avoid my perceived shortcomings of akido with that kind of opponent. I can only hope Exit Wounds will mark a phoenix like return of Seagal to violent action movies, but hopefully with less ridiculous comedy relief, product placement and that retarded unrealistic music-video fashion clothing sense more at home in Jennifer Lopez video clips than real life street wear that is constantly insinuating itself into more and more movies. While Romeo Must Die had too much of that style over substance and tried too hard to cover all the bases with humour, love story, organised crime and action but coming short in all of them (not to mention mocking Jet Li's martial arts abilities with that foul CGI stuff), Exit Wounds sticks more to the action and is honest about what the film is meant to be.  "},{"Title":"age slowing but not ending career","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Some critics gave this movie a real bad review.One common reason that i found was that steve was showing his age.(what do you expect?)For is old as he his though the movie wasn't that bad at all.I agree it did seem to be slowing him down quite a bit.I think the story was better then we're use to seeing him in.I also think his supporting cast was a good addition to the film.  "},{"Title":"Seagals best by far, too many plot holes here and there!","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  You can't rate this movie a 10 as there is just too much wrong with this, a government funded anti-police corruption organisation? What if they are corrupt? And why would the get the money to buy 300,000 dollars cars? But on the other hand the action is very good, Seagal never looked so good and the action-scences make you begging for more, great stuff! But just watched the beginning and the plot holes start already! A good 7. "},{"Title":"Oh dear","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really didn't have a choice in the movie I saw. I was dragged along by my mates to see it as a prelude to a comedy act we were to see later in the evening. I don't know about them but I didn't really watch the film. I played a game called Spot the Cliche, it was easily the easiest game I had played.The same old characters Seagal plays the cop with the discipline problem (with his trademark whisper). Can you believe he saves the Vice-President's life at the start of the film? By throwing him off a bridge no less! The incident has absolutely no relevence to the rest of the movie. David Vadim plays quite an effective (if underused) crooked cop in his role as Officer Mantini. Whilst archcriminal Michael Jai White is positively awful. Anthony Anderson is once again trotted out as the wacky TK, playing efectively the same type of character he played in Me, Myself and Irene and Romeo Must DieDirector Andrzej Bartkowiak and Producer Joel Silver's fluidic style is not as apparent as it was in Romeo Must Die. However there are flashes of his skill during the fight scene in TK's nightclub.I can hear the RMD fans groaning already..Finally, after 100 minutes of car chases, fight scenes and the revelation of a very weak twist we reach the highlight of the movie.The credits.I don't mean that cynically - Over the credits is an adlib dialogue between Tom Arnold (in his cameo role as a TV host) and Anthony Anderson. It is wickedly crude - but hilarious! If you must find some reason to watch this movie, then see it for that. Because God knows the rest of the movie was terrible4/10 "},{"Title":"Smashing, action packed hit!","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie has all of the action that you can handle. The comedy scenes in this movie add a little bit of humor that you might not see in a Steven Seagal movie. The action moves that Steven Seagal, made in this movie are Awesome. The scenes with Tom Arnold are so funny that it would keep me laughing forever! I really thought this was a good Steven Seagal Movie. He makes good Cop/Bad Guy movies! "},{"Title":"Good action, bad writing.","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The latest film from action has-been Steven Segal is a mixed bag of both cool stunts and a truly tired story.  As usual, the title of this movie has nothing to do with anything actually in the movie.  Segal plays the typical action movie hero who's rough around the edges, hated by his superiors, but always gets the job done.  Segal's character lacks the coolness of Bullitt, or the eye for justice of Dirty Harry.  Segal just wants to do his job the best he knows how.  After saving the life of the Vice President of the U.S. against orders (falling back on the old cliche of how dumb police superiors can be), he's shipped off to the worst post in town.  The writers of the film must have thought they were being innovative when they cast the station commander as a 30 year-old, attractive woman, rather than the typical police captain stereotype (this stereotype is reserved for another character).  This is the most innovative the movie ever gets.  With his new partner, Segal stumbles across a plot orchestrated by none other than DMX.  DMX's casting is obviously intended to draw in a younger audience to this movie.  The rap stars acting never rises above a few scornful looks and some tough guy talk, but DMX adequately fills the role.  Unfortunately, DMX's character (who might actually be the most interesting character in the film) is never really explored.  However, lots of screen time is given to professional sidekicks Anthony Anderson and Tom Arnold. Exit Wounds is littered with both lame jokes and unrealistic action.  There are some truly awesome looking car crashes in this movie, and some stunt work.  As if to punctuate the unrealism of the movie, Segal is at one point forced to fight a street gang trying to steal his new truck.  The street gang is made up of guys who know martial arts (or else how could Segal fight them without it just looking silly?) and this is the only street gang in the world that has each major ethnic group represented equally in its ranks.  The plot manages to be both predictable and unbelievable at the same time.  Nothing is this movie happens for any reason except to lead to a cool stunt sequence.  The surprises and plot twists are piled on for the sake of intentional shock value, rather than to serve the story. The stunts go from breath-taking (the car chases are really good) to unbelievable (Segal's feats of superhuman agility belong more in movies like Crouching Tiger or The Matrix where people are SUPPOSED to have special abilities).  Not to be undone, DMX does something towards the end of the movie with a shotgun that is simply impossible.There's really nothing wrong with Exit Wounds once you realize that this movie is just an excuse for lots of action.  It's nothing more than a macho fantasy of guns, martial arts, and car chases.  If that's what you want to see, then the dumb story won't bother you.  If you see it, I hope you enjoy it more than I did.  "}{"Title":"Be careful reading these comments...","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The post below by laurie-1 on 11 April 2001 (with the Subject Summary The action in the movie was excellent, but the morals portrayed sucked) has a MAJOR SPOILER that isn't revealed until two-thirds of the way in the movie. Given that the rest of the movie is pretty by-the-numbers, the reveal is really the most interesting thing in it, so keep this in mind before you scroll down if you haven't seen the movie yet. "},{"Title":"Pretty good action flick if you ignore DMX","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the best Segal movie since Under Seige II. Good action sequences, typical Tom Arnold side-kick lunacy, and fine soundtrack. Segal's finally dropped a few pounds too (I for one was getting tired of his double-chin dominating scenes).The main downer here is DMX's beyond aweful performance. You'd think a guy who's made a career of playing the thug life could do the same in a movie. But every line of his is delivered like a 5th-grade Christmas performance no emotion, blank stare, obviously praying he just remembers his lines. Hey people, just because you want to do the black rapper + white action star thing doesn't mean you have to settle for stiffs. Will Smith, Ice Cube, 2 Pac, Ice T, LL Cool J, and others prove that there are plenty of rappers who can act; next time use one.But if you like action flicks, especially of the Steven Segal variety, you will certainly enjoy Exit Wounds.  "},{"Title":"The action in the movie was excellent, but the morals portrayed sucked","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In this action movie called Exit Wounds I studied the character of Leon Rollins a.k.a. Latrell Walker, played by DMX. When we first get introduced to this character we are shown through indirect presentation about his character. He is portrayed as a black gangster, who is very rich and extremely intelligent. We are to believe that he is a professional drug dealer and has a company on the internet that earns him lots of money. Latrell Walker as we know him as for the most part of the movie is a dynamic character. Although we are led to believe that he is a criminal he is really working on a project to uncover the bad cops in LA. His motives are clear and we understand why he is doing what he is doing as the movie comes close to an end. His character is a round character, one with complex and is many-sided. This is shown to be true by his two names, and the different lives that he leads. It is somewhat difficult to understand all the motives of Latrell Walker, but in the end it all makes sense. DMX plays are very interesting character, one with many sides and identities and is a great example of what a dynamic and developing character would be.  "},{"Title":"The best action film in a long time.","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is by far the best action movie I've seen in a long time.  when I say action, I don't mean fantasy action like Crouching Tiger or period-piece action like Gladiator, I mean straight-up action like Die Hard or The Rock. Since the box-office is dominated by teen films, comedies and chick flicks, it is nice to see such a well crafted action movie that also made an impression at the box-office.Seagal is back after losing weight and giving up the producing and directing duties he has shared in many of his recent flops.  He is at the top of his game as he's back to kicking a lot of ass, looking pissed and spewing out cool one-liners with venom.  Seagal doesn't f_ck around.I'm not going to go into the plot because if you're reading this, you probably already know what the film is about.  As far as the supporting cast goes, they were all good.  DMX is a pretty good actor, Tom Arnold and Anthony Anderson provide some good comic relief and Michael Jai White provides a good bad guy for Seagal to go one-on-one with.  The film is produced by Joel Silver (one of the best in the business) and it never lags from start to finish.  The fight scenes are top notch, the cinematography is filled with a lot of nice dark colors that fit in well with this gritty thriller.  There is also some good twists and the soundtrack is very cool (both the score and the rap).Bottom line is if you like Seagal, action movies or both, there is a lot to love about this film.  Grade = A   "},{"Title":"Action Packed, with a surprising amount of plot.","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not the standard predictable Seagal formula, although fans of his all action style will not be disappointed. There are a number of surprising twists, and a interesting plot actually exists. Good supporting roles from a number of actors, and Seagal still manages to get in some of his trademark martial arts action, and some of his stilted one liners. The pace of the film keeps you interested all the way through. Definitely worth watching again when it gets over to the UK. "},{"Title":"Very Good--He's still the Man-mighty fine","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It is always a treat to watch Steve.He is always cool and suave. This was a good movie and I enjoyed it . It was filled with adventure..had a good story..had a surprize ending. DMX was also very good. Steve is mighty fine..love this guy..its great just watching him . Go see it!!!! "},{"Title":"Exit to Excitement","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Steven Segal has returned to the genre that made him a star, but Exit Wounds is clearly a step in what was his uniformally B-movie, cheesy action excursions, especially in the late 1980s.  This time, however, thanks to some dynamite, truly exciting actions sequences and a much more playful, less serious and stoic performance, Segal has come up with an action film that makes up for the bevy of stinkers he's made.Exit Wounds brings back the whispering Segal as a cop who's demoted from big city police work to urban peacemaker after a botched-up attempt on the Vice Preisdent's life.  There, he discovers a ring of corrupt cops involved in a bevy of shady dealings with a reputed drug lord, played by DMX.The cast has fun with the material, and it's actually very entertaining to see Segal actually make light of his own tough guy persona, as when his character is required to take anger management classes - self-mocking humor is always a plus in any movie in showing it is not supposed to be taken seriously.  DMX's performance really showcases no acting prowess for the rap star, as his role is underwritten and he does nothing more than look rough and cute (this was probably a smart move on the screenwriter's part, since his line delivery at times borders near B-movie grade.)Action  is by far the most frequent genre in which story takes a backseat to action sequences, and sometimes, it works, as it does here.  The action sequences are also well-orchestrated and sometimes over-the-top, but the opening scene is so well executed with a storm of bullets flying and tearing through cars that  it matches Michael Mann's bank shootout in Heat in ferocity.  The screenplay may sometimes step in a quagmire of cliche, but at other times actually breaks them, especially the standard love-interest cliche.  Here, that device is curtailed quite violently and effectively.  The ending also is a nice twist that the audience probably won't see coming.Exit Wounds is not only Segal's best action film to date, it's also a grand collection of exciting shootouts, breathtaking stunts, and very entertaining if somewhat lacking in character development and originality. Still, it's a much more vibrant work of chaotic action than some of the lifeless junk produced by so called action mavens like John Explosions and Doves Woo.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not as bad as the last few","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dumb, unbelievable action film, but jeeze, it's Seagal. At least he's lost the ponytail and he's not making the world safe for trees. Not quite as full of himself, in other words, but still pretty full. What made his first few films so terrific was his incorporation of real Aikido; eventually, he started doing something with only minimal relation to that art. Not to mention getting fat and pompous.I've never been terribly bothered by the fact that the man can't act, because he was fun to watch. For years, though, he hasn't been fun and he still can't act. There's more action here, and less Steven Seagal standing around looking full of himself -- that's a big improvement right there.I notice a lot of who needs a plot, it's an action film! comments on this and other movies. Action is great but a little effort on plot makes for a more interesting movie. Throwing in innumerable scenes set in topless joints (what is *that* all about?) doesn't make up for a storyline. "},{"Title":"He is back!!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Seagal is back in this action packed movie. I am a big Seagal fan, I've seen all his movies and appreciate his ability to act and deliver the goods that his fans expect. I have no clue why this movie is under rated because its a different style which we haven't seen as yet of Seagal. The movie contains basically everything in it, its got the humor, the action, the drama and suspense. The fights are too much computer aided, thats what really sucked but anyway... the movie is worth the money! "},{"Title":"Shooting blanks","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There is really nothing to be said about Exit Wounds that hasn't been said in the last few weeks. Steven Seagal is still the king of bad action movies and will have to do more than cut his ponytail off in order to change that. He still has this image of a stiff and boorish bully who always talks as if he were trying to repress an uncontrollable rage.He is no fun as an action hero, and as a person, there is very little to like about many of his characters. He stars here as a renegade Detroit police detective named Orin Boyd. After he pulls a stunt that saves the Mayor's life from would-be attackers, Boyd receives more negative feed back than good. He is considered to be reckless by his department, and so without telling us why the Mayor was attacked in the first place, the story switches over to Boyd's new headquarters.He is demoted down to the 15th precinct, a hole in the ground that he doesn't want to be in. He is assigned a new partner (Isaiah Washington) and is told to seek group therapy for his violent and reckless behavior. The rest of the plot centers on a drug scam run by Latrell Walker (DMX), a crime boss who soon becomes Boyd's prime target. But what Boyd doesn't know is that it runs deeper than drugs.Exit Wounds is a messy all over the place. It contains brutal martial arts sequences, gruesome death, formulaic story, and it's biggest problem, just bad acting. It is directed by Andrzej Bartkowiak, the guy who made even Jet Li look bad last year in Romeo Must Die. Here, he is working with the same tools he did last time. The fight scenes are all poorly edited and over stylized with slow motion kicks and punches. He subjects his characters to gruesome deaths (one in particular goes through a windshield while in another scene one is crushed between two cars.), which just come off as mindless violence rather than anything impressive to watch.The plot is the regular renegade cop routine, including several old cliches that you would find in your regular silly cop thriller. But this thing really loses its way when it gets trigger happy with its plot twists. Characters switch sides throughout this entire movie until it gets to the point where the twists are the movie. You begin to lose track of who is good and bad, and overall, you just don't care. Nothing that writers Ed Horowitz and Richard O'Ovidio come up with is ever shocking and it is easy to just slump back in your chair and roll your eyes everytime another twist is introduced.Acting, by Bartkowiak's definition, must be to have his actors model for the camera while rap music plays in the background. The script is already spitting out senseless dialogue as it is, but the actors bring no emotion to their roles besides tough demeanors and blank expressions. Seagal is terrible at doing comedy, in fact, he actually looks more threatening when doing so. DMX has that same ability, just with drama. There is an early scene where he visits his jailed brother, a serious scene that is written and acted terribly enough to be laughable.One highlight of Exit Wounds though is Anthony Anderson. This guy is like a fatter Chris Tucker. He always makes even the worst line funny because of his great timing with physical mannerisms. He and Tom Arnold apparently knew this movie was terrible and so they come through with a very funny improv conversation (Arnold plays a talk show host in the movie) that is worth the wait. They take a crack at everything from viagra to masturbation to fat women. It's more entertaining than anything else in this movie, trust me. "}{"Title":"Steven Seagal, hmeh; Jill Hennessy and DMX, yah!","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As a resident of Calgary, where this was filmed, I was pleased to recognize many of the areas in which this picture was filmed.  Hell, I've eaten at the Oriental Gourmet Palace in the background of the final seen!  It's good to know that it's cast and crew have enjoyed our hospitality, especially the likes of Jill Hennessy and DMX, both of whom held their own well in yet another of Seagal's brutal action vehicles.  It's not another Under Seige, but it is indeed a significant improvement from his last two disasters, and, all in all, perfectly good for what it's worth.  My major gripe is not with the picture itself, but with the fact that it seems like a toned down version of it's directors last effort, Romeo Must Die, which also featured DMX and Anderson.  But if one does not compare the two, one should find both perfectly enjoyable.  My other gripes regard the poor treatment of Hennessy's character (I wish this 'tougher stance' on female co-stars had been practiced in a film not featuring her) and the gratuitous vulgarity near the end.  All in all, worth seeing for pure entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Exit Wounds Shoots First, Plot Later","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What!? and Get outta here! are usually good things to hear an audience say during an action movie's gun fights and explosions. But such is not often the case for director Andrzej Bartkowiak's Exit Wounds, a movie that fails to fully break the creative confinements of the cops-and-robbers genre and instead tests its audience's patience.The Plot The story is nothing more than an excuse to set up more elaborate pyrotechnics and martial arts. (And to save Steven Seagal's direct-to-video movie career.)Seagal is Orin Boid, your stereotypical tough cop who shoots bad guys with little fuss and a pithy one-liner. Boid is too good at being bad, so he' s sent to a precinct in crime infested Detroit. There, he begins to see a web of corruption, lead by Michael Jai White's buff cop character, who makes Bruce Lee look like Strohm Thurman. DMX fits in as a computer hacker bent on exposing the corruption. Along for this romp are Tom Arnold as a tabloid reporter and Issaih Washington as Boid's partner. The Good Bartkowiak's serious intensity for the action scenes show that he has what it takes to make a memorable action movie someday. As in his previous film, Romeo Must Die, he makes great use of innovative camera angles and wire work that distinguishes his martial arts from your average outing.  And the fight scenes, save for the opening minutes' first assault, are subtle, yet entertaining, in their execution. Seagal returns to his Under Siege form, but needs to work on his gut. Washington provides, briefly, the only character we care about. And White's wicked villain is a good nemesis. The script has potential to be taken as a serious action vehicle, if only its stars weren't stuck in B-movie mode.The Bad The fight scenes, while good, are too unbelievable, even for an action movie. (FYI 3 randomly fired pistol shots are enough to crash and explode a helicopter.)Too often does Exit Wounds defy both the laws of gravity and the audience's suspension of disbelief. DMX should stick to rapping, for his idea of acting is maintaining a grimace. Tom Arnold provides comic relief, but his obnoxiousness wears thin. But the worst thing about Exit Wounds is its blatant rip offs of better movies' music and action moves, such as The Matrix and Heat.Unfortunately, Exit Wounds will be seen as the umpteenth comeback movie for Seagal.  But it could be much more if its talent met the potential of its often intelligent script and director. But only good can come from a movie that resurrects Seagal's and Arnold's careers. There's hope yet, Jean-Claude.  "},{"Title":"Exit Wounds Shoots First, Plot Later","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What!? and Get outta here! are usually good things to hear an audience say during an action movie's gun fights and explosions. But such is not often the case for director Andrzej Bartkowiak's Exit Wounds, a movie that fails to fully break the creative confinements of the cops-and-robbers genre and instead tests its audience's patience.The Plot The story is nothing more than an excuse to set up more elaborate pyrotechnics and martial arts. (And to save Steven Seagal's direct-to-video movie career.)Seagal is Orin Boid, your stereotypical tough cop who shoots bad guys with little fuss and a pithy one-liner. Boid is too good at being bad, so he' s sent to a precinct in crime infested Detroit. There, he begins to see a web of corruption, lead by Michael Jai White's buff cop character, who makes Bruce Lee look like Strohm Thurman. DMX fits in as a computer hacker bent on exposing the corruption. Along for this romp are Tom Arnold as a tabloid reporter and Issaih Washington as Boid's partner. The Good Bartkowiak's serious intensity for the action scenes show that he has what it takes to make a memorable action movie someday. As in his previous film, Romeo Must Die, he makes great use of innovative camera angles and wire work that distinguishes his martial arts from your average outing.  And the fight scenes, save for the opening minutes' first assault, are subtle, yet entertaining, in their execution. Seagal returns to his Under Siege form, but needs to work on his gut. Washington provides, briefly, the only character we care about. And White's wicked villain is a good nemesis. The script has potential to be taken as a serious action vehicle, if only its stars weren't stuck in B-movie mode.The Bad The fight scenes, while good, are too unbelievable, even for an action movie. (FYI 3 randomly fired pistol shots are enough to crash and explode a helicopter.)Too often does Exit Wounds defy both the laws of gravity and the audience's suspension of disbelief. DMX should stick to rapping, for his idea of acting is maintaining a grimace. Tom Arnold provides comic relief, but his obnoxiousness wears thin. But the worst thing about Exit Wounds is its blatant rip offs of better movies' music and action moves, such as The Matrix and Heat.Unfortunately, Exit Wounds will be seen as the umpteenth comeback movie for Seagal.  But it could be much more if its talent met the potential of its often intelligent script and director. But only good can come from a movie that resurrects Seagal's and Arnold's careers. There's hope yet, Jean-Claude.  "},{"Title":"The first great action movie of 2001 and Seagal's best to date","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am surprised at the modest reviews Exit Wounds has been getting.  I personally feel that it is Seagal's best movie yet. This film is definitely a change of pace for Seagal, while he still plays a tough guy, he is not untouchable like he is in most of his movies. Seagal also has some great comedy moments as well. Rapper DMX is also good in this movie. There is also a considerable amount of action in this movie, there are shootouts, chases, and martial arts battles throughout the movie. This is the first great action movie of 2001 and Seagal's best to date. "},{"Title":"I had a really good time watching this movie.","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After the last two or three Steven movies, I was 'starting to get in a bad mood', but this latest one, Exit Wounds fixed all that.Steven is looking in good form and there is a lot of male eye candy all through the movie.  I never get enough of watching Steven in action (oh, for a slow motion button or instant replay to really contemplate all that goes on), and still I want more of those smooth, fast, supple moves he makes.There is no stopping the action in this imaginative flick.  Lots of great cars and cool wardrobe add flash and color.Tiny quibble...no new way of killing the baddest boy.  Good kill, but not original.See it, you'll have fun, people are actually flying out of cars! "},{"Title":"I had hoped for more","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Seagal is getting better but he's not there yet.  Seagal's clothing was tolerable and the lost of his pony tail helped too.  Parts of the movie served as a humbling experience for Seagal, toning down his bad boy/God like image a bit.  Teaming up with DMX only helped popularity -- nothing else! If you can get past the ridiculous story line, you might be somewhat entertained.   "},{"Title":"Action, Funny, Serious?","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There are so many movies these days with depth, love, meaning, reality......some days a simple action flick to get your mind off reality and get your blood pumping is what you really need on a Saturday night.Although Seagal's movies in the past have been a little hard to take this film is a good combination of action and humor.  No, you are not going to develop the theory behind the meaning of life from watching this movie, nor is it a traditional Seagal movie where he gets mad and takes everyone out. This movie is a good combination of humor (Tom Arnold), action (Seagal) and drama (DMX).This is a great improvement over Seagal's last string of films however the plot is a little weak and I am a true believer that movies can have both action and a plausible plot. "},{"Title":"Segal's best so far, and a pretty good action flick.","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First of all, no one outside of stuffy critics should look at this movie outside of what it was supposed to accomplish. It won't be best movie of the year, but it works as an action flick (though a little too much action and gore for my taste). It's best to break the movie down to its components.Story Hey, it's an action flick. Don't expect too much and you'll get more than you expect. Most foreshadowing is telegraphed so bad it's like flashing a neon sign, but some things were surprising.Action Too much isn't always a good thing and after a while, I just started getting bored with it. Perhaps a person more geared to action movies will enjoy it, I didn't.Segal Probably in his best role since Executive Decision(?). He actually gets hit a few times here, not like in his other movies where's he's not touched at all. I'm impressed, he actually learns that it's okay to laugh at himself. The scene where he's a traffic cop is hilarious. Best of all, no running scenes (far as I can remember). We all know how Steven Segal runs.DMX nothing good, nothing bad. Lots of posing and strut walking. DMX needs to deflate the ego a bit. Strangely, his overinflated opinion of himself was worse than Segal's in this movie.Supporting actors Tom Arnold (a sorta revival of his role in True Lies) and the fat, black guy (forgot his name, but sorta revived his role in Romeo Must Die) are *very* funny and *extremely* funny together at the end. These two should do more movies as sidekicks; they both have a talent. Ever since True Lies, I've wondered why they haven't used Tom Arnold in more roles like that. (By the way, the allusions to Tom's wife are wicked funny).Fight scenes Pretty good, though a bit over the top. Why this 360-flip move is popular, I'll never understand. It was stupid in Mission Impossible 2 (which was a stupid, stupid movie), and it was stupid here.All in all Don't go expecting to see a movie like The Seventh Seal or Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. This movie is formula-action, but with enough to raise it a level above the other formula-action movies. 7/10, and perhaps 8/10 w.r.t. other action flicks.Note Don't leave when the credits start to roll. You'll miss, IMO, the best part of the movie. "},{"Title":"hold on tight to your Jaw it's gonna drop when you see the action in this movie.","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Boy I saw this tonight and i thought i should come home and comment right away before i forget what I'm gonna say.I came home filled with absolute awe and every dime i spent on this was well worth it, im surprised it didn't cost 3 bucks more. The first real action thriller of 2001 and may be the best for quite some time now.The movie was pure action all the way without a hare of slowdown. Any action fans out there should see this movie.The biggest comeback in recorded history is this film. It's great!!!10/10 "},{"Title":"This movie pulls Seagal out of his long string of bad movies.","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Being a cop myself (3 years undercover, on the S.W.A.T. team and a Bomb Technician), I definitely can tell you that the plot was not believable.  However, how many of Hollywoods movies are believable.  With that said, I still have to say that I enjoyed this movie.  This will definitely bring Steven Seagal back from his string of poor movies.The directing in this movie was much better, with the way the scenes were played out.  Seagal should thank the director, because he probably turned his career around.  I do like watching Steven Seagal, even in his poor movies, because I am a defensive tactics instructor and alot of the moves I teach are based on Aikido.This was a well made movie and the music really got you pumping.  Because of this movie, you can bet that you are going to see alot more of Steven Seagal.I had to mention one more thing.  In one of the comments, I read, someone said that they could not see Steven Seagal as much of a gun person.  In reality, he is one of the few actors that holds his weapon the way a real police officer would hold his weapon.  Also, when he fires his weapon, he fires it the way a real police officer would fire it.  I just needed to make that comment. "}{"Title":"Very decent action flick","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I like much of Steven Seagal's work, and Exit Wounds was no exception.  I found the plot somewhat questionable, but who cares?  It's action, baby! The supporting characters were good, with a big nod given to Anthony Anderson for his comedic backup.  He was good in Romeo Must Die, but significantly better here.One of the best points about the film was Seagal's willingness to get kicked around for a change.  Usually, he's the opposite of Jackie Chan, escaping battles with multiple opponents totally unscathed.  This time, his character faced adversaries who landed repeatedly on him, and lasted more than one exchange before succumbing to this throw or that joint lock.  Actually having DMX's character hold his own a little against Boyd was, I thought, a very interesting choice, and one I don't disapprove of.I have only two gripes about this film.  First, Jill Hennessy was grossly misused here.  She could have made an excellent contribution to the movie had her part been more substantial.  Also, Mulcahy's death was a little too similar to that of Hennessy's character in Law and Order, but I suppose that's part of the role rather than anything specific to the actress.  The suddenness of her end was actually a refreshing change from the norm.My other complaint was, as another person mentioned, the shortness of the fight scene involving Michael Jai White.  White did very good scenes with Jean Claude Van Damme in Universal Soldier 2, and could have performed spectacularly with Seagal if given the chance.  Unfortunately, this was the only opportunity we had to see Michael in action, which is a pity.Other than some typical action film implausibilities in the shoot outs, etc., and the use of the wires in some of the scenes, which I find greatly overdone since the Matrix brought it to the mainstream, Exit Wounds was well done.  If you like action, this one shouldn't disappoint you. "},{"Title":"You're right. This IS gonna hurt.","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The director, Andrzej Bartkowiak, will always have a place of honorin movies for having lit some of Sidney Lumet's best (andbest-looking) movies--notably PRINCE OF THE CITY and THEVERDICT. I give him lots of respect for his fleet, effective work asthe director of ROMEO MUST DIE, and for his work here  too--maybe doubly noble in that Bartkowiak has a real abscess ofa script to work with here. We are asked to believe that DMX (notsure; think he's a rapper) is not, as he seems in the first fewminutes to be, a thug, but instead is an Internet millionaire andanti-police-brutality activist. (In a recent, other Steven Seagalmovie, we are meant to believe that the great man is a NativeAmerican-simpatico ecologist.) Bartkowiak is smart he doesn't tryto be John Woo, like most other contemporary action directors--hetries to be Ringo Lam. And succeeds.Too bad the script--a sort of hiphop-flavored riff on MAGNUMFORCE--is so sucky. The movie has a groovy  rap-and-house-music soundtrack that amplifies the adrenaline ofevery scene it's in, and Bartkowiak stages some neat, kinetic,grunt-inducing action set pieces. And the thing moves along at adecent clip. (The producer, Joel Silver, seems to be still followinghis eighties whammy chart.) But as cockamamie,  contrivance-riddled, pulled-out-of-one's-rump storytelling goes,this one seems to have been ghostwritten by Greg Focker. "},{"Title":"Nope","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Action films needed a jump start, which the matrix provided, but that doesnt mean steal the slow mo jive and use it with the old cliques.  A plot twist near the end saved it from complete trash.  The acting was piss poor for great, ok for garbage.  the action itself was good, it showed me some things i havent seen before, a couple times your like ouch.  The story has been too overdone, the dialogue was ignorant, and at times your like, i dont get it, why did they put that in the movie  get it at blockbuster not in the theater.and on a side note if the film word wants to keep the main theater chains from going broke, this aint the way to do it. "},{"Title":"I liked it, better than I expected.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I admit it, I'm an action junkie.  I have no problems having action substituted for plot, and therefore enjoy a lot of movies that most people think are absolute crap, but this movie doesn't fall in that category.(Some plot spoilers below, do not read if you haven't seen it)The short of it is that Seagal is a cop (detective of some sort, although we never really find out his rank, it seems he's a cop that works the streets but can do whatever the hell he wants, yeah right).  In the opening scene he saves the vice president by noticing that something with the police escort was out of place.  The scene kind of reminded me of the post-bank-robbery scene in Heat, although less realistic in this movie.  The fact that his handgun turned into a machine pistol did kind of bother me, but that's nothing unusual for this type of movie.  Anyway, after saving the VP, he's demoted because he didn't follow orders.He stumbles into a batch of bad cops at his new assignment and has a chance to redeem himself by busting up a crime ring inside the police department. The plot was actually more developed than I expected, and they pretty much didn't take any hard rights through the whole movie, which at least made it a little more believable than some other movies which omit an important detail just to leave the audience guessing.Then there's the action.  What can I say?  This entire movie is an action sequence.  I don't think I've seen as much non-stop action as this film has in a long time.  Mix that with Tom Arnolds HILARIOUS interludes (think True Lies) and plenty of gun play, and you have exactly what I was looking for when I walked into the theater.  An asskicking movie that doesn't take itself seriously.And do yourself a favor, do not leave early, the Tom Arnold scene at the end of the movie is priceless.  I haven't laughed that hard at non-PC dialogue in a long time.Rating 8/10  (10/10 for action and 6/10 for plot). "},{"Title":"Refreshing change","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It is a refreshing change to see Steven Seagal playing something beside the invincible hero he normally plays.  His character is very human and completely believable.  While the flim was a little slow at the beginning, it picked up nicely and had a few surprises that kept my interest until the end.  The action sequences were excellent, and I would like to see more films like this one.  My only complaint is Tom Arnold's character; the scene at the end should've been cut as I found it offensive and unnecessary. BMX is great, and I would like to see him in more films. "},{"Title":"Great comeback for Seagal","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It was hard to expect much of this movie, and after the Vice President scene, I was wondering just how it got in major theaters (Seagal has had several straight-to video movies in the last couple of years), but after the main plot of the movie started, it was surprisingly entertaining.  I'm glad to see that Seagal realized (or at least his agent did) that his name is no longer sufficient to carry a movie alone.  Adding DMX was really a smart move.  For a rap singer, he certainly did a credible job.  He looks the part as well, and I really enjoyed the fight scenes between he and Seagal.  This movie is really a throw back to Seagal's earlier movies; the simple,entertaining action films without the nonsensical political undertones thrown in.  Seagal's political stance, while admirable, nearly cost him his career from what I've seen.  I'm really glad to see him get back to the basics that made him a star in the early 1990's.  As Seagal films go, this is certainly one of the better ones, and if you like action movies, you can't go wrong by seeing it.  It has some hilariously funny parts as well, something most Seagal movies have always lacked.  Anthony Anderson's TK character is an absolute riot.     "},{"Title":"Don't expect much, Seagals gettin' old..","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I wasn't much of a Steven Seagal fan..once my sources told me Exit Wounds was makin its way to the big screen..i wasn't expecting your typical Seagal movie..since most of it was filmed in Toronto and DMX made (to my knowledge) one of his biggest Appearences, other than Romeo Must Die where he popped out for like 2 minutes. Well, i was hoping for Seagal to pull his Aikido tricks on the big screen, just like his other movies, instead, guns is the furthest the eye can see, which pretty much spoiled the role of Seagal, who isn't really what i think of a gunman. As for the other actors, Anthony Anderson..put a lil laugh in it as well as Tom Arnold which is the same ol same ol in all his movies..True Lies, Nine Months etc..Apart from all the cons in this film..i thought it was quite fun..just a dark movie..usually took place in dark rooms or at night.. Go check it out! "},{"Title":"Classic Seagal Action!","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Good action flick. Lots of violence. Fight scenes were excellent.Chase sequences excellent, and utilzed realistic extras.Nice camera editing.  Fairly decent plot line. Action hero in anger mangement class a hoot. DMX and supporting cast equally impressive.  "},{"Title":"Good action, stupid story","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I could see this movie coming from a mile away, not exactly the teaming of Seagal and DMX, but that DMX would be in a action movie.  While he did have a part in Romeo Must Die, he appeared for all of 2 minutes in it.  Now, he gets his break, even if it's with one of the lames action stars I can think of.Here, Seagal plays a cop who has been bumped down to traffic cop (I was laughing really hard when I saw Seagal in a cap like that).  While there, he find that there is corruption going on with cops who want to deal with drug pushers (one being DMX), even if the co-star isn't what he seems to be.  Films major flaws are almost (almost) wiped away with really good action sequences, even if afterwards it seems like we've seen it before.  Tom Arnold has some laughs with Anthony Anderson in the credits.  B "},{"Title":"Fun and exciting movie","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a great mix of actors, humor, action and kept you guessing. Fun and exciting movie This plot at first worried me the corrupt cop this is not the first time for this plot! But done very nicely. It did not seem like the same old thing.  Seagal has a great aura and this movie help bring it out in less of a dramatic way.  "}{"Title":"great action flick","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The film was actually better than i expected and i have to admit that Steven Segal blew me away with his performance.  His acting was great and i thought that his sense of humor was incredible.  The opening sequence was a lot of fun and i felt that the movie never lost its pace and actually involved a fairly complicated story which begins to unravel.  It isn't anything new and is predictable except for a few moments.  Overall though the film is excellent and one of Segal's best right no par with the Under siege films "},{"Title":"A Leaner and Funnier Steven Seagal","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Steven Seagal's movie return in Exit Wounds is very entertaining with a surprisingly engaging story. Seagal is leaner and has fun with his movie persona-- particularly with the story line having his character Orin Boyd attending an anger management class. There is a lot of action in the movie which keeps it going. The martial art/ Aikido is particularly well done in the carjacking sequence. Seagal really demonstrates his Aikido Shihan mastery in that one. The other more Matrix-like fight scenes are good, though it's becoming common place in today's action movies. It's also interesting that Seagal was not fight choreographer for this outing. DMX as a martial artist is a stretch. However, as an actor in the role of Latrell Walker, he is very charismatic. If he can stay out of jail, he'll have a career in the movies. It's unfortunate that Michael Jai White was not able to display his martial arts mastery-- Jai White is a world class martial artist. Having him fight Seagal in a Crouching Tiger sword sequence is a waste. "},{"Title":"Has it all smarmy smirk, silly walk; still comes up short","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Has many of the best features of Steven Seagal movies - the smarmy smirk, the silly walk, the total disregard for plot coherence - yet still comes up short.Synopsis Steven is a cop who saves the life of the vice-president - for which he gets demoted. Then he saves a family from gun wielding criminals. He gets demoted again. Finally he stops saving people and just beats up and kills bad guys and gets promoted back.Steven is slimmed down almost to the point where action sequences might possibly be believable - if you could see them. Instead we get lots of incoherent quick-cut editing. Plenty of limbs still get bent backwards, you're just never sure how Steve got to them. The plot line flows with no apparent continuity, characters interact based upon motivations supplied entirely off-screen, and necessary developments are explained after the fact - possibly to fit the wierd editing. In short a standard Seagal movie. Other standard effects, naturally, include the 10,000 shot pistol that blows things up, cars that jump out of second stories unharmed, etc. etc.However... at no point did Steven disgorge himself of some momentous philosphical pronouncement (like he did at the end of Hollowed Ground when he homilied on the environment he had just blown up and told about the secret water powered cars they are keeping from us). That's always been my favorite part of these movies, and it is sorely missed here. Also, there are two car crashes in which the cars, mysteriously, did not explode.  "},{"Title":"fun movie","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie has to be Seagal's best movie! It's so much fun to watch and the action is extraordinary. DMX makes it even better because he's so cool and fights real well too. This movie has lots of comedy in it which lightens up the movie making it tons of fun. It's a shame that this movie might bomb because no one likes a Steven Segal movie but this is the one to see. GO right now  "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal fans and Action fans will not be disappointed","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Steven Seagal is back with a vengeance and in many ways, he's better than ever. DMX did a great job in this movie, he can definitely hold his own. The semi-Matrix style action was some of the best I've seen in a long time. This movie is not only exciting the whole way through, but it's also funny. Steven Seagal fans will not be disappointed. Seagal lost 50 pounds to do this movie and it payed off. Sure, you can still notice that Steven's still a bit on the chubby side, he's still working on it, but that does not diminish his on screen presence whatsoever. Seagal was born to play these roles. He's truly one of the best action stars there ever was. Watch this movie, it's great.  "},{"Title":"100 % Steven Seagal- to the tenth power, squared. 'Nough said?","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  100 % Steven Seagal- to the tenth power, squared. 'Nough said? I laughed so hard I nearly soiled myself. Don't get me wrong I love the big burly quiet dope...But really, 3219764,000 bullets flying past his motorcycling torso and helmet-less head and not a scratch! Not a one touches his big beautiful head! C'mon...How can you help but grin with glee? Just once I would like to see a shoot-out where the good guys or bad guys; 1. Actually stop when they get shot- doesn't it hurt real bad? 2. Someone on either side shoot the friggin' TIRES out! Thusly, stopping the fleeing car (s) almost dead in it's tracks.In Exit Wounds we actually watch a SUV fly out a parking garage opening from, the 2nd or 3rd floor mind you, and careen onward with only a bumper displaced. Tah! I went over a bottle-cap at the 7/11 last night and my tire popped like a bottle of Champagne at Soderbergh's house on Golden Globe night.Everyone wants to know how DMX did. How do you think? He was okay...He's a good looking slice of chocolately sweet bundtcake isn't he? A yumsicle mantreat. Music is his game though...The real scene stealer is Anthony Anderson. He was in that gawd awful See Spot Run (best forgotten and forgiven) and Me Myself and Irene (one of Carrey's son's) What a funny, natural actor. I actually had that rare phenomenon of after laugh remembering his retorts in the final scenes with his costar Tom Arnold...Keep your eyes on him we may have a new star here.Exit Wounds story goes...Orin Boyd (Steven Does this XXXL tee make me look big? You wouldn't lie? Seagal) is new at his precinct in Detroit. Immediately the fellow goon-style cops initiate him with high-school locker room shenanigans involving manly games with electrical shock. Please. He handles them in that Seagal Zen&#153; manner which has grossed the hefty actor like a gizillion dollars.Oh, what's this? Corruption? Ya don't say...Didn't see that coming. Boyd's finding out about various fellow nights in blue extra income earning shindigs.There's lots of heroin, rap and nice cars! Where's the...Action? There's plenty of that! A tiny pinch of dialog squeezes in between the unbelievable (literally) chase, hostage, uniformed bad-guy cops, and bust scenes. A stress relieving laugh a frame...It's Steven Seagal -Steven Seagal 101 folks! You want believable? Rent a John Malkovich movie 'k?You either like Seagal's stuff or you don't. I do.Though, Steven's so much more enjoyable after a bad day within the public drones, popped into the DVD. In the sanctuary of your humble abode. Where you can center your chi and follow with a thereputic hearty yell, hoot, and holler at the screen as you egg your favorite vigilante/hero/good/masterfighter guy on...Snack recommendation All-You-Can-Eat Japanese - seems so SeagalStarring Steven Seagal, DMX, Tom Arnold, Anthony Anderson, and many action star faces you'll be pointing out... "},{"Title":"Above average Steven Seagal action flick","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you like Steven Seagal movies, you will love this one.Although the story line won't win an Oscar for brilliance, it's good enough to hold your attention, with enough plot twists to keep you guessing. The acting, characters, and dialog are typical for a Steven Seagal movie, but this one stands out for the sheer volume of Die Hard style action. On top of that, it's apparent that Steven and company have learned a thing or to from the string fu techniques employed in many other recent martial arts flicks. The inevitable fight sequences are even more entertaining, if somewhat less realistic, than those of the past.Steven plays a Detroit police officer who's a bit of a loose cannon. His handling of  the situation portrayed in a spectacular opening sequence results in him being reassigned to the Detroit Police Department's doghouse in the form of the 15th precinct. He arrives to find that he's being placed on a short leash by the gorgeous precinct commander, played by Jill Hennessy. Within a couple days he has figured out that there is something wrong in the precinct, and the rest of the movie follows as he figures out just what's going on.A cinematographic masterpiece? No. A rollicking good-natured fun-filled two hours? You betcha. And the closing credits are a welcome (and quite hilarious) relief from the preachy closing sermons of several recent Seagal movies. "},{"Title":"Best Seagal movie ever.  Don't get too excited though, it just moves him out of the B movie category.","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have never been a huge fan of Steven Seagal movies, although I have to confess I have seen a lot of them.I think this has to be considered the best of what is for the most part a shockingly bad lot.  You can't really accuse SS of being a poor actor, since - as far as I can tell - he doesn't really act at all.  Seriously he could give a California Redwood a run for its money in the most wooden category. This movie rises above most of its predecessors.  Plot, cast, stunts, etc are all superior.  The only that comes close to being as good is Under Siege.  All in all if you are in the mood for a decent action movie this should fit the bill without too many complaints.   I think if he could just appear a bit more human in his movies he could join Arnie, Bruce & company in the top echelon of action movie stars.  For example perhaps when he is fighting 3 heavily muscled 400lb plus guys perhaps, just perhaps, he could lose, or least suffer a bad bruise. It would also be nice if he had stronger female characters in his movies. This one had an excellent opportunity with a female police commander, but her role is very small, and in the end inconsequential. "},{"Title":"One of the best Seagal Movie...","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went to theatre just to Seagal, not to expect much out of Exit Wounds. But what I saw was Seagal's finest action thriller.  DMX & Isiah Washington added some action powers to Seagal's masterpiece. I would like to recommend for those who's been longing for clean, exciting action movie. "},{"Title":"One of Steven Seagal's best","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was thoroughly entertained by Steven Seagal's newest movie Exit Wounds. The plot was good, the acting from everyone was better than expected, and the movie was also, very surprisingly, hilarious.  Steven Seagal plays a cop, who (like most of his other movies) plays by his own set of rules. He is then busted, and sent to a precinct filled with dirty cops.  Steven Seagal (who I love, even though people criticize his acting ability) displays a humorous side in the movie that he hasn't shown in previous films.  DMX was a great choice, and played his part very well.  Tom Arnold, and Anthony Anderson (Hang Time, Me Myself and Irene) were both hilarious compliments to the lead characters.  Michael Jai White (Spawn) is already one of my favorite actors, and I believe he will be a super star if he ever gets another good lead role.  All in all, this was one of Steven Seagal's best movies, and if you are a fan, I highly recommend it.  If you're not, see it for Tom Arnold's, and Anthony Anderson's hilarious performances. "}{"Title":"seagal is back","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Exit wounds is everything like I thought it would be. This is an overall good come back for a man whose fans were getting tired of him starring in a bunch of crap. Exit wounds should please seagal fans as well as fans of fast paced action. Even though its produced by joel silver (who after the matrix thinks that every action film he does, the fights should have wires) and has the same director as Romeo must die,Don't worry! the fights aren't anywhere near as ridiculous as that movie. So go and see it!  "},{"Title":"Action Action Action","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not that DMX is a great actor but, his rough exterior with the smooth and polished personality of Steven Segal intigued me.  I found the movie entertaining and action packed.I am glad I saw it and thought it was well work the price of admission.  "},{"Title":"Solid and unsurprising action film.","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you like Steven Seagal or enjoy DMX you're probably going to like this movie. If you don't, then why on earth did you see it in the first place? I mean come on. You don't go to see Exit Wounds to see Shakespeare, you go to Exit Wounds to see two guys kick the living crap out of bad guys. Period.And that's what Exit Wounds delivers.  This is an action movie, and it doesn't make any serious attempt to veer from it.  We get to see lots of fighting, lots of trigger-happy bad (and good) guys, and an inevitable result.I'm judging this in context of 'Action Movies', and in context of them this is a good one. DMX does fine, but it's hard to be critical either way because he isn't given a lot of diction and verbage to utilize (neither is anyone else, and perhaps that's for the better) . Segal of course manages to beat the everliving tar out of plenty of people with his patented hybrid of military-esque force-tactics and a 'hard' form of Aikido. Neither bursts into prose or attempts to. In fact both of them have a straight-forward delivery that done any other way with that script would have been disastrous.The situation Orin Boyd (Segal) finds himself in is straight out of cop-action-flick textbooks, complete with a couple of flustered and loud higher-ups.  Orin of course is brash and uncontrollable...But I won't ramble. Suffice to say, we've seen it before. But they don't dwell on it (thank god).The action itself is fine. There is plenty we've seen and a few kind of new nifty things.  Michael Jai White flexes a bit, and Tom Arnold is funny. Don't go seeing this movie for anything other than what it is; and what it is is a solid action movie. "},{"Title":"Yeah This is gonna hurt - to WATCH it!","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  More lame-o garbage from the magnificent, malignant Seagal. Any talent he has he once again places at the sidelines, opting once again for those strained serious looks and monumentally inept martial artage. Why the constant choice of these facetious testoteronic stories? Maybe he's forgotten that he CAN display acting talents. More likely, he needed the cash and the sheep audience will go to this in droves (desiring flailing limbs over substance). Surely the name DMX, sweeping households across the nation, isn't the attraction. There's nothing new here but if the past, vast library of Seagal epics is your cup of tea- then drink this up. (Hey! Did someone screw up and leave a word out of the title of this film?) "},{"Title":"You can enter this one without fear of brain death.","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The martial arts genre is typified by bad acting, (anything with Chuck Norris), non-existent plots (Black Mask), and pop-up characters which made Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and Rush hour anomalies.  The former boasted an in-depth story line, strong characters (females no less), stunning cinematography, and amazing fight sequences, while the other was intentionally comedic and turned out to be a blockbuster. Could this trend lead to respectability with the studios and the film going public?  Well, let's not get carried away.Orin Boyd (Seagal) is part Dirty Harry, part Serpico - a rogue cop with a bad attitude, he takes his oath to serve and protect, seriously, thinks nothing of bending the rules and particularly despises dirty cops.  After one too many gut reactions Orin gets reassigned to the worst precinct in the city and soon discovers that a major drug dealer is working with several of the city's finest.  The question becomes who is the real crook?Steven Seagal is an acknowledged Aikido expert, who also happens to be arrogant, temperamental, a bad actor and known for taking himself far too seriously.  While his earlier films were not what anyone would consider cinematic watersheds, they did have excellent action sequences.  His most recent works have been, to be charitable, forgettable at best.  Maybe that explains the new Seagal.Exit Wounds has a bonafide plot, several of the characters think before they strike, the fight sequences are stylishly choreographed, the pulse quickening action sequences are tightly edited and there is an overall unique sense of humor.  Seagal has even learned to poke fun at himself, and his character's bad attitude is the focus of a running gag.  DMX, meanwhile, is more than adequate, as an actor, but I wouldn't suggest he abandon his music career anytime soon.   Both actors however are overshadowed by the duo of Tom Arnold and Anthony Anderson who provide constant comic relief throughout the film, especially during the credits.While there are several particularly ridiculous moments, Seagal's pistol transforming into a machine gun comes to mind, and enough beefcake to supply Black Angus for a month, action movie fans will be able to overlook them.  "},{"Title":"Best Seagal film in a long time, maybe ever","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a surprisingly enjoyable movie.  I went in expecting some violence (and was not disappointed) but also got some genuinely funny moments.  The story was also not cut-and-dry like so many movies of the genre.  It is no super deep, redefining the genre, but it is quite good.Also for once Seagal doesn't play some tree-hugger Zen buddhist type.  Just a good cop, who has some problems with anger (even goes to anger management classes!)One problem is that the previews gave away a bit too much of the story.  Saying that two men have to clean up the city (being Seagal and DMX), but in movietime you don't know that until over halfway through.Also a bit of a disappointment was the relatively light doses of martial arts.  There were a number of very good scenes, but I was looking forward to a huge showdown between Seagal and Michael Jay White, which although it happened, wasn't that great.Stick around for the beginning of the credits too, for a hilarious bit between Anthony Anderson and Tom Arnold.  And for the World's Strongest Man fans pay attention to see Joe Onasi. "},{"Title":"Best Seagal Movie in a Long Time","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the best Seagal movie since ON DEADLY GROUND AND UNDER SEIGE.  It just may surprise you and revive Seagal's Career. He's got some new moves so watch out.  The plot was good, little holes or troubles with the film. "},{"Title":"formulaic, but fun action movie","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This would be your typical action movie. When I went to see the press screening, one of the promoters claimed that this was supposed to be Steven Seagal's 'best movie ever'. We all had a good life, but she was probably right.Although the film contained your typical action scenes (some of which didn't even belong in the movie and were likely included to show of Seagal's moves), the reason this movie was any good at all is because, unlike many action movies, it didn't take itself too seriously. It was very tongue-in-cheek and fun. The action, while far-fetched at times, was still much much fun to watch.DMX can actually hold is own on-screen and is no worse an actor than Steven Seagal. Some of the things his character pulled-off in the movie were downright absurd, but as I said, all in good fun! "},{"Title":"The funniest Seagal Movie.","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Exit Wounds may not be a great film, in fact isn't a great film. Stevan Seagal has made far better movies like Marked for death, Under Siege, Hard to kill and Above the Law. Exit Wounds is simply the funniest of his movies I've seen. Seagal is a great Fighter, with very impressive arm moves. One of his speciality is twisting arm and hands in a certain blood vein of muscle. I know that doesn't quite make sense, but if you see his fights carefully, you'll know. DMX co stars in a unrealistic character role, which i still don't relate to. His trying to gather evidence on corrupt cops, with expensive tools used by FBI's and CIA's. It starts of very entertainingly but its the twist that sucked. The corrupt cop in charge copies Usual Suspects famous dialogue. The greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he doesn't exist. "},{"Title":"Execrable","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A vehicle for Steven Seagal and a rapper-turned-actor named after a bicycle. It's an awful film, simpering to its core audience of teenagers at a moment when they're giving their Playstation-worn thumbs a rest. Set piece randomly follows set piece without any sort of through-thread we see Seagal arting martially, lots of expensive cars often sped up in street sequences to make them appear more dramatic and over-earnest homoerotic pec-posturing. What we do NOT see is DMX act.Grafted into the mix we have infomercial tit-bits about the 'web', a line shamelessly stolen wholesale from The Usual Suspects and a section of the Heat soundtrack reproduced without adjustment. However, there is a well-disguised twist half-way through (maybe I was laughing during a crucial giveaway early on) and the comic turns, though awkward are not as sledgehammered into place as the poorly choreographed scraps and excessively overdubbed gunfights. OK, yes they are and they're as funny as a zit.Rubbish. Contrived, unimaginative, patronising, masturbatory laziness. I'd give it 1/10, but my already low expectations were exceeded by some of the supporting cast making an effort. "}{"Title":"Nobody feels good","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Our television channel were gracious enough tonight to give us two fabulous back to back Steven Seagal movies.This review is about the one of them.Remember what Yoggi Berra said about 'deja vu all over again?' Well this one's got it. We not only have the same actors as in 'Hard to Kill' (our first thrilling feature of the evening) we also have them utter the same horrible lines!And if that isn't enough - why train all these pseudo kung fu gurus to learn new choreography? Hey it's been a long time since anyone's seen that other movie, right? And there weren't that many people who saw it anyway, right? (Right - hopefully not.)This one adds a bit better celluloid (or is it cellulite) quality and LOTS of rap music. Does it have plot? Sure it does.Don't worry about the plot being spoilt here - for there is no plot. The plot - or anti- plot it might be called - is basically a lot of yelling and screaming by a bunch of gangsta idiots with a lot of flashy cars and gangsta rap going in the background and everybody getting down down down man real real down.And then Steven Seagal has to come in with that gay look and that gay voice and get all clever on these poor people as he maims and tortures them. Aw too cool for words. So very very cool. As in not cool.This movie is actually based on a book. So although it's generally a bad idea to burn books, maybe we need to make an exception now and then.It also features Tom Arnold, the #1 super pepper-upper for dumb action movies (used by Graz Murderer Arnie as well) except here he's hopeless - or rather the challenge is hopeless. How to save a Steven Seagal movie? It can't be done.James Brown also features in this movie - but he's lying through his teeth when he sings 'I feel good'. Believe us, nobody feels good with this one. "},{"Title":"So bad it's almost good","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" OK,right off the bat you need to know that I make it a point to never rent of buy a Steven Segall movie,or a movie with the guy that plays Walker,Texas Ranger. I got this movie because somebody gave it to me.Having said that,this movie is almost bad enough to be good. I got the feeling early in the movie that it was a spoof/comedy cop movie,but nobody told Segal. Everybody was in on the joke but him. Then again,he has all the expression of a corpse,so it's hard to tell.The luscious Jill Hennesy was in it,and I held out hopes the whole movie that she was going to get naked. Didn't happen. Not even topless. How could a movie with every cop action flick stereotype known to mankind have a babe like her in it,and not have her be his love interest after first hating him,and have her get topless at one point? I guess it is OK for a 2 dollar rental flick if you have nothing else to do on a slow Saturday afternoon. "},{"Title":"Typical Seagal action flick","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Aah, Steven Seagal, what would action scene be like if you wouldn't be here? Maybe more bearded ala Chuck Norris? There are bad action stars and bad action stars, good ones, like The Governator, are rare, so I'd guess Seagal is somewhere between good and bad He can't act, but he's not as bad actor as Chuck Norris, he just delivers his lines with that stoned expression on his face and then he beats the crap out from the bad guys. And besides I usually enjoy Seagal's movies no matter how dumb they are.Exit Wounds definitely is not the most terrible piece of crap ever made, it even has some funny one liners and pretty good action scenes in it. The plot in the other hand, well it just there to give Seagal good enough reasons to kick people.The plot uses every cliché ever invented bad cops, drug traffic, good, but not by the book hero, good family man cop, unexpected leaders of the bad guys gang etc. etc. I gather you can guess the rest.So yes, a decent action flick. Don't watch if you expect to get some nourishment for your brains, only good if you need to let your brains breathe for a while. "},{"Title":"Tom Arnold is the GOOD news.","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I remember the night this film opened. The theater I worked at received a bomb threat (supposedly in this specific auditorium) and we had to evacuate it. While it turned out to be some guy who had been turned away due to lack of ID and was thus denied seeing DMX half-naked, I still suspect the guy had noble intentions. I think he wanted to save us all. Compared to Seagal's recent direct-to-video endeavors, this movie is not bad at all. Judged on its own merits, it's an ultimately joyless action flick with little to interest and less to excite. One of my favorite aspects of the earlier Seagal films is the anticipation that, in the end, the villain will be cornered and have his testicles stomped to jelly. Remember the end of Under Siege? Out For Justice? Marked for Death? Those are Steven Seagal movies. This is a limp attempt at reviving his career with the help of DMX's presence. Were the Muppets all booked or something?I have to admit that this movie isn't as terrible as other action flicks I've seen. It does have Seagal's trademark Aikido (I think... it at least has hand-to-hand fighting, something that is sparse in his later roles) and penchant for ripping off arms and using them as toothpicks. There are also some fairly amusing moments of comedy. The only amusement his other recent movies provide is when you take them out of the DVD player and detonate them with an M80.  "},{"Title":"Good ideas.  Bad production.","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  For a plot with a lot of potential and decent acting from decent actors, this film could have been much worse.  Seagall played his typical role as a tough mouthed and tempered cop who can't comply with authority figures. DMX also stars as a supposed criminal involved in the drug game.  I expected how Seagall's part would pan out, however i was surprised on how DMX's presence and acting were not horrendous, though not great.  Overall great  effects and some fun plot twists Exit Wounds not a bad film to sit down and watch. "},{"Title":"even by Seagal standards...ridiculous","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I will watch any movie, no matter how bad and I made it all the way through this one. I will gladly watch Above the Law knowing how stupid it is and endure Seagal's bad acting. This however was so bad, the story ridiculous, I can't wait till they almost have to bring him out in a wheelchair to do his fight scenes. Yes, I know, that is the pleasure in watching this kind of movie (for some), the silliness of it all. Terrible fight sequences and what the heck has happened to his HAIR! It use to be very smooth looking and now has almost got a kinky look. Sorry to see Isiah Washington roped into this disaster. Almost as painful to watch as I Eat Your Skin "},{"Title":"Nonsense genre action-flick","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was persuaded by my roommate to watch this on DVD, against my better judgement, since I knew Steven Seagal was the headline star. I'd never been tempted to watch a Steven Seagal movie previously, and after seeing this, I understood why.The movie is unrelentingly action oriented and unrelentingly violent. But the thing is that the violence is absurd, with clearly choreographed martial-arts-esque moves which are so unrealistic as to be ridiculous. Yes, The Matrix gets away with that, but then The Matrix is an exception. And these fight sequences go on-and-on, just when you thought That's enough, surely!The movie opens with what looks like a promising police inside-job attempt to assassinate the US Vice-President, but sadly the plot descends into a boring, drug-related corrupt cop thing, and I soon became bored. It was only for politeness' sake for my roommate that I stayed until the disappointing, predictable end.Unless you're into mindless and absurd martial-arts style violence, don't bother with this, it's yet another Seagal genre film. "},{"Title":"no surprises, mostly for fans","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Orin Boyd is a tough inner city cop and loner who never plays by the rules. After a series of mishaps and rampant insubordination, he's transferred to a new precinct where he doesn't exactly fit in and eventually stumbles upon a ring of corrupt cops. Determined to bring them down and uncertain of who he can trust, he teams up with a mysterious computer whiz and millionaire who may have the resources he needs to try and solve the case. Typical Seagal action movie delivers pretty much what you'd expect, combining flashy martial arts, random gunfire, and violent action. Doesn't add anything special to the genre, but will probably please fans of its lead actor. ** "},{"Title":"Pathetic movie with bad actors","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think this is one or the worst movie of the year 2001. Steven Seagul is terrible(as usual) and Dmx(the worlds worst rapper) is making another sad attempt to act(Romeo Must die). This movie hardly had a main plot and I also noticed they were walking(at the beginning) on the lions gate bridge which as we all know is in Calgary, not Detroit. I just think this movie is terrible and Dmx is just a marketing tool in it(because rap unfortunatly is popular). So don't waist 2 hours of your life on this film. I guarantee you, you will never get that time back. "},{"Title":"laughable dialogue, laughable action","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Exit Wounds was slightly better than expected, which still doesn't say much for a film starring DMX and steven Segal.  Their are problems from the beginning, which we should all ignore and just enjoy the movie.  From the Vice president of the United states screaming I don't know how to swim as he is thrown off the bridge the dialogue quickly becomes a transparent cover in which segal can kick some drug dealin'-@$$.  Its hard whether or not to recommend this movie i would probably say avoid it, because its not worth seeing, but at the same time it was slightly enjoyable. "}{"Title":"So predictable, so unbelievable","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When will filmakers realuze that Matrix-like filming of action scenes only works in the context of an imaginative world.  Watching people leap tall buildings or throw another person 100 feet is fun when the plotline allows a make-believe environment or the character is made out as a superhero, not an overweight, acting-impaired acting hack like STeven Segal.This is probably the worst of his movies, with a plot that would have failed a third graders creative writing class.  The first scene basically sums it up with his ability to save the day single-handedly.Ugh.. its frustrating just writing these comments.  Enough said.  DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME  "},{"Title":"Doesn't time fly by?","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsNo way did Steven Seagal turn 50 just around a fortnight ago.Can the definably pony-tailed film star we have all come to know and love really have lived for half a century by now?Well,it's been a long ride to get here,and this is his most theatrical film in ages,the major new comeback film which has been at the number one in the US box office for weeks.It's directed by Andrejz Bartkowiak,who like in his previous feature Romeo Must Die,directs the thing a little too frenetically,with characters not really being established too effectively as a result.Someone needs to tell him to slow down a little.Action movies,like any other film and in Steve's words himself,need characters with substance,which this feature sadly lacks.Still,a lot of the action is very impressive and nice,it doesn't feel like a normal Seagal film but it's something refreshing and new.There's a neat attempt to add some comic relief to it with the fat guy as well.As a comeback film it's great to know Seagal is back.*** "},{"Title":"Worth it for the end credits","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  * Minor Spoilers and some adult content *I rented this one up because I'd grabbed two other movies which looked slightly cerebral, and I wanted a stupid action movie to offset them - so I knew what I was getting myself into.I remembered that Stephen Seagal basically couldn't act, but I couldn't remember what it was about him that kept getting him movie roles. I thought it might have been something to do with his having a more or less perfectly rectangular head, but then I remembered that he did martial arts stuff. So when all the martial arts sequences in this movie turned out to be in slow motion, I decided it had to be the rectangular head thing after all.Anyway suffice to say Exit Wounds isn't that terrible a movie, so long as you go in expecting a stupid action B movie with incredibly bad acting, a ludicrous plot, and a guy with a rectangular head who can do great stunts in slow motion. As a matter of fact I fell asleep about 5 or 10 minutes from the end. But here's the good part - I woke up about 10 seconds into the closing credits.This was a very surreal experience. What you get in the closing credits are two of the supporting characters who, to the best of my memory never even MEET each other in the movie - sitting down in one of those cute, quasi-outakes or bloopers they run during credits (except it can't be an outake or blooper, because the characters never met), and coming out with this 3 minute stream of increasingly graphic anecdotes about masturbation and defecation. I mean, they start talking about how many times a day they masturbate, what they wipe the semen up with, the fact that one of them once s*** the bed, etc, etc - and I wake up to this thinking what the hell is going on here? I mean, it's like outtakes from South Park rolling in the closing credits for a Charles Bronson film. It was one of the most incongruous things I've ever seen at the end a film.  And sad to say it was considerably _funnier_ than the attempts at humour in the actual movie.I gave Exit Wounds 5 out of 10. Without the bizarre closing credits it would have copped a weak 4. "},{"Title":"You know a film is bad when you long for a scene with Tom Arnold in it","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Like all action stars eventually do, Steven Seagal (or seagull, as his unchanging facial expression often brings to mind) has been going through a downfall of late. Unlike Kurt Russell or Sylvester Stallone, however, Seagal is utterly unable to act without some kind of weapon in hand or combat situation to go through. In such cases, there are several things a good director will do in order to even out the actor's inability to act. When Schwarzenegger tried to act in Twins, they fixed the problem by having a competent comic actor feed him material to play off in his own limited way.In Exit Wounds, the idea is to have Seagal share the spotlight with one actor who makes him look good through sheer incompetence, namely DMX (gee, and they wonder why Afro-Americans are seen as idiots with no linguistic skills). The other actor, presumably the comic foil in the deal, is none other than Tom Arnold. Tom never quite makes us sure whether he's trying to reflect comic material off of Seagal, a thankless task in itself, or trying to make Seagal look like an actor through sheer incompetence. Given the screen writing and theme of the film, either one seems likely.The plot, such as it is, involves corrupt policemen laundering money through the internet, or something to that effect. Between all the idiotic sequences involving stupid actions to show what sort of beat Seagal's character is working, Seagal tries to act out dialogue with a police captain portrayed by Jill Hennessy. If the idea was to make Seagal look good through the incompetence of his co-stars, then one has to wonder whose brilliant idea it was to cast the best secondary star that Law & Order has had to date.To give Exit Wounds its due credit, it has genuinely funny moments in spite of the constant attacks of ebonics. When we finally get to see the mock Tom Arnold Show, it makes the other ninety-odd minutes of wasted opportunities genuinely worthwhile. There is one incredibly stupid moment when policemen are tazering each other for sport, but you have to expect that kind of idiocy from a Seagal film. This is indeed a stupid action flick in a market that has not recovered from being saturated with them.In the end, I gave Exit Wounds a one out of ten. Like Dark Angel or Boyz N The Hood (great English, by the way), Exit Wounds proves the old the cooler you claim you are, the cooler you ain't rule. Let it be known henceforth - Exit Wounds is the film that made Tom Arnold look like a good actor. "},{"Title":"Typical Seagal crap.","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  * out of ****Off the top of my head, the only movie of Seagal's that I genuinely enjoyed was Executive Decision, and he was in that for barely half-an-hour (keep in mind, I haven't seen Under Siege in twelve years and I don't remember a lick of it other than Erika Eleniak's topless scene).  Aside from that film, everything he's churned has been generic crap, and they're terrible movies almost always because of him.Hmm, let's see the pattern in Seagal movies.  Kill all opponents without one laying a hand on him (usually by grabbing their arms and flipping them to the floor), have said opponents approach him when they could just as easily shoot him from a distance, and once in a while deliver a message about humanity's lack of care to the environment.  To be fair, Exit Wounds attempts to fix all these problems.  Seagal does fight a few difficult opponents and there is no preaching here.  But now there's a new problem, Seagal is hilariously unconvincing because he's a chubby, 50-year old action star.Seagal is Orin Boyd, an edgy cop who's been assigned to the worst precinct in the city (what city it is, I don't remember) after saving the life of the vice president.  Apparently, the top cops think that act of heroism was actually more along the lines the mark of a loose cannon.  Anyway, he eventually teams up with a criminal (DMX) to stop a gang of crooked cops (led by Michael Jai White).  Much gunplay and martial arts action ensue.Exit Wounds is directed by Andrzej Bartkowiak, who also directed Romeo Must Die, Jet Li's debut lead in an American film.  He crafts Exit Wounds in the same style and manner, which means it's basically the same movie (plot is negligible in these films) with Jet Li replaced by Steven Seagal. Automatically, that's a colossal step backward, going from the ultimate badass wushu champion to washed-up, overweight, and expressionless Seagal.True, the fight scenes here aren't as digitally manipulated to the same extents as Romeo, but watching Seagal leap over a moving car, dodge a bullet and kick his opponent with one hand on the ground and prop himself back up without a hitch is probably even more laughable, entirely because of how out-of-shape this guy is starting to look.  To be fair to the man, his lack of acting ability makes his one-liners more effective, if only because of how utterly deadpan his delivery is.Exit Wounds is partially a buddy flick, so the other half of the duo is DMX, who's been in all of Bartkowiak's films to date, and has yet to show the slightest bit of convincing acting.  I just harped on Seagal for that, but DMX is twice as bad.  Every time he enunciates dialogue, it's almost cringe-inducing.  For comic relief, there's Tom Arnold and Anthony Anderson, who are actually pretty funny together, though not nearly as much when each is solo.  As the needed babe of the piece, because hey, you attract guys with guns, fights, explosions, and chicks, there's Jill Hennessy, who really gets nothing to do except drive during a car chase.Bartkowiak handles some of the action scenes with a deft hand, particularly the opening shootout, but once again, when Seagal's called on to move gracefully, all signs of thrills and excitement are tossed out the window and replaced by unitentional hilarity.  So far, I haven't done much to criticize the plot so I haven't picked on the cliches and contrivances. No matter, though, the plot didn't bug me so much as the fact that I was bored for 90% of Exit Wounds' running time.  That's why this is a bad movie. "},{"Title":"First half a 9 and the second half a 3","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first half of this film is fun to watch.  It has humor, action, and does not take itself to seriously.  I like the scene where Stegal goes to a anger management class, but and there is a but in this review.   The film loses steam in the second half.  Unbelievable plot twists, the usual by the number action sequences, which tie up the movie in a boring ending. "},{"Title":"Average film, notable for a lot of missed potential","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Made unpopular within his own precinct after embarrassing the vice president, maverick cop Orin Boyd is transferred to a notoriously difficult department.  Once there he uncovers a group of dirty cops selling heroin to drug dealer Latrell Walker.  However Orin finds it difficult to tell the good guys from the bad guys.Despite having been let down by Romeo Must Die and Cradle 2 The Grave, I still was interested in seeing this film in the same sort of genre of hip hop/martial arts that seems to be doing the rounds of late.  I didn't expect too much of it and maybe that's why I actually quite enjoyed it.  I found the plot a little too poorly explained until late in the game and also it was a little overly unlikely, but this is a minor compliant.  I was more interested if it was an exciting film with plenty of martial arts stuff.Despite some moves being a little weak, most of it is actually pretty good if not great.  Occasionally some of the wire work is badly done and the actors don't really look like they are moving gracefully &#150; more that they are being pulled around by an unseen force!  The film managed to not give Seagal too much to do and thus it never really had him looking silly.  The actual fight of the film (Jai White and Seagal) is not dazzling but is impressive as White shows a great deal more agility than Seagal.  DMX's skills are a little lacking and (as in C2TG) he doesn't fit the martial arts style of fighting &#150; the scene where he faces up to Seagal exposes just how short and skinny a man he is!Another reviewer said he would like to see comedy in this film because he thought it would have been better.  I think he missed the point &#150; there was lots of comedy in this film &#150; just none of it was actually funny.  Anderson does his usual comedy sidekick routine but is woeful as always.  The best (worst) example of the film misjudging the comedy is the scene with Anderson and Tom Arnold that plays over the end credits &#150; supposedly ad-libbed and hilarious, it is actually embarrassing and excruciating to watch!  I agree with the other reviewer, I wish there HAD been laughs in this film.Beyond those I have already mentioned, the cast is deep with well known faces &#150; Duke, McGill, Mendes, Drag-On (!), Jai White and Washington to name a few.  Sadly they are given very little to do and, rather than project cast depth, they only suggest an untapped potential.  Overall, I still enjoyed the film as the action was actually pretty good for a Seagal flick.  A word of caution would be that I was in a very forgiving mood when I watched this film and even then I still accept that it is average at best. "},{"Title":"What was that all about?","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The best thing about this movie is the use of James Brown's 'I feel good'. Lasted all of 30 seconds.Apart from that, you will have to endure lousy acting and mumbled dialogue by Steven Segal, rubbish music and average acting by DMX. I also found it interesting how many people in this movie (Segal included) have strange gaits. Made me think of Monty Python.On the plus side, Isaiah Washington and Tom Arnold do OK with their parts, and the photography is actually quite good.However, even if this film had been any good, the end credits would have killed it. What was that all about? "},{"Title":"A Good Action-Flick..","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Andrzej Bartkowiak's 'Exit Wounds' is a Good Action-Flick, that has several merits working on its advantage.'Exit Wounds' Synopsis Orin Boyd, a tough cop in an inner-city precinct discovers a web of dirty cops and corruption.'Exit Wounds' is explosive entertainment. It's a Razor-Sharp Action-Flick, that has Violence, Nudity & Cuss Words all over it, but that's the language, a film like this, demands. Ed Horowitz & Richard D'Ovidio's Screenplay is satisfying! Andrzej Bartkowiak's Direction is rugged. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are proper. The Action-Sequences are Marvelous!Performance-Wise All-Time Bad-Ass Steven Seagal, gives a superb performance. DMX is routine. Isaiah Washington & Michael Jai White are effective. Bill Duke is convincing. Tom Arnold & Anthony Anderson are funny. Eva Mendes appears in a brief role. On the whole, 'Exit Wounds' works! "},{"Title":"Exit Wounds.","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" OK So as I read the reviews on this movie I really wouldn't want to watch it if I've never seen it before. The thing is I have seen it and I do like the movie. It starts out with Orin Boyd (Steven Segal) A hot headed, bad tempered, rouge cop who screws up an investigation and lands him in worst precinct in the city of Detroit. While there he sees that he's landed himself a reputation. While going about his job he starts noticing things that do not add up. A few of the cops there are dirty, they steal and sell heroin recovered from the police dept. This movie is a Steven Segal Movie.... Along with DMX, Anthony Anderson, Tom Arnold and Eva Mendes. This movie is action packed as well as some comedy thrown in the mix. Other reviews state the plot makes no sense? Whats not to get? The movie wasn't designed to win an Oscar or a Golden Globe. This movie promises everything a Steven Segal movie would. Steven Segal kicks butt and saves the day. I am a guy who is a Segal fan and I've seen this movie a hand full of times. The movie is entertaining, regardless of how Unbelievable it is. Steven Segal is a Martial Arts Expert and just because a guy is twice his size means nothing. Over All this movie is worth seeing if you like Steven Segal and endless action. "}{"Title":"Bad guys are out there, not in here.","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" OK, this is a Steven Segal film, but it is one of his better ones. What makes it special is the addition of DMX, Isaiah Washington, Anthony Anderson, Tom Arnold, and Eva Mendes. Put together a cast like that and you are going to have an enjoyable movie. Not Academy Award stature, but definitely bag-of-popcorn good.This is a get my brother out of jail/catch the dirty cops movie with DMX joining forces with Steven Segal. Arnold and Anderson provide the comic relief, and Mendes provides the eye candy. It'shard not to like a cast like that, and there is plenty of action, both martial arts and shootouts.The music was outstanding, too. "},{"Title":"What am I a S*!t magnet?.....","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Orin Boyd (Seagal) is a Detroit cop who doesn't follow rules.After he saved the Vice President by violating every order he received he is transferred to one of the worst precincts in the city.There he quickly encounters some corrupt cops selling heroin to drug dealers.The problem is, it's very difficult to tell who is the bad guy and who you can trust....Seagal made a really welcome comeback with this excellent movie, which is flashily edited, well produced and wholly unbelievable, but from the producer of The Matrix and Die Hard, what are you expecting.It's Seagals last great film and probably his best performance as the cop who is the one who uncovers a plot after only being there a day.DMX pops up to bring the hip hop generation to the theatre, and he manages to give an okay performance.The fight scenes use a lot of wires, but it's great to see Seagal doing his stuff, and especially seeing him face off with Jai White during the finale.Arnold and Anderson nearly ruin the whole movie, and they have the Chris Tucker In the Fifth Element effect whenever they are in the movie. Luckily it's not for long.It's all sully stuff, but it works, and is very enjoyable... "},{"Title":"DMX ruined an otherwise great Segal film","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film was the worse Steven Segal film that I ever seen. Not because of Steven Segal but because of DMX. DMX can't act! DMX ruined an great Segal film. First, pairing Segal and DMX in the same film. DMX has no business been in one screen shot nevertheless a whole film with Steven Segal. Second, the role didn't fix DMX. His character was totally out of character for DMX It wasn't a good fix. Lastly, why did they ruin this otherwise great Steven Segal film using DMX. They could have used a geeky young hispanic that was the son of a drug lord to make the plot work a lot better. I'm a big Steven Segal fan but this film sucked because of DMX acting and the rule he played in the film. "},{"Title":"Why you should watch this movie","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" First of all, I won't tell you what this movie is about or how its plot develops, as in the title says, I'll tell you why you should watch this movie. Second of all, only watch this movie if you really like action and you don't bother about some impossible things during the scenes. OK, no let's go. This movie just show you the best things you'll like in a action movie, there are guns, fights, cars, women, drugs, people getting beat up, more fights and more people getting beat up! Steven Seagel is just the perfect action hero, he gets few punches but can kick everyone's asses ten times before they fell on the ground dead. Yes my friend, this movie is the perfect mix of the good old careless fighting with a interesting plot in the end. So, If you like action, if you like to see Segal kicking the crap of everyone, just watch this brilliant film. "},{"Title":"This one was OK.","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One can always count on Steven Seagal to act as the repository of yesterday's action-film clichés, and Exit Wounds is yet another case in point. Seagal plays Detroit cop Orin Boyd, a lone wolf lawman who gets in the middle of his precinct's losing battle against police corruption. Taking on a powerful but crooked cop named Montini (David Vadim)--who is busy making deals with a rich gangster (DMX)--Boyd soon sends fists and feet flying while Tom Arnold provides the comic relief. Director Andrzej Bartkowiak surely had less fun guiding Seagal through slow-motion fight sequences than he did Jet Li in Romeo Must Die, but as compensation he gets to work with the mesmerizing DMX, who looks as though he has leading-man possibilities. Plenty of gratuitous gore, awful cop banter, and miles of cleavage courtesy of Jill Hennessy, who plays Boyd's tough-as-nails boss. "},{"Title":"exit your own wound","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" once again, i have really enjoyed another fine Seagal movie. you people analyze WAY too damn much about stuff. i understand your point of view of movies, but damn,give the guy a chance. his genetics won't let him be fukin skinny like you are supposed to be for action parts. Seagal is an ass-kicking mother - fouler no matter what you say. that's me talking, and i really enjoy the movie scene. you DO NOT have to be a muscular override to be an action star, so has proved Seagal. Not every movie ever made has a perfect plot,meaning,etc. Some of you can only hope that other movies are as good as this one. Some will not be. Movie-making is tricky and costly. That's the way it is. Let's give Exit Wounds a chance and let it fall into the good movie category. "},{"Title":"this is one of the greatest films I have ever seen!!","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am more of a hardcore steven seagal fan. But, this is definitely one of seagal's more high-caliber films. it had various famous actors such as Steven seagal, DMX, Anthony anderson, Tom Arnold, and eva mendes which is a plus-side to the movie. Not to mention the great fight scene dubbed battle on the bridge where orin boyd seagal fights a militant group including the most hilarious helicopter ever to stop an assassination attempt against the vice president. This was the movie that converted me to segalism, so maybe you should give it a try.If that doesn't convince you, this movie is great at pursuing police corruption which continues to be an important issue to this day. and, not to mention that it has some great action scenes including a motorcycle chase, the battle on the bridge, police violence, various hand to hand fight scenes, and a sword fight using the thing people use to cut drugs the name escapes me. Not to mention comedic value added by tom arnold and anthony anderson. "},{"Title":"Brainless action but personable enough","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Exit Wounds is a pure old school action flick, with plenty of set pieces and a fair old helping of violent martial arts' action to keep you entertained for the duration.Starring the charismatic lump of wood that is Steven Seagal, Exit Wounds is a cop action flick about your usual 'cop who lives by his own rules' type who gets fired from his job after one too many mistakes and transferred to 15/15 - a hell hole dive precinct.Essentially he gets caught up in something big, and as these heroes tend to do, he takes on the world head on...Seagal is his usual quietly spoken (So we can't hear how bad an actor he is) self but his posture really is so strange, particularly when walking. He really looks arrogant and it shows up in every role he plays. His technical ability during fights is really nothing special, with implausible moments par for the course.The story is obviously weak, but the area this one excels in is comedy. Not particular good one liners, but some funny scenes are in presence here particularly the 'traffic cop' scene.The all round acting is OK, but we don't watch this for that - we watch it for the brainless action and to this degree Exit Wounds does exactly what it says on the tin. Seen it all before, will see it all again.  "},{"Title":"Excellent story, ridiculous scenes","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'd like to look at this flick from two sides. The story, the characters, the twists in the plot - it was really good in my opinion. The second view would be on the action part. I'm afraid that has totally ruined the movie. The car chases were crazy, and there were dozens of bullets fired at Segal from close distance, but magically they always missed him. At the top of all that, there were incredibely ridiculous fighting scenes. To give you a picture - sabres fight or kicking 300 pounds security guy high in the air really make you wonder what kind of genre is the movie you're watching. If all the shooting, fighting scenes and the car chases were made a least little more decently, it would be lots more valuable movie. Overall, although it was watchable, it was also ridiculous.  "},{"Title":"Bad title, bad sound editing at times but still managed to be a good movie...","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The film's title is actually pretty bland when you watch the movie but the movie itself is not bad. Even some bad sound editing choices for example, a nine millimeter handgun sounding like an Ingram UZ. The comedic performances from Tom Arnold and Anthony Anderson. Very good, but somewhat incorrect, use of rapper DMX(Belly, Never Die Alone) teamed with a tough action star are all ingredients that seem to make up a typical Andrzej Bartkowiak film. Though rapper DMX had complaints about the kind of roles that he had to turn on and off, like in this and Cradle 2 The Grave which wasn't too great but not too bad, he works with what he's given and turns in a likable hero performance. With this said DMX's best films have been with Hype Williams and Ernest Dickerson who knew how to utilize his acting skills in the correct manner but back to Ext Wounds as that's another topic... Steven Seagal does his job in this film as the calm but tough Orin Boyd breakin' arms and limbs like usual even Isaiah Washington and Bill Duke appear in hero roles along Steven Seagal, DMX, Anthony Anderson, Jill Hennessy and Eva Mendes... The movie does have some weaknesses that could've potentially trashed the film but its craftsmanship puts it over the top somehow***1/2 out of *****  "}{"Title":"Why Do I Like This?","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Exit Wounds has to be one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  But something about it just made me stay up to watch it for the second time on TV.  I DO NOT recommend this movie to anyone but give it a chance if your in the mood for terrible cliche action movie. "},{"Title":"I have seen this movie several times and the acting  of Steven Seagal is super.The scenes were violent in most part but it made the movie plot so I accept it as a great movie and each time I watch it I see s","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think Steven Seagal is a most talented and supreme actor. Nobody does the style he does.And it is genuine.His background in the martial arts shows as the BEST and it comes out in the movie in every line and every move.He's got style,he's got class and his acting is no-stop action.The movie is top rate because of this. Plot is easy to follow and it locks my attention  every time I watch it. "},{"Title":"Seagal + guns x improbable situation = Exit Wounds","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Where to begin? The acting? Don't go there. The action sequences? The film itself is an action sequenced intruded every now and then by neanderthal dialogue.Nobody can get anything out of this film, I would have enjoyed myself more if instead of letting my friend choose the video, he simply pummelled me into a coma with the box. Insert it into the video and it does just that anyway.Seagal can't fight anymore hence the crap close-ups and extended gun battles. DMX is nothing special. Still, the studio's make 'em, and the morons lap 'em up. Stop, and think before you waste your time with this, you could be doing so much more with your life. And if you see a friend in the same situation I was in, simply take the video from their hand, and beat them senseless with it. "},{"Title":"Detroit?????","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A few good points in an undistinguished movie but for me the *STAR* is the City of Calgary doing an Oscar winning performance as Detroit.  Amazing!  I especially appreciated the Tim Horton's sign during a chase scene.  (Maybe by now Canada's indigenous doughnut shoppe has made it across the river to Michigan but it still seemed an incongruous touch.) "},{"Title":"SEAGAL's comeback flick!!","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It is kinda hard to pigeon-hole STEVEN SEAGAL. He (whatever faults he has as an actor) is multi-talented. He writes/produces/directs/composes and coreographs most of his movies. He is well versed in many languages, and was the first white guy to open a dojo in japan. He also has a shadowy past with the CIA, and has been bodyguard to several heads of state....oh, and did i mention he was an aikido master? Since making his debut in 88's ABOVE THE LAW, SEAGAL was very popular. His career went into hyper-space with 92's UNDER SIEGE (not my favourite SEAGAL movie, by the way!) and with this clout, he had the power to direct his next movie ON DEADLY GROUND. It all went wrong with this movie...he injected (some might say, not me!) a preachy overtone concerning the enviroment. The movie flopped Although not a bad movie (it gets the same negative reviews as WILLIAM SHATNER'S star trek v) his next couple of movies had too much spirituality and not enough fighting. Then came THE PATRIOT, which went straight to cable tvAfter afew years in the wilderness, SEAGAL came back with a modestly budgeted JOEL SILVER action-fest...EXIT WOUNDSGone was the spirituality...gone was the ponytail...gone was the preaching. EXIT WOUNDS made a lot of money, worldwide, and was #1 in the US box office for a while. The movie itself, is typical SEAGAL/cop fodder with flashier fight scenes (i don't like to see SEAGAL using wires, though!) and a realiance on an urban hip hop edge (via, co-star DMX) SEAGAL looks older, but still up to the challenge, and his wit is getting drier with each movie (it is rumoured he was FORCED to lose weight for this role!) DMX, looks and raps the part, but he stinks as an actor.TOM ARNOLD is a better sidekick for SEAGAL, and his out-takes at the end of the movie are hillarious. All in all, a good movie, except for too many stylized fight scenes, and not enough natural SEAGAL aikido (although his first fight with car jackers is very good vintage SEAGAL) Because of SEAGALs prescence, and good action, i give this movie 10 out of 10On a sidenote, people who knock STEVEN SEAGAL for doing the same old thing, should bear in mind, that when he tries to do something outside of the cop genre (ie, ON DEADLY GROUND/THE PATRIOT/MY GIANT/EXECUTIVE DESCISION)...he gets knocked for it.peace. "},{"Title":"Good, cheesy entertainment!","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although he's always been the world's laziest action star, Steven Seagal shows his age in EXIT WOUNDS. Heck, Seagal even lets himself take some punches this time around. The director, Andrzej Bartkowiak (ROMEO MUST DIE), keeps the action mean and fast, staging fight scenes with lots of different types of weapons. In its cheesy fun way EXIT WOUNDS is efficient, exciting entertainment. Rapper DMX, cast as a drug kingpin who is not what he seems, shows true command. He's one of the major reasons that this film becomes as entertaining as it does. "},{"Title":"This crap wounded me as it exited the TV","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First off, Seagal would have to be invisible to avoid all the lead that could in no way have missed him. Second, this was filled with nothing but mindless, empty violence, endless, vulgar obscenities often disguised as juvenile comedy, and a tired old Clint Eastwood rogue cop story. This was a great film if you like crashes, explosions, ass kicking, and a hailstorm of spent ammo coupled with a bland re-run of every single high voltage cops and crooks caper ever filmed.  "},{"Title":"This isn't the return of Rhett Butler for God's sake!","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I never understand why people who have obviously no great interest in action movies like this, and who obviously dislike everything about Steven Seagal, bother to even watch his films, let alone write a totally negative review on such as EXIT WOUNDS which was after all just another Seagal Police actioner - no more no less!  One reviewer who shall remain nameless, commented Id rather watch Fred Astaire dancing than watch Seagal kick people through windows! Not too many fans of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers would BE queueing up for a Steven Seagal film festival I don't imagine. A uniquely idiotic comment - thats much the same as being allergic to chicken and having KFC cater for your 21st! I have also to point out, that I don't think Seagal DID kick anyone through a window the entire movie!EXIT WOUNDS is no masterpiece of action, not even in the same ballpark as MARKED FOR DEATH or OUT FOR JUSTICE, but it's still way ahead of   the infamous ON DANGEROUS GROUND. Aside from a convoluted (while you're watching it at least) plotline and some unnecessary padding in the middle, EXIT WOUNDS has some great action sequences, notably the beginning 12 minutes. The scene further along where the landrover back-ends a parked vehicle, is telescoped killing Ms Hennessy, is I believe one of the better crash effects I have ever seen in a movie. Tom Arnold makes the most of his limited screentime and balances up proceedings quite nicely.Personally I thought UNDER SIEGE 2 was as good as any of Seagal's films while FIRE DOWN BELOW (a very under-rated little affair) showed a remarkably humane side to Stevo himself. "},{"Title":"Splendid","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Exit wounds.... wow what a film.It doesn't pretend to be a great film, then neither did Predator, The Terminator, Commando etc.etc. If you like films where a good meaningful story and acting brilliance are of great importance to you, don't watch it. If however, you understand that this is never going to be a Shawshank Redemption and that you are never going to feel emotionally moved by watching Exit Wounds. Then it is great.This is back to basics action trash in its finest hour. Meaningless violence, meaningless plot, awesome chases and fast cars wrapped up with some Segal one liners that are straight out of Arnold's book.To summarise, we are all too quick to slate new films for not living up to the standards of some really great movies. Let us establish that the movie is not trying to be great just meaningless and fun.Love this film for what it is.Very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this one!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a really fun movie. Of course, I love Steven Seagal, so I like most of his movies. I think the best one was Under Siege, but this one has a lot of action and some comedy mixed in as well. Typical plot, but still a good one. "}{"Title":"Embarising","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't like Stephen Segal, so i thought my oppinion might be a litle biased going into this film, but I dont just hate stephen Segal in this movie i hate every thing about it. The action scenes were tired and boring and the films plot what there is of it doesn't kick in until an hour and ten minutes has passed. The director thinks that by playing rap music over the wooden rapper DMX, he can make him look hard and cool, with a silly juddered walk. The film would get a 3 out of ten, but for the stupid predictable twists that try and make them funny by quoting from the usual suspects, embarasing 2/10. "},{"Title":"Proves Seagal is not getting better with age...","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...just richer. Exit Wounds doesn't show Seagal fans anything new. The flick begins with a bang and a humorous bit in group therapy. Then it bogs down in mapping out its messy cops vs bad guys plot and finishes with a mediocre ending. Not enough one-on-one Seagal action. Hennessy is all wrong for her part. Action is ok but ordinary. No clear villain. Etc. This seems to be a case of Bartkowiak pulling together whatever he could given the budget with Warner Bros taking the money and running. Another Hollywood ripoff flick best saved for broadcast with Seagal doing nothing to further his acting career. "},{"Title":"I'll just make it short this time","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bad Stuff- The supposed to be funny &#145;gag' reel at the end.- The music.- Anthony Anderson was too busy and not funny (as intended I presume).- Supposed one &#150; liners did not work.- Far too few Exit Wounds (the title promises violence, when there is almost none).Good Stuff- A couple of surprises.- Gorgeous Police commander.- A couple of nice moves from Steven Seagal.  Two great action scenes 	- Head crashes into front window of a car.- Body crashes into parked cars.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"SEAGAL SINKS TO NEW LOW","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was a big fan of Steven Seagal. Above the Law was well-written and fun; Marked for Death was even more enjoyable with a great villain (Screwface); and the Under Siege combo I have on DVD, although I admittedly got them for only $14.95. But I did get them. Seagal's no nonsense Aikido fighting was refreshing compared to the stylized phony baloney of the likes of Jean Claude Van Damme, or the jokes and one-liners of Arnold.Seagal's last several films were disappointments, including Fire Down Below; one of them, The Patriot, was released directly to video and never made it to theaters. The energy and fun were gone, and Seagal was looking a tad heavy to be taking on a swarm of vicious hoodlums as he did on the battleship or against a Jamaican drug possee. At least he took a decent stand for the environment, however ridiculous he came across as looking.But now Seagal has hit a new low. In a sleazy and cheap attempt to pander to an urban audience (read black), he has allied himself with a Rap music performer, DMX, and started ragging on the police. That should go over big in the Inner City where vitriolic cop-hating is so common. Yes blame the police - not missing black fathers or black drug-dealers. Maybe Al Sharpton consulted on the script, or some other demagogue and race-baiter. Oh yes, DMX can act no better than Seagal, and that's pretty bad.So we have after all is said and done a mundane and instantly forgettable action film which we've all seen before in the past - and seen done much better. Even the martial arts segments were nothing much. But it is better than Seagal's last few offerings which he walked through.Seagal teamed up with a black partner before, and not just in Marked for Death. It was in Glimmer Man, and as mediocre as that was I liked it better than this.By the way, look for skinny Jill Hennessy as a cop. We wondered what she was up to after her character, Claire Kinkaid, got killed by a drunken driver on Law and Order back in 1996. As for Seagal, lose some more weight, and get some better scripts. Otherwise stick to playing blues guitar.     "},{"Title":"Bad Action Movie, Even For Segal","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Segal was out of place throughout most of the movie and could have been replaced by anyone else. He was entirely non-descript. The writing and plot were terrible as was the general pace of the movie. Characters were introduced and poorly developed, and about half the scenes were unnecessary fluff, devoid of action, just there to try to add comedy. The plot developed slowly, and it seemed as though they forgot they filmed scenes and added other scenes post production to finish off what they started. Slow motion was used gratuitously and inappropriately, along with non-continuous blocking caused the action scenes to jump ahead and then drag along painfully.I've liked Segal in several of his other movies (particularly Executive Descision). This one just didn't have the same feel to it, he was too powerful, too trigger happy and not enough martial artsy. He really looked out of shape and tired through out this whole movie.My recommendation don't watch unless you have nothing better to do, or you're a die hard Segal or DMX fan. There are better action movies and better movies with rappers in them. "},{"Title":"A pathetic attempt.*(out of 10)","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Could have been a little better if they did not have that fruit Stephen Seagul.It was also stupid how they said they were in Detroit but really in Calgary.I would have to say this film,(along with Romeo Must Die)is DMX's worst film.He is as bad an actor as rapper. "},{"Title":"I know I have already commented,but it was just that bad.","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"     Hey it is me again. As you may already know,I have already commented on in my opinion,the worst movie since Escape Fom L.A.. If you have seen this film(which I advise you dont)you will know my need to make fun of Exit Wounds. Stephen Segul(along with Kurt Russel) has got to be the worst actor in American history. His chickish pony tail is the fruitiest thing since Shaq in Kazaam. And DMX,come on,he is the worst actor/rapper sice Marky Mark and The Funkey Bunch. The only advice I myself can give you isdo not see this movie. And if you do,dont forget the barf bag. Yes, it is just that bad.P.S. Escape from L.A. is terrible! "},{"Title":"no CG, no BS, just Balls.... PURE JOY","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Orin Boyd (Steven Seagal) is a Detroit cop who gets into trouble all the time by acting impulsively and his cowboy ways. Latrell Walker (DMX) is a new mysterious drug dealer with a surprising cash stash to throw around. Little did Orin know that there are corrupt cops in his precinct hand-in-hand with the drug dealers.This movie starts with some hilarious gags. The best one comes from Seagal himself in the Anger Management Class. Also Tom Arnold and Anthony Anderson keep it in a lighter tone. We know we're going to have some fun here.Then there is an incredible car chase. It is PURE JOY. There is no CG. No BS. Just REAL sh17. They don't make them like that anymore.The twists are a little silly. The fight is good, but with Seagal, nothing special. But the car chase.... The car chase.... the car chase. "},{"Title":"Seagal's last big budget movie","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is Seagal's last big budget solo movie . He later appeared in big budget movie in The Machete , but it was an episode. Anyway , it's not strange that Seagal is making straight-to-DVD movies now . Exit wounds  is a lame action movie that has nothing to offer.Story ? Predictable and was done before with much better results . Anthony Anderson ? Just as unfunny as always. Seagal and DMX ? Both can't act and have a charisma of death cat. Action scenes ? From fight scenes that look incredibly silly to shootouts and car chases that you can barely see what's going on. Interesting characters ? Oh , please. Humor ? A visit to dentist is much funnier.There is one good idea here involving belt and shotgun . A rare example of something truly intelligent and good in this movie. Everything else screams made for MTV generation . Maybe that was the point . They wanted to sell Seagal to younger generation of viewers . Maybe. It's not the worst movie of Seagal , but still not really worth watching . Bartkowiak's (the director) style is no style at all . He has proved it with his other movies (Doom , Romeo must die). I don't see any effort here at all. It's as unambitious run by the numbers action movie as you can imagine. I give it 1/10. Watch out for Bill Duke (Predator) as Chief Hinges and Eva Mendes(Training day) as Trish. "},{"Title":"Awesome !","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" *I liked it so much not only for the story and actors, but that many of the same Actors are in two other movies together; Cradle to the Grave and Romeo must Die. ~ Kind of the same thing Adam Sandler does from Happy Gilmore, Big Daddy, Billy Madason, The Wedding Singer, Mr. Deeds, 50 first Dates, The water Boy, Love Drunk; or something like that...And the killer The Longest Yard. I personally have every movie ( DVD ) mentioned as well as the ones with the Rappers and Kick ***ers play in, as mentioned above... It's kind of cool when Big Stars and Producers bring the Gang together for a Movie ! Two Thumbs up for both Movie's and Crew's ! "}{"Title":"Brilliant action film from the start!","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" What a film! One of my fav action films of modern time. DMX out plays and out acts Seagul in my opinion. Which is rare to see from rappers who turn their hand to acting.Don't get me wrong though, Seagul does deliver. Seeing as though the other reviews have pretty much got everything covered about this hit film, i won't go on too much! Some excellent music (if your into the rap/hiphop scene) inc the main soundtrack by DMX himself (An interesting cover with a rap angle on it of Bill Withers/Al ????'s 'Ain't no sunshine') Which i think is a really good version (and i do love the original as well) The rest of the cast have been cast carefully and all actors are perfect for their respective rolls. The acting is above-average (Seagul mainly concentrates on his fighting technique as usual, however DMX is fantastic. Really good story line of corruption within the police force. Good Cops,bad cops sort of thing. Highly entertaining from the word go-right to the final scene. With a fantastic music score,flashy cars,fantastic fight scenes(both from kung fu master 'Seagul' and rapper 'DMX')to its pretty good storyline.I'd give this film 8 and a half out of 10.If you haven't seen this film yet-I'd highly recommend you watching it on DVD as the extras (Deleted scenes,making of,behind the scenes and music video) are also all highly entertaining. Best viewed and heard through a 5.1 surround sound set up, as it enhances the film and its action further through its quality sound! I'm sure one of the other reviewers have told you about the story line so this is just about my personal thoughts on this highly entertaining film! Definitely Recommended. (Also- Training Day and SWAT as part of the cop/action collection) ******** "}]