[{"Title":"I'd like to clear up some misconceptions about this movie","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"352 out of 383 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It seems that the reviews of this movie are rather bleak because people say that the director focused too much on sex and that this was not a realistic picture for teens. I watched the movie, and read the book, and I have another reference source- my mother was a juror for the court case State of Florida Vs. Ali Willis and Donny Semenec. She was sequestered for over a month and was told every piece of information about these two teenagers and their friends. This sex/drug filled movie is a spot-on represenation of these kid's sad life. They had no future, no regrets, didn't go to school and yes, they had sex with each other a lot. From what my mother says, if you were to make a movie about them accurately, it would have to be close to 75% sex. The bully was bi-sexual and would force his best friend to have sex with him after he had raped his girlfriend. These kids were also not poor white trash, as their parents were very wealthy, and they drove nice cars. I think the fact is some people cannot stomach the idea of these kids being real, so they blame the director for not interpreting the story correctly. This is a story of middle- upper class kids, kids like your sons and daughters.I thought this movie was very good. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Bully (*****)","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"145 out of 177 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The teenagers viewed at the center of Larry Clark's Bully seem, at least to me, to really have nothing going for them. They have sex almost on a constant basis, drink, smoke pot, drop acid, and have reckless, meaningless lives. It might appear that Bully could possibly be a darker continuation of his 1995 outing Kids, which also focused on endangered youth, but I think the questions at this film's core run deeper.No doubt Bully will provoke outrage and controversy; those feelings are warranted, as they allow for intelligent discussion about the characters and events in the film. With this film, Clark's direction certainly seems a lot more focused, polished, and has much more outside appeal than Kids.The story centers on Marty (Brad Renfro) and his subliminally sadomasochistic relationship with his so-called best friend since they were kids, Bobby (Nick Stahl). Marty is your average teenage surfer-bum. He's dropped out of high school and is constantly picked on by Bobby. Marty befriends and eventually impregnates his new girlfriend Lisa (Rachel Miner).Rachel sees and quickly grows tired of Bobby's constant humiliation of his best friend and suggests to Marty that one way to deal with Bobby is to kill him. So they call upon the Hitman (Leo Fitzpatrick) to help with the dastardly deed. From that moment on, Marty, Rachel, and several others embark on a path that is littered with boasting, lying, and guilt-ridden feelings about what they're about to do. No question that these teenagers get what comes to them in the end, and the build-up to that moment is quite intense.If there is one thing that people can agree on about Bully, it's that it is frighteningly accurate and true to life. The film, which is based on an actual murder that took place in 1993 in Florida, is quite authentic. Larry Clark even journeyed to the actual Florida suburb where the murder took place and the members of the film's young cast even take the names of those that were involved.The cast is perfect; not a single terrible performance. If there's one thing these kids agree on, it's that Bobby deserves to die. He's just a bully, and a rapist to boot, who does the deed for the cheap thrill of it. There is no question that Bobby is perhaps one of the most loathsome characters ever depicted on film. He may be a closet homosexual (he has an obsession with gay porn; he takes Marty to a gay bar and forces him to dance on stage while the patrons stuff dollar bills into his pants; and his violent actions towards Marty and Lisa could be his way of dealing with those repressed desires) and he is a sociopath who may have been pushed to these limits by his tough, but loving father. But look at the bigger picture they're not killing him for the fact that he could be a homosexual; Bobby's murder is even more terrible for the simple reason there is no clear warrant for it. In fact, their actions aren't motivated so much by revenge, as it is jealousy. Most of these kids work low-paying jobs at fast food restaurants and live off of handouts from their ignorant parents. Bobby is on his way to college and looks to work with his father in their own business, which strangely enough, Marty takes up as a part time job.Like Kids, Clark makes good use of imagery. One of the film's closing shots says a lot more than a teacher ever could Marty's younger brother stares sadly into his eyes, wearing a t-shirt that says D.A.R.E. To Resist Drugs And Violence. Powerful imagery indeed. And also like Kids, he makes good use of people much younger than the main characters; they talk, drink, and act like adults, and they haven't even hit puberty yet.Much has been said about Clark's tendencies to zoom in on and focus on the anatomy of his young cast. True there is much sex and nudity in this film, but I think it's beside the point. Clark is simply trying to capture the reality of today's troubled youth - how sex and drugs are pitiful attempts at giving meaning to their lives.Bully is an excellent exploration of the youth of today's dark and troubling times in America. Like Kids, it's a film that's meant for intelligent discussion, beyond the usual controversy and rage that's custom for movies like this. "},{"Title":"Great acting...A haunting movie that stays with you","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"75 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie five days ago and I'm still affected by it. Afterwards all I could do was cry for the youth of America, because this isn't just some movie. It really, truly happened. The actors turn in outstanding performances as teenagers with nothing to do but turn to sex and drugs to fill the empty voids in their lives. Nick Stahl is particularly amazing as Bobby, the boarder-line psychotic who tormented his friends until they could take it no more.This is a sad, realistic look at how many teenagers really do act with their peers. Don't look for your typical teenager fare here because you won't find it. The language, sex, and drug use may bother some people, but thats because no one wants to believe that young adults can be this way. Well, I got out of high school two years ago and I can tell you that this is not far from reality. Thats probably why it has affected me so much...because I know that stuff portrayed in this movie really does happen. This is a great movie. Watch it. Then go tell your kids you love them. "},{"Title":"Frighting and believable, must see for parents","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"72 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a interesting and frightening film, worth a viewing by every parent of teenage children. Whether they know it or not, their children at least know children like these; they are living in a world that includes this reality. Some of the best insights are in the portrayals of the parents.Every one of them believes that their child has fallen in with the wrong crowd, and they are all right. What they don't seem to be able to conceive of is that their child IS part of the wrong crowd and why it is wrong. None if then could be described as a good kid being lead astray, but all of them, except the psychologically monstrous Bobby, do have some appealing, or at least pathetic qualities, and might have been saved by adult intervention. But there is none and they are lost from the beginning. These parents can't see their children, don't know their children, seem to be afraid of them, afraid of confronting them either because they fear losing them or pushing them into even more destructive behavior. They seem to care, but not enough to risk embarking on a messy intervention. They only want to relate to them as the accessible children they used to be.So the children (even though are 16-22, they are emotionally 8-10) are so addled by drugs and alcohol and sex that have no concept of the reality and consequences of actions. They do seem to have a good grasp of the one fact that their lives are essentially hopeless, what they are doing is unsustainable and can not lead to anything but self-destruction. They know it, but it is no more real to them than a video game. Nothing is real; you just hit the replay button and do it over. And there seems to be no one in their world, but other teenagers just like themselves. This includes the hit man they have mistaken for an adult, more competent than themselves, able to lead them in safely freeing themselves from the sociopath who main interest in life is controlling them, torturing them, convincing them they are worthless and helpless. It is gut wrenching to watch them deteriorate, individually and as a group, in the face of the actual murder and its aftermath.Watching them is like watching school children hijack their own school bus and accelerate toward a brick wall watching the crash in slow motion, fascinated and helpless, seeing the expressions on their faces change, seeing them looking at one another, saying it wasn't my idea, I didn't do it, I didn't mean it as the gap closes. The conclusion, the prison sentences, is devastating. "},{"Title":"What If Your Kids Turned Out Like This?","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"41 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Controversial director Larry Clark's based on real-life events Bully is sometimes quite hard to watch, but you can't quite stop yourself from watching the misadventures of these messed up children either. This film feels so real, so nitty-gritty, that at times, you may feel like an intruder, watching someone else's life. These children are so far removed from being children, it is hard to think that they actually are just children. After all, the concept of a group of kids killing their so-called friend, well, its hardly child's play now is it? The cast are great. Brad Renfro is top-notch in all his performances, here is no exception. Bijou Phillips is great, Rachel Miner is cunning, Kelli Garner is a lot of fun, Michael Pitt is slightly annoying, but entertaining nonetheless. Nick Stahl is intense, to say the least.Of course it would be hard to say you condone the actions of these kids, after all, they murdered. But it makes for gripping drama. The film also reveals the sentencing which the kids received for their parts in the murder, some of which was very surprising. A great film, but you need to be in the mood for a hard-watch. "},{"Title":"So stark in it's from-a-true-story fashion it borders on personal ground","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"46 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's something about the kids in Larry Clark's films, such as this, Bully, and his 1995 classic Kids (which took place in New York and had the feel of an un-interviewed documentary), where the characters are brought so vividly to life, and their contemplations and actions in their dead-end lives, that I get reminded of the people I was around back in my grade school days (I've been out of the public school system for six months now).  I remember the lay-abouts, the complainers, the overly medicated, and of course I remember the bullies, laying on abuse that sometimes they weren't even aware they were inflicting.  Nick Stahl plays Billy, bully among a circle of teenage friends in Hollywood, Florida, and his best friend from childhood is Marty, played with striking intensity by Brad Renfro, has been daily receiving torment, if not with punches and slaps, then more on the mental side.  Soon, his girlfriend makes a suggestion he should be killed, and very soon after that the circle of friends agree, and then it continues, along with a so-called hit man, a good small part for Fitzpatrick who was noteworthy in Kids.There will be some out there who may not be able to stomach the elements - it's unrated, not a bad move, and there are as many moments of sex as in a Cinemax soft porn and as many moments of smoking dope as in a Method Man/Redman production - but that's all part of Clark's overall effect, and he pulls it off like a true craftsman and not as a overly exploitation film-maker.  This circle of friends are a sad, hollow representation of the kinds of societies the youth of the nation inhabit, and the key is that it's correct, at least in such a banal suburbia.  Grade A "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"45 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie because I had seen Kids and thought that it was a pretty well directed movie. I base a lot of my movie viewing on directors and I figured that I would give Larry Clark a shot. I knew nothing about the movie before viewing it, I didn't even read the back of the DVD. This movie was one of the most astonishing films I have ever seen and I have seen a whole lot of them. The fact that it is based on a true story amplifies the impact. I will definitely read the book that it is based on and would recommend this film to my peers. As a warning, there is a good bit of nudity, strong language, and violence. But if you can sit through it, its worth it!  "},{"Title":"Portrays the decadent and violent reality of teen life today","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"32 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Very real and compelling portrayal of a murder involving a group of teens growing up in suburban Florida. I could relate to the characters on many levels. Growing up in suburban Philadelphia I could have easily replaced the characters in the movie with people I in knew in my youth. It was a rude reminder of just how easily things can spiral out of control if you get involved with the wrong crowd and put yourself in such a precarious situation.Although there were some parts of the movie that seemed over dramatized, it captures the violent and self destructive lifestyle American teens are exposed to, and the story is very well told and acted. Some might be put off by the crude sex and violence, but if you are able to look past that it a very entertaining movie that I would highly recommend. "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4. Top 10 of 2001!","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"32 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Raw, realistic, deeply disturbing and haunting film about a group of recently graduated high school kids whose lives are aimless and empty. With nothing better to do, they get together to plot the murder of their mean best friend (Nick Stahl), who was the only one bound for college and to make something of himself. With none of your usual Hollywood gloss and a well selected cast (especially Stahl in a creepy performance), this film has many powerful moments and completely draws you into it's story. Shockingly enough, based on a true story.Unrated; Strong Sexual Content, Graphic Violence, Profanity, and Nudity.  "},{"Title":"Excellent true story thriller","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark first shocked the film world in 1995 with the explicit and relentless 'Kids'; and that's the movie he has become known for, and will be remembered for. However, Bully is a superior movie in every way.Unlike Kids; Bully is not an aimless attempt to shock the population. It is evident throughout the movie, with the nihilistic view of sex and murder, that Larry Clark's main intention here, like with Kids, is to shock the viewer. But here the shocks aren't gratuitously over the top (with the exception of the actual murder), and because there is a plot, the shocks are allowed to become more shocking as we can care for what's going on, not just see the shocking images. Also unlike Kids, Larry Clark has put more emphasis on the characters and they are built up somewhat, unlike the cold shells we were presented with in Kids. Of course, the characters in this movie are based on actual living people and are not just works of fiction and therefore they are bound to have more depth.Bully is based on the true story of a group of kids that killed their mean friend in order to end their problems. The character of the 'bully', played to perfection by Nick Stahl, is presented in a manner that very much makes him the villain of the piece. However, at the same time; the bully is given a human element; it is obvious that he's not a true villain, but rather a sexually confused teenager and therefore, when he is killed; the audience is made to feel guilty for wanting him dead, and we can therefore identify with the other characters throughout their guilt. And this is a great thing for a movie to do; Bully takes us on an emotional roller coaster ride and therefore it is a hard movie to forget. Unlike Kids; we're not shocked by what we see, we're shocked by what we feel and this makes for some very uncomfortable viewing.The entire cast of Bully excels in their roles, and that's just another good point to add to Bully's already impressive resume. All characters involved are made believable and they all have their contribution to the story and none are lost within the film, and therefore, they all manage to stand out from the others.Bully is impressive in many ways; the story is presented well and we are able to care for it, it is well acted, well characterized and the direction is more than competent. Overall, Bully is a great, if uncomfortable roller coaster of a movie, and it is therefore recommended to those that want to see movies that break the Hollywood mould, and movie fans in general. "}{"Title":"One of the darkest and most uncompromising borderline exploitation films ever made","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Larry Clark(KIDS, KEN PARK) has made a very difficult film to digest here. BULLY. The film is about a group of teenagers who decide to murder one of their own. Their victim is Bobby Kent(Nick Stahl), a sadistic, cold-blooded, extremely homophobic serial rapist. However, this motley crew of young people are completely inexperienced in such matters and decide to enlist the help of a trailer trash weirdo hit-man, who is barely older than any of them. The film is very explicit, not only in it's shocking violence, but in it's VERY graphic sex and drug use. The scenes of sex and drug use lack joy, excitement, pleasure, and humanity and the camera likes to mash our faces in all the bruised, sweaty, scummy teenage flesh. Many of the sex scenes come off quite disturbing and bizarre. There's no sense of human restraint or dignity, which makes the scenes all the more realistic. The violence and drug use are simply an embarrassment to watch. The drug use makes all the characters look completely ridiculous and foolish. The violence is cold, brutal, and messy, without any sense of style, strategy, or mercy. It's all rather gritty.BULLY is perhaps Larry Clark's darkest film. What is incredibly horrific about this film, to me, is that these characters seem to have no idea what on earth they are doing throughout the entire film. They are completely unprepared and shallow when the time comes to actually murder Bobby Kent, and then when they actually manage to eventually get it done, they make one mistake after another and it's really quite pitiful to watch. I'm not going to give away the ending, but I will say that it won't surprise the audience at all after seeing these characters' blatant clumsiness. The characters make so many stupid decisions that it almost becomes a dark comedy or dark satire. However, the fact that it happens so fast is what keeps us from having time to laugh. The characters themselves are quite bizarre. There's Marty (who is the main victim of Bobby), who beats his girlfriend and gets her pregnant. He comes off as more of a bad guy than Bobby Kent does at times, strangely. There's Lisa, Marty's clearly psychotic and very sick girlfriend. Ali, who has a child of her own and is the one who truly leads Bobby to his death. Heather, an abused, burned out ex-drug addict. Donnie, who is obviously has a good nature but is too stoned on a regular basis to think for himself. There's Lisa's cousin Derek, who just wants to constantly take the easy way out. Then there's the hit-man himself who has a slightly tougher posterior, but ends up being just as unprepared and dehumanized as the rest of the characters when the murder actually takes place. Of the characters, the only two I could really muster up any sympathy at all for were Heather and Donnie, and I could probably personally relate to Donnie the best, but they are, in reality, all equally dumb and crazed. No matter which way I slice it, the only character I end up hating more and more is the Lisa character. I did end up feeling bad for Bobby as he was getting murdered, but that was just because he had more potential and more of a future than all of the other characters, meaning that he had more of a chance of redemption and feeling real sorrow for his actions than any of the other characters. That doesn't make him any less of a bad person, but then again these are all bad people and we should only look at what they do and what the commit in this film as a reminder that parents need to be more in charge and take a stand. This film is incredible and it must be seen to be truly believed. "},{"Title":"I had a nightmare about this film","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved the way Kid's presented itself when it was first released, if I had it my way then that film would be shown to all the kids in high school's all over the world because the reality of what is going on in each character really hits home when watching this and I think it might make a lot of young kids think before what they do.   Anyway that was my introduction to Larry Clark and the amazing Leo Fitzpatrick and when I had heard not long ago that these two got together and made another harrowing teen film called Bully I just had to watch it but apart of me wishes I didn't watch it because I scared me in a way because of how real it was.   Leo Fitzpatrick is not the lead star in this one though, this one is left to Brad Renfro (Marty) and Nick Stahl (Bobby) who are two best friends who live in world where they sell phone sex for gay people and make homosexual films to sell to porn shops, just you're average teenager of course, but Bobby is a dominating friend towards Marty and Marty just breaks and decides with his vulnerable girlfriend that they should kill Bobby so he won't be a problem in their lives, from there we are taken into this dark tale of teenage revenge. There is a big build to what happens in this film and that's what makes it harrowing viewing because you just don't know what is going to happen. But by the time the film had ended I straight away bombarded the internet with information about the real happening of what actually went on.Overall this is Larry Clark's best work to date and it opens you up to a whole new world of talented actors and a director that should be praised more about his work.   This is not the sort of film that finishes and you go on with what you are doing, it will stay in your head for a while and will leave wanting more in way because you really feel that you want the film to go on a bit longer to know more about these fascinating characters.  "},{"Title":"Boring, boring, ...","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Lots of teeny/twenty something viewers will wax indignant if one can't see this as a brilliant piece of art. However, if Larry Clark is a genius then why does he deal with the blindingly obvious? Virtually every kid I know has behaved like this; I behaved like this when I was a kid - jeez I'll bet even some of our parents did. Okay - apart from the murder part. It does misuse the 'based on a true story' to portray events - from what I have read it is very, very loosely based on a true story. Anyone who has watched other people taking drugs knows how boring it is, and the sex is only there for titillation. Most of the nude scenes have little to do with the plot and yes - they do seem to point at the fact that the director is a pervert. There simply is no need for us to see Bijou Phiip's crotch in 'that scene' - it has been clearly established at that point that the character is a tad slutty.Well those who love it have little understanding of art and those who rail against it are reacting in a way that gives Clark the publicity that he wants. If you want to watch a pointless masturbation epic rent it. If you're a little more grown up I'd give it a miss. "},{"Title":"Great twisted fun. Highly recommended.","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not for everyone, but if you enjoy gritty realistic dramas and aren't afraid to wallow on the underside of American society, this movie is definitely worth your while. The script and direction are top notch, a refreshing break from the many vapid style over substance crime thrillers being churned out by rock video hacks and overpaid stars. Production values are excellent; beautiful photography and a charming attractive cast. "},{"Title":"Too close to home......","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After a friend of mine died in such a similar way, I began to research this story. The real story. I followed all court trials, read all the articles and books. This movie, BULLY, is an excellent portrayal of what really happened. The actors do a great job, especially Nick Stahl, who is the total best. This movie is not for weak stomachs, it is totally gruesome and it holds nothing back. Freaking excellent. If you like true crime and haven't seen this movie, check it out. I give it a 10+++++. NICK STAHL RULES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Interesting and natural but nowhere near as insightful or socially important as it thinks it is and should have been","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Marty and Bobby are friends who work together, drink together, pick up girls together and hustle together. The dynamics of their friendship is not that straightforward though as Bobby is by far the dominant one and thinks nothing of demeaning and bullying Marty and having fun exploiting anyone he sees as below him. While highschool drop out Marty gets Lisa pregnant, Bobby's future looks good with college and his father's support ahead of him &#150; all this despite raping Lisa's friend Ali. When enough is enough Bobby's friends decide to kill him.I'm not sure what it is about Larry Clark and teenage sex and nudity but he does seem to have made it a career motif &#150; sometimes to good effect (Kids) and sometimes in a way that is exploitative and nasty (the horrid Teenage Caveman springs to mind). However with good reviews I figured that perhaps Bully would be able to have the sexual material within a context. The result here is a rather mixed approach where the true story does necessitate the depiction of teen sex and drug use however Clark does push this more than he really needs to with shots of nude girls on the toilet, graphic drug use and one or two upskirt shots of girls' underwear that a gonzo pornographer would have been proud of. Fortunately his subject is good enough to prevent it become shocking for shocking's sake. The narrative is interesting because of it being true but it didn't develop the characters well enough to make this as fascinating as it should have been. Instead of doing this for the first half, we instead just see lots of actions (nudity, fighting, drugs) which fills the time but is not the same as writing good characters. The overuse of nudity in this part is excessive and rather tiring and I did start to feel that Clark maybe doesn't understand his characters but he does know from the reports what they did, so this is what show.The part of the film that occurs after the murder is much more interesting and convincing and this helps cover the weaknesses of the first part. For all Clark's excesses in his films he does know how to draw good performances from his young casts. Stahl is impressive in the lead and does the best he can with his character producing some nice contradictions within this boy &#150; shame that Clark isn't that interested in this. Renfro is not quite as convincing a person although he does work well as the slightly weak-willed loser. Phillips is better while Miner is a straightforward character &#150; with both of them I felt a bit uncomfortable watching them be naked so often as they were. The rest of the cast are all as realistic and natural and, although they come over as stoned out losers and the dregs of youth culture but then that was the point I suppose.Overall then an impacting film but nowhere near as insightful or as important as it should have been. Instead of delving into the subject, Clark is happy to just show us how they lived &#150; with lots of sex and drug use, which was necessary to a point but shouldn't have been allowed to be as much of the show as it was. Worth a look for those used to Clark's approach but not as good as it should have been. "},{"Title":"astonishing!","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" so many other comments say the film is astonishing but what is astonishing to me is the fact that the people who actually liked Bully can utilize a keyboard. the movie was boring, true event or not. the characters were all stereo-typical and appeared to be mildly retarded. the plot follows these pseudo mongoloids as they plan to kill a main characters boyfriend, who is, as the title implies, a bully. they even go to a hit man for help, though he is neither a hit man, nor of any help at all. there is a lot of warning of drug use and sex in the movie, but neither one of those usually entertaining to watch subjects helps this movie at all. the closest the movie comes to being at all entertaining is Michael Pitt's character, who kind of floats through the movie having no idea whats going on. "},{"Title":"Thanks a lot, Larry Clarke...","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" ...for making the most authentically depressing movie about bullies ever.You know the story, 'coz a bunch of films have tried to emulate or recreate it some oblivious sociopathic jerk-ass bullies his friends, who decide to end it once-and-for-all by planning to kill him. The problem (or benefit) to Larry Clarke's film-making is that the scenario becomes uber-real.Here the casting and acting are all top-notch. Everything about the grimy, swampy Florida suburbs are elucidated to the outside world, giving us a look at the crappy lives of these dead-beat teens. None of the lifestyles here should surprise you if you've spent much time in a podunk beach town, or a crappy strip-mall-infested slice of Americana. But as previously said, the casting and direction is a little too authentic.This movie is much better than Kids, because it doesn't feel like a pederast obsession and highlights a more explicit event. Thing is, Clarke's movies always feel kinda creepy and I wonder if the dude doesn't have an unhealthy obsession with this grimy, broken youth culture. He seems to have really strong nostalgia for his experiences of living through it. It doesn't surprise me that Leo Fitzpatrick, a character here and in Kids, also worked with director Todd Solondz. In ways, Solondz makes me think of a cross between Clarke and Woody Allen's darker, clever moments.This is worth watching. Even if it isn't pleasurable viewing, it's captivating and solid film-making. It is probably the best movie Clarke has done.RIP le Brad Renfro! "},{"Title":"The Abyss","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Is not easy to talk about a movie like Bully. Maybe is because i'm young, or maybe is because the film be for me hard to digest, but whatever it is, i'm convinced that this movie is an urgent and sad must see.Bully, based on a book and on real facts, told us the story of two boys Marty and Bobby. They know since children, and now, as almost men, they make home porn videos between them for sold it to gay men. Go to gay clubs to win money and too make erotic calls for gay, just for win more money and for fun. Marty loves surf, Bobby to be a monster. Bobby always dominate Marty as he want, he always beat him without any reason more than butter. But this going to change when Lisa, Marty's girlfriend, give to her boyfriend an idea Let's kill Bobby.Bully is not an easy movie, as i say before, is kind of explicit sexually, but psychologically is really disturbing. Larry Clark smash up to us the reality gradually, and that makes it more deep and more than visceral than anything. Second by second, we see how these young people, with a life to handle, fall to an abyss with no return. That is the impressive thing of Bully, is a tasteless movie with an important message to improve. This is the case of Bully, Is it's atmosphere. Yes, the photography is not any novelty, but the thing is how is show to us. Bully have as a bottom scenario, a beautiful sundown. But is a hard and absorbent yellow color. Then the night fails, and is where the young people, but they are not studying, or playing something, no thinking about what to do, or at least not doing something, at least sleep (As i do much times). They are in the streets, being promiscuous sexually, taking drugs, having sex, or... ah, yes, maybe planning the death of somebody. Of course, this is not the general situation, but is happening, in all the world. I'm not any saint, believe me, but movies like Bully makes you wonder about that, at least just a little, and is why is so deep and powerful.Is not only the power and Clark's direction what makes this movie a Must See and a Masterpiece, is, of course, their performances. All performances are great, specially Brad Renfro (The funny boy form Ghost World) and Rachel Miner (As the girlfriend of Marty).This is not a movie for just a public, is wide in it. It can be for people of the characters ages, for parents, for old, for young. Of course is not the unique movie that teach us things, but is an excellent and hard film for show to the world its situation. Bully is a film who takes some of the concerns of the young people, and relation it with the adults, with grown ones. We see in some scenes a really sad message, this is not only their fate, is the fate of much young ones. We see how some of the little children learn then how to win this kind of future. This movie develop their characters fears, as any young have, as any person have, but this time that fears are concentrated in our past, in that big step to let the child world and take front to a world of pain and pessimism, contrary of child's world. Is about pressure, as much know the law of the fittest. At the end, Bully is about that, is about a world that seems to be more near of fall into an abyss without return.*Sorry for the mistakes...well, if there any. "},{"Title":"Attn Parents","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I just watched this movie, and I found it interesting and compelling enough to check the IMDb site. I have always found Larry Clarks movies captivating, and this one was no exception. However when i was reading through the reviews I saw people constantly referring to the teens lives as empty and meaningless, using their pot smoking and sex as examples.This completely defeats the purpose of Larry Clarks films as I (as a teen) interpret them. These movies don't show those rotten kids hanging out on the street corners. They depict YOUR kids in a way you never want to see them. Thats why his movies are so powerful, because they show a reality few people want to admit exists. This movie, and Kids should be standard viewing for parents and teens alike. So parents realize what their kids are getting up to and so teens realize what can come of their actions. "}{"Title":"Larry Clark's great movie about real-life killers and their personality problems","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I, like tons of 20-somethings trying to relive their youth, picked up KIDS, the first movie from Larry Clark, a director who loves reality to the point of bypassing actual actors for kids on the street in almost every movie he makes. He loves crime and the demeanor of kids in their early stages of understanding society and people around them.In this movie, which is based off the book by Jim Schutze Bully A True Story of High School Revenge, Nick Stahl's creepy role as Bobby Kent (portayed beautifully & gritty at the same time) is matched to Brad Renfro's Marty Puccio, an abused kid who never stops his friend (Kent) from running his actions and life. Because his parents are unwilling to relocate, Marty has to put up with Bobby's actions against him and even values him as a friend of sorts. When two around-the-way girls named Ali and Lisa come into their space (portrayed by Bijou Phillips and Rachel Miner, respectively), the two boys forget their roles of abuser and abusee and transfer their energies into each girl.Lisa becomes Marty's girlfriend, and though the group's closeness, they invite Ali over to sleep with Bobby. Bobby's persona, being already unbalanced and hostile, acts out on him in this particular scene in which he has rough sex with Ali and basically rapes her. So being the rapist and abuser that these kids know him as, they plot to kill him, but they still have their morals to battle with.I won't give away the ending (being that I've spoiled basically half the movie), but the feeling of the entire movie is why you watch this. that and the acting was pretty crazy and believable. I loved seeing Leo Fitzpatrick as the Hit-man in this film (he was in KIDS in his first role, also directed by Clark). I love, also, how Clark was willing to hire another guy (Daniel Franzese) based on the fact that he loved KIDS and knew KIDS verbatim (even though he explains on the DVD that he could actually deliver a line or two). The rape scene was a little tough to get through, but I, personally, have seen worse (buy Irreversible). Also you get really creepy vibes if you've seen KIDS and then watch this because the director loves young-looking nudists in his films. At times, it's artistic, but when you seen Rachel Miner naked for the 10th time in the same film, you start to get the creepy vibes again.Again, Nick Stahl did a fantastic job, as did Brad Renfro (even if his roles are usually of this difficulty...playing a lobotomized friend). Michael Pitt played the doper-friend (I've liked his acting since Finding Forrester) who was a major part in this even though you wouldn't think it would be. I liked the playful role of Heather Swallers, played by a Kelli Garner, who was cast a year later as a huffer girl in Todd Luiso's depressing Love Liza (so you can see the depth that directors cast he as).So go out and buy this if you're into cult movies with great directing and acting. Very stylistic and real. "},{"Title":"Incredible....","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was channel surfing earlier because it's hard to find quality entertainment at 2 am.  I ran onto this, and decided it was the only thing I was going to find.I was absolutely blown away.I was glued to the TV for the entire duration (of the unrated version). At first, I thought, Oh great.  Another movie filled with gratuitious sex. If you stick with it, it's much more than that.  It's emotion, passion, fear, suspense, and real life all rolled into one.  I got very attached to the characters and began to respect their cause.  By the end, I had forgotten it was based on a true story.  It really brings the story to life when you realize that.  You're thinking this could never happen in the 'real' world.  Then you get the stark reminder that yes, it can... And it has.  And it will again.Incredible movie.  Incredible acting.  10/10 most definitely. "},{"Title":"Larry Clark best movie.","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bully have impressive acting,its very realistic and brutal, its a film about slackers, bad persons, violence, drugs, sex, that affects teenagers, not only in U.S.A but in the all world, the normalization of violence its a subject very explicit in the movie. Its the story about teens that don't do anything and don't have any objectives in their life's,..Bully its a strong portrait of nowadays society, in special the wealthy society...I think that Bully its the Larry Clark best flick, much much better then Ken Park, Bully in some ways its better than Kids (Larry Clark first movie), in the terms of acting and narrative..If you like Bully i recommendKids,Ken Park, Teenage Caveman, L.I.E and River's Edge.. "},{"Title":"A film that bruises like no other...","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Forget Hostel. Forget The Texas Chainsaw Massacre remakes. As a matter of fact, forget anything in the last decade that's been marketed under the banner of 'horror.' Larry Clark, director of Kids and Another Day in Paradise, wants to take you to the real-life school of Horrific Hard Knocks with Bully, a terrifying account of a group of teens who got sick of a peer's abuse, decided to kill him...and did.Bobby Kent (Nick Stahl--Sin City) is the loathsome titular character, a verbally, physically, and sexually abusive guy who takes out his frequent fits of rage on Marty (Brad Renfro), a life-long 'best friend.' Marty is sick of taking beatings, but is passive (and, quite frankly, pathetic) until Lisa (Rachel Miner) comes along, witnesses the abuse first-hand, and hatches the plan to kill Bobby. Eventually, a small group of bored, unsupervised suburban youths encircle Marty and Lisa and play a part in the horrifying murder that sits at the film's core.Clark's feature debut, Kids, was an aimless, pretentious, and self-consciously 'important' film; Bully is like that film taken to 11, with incredibly sharp focus. He deftly nails the nihilism of these dopey, bored brats, and presents the parents as utterly clueless drones who seem to exist in another world. The teenage relationships here consist of reciprocal drug use, noncommittal sex, and perceptions of life dictated by MTV. What adds to the climate of horror (which Clark brews at Bobby's first beating of Marty) is the fact that these kids are vacuous idiots who haven't the slightest clue what they're getting into. By comparison, Bobby--who is essentially unredeemable--is also presented as intelligent, and with some semblance of a future (we learn he's college-bound). Similarly, a Mafia guy (well-played by Leo Fitzpatrick), provides a strangely paternal sense of responsibility to the murder, yet isn't smart enough not to implicate himself in the proceedings. Irony is not a concept lost on Clark's presentation of these dead-end souls.While the director can't resist the urge to grease the film with lots of leering sex scenes, the effect bypasses exploitation and instead amplifies the grave nihilism at work. Clark applies a similarly unflinching eye to the actual murder, where the framing (with characters in mid- and long-shot), music (by Sonic Youth's Thurston Moore), and performances (a queasy mix of fear and excitement) are as raw, terrifying, and tormented as the on-screen violence. This is a rare film that succeeds in showing how ugly violence really is--not the sadistic, just-for-laughs slaughter of Hostel, but something closer to Salo, or the 120 Days of Sodom, Pier Paolo Pasolini's unsettling exercise in death, degradation, and amoral perversion.Those with the stomach for Bully's excess will ultimately be rewarded by the thought it provokes. The film is controversial and worth discussing, but far from 'entertaining'--whether viewing it for the first or third time, the bruises it leaves are permanent. Bravo. "},{"Title":"'River's Edge' for a new decade?","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark certainly seems to push people's buttons, which is alright by me if he continues to make movies as good as 'Bully'. I really enjoyed his previous movie 'Another Day In Paradise' which was sadly overlooked. 'Bully' is closer to the provocative material of 'Kids' and therefore is getting a lot more attention. Whether it is actually better than '..Paradise' is debatable, but even so it's a very good movie just the same. This is a realistic and believable look at the dark side of contemporary suburban teens, which brings to mind Tim Hunter's 80s classic 'The River's Edge', which was also based on fact. Clark manages to make a solid, well acted and thought provoking drama while simultaneously making a sleazy exploitation movie that would have done Roger Corman, Samuel Z. Arkoff and A.I.P. proud! A difficult feat but Clarke effortlessly pulls it off. I think in years to come 'Bully' will look better and better. Right now it's essential viewing. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"WORST MOVIE EVER...","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Words cannot truly express how awful this movie was.  What is worse, everyone seems to have really enjoyed it.  There is nothing unique about Larry Clark.  All he is is a pedophile who enjoys seeing teenagers strip naked and rut like cockroaches in a tin can.  Truly sickening movie.  There was no character development in this story at all (despite the fact it is apparently true).  The motivations of these kids did not convince me nearly enough.  It seemed to be a completely random decision that they made and, with the horrible script, seemingly unjustifiable.  Larry Clark needs to seek some severe mental counseling and stop trying to make a reputation for himself as the town kiddie-rapist.  NOTE TO DIRECTOR IT is entirely possible to make a good film and not thrive purely on how riske you can be.  "},{"Title":"offensive and pointless","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  If this review strikes anyone reading it as biased, I apologise, but I have very strong feelings regarding this movie. I saw it in good faith, foolishly believing the critics who poured out their praise. Imagine my shock then when I witnessed possibly the most offensive and worthless creation I have ever seen. The problems I have with 'Bully' and Larry Clark are almost endless, and I will not mention everything here. The characters are vile, and there is nothing there to make you care in the slightest about them. The plot is weak and the script corny and pathetic. The main problem I have with the movie, however, is the apparent perversion of director Clark. Seemingly Clark is the definition of dirty old man, as he has his young actresses nude whenever possible. Almost every scene involves nudity in some form or another. I'm sure Clark will claim he is making a statement about the repetitive and pointless lives of Suburban teenagers, but that seemingly is his excuse to be a pervert. PLEASE do not see this movie! I dont know how I can put my disgust into words any more plainly. DO NOT SEE THIS! "},{"Title":"An Underachievement in Film","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was shocked to see all the positive reviews this film has received.  I question why anyone would consider this film to be a masterpiece, when in reality it's a filmmaker's attempt to exploit a based on a true story account.  I think that if this movie had not been based on a real event, that it would not have had the obvious leaps of faith shown in some of the positive reviews I read.I agree with the decision to film the movie in the most gritty, realistic way possible, but that seems to have been the only good decision the filmmakers made.  The casting was horrible.  Their fresh faces and hard bodies did not convey the drug-abusing, low self esteemed kids involved in the true event.Was everyone really so convinced that Nick Stahl was such a horrifying bully?  He was as scary as a ant.  One good asskicking would have taken care of the situation.  The threat was not there.Rachel Miner couldn't decide whether she wanted to be crazy or just confused.  Brad Renfro's good looks and obvious superior physical stature over Stahl's also make him a doubtful victim of being bullied.And finally, why are adults always depicted as such one-dimensional dolts? When Ali asks her Mom, Can you call a hotline to report a murder?(paraphrased), her response to her is Oh, Ali what are you kids up to?  What??  If the adults were depicted as realistically as the kids were, then perhaps the story would have carried so much more weight.The biggest culprit is Clark, who just wanted to show people how cool and controversial he could be with a camera in his hands.  He violated everything sacred in making a good movie - especially how to tell a story! In one scene, he scans down to one of the female character's crotch while she's getting a pedicure - for no reason!Truly disappointing. "},{"Title":"could be a really good movie but","Date":"12 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" To start, I think this is a crazy case/story of a messed up group of kids. I think that if the movie were to be remade now, it could be a much better movie. I would love to watch this story line with better actors and a better script. This movie was just boring. All of the lines were cheesy and unrealistically spoken. You would think with the story line of young kids doing lots of drugs and having lots of sex and then plotting a murder that it would be much more entertaining but it's not at all. It's not a suspenseful movie. Not even a thriller really... The only part of the movie worth watching is the ending where it says what happened to the characters in real life. "},{"Title":"Brutal, explicit, but very well done","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bully is a chilling movie that shows just how low humanity can stoop. That a group of people can devalue human life so much as to see murder as a perfectly acceptable way to rid themselves of a problematic person in their life is an eerily true, and tragic occurrence that we see all too often. Bully explores the worlds of both the murderers and victim in one such a case from a no nonsense, blunt point of view.I was surprised that I liked this film as much as I did. The acting was very good, the character development was extremely well rounded, and the story progressed at just the right pace. The film subtly shows all the options the Broward County Seven had other than murder. They could have walked away from Bobby, they could have reported him to the police, they could have talked to him...they could have even scared him or threatened him. But, lacking any true moral compass, they decided that killing him was the acceptable answer.The way the characters were portrayed was very realistic. They were neither complete stone-faced, horror movie villains nor were they shown as heroes ridding the world of the scum that was Bobby Kent. The audience both hated and sympathized with both Kent and the Broward Seven.Now, the downside. I think that there was too much explicit sex that was unneeded in the movie. It really didn't enhance the story to show full body nudity, and I found it distracting. Yes, it did help to show that the Broward Seven were indeed lowlifes themselves, but still...anyway, I guess I just won't watch this movie with my kids! All in all, a great true crime movie. According to interviews with the real Broward Seven, it was pretty accurate, so kudos to Hollywood for getting things right. If you've got thick skin and a strong stomach, it's a very interesting movie. "}{"Title":"A Lost Generation","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Larry Clark's Bully is a hard hitting, raw, and profane film but none the less relentlessly effective and entertaining. After watching the un-edited version of Bully any audience member will feel some sort of effect. It may be wanting to punch your T.V. or holding your son or daughter; and this was Larry Clark's exact intention. Bully is a film about two longtime friends ( Brad Renfro and Nick Stahl) who live troubled lives. Both are confused in the way the world works but don't mind taking advantage of the common confusion shared by the opposite sex. It is through these sex scenes that the viewer feels the most negative about Nick Stahl's character. The way this character interacts with others is vile yet very believable. And after constant abuse Brad Renfro's character and the other characters in the film decide to handle this Bully once and for all. Bully could easily of been a one sided attack on troubled teen's parents and showing how evil some kids can be. But Clark is too smart for that path, instead taking a different route by showing how some teens can fall into these depths of depravity. He shows Nick Stahl's character as being as evil as possible but through some of the subtle (and not so) details of the film the viewer begins to grow sympathetic for Nick Stahl's character as the audience knows that he is the most troubled being among the whole group. The end may be easy to see coming, since it is a true story but there is no need to give that information here. But note that the last twenty five minutes of the film will leave you breathless. The performances in this film are all outstanding and very brave, the talented cast includes Brad Renfro, Nick Stahl, Bijou Philips, Michael Pitt,and Leo Fitspatrick (from Kids fame). Every one of these actors give great performances. Bully is a film that may turn off some viewers for it's extreme content; and the content can be very extreme, but this should not detour film goers. Because Bully is a film that offers non stop entertainment, dark comedy (very dark), quick pace, great performances, a truly realistic feel (a Clark staple) anda lasting message. Bully is a film that shows the lost generation in the most extreme light; let it be exposed. "},{"Title":"a film that changed my opinion on Larry Clark","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When i first saw Clarks' Kids, i was highly disappointed, in fact i can safely say i was quite disgusted. The entire film just seemed to over emphasise and exaggerate the lives of kids in the particular area. I thought Clarks dodgy camera work, and disturbing obsession with the male body and teen sexuality was grotesque. I was then forced to view Bully, and expected the same, and in all fairness, i got exactly the same in many ways. However, this film really grabbed my attention. I had to watch it twice, because again, upon first viewing i despised it. The second time i learnt to appreciate the work of whom i now consider to be a great realist director, approaching and addressing subjects that many other directors wouldn't go near for fear of rejection. The story, based on true events (though the post script mentions its possible dramatisation) was thorough, nothing left to question. And again, like Leo Fitzpatrick in Kids (who also features in Bully), the casting was immaculate. Brad Renfro i believe could've had a huge impact on the film world if it wasn't for his untimely death, and his performance was simply outstanding, as were the rest of the cast. If, like me, you didn't like the work of Larry Clark before, but have not had the chance or motivation to see Bully, i strongly advise you do, and like me i am sure you wont be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Social documentarian or pedophile pornographer?","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Disaffected American youth doesn't come much more disaffected than in the films of Larry Clark who shot to prominent notoriety with Kids and has never looked back. Social documentarian or pedophile pornographer? There is no doubt that Clark certainly likes to dwell on the nubile, naked young bodies of both sexes and prurience is never too far away but Bully, while never skimping on the flesh quota, also posits a strong case for Clark as a serious film-maker. It's a disturbing, nihilistic work, all the more shocking for being based on real events.The bully of the title is the arrogant, sexually confused Bobby, (a brilliant performance from Nick Stahl), who beats up his so-called best friend Marty, (an equally good Brad Renfro), and isn't above pimping him off to older men. But Marty isn't his only victim; he treats everyone with equal scorn and ultimately rapes Ali, another member of the vacuous circle of airheads who populate Clark's picture. Finally egged on by the machinations of his vicious, addle-headed teenage Lady MacBeth of a girl-friend, Marty strikes back as the group kills Bobby and dumps his body in the local swamp. However, not only have they not thought this through but such teenage kicks are to be bragged about and it isn't long before they are all on trial for murder.By keeping adults conspicuously in the background Clark allows us to meet these kids up close and personal and he does indeed film events with a documentarian's eye, albeit a documentarian with an almost fetishistic devotion to his subjects. The long preamble to the actual killing is brilliantly done. And, at best, he can draw extraordinary performances from his young cast. As well as Stahl and Renfro there is excellent work from Rachel Miner as the instigator, Bijou Phillips and Michael Pitt. Perhaps by virtue of its subject this is Clark's most grown-up picture; it may also be his best. "},{"Title":"One of the best true stories I've ever seen","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie based on true events, I couldn't take my eyes of the t.v. It was just astonishing. I can't believe that, that actually happened in real life. It was scary to think that kids can be that cruel. I really liked the characters acting and their plots. And in the end, they all got what the deserve but got their revenge all at the same time. Very well done. It's got a lot of profanity and nudity in it and definitely not something I'd let my kids watch but I hope that older teens who do watch it can learn something from it. But I liked how everything worked out in the end. The only thing I didn't like was the fact that the characters were so worried about what they did and what would happen to them that they told people and I guess that's how they ended up in prison and some even sentenced to life. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie To Learn Some Lessons From!","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I think this movie is excellent not only in it's making but the storyline and the lessons herein. It is about bully and revenge. Both sides are guilty, but no excuse for what the end result was.This is the true story about Bobby Kent, a Floridan teenager who was a bully, rapist, and thug. He was killed by seven people, six were friends, the seventh was a hit-man. Although, it is never okay to kill Bobby's behavior provides the lesson that bullying is not worth it, and the Golden Rule, Do Unto Others As You've Have Done To You.The others should most certainly have not done what they did. It was certainly not worth it. Marty's sentence was communted to life without parole, Lisa's life without parole sentence was reduced to 20 years to life, she was released in 2001, the other girl was sentenced to 40 years, but has been released, the one other boy was sentenced to 7 years, the hit-man life without parole, the other two boys 40 years. No one is happy now. "},{"Title":"This is the tops of all true stories!","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I've seen The Onion Field and read the book, in Bully this movie takes a psychological turn for the worst. You would think a middle class neighborhood would be a better place for the typical American. No problems would happen there? Think again! Bully usually prefer to the outsider who doesn't do well in school and is a total outcast, well in this true story movie, the bully was a very bright young man named Bobby Kent(Nick Stahl) who abused his childhood friend Marty(Brad Renfro) and raped Lisa(Rachel Miner, Mac Culkin's ex-wife) and Ali(Bijou Philips). Bobby was a senior in high school looking for a brighter future, then he started hanging around dropouts and his father wouldn't like that. His father is unaware about his son's intentions,especially the way he treats his childhood friend Marty. Though the vengeful group take out the bully, it came with a price. I saw the sentences they received, I'm just glad that those sentences got reduced in a later report. This movie was disturbing, the graphic scenes made my blood boil, and the work was excellent. I don't know it would appropriate for psychology class, but it's best for research though. 5 stars "},{"Title":"bully","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" bully is a great movie. it really took me. The story is great. and the actors play really good. but the first 20 to 30 minutes it's more based on the teens having sex then the actual plot. and that's where it's gone bad. that makes it look more like soft porn then a murder drama. but after the 20 to 30 minutes the movie get's really good. especially at the murder and after. the actors Nick Stahl and Brad Renfro really played good. Nick is really good at the 'scary' part and Brad really at the 'pick of the bully' part. Nick is really scary, he's totally different then the character of John Connor you see him playing in Terminator 3. really scary. Brad is really good to, he again plays in a movie which has happened, if you believe the story of Sleepers. his part is again really believable. I don't recommend this movie for kids under 15. but I really recommend this movie because it's really good, and because it's based on a true story. "},{"Title":"Bully","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bully is based on a true story, set in Miami, Florida about Marty Puccio a troubled teen played by (Brad Renfro APT PUPIL, TART). The story is of the relationship he has with his life long friend Bobby Kent played by (Nick Stahl DISTURBING BEHAVIOUR, TABOO.) Also starring Rachel Miner as Marty's girlfriend, Michael Pitt as a drug dealer, Bijou Phillips as a skank, and Leo Fitzpatrick as the hit-man directed by genius Larry Clarke (ANOTHER DAY IN PARADISE, KIDS). Marty is constantly being bullied by Bobby and he is sick of it and decides to set a plan in place that will take care of Bobby for good. Bully is a violent movie as most of Clarke's movies are. It is taking it to far according to the public, Although the film seems to be about teenagers hooking up with each other for casual sex, taking drugs endlessly and thinking of ways to pass the time I believe it is a masterpiece. Clarke is trying to tell the public what is happening to the youth of today, these things are not pretend they are going on in our world. Nick Stahl delivers a chilling performance as the tormentive, violent abusive friend who is being pushed into his father's idea's for his future also conflicting with his sexuality. Rachel Miner plays Marty's girlfriend Lisa who wants to see Bobby gone once and for all, and Leo Fitzpatrick plays the Hit-man who is chosen to be the person to end Bobby Kent. Bully is a story of one kid being pushed over the edge and taking matters into his own hands. Pros Clarke's brilliance, exceptional acting, realistic, masterpieceCons ummmm nothing "},{"Title":"Bully; Fact or Fabricated?","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought Bully was a brilliant movie. And everyone who says it isn't who i've talked to thought that it was far too out there. Did it REALLY need to show all those realistic sex scenes? And don't you think that the violence was a little unnecessary? If this is what you think, then Larry Clark really did succeed. If you have seen Gummo, or Kids, you'll understand that Larry Clark strikes where it hurts most; the young people in our society and their lifestyle and habits. Every character in the movie was so well portrayed, so true to the story (well, as far as I know) and shocked us and made us wonder about our young people. I recommend this movie, but watch Kids first. Get ready to meet a grown up character..... "},{"Title":"Accuracy!","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Great movie, thought that the actors came off realistic. They seemed to be winging it, in some of the script this gives it a authentic, yeah i would probably say that too feel.I to have seen KIDS, and felt that was an accurate portrayal of a certain type of teenager. The characters in BULLY, are mirroring what is happening to some in this age group, with the blank stare and the rolling of the eyes. The director allows the actors some range in the slack look, the feet shuffling and the personal dramas.The sex and drug use may be a tad over the top but do not take away from the story. The main event is probably one of the most accurate betrayals of murder brought to film. I can assure you people not getting their stories together, helps people in my line of work immeasurably!I think that this is the selling point of the film for me, how this flawed from the start plan becomes an even bigger nightmare after the event. The characters turning on each other and confiding in FRIENDS to ease their minds, is cannon fodder,for the investigator. Turning suspects like this is almost too easy, funny if it was not so tragic! The director and whoever wrote the screenplay definitely got it right. "}{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Guys... Its not kiddy porn like a lot of people are suggesting. It may have a lot of teen sex in it but one thing these people are leaving out is the fact that it DOES have a PLOT. Call me ignorant but I didn't know porno flicks had a plot? Oh well... thats besides the point. I thought this was a great movie and if you hadn't seen it, check it out. Tip If you have trouble watching graphic violence, then get the R rated version which makes both the violence and sex less explicit. I thought the way the ending was directed was beautiful. The music, the views, its all fit together perfectly. I thought this was a pretty touching film. If you wanna see a great disturbing teen drama based on the death of Bobby Kent, check this out. Oh and read the book too, for more of a realistic account of the murder case. "},{"Title":"An extremely interesting film.","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" *MAY CONTIAN SPOILERS*As a teenager myself, while I love Larry Clark, his work must be taken with a pinch of salt. In the same way that 'Clueless' isn't a real picture of a typical teenage lifestyle, neither is 'Kids' or 'Bully'. The actions of the kids in 'Bully' are really just extreme takes on real issues and acts.This is actually a true story, and one of the most interesting parts of it is the way that the audience reacts to the murder committed and the sentence handed down to the murderers at the end. The film also shows the way SOME teenagers live, but what's important about the film is that although the sex, drugs and violence of the film aren't quite as severe in real life, most teenagers have snippets of this in their life.An interesting film that can certainly cause some interesting discussions. "},{"Title":"Another Great small movie","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bully is about 2 teenage boys, one of which does what the other tells him to do and doesn't do anything about it until he meets a girl who makes him realize that he can........and therefore he will. I enjoyed this movie and love watching these small films that come around not so often. The director makes great work of the unknown actors in this movie and it works really well. This film is like real life and gives you a good view of all the characters and lets you feel for them and sort of know what they are going through with the Bully. It's much better this way, better than most movies whose characters are so flawed you don't care what happens to them, I actually wanted the victims plan to work and hoped they would get away with it. The story builds up well and doesn't let you get bored and keeps you entertained, whether it be by a bit of nakedness or a bit of bullying, or both together. Overall I would give it 9/10, nearly a perfect movie and it would be a good idea for any teenagers to watch this because it is so near what happens a lot in real life. "},{"Title":"One Of My Favorites","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I like this movie for many reasons. The first one being that even though this film was based on a true story, the way it was filmed was very unique. Two, the acting skills are great. I wish I could say that I have seen these kids in more movies, but I haven't. I have seen them in about one or two other films, but they could all be doing big time flicks if they could just get the right break.It is based on the true story of Bobby Kent's murder. Bobby Kent is the Bully of his group of friends. He is always pushing his best friend Marty around, forcing the girls in his group to have sex with him, and always going Psycho on everybody. So finally, they all get sick of it and decide to murder him.I have not seen the R rated version of this film yet, but the Unrated version is very graphic, and very interesting. Horror fans will get a kick out of the death scene. I suggest all people who need violence and nudity in they're movies stay away from the R rated version, because it is supposed to be cut pretty heavily. Be sure to add the following films to your collection as soon as possible Bully, Kids, and Gummo. "},{"Title":"cutting edge clarity","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  few movies as powerful as this have this absolute cutting edge clarity. based on a true story, it is a tale that re-enacts itself every few years it seems ( reena virk, British Columbia Canada 1997 ), where teens gather and gang up and murder another- we see the children and ask where are the parents ?the acting is superb. the writing flawless. there is not one point in this movie you can stop and say it's false. this is not a documentary about what happened, but a dramatisation of what happened to some kids, and COULD BE HAPPENING TO OUR OWN KIDS NOWit is a movie for adults, with sex and drug use prevalent. the value of this movie is not as a morality tale, but as a precautionary alert to the sprawling mess north America is becoming and the fate it brings our children when we, the parents, are not there.  "},{"Title":"America like it is","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A beautiful, powerful peek into the real lives of the kids around us. Complaints about this movie being different from the book have to do with the nature of adapting fiction to film. Larry Clark has a sensibility and eye for bringing out the less than sweet side of American youth. To me Bully was like another chapter in the same study he began with Kids. The acting is painfully realistic, and the manner and attitude of the youths in this film clicks so real it hurts. I am always amazed at how Clark can get young people to open up so much on camera when most of them won't even talk to their parents. Some of Clark's other cinematic efforts don't work so well, I really think he should take on the task of bringing to the screen the lives of kids in latter day US of A. "},{"Title":"Careful who your friends are.","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark returns with something a lot more like Kids (in it'sstyle) than his previous film ANOTHER DAY IN PARADISE.Bully is about Marty and his relationship with his long time buddyBobby Kent who is constantly bullying him with both physical andverbal abuse. The bullying wins Marty the sympathy's of Lisa, afrumpy, lonely girl, desperate for Marty's attention. Lisa can onlytake so much watching her new boyfriend get beat on by his socalled best friend and Bobby even rapes her himself, so shedecides to gather together some friends to kill Bobby.This film, inspired by a true story, is really a performance pieceand all the young leads pull it off superbly. All of them addinganother string to their bow. Rachel Miner (Lisa) proves there's a lotmore to her than just being Macurly Culkin's wife (now divorced).Nick Stahl makes a wonderful &#145;bully' portraying Bobby Kent(Around this time IN THE BEDROOM was also released in whichhe plays a drastically different character proving him to be a veryversatile actor). Brad Renfro (Marty) shows a more sensitive sideas the `bullied' and demands sympathy playing this repressedcharacter. Bijou Phillips (Ali) is phenomenal as the slutty friend ofLisa. Michael Pitt (Donny) is hilarious as Ali's junky boyfriend. AndLarry Clark proves once more what a brilliant `visually real' directorhe is.The film is shocking, real and spookily entertaining. In particularthe last ten minutes of the film are totally brilliant with the choice ofmusic, editing and strong performances. An absolute masterpiece. Easily the best work the cast anddirector have done to date. Much better than kids.10/10  "},{"Title":"Brad Renfro is an ACTOR","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In a nutshell Disturbing, yet compelling. Should I feel bad about having enjoyed it? I feel like I should. At least I know now without question what Larry Clark is all about (not that I didn't already know after Teenage Caveman).While Nick Stahl was convincingly despicable and even Leo Fitzpatrick seemed more real than real, Brad Renfro OWNS his role as Marty. He was just so natural in the part that I can't help but think that, if he keeps making the right choices, he'll one day be considered a great actor. One can only hope. "},{"Title":"Well Acted- Yes, Flawed- Yes, Not Clark's Best Work But Watchable","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" *SPOILERS HEREIN*Watching the kind of world the kids from Larry Clark's drama 'Bully lived in, you wonder what happened to them. It appears that no outside forces subjected them to their lifestyles; rather it was a personal choice. From Mustang driving, suburban teen sexstress Ali to whacked out acid-freak Donny, these kids have no apparent purpose other than to exist.No, these kids have sex early and often with multiple partners, do most every kind of illicit drug, and participate in mindless entertainment such as 'Fatality' video games. The adults in this story aren't the problem because of what they do; it's what they don't do. None of them seem to truly care where their children are or what they are doing, and obviously neither do the kids.The teens curse at will in front of their parents (an automatic backhand in my house growing up) and stay out until, well...whenever. Adults in this film have few lines because they do and are nothing, both to their children and in their eyes. Clark succeeds mightily here, as he makes every attempt to shift the blame to where it truly belongs- the children. There is no visual evidence that any of them go to school, work, or have any kind of ambition in life.The characters make the most of their screenplay. Brad Renfro fabulously plays the tormented, picked-on best friend Bobby. While he excels, Clark could have casted this part much better. Renfro is too adult and distinguished looking to play the senseless teen character of Marty Puccio. He looks so out of place sunk into a couch shirtless, rapping alongside Eminem, shouting I hate it when the cut the (bleep)in' swear words!Stahl shines as Kent, playing the homoerotic violent dominating personality. The real show-stealer is Mike Pitt, who plays druggie Donny. The scene in which Kent is driving to his own murder talking with Ali, Heather, and Donny is amazing. Pitt's facial expressions and line of `No dude, it's Donny.definitely Donny' is funny, subversive, and scary as hell all in one. The best scene in this film. Leo Fitzpatrick, while out of place as the Mafia Hitman, is excellent as well, as is Derek. While most every actor/ess Clark casted performs well enough, the blame falls on him for casting them out of place and his screenplay.Bully builds up the murder of Kent for most of the film, and gives lots of reasons for why it happened. The only character you gather even the slightest twinge of sympathy for is Marty. He's been picked on, and beat up by Kent his entire life. One thing I didn't understand is when he fights back after arguing with Kent after accidentally damaging his Camaro and Kent coldcocks him twice. Kent then puts his arm around Kent and apologizes for his indiscretions. Did this happen with the real life Kent/Puccio? If so, why didn't Puccio fight back more?It appears that the excess teen sex depicted was supposed to 'bother' or 'disturb' the audience. The kids screw each other like rabbits. After a while, it seems that Clark is showing the nudity just to push buttons. Renfro and Rachel Miner (who plays Lisa) have sex in quite a few scenes. The point is proven early in the film that the two have an odious boy/girlfriend relationship, and have sex often. Clark made a large mistake by inserting clips of the two of them, fully nude, engaging in sex acts at pointless moments.The teen nude tip doesn't stop there. Connelley apparently likes to have phone conversations topless, and while Ali is having a phone chat, the camera drops down to her crotch, partially exposing her vagina. And while Connelley is checking for pregnancy, Clark sees fit to show her walking to, using, and walking from the toilet fully nude. The only legitimate explanation is that Clark wants to overshock people with this drivel. It takes a lot away from Bully.While the murder build up is intense, the fallout is not. It appears Clark has little interest in what happened following Kent's murder. Nothing is mentioned regarding the police investigation and little has to do with the trial. I found that most disappointing. All that is implied is that one of the kids is a snitch and caused them to get caught. The irony here is the hit on Kent was so haphazardly and sloppily planned by brainless drug addicts, these kids were doomed from the moment Connelley told Puccio Let's kill him.In the end, Bully is disturbing, but not in the way Clark envisioned it. It's sad because this film could have been so much more. It ends up looking like a way for Larry to show more teen nudity/sex, drug use, and otherwise moronic behavior. The actors get an A for effort, but not even the mightiest performances can save it from mediocrity. GRADE- 6/10.P.S.- For those who have seen the trailer, did you catch the ad ploy? When the movie's tagline is displayed, It's 4AM, Do You Know Where Your Kids Are? 'Kids' is italicized. Touch Mr. Clark.touch. "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  By far one of the most powerful movies I have ever seen.  The acting is astonishing, and just draws you into the situation.  Incredible.  I can't say I can personally relate to the actual movie, but I could see that actual people could be in this situation.   "}{"Title":"The White Underbelly of Society.","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A nice how-to film for the entire family. You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll fall asleep, go the bathroom...Idea for a film A bunch of loser degenerate kids, and their beyond attractive girlfriends road trip to Hollywood, kidnap a hack director, and then drive him to San Diego, where they rape him, kill him, chop him up and sit in the audience the next day as his remains are fed to Shamu. The film will dwell on the isolation of today's youth, and their loving but clueless parents who in spite of trying to make a good life for their children, instead mysteriously breed amoral monsters who do nothing but take drugs, fornicate, and consort with the infamous child underworld. It will be chuck full of gratuitous nudity and sex, just in case people otherwise decide to shun it. What do you mean? It's only a movie after all, anything's fair game right? But we must choose a director who will film it documentary style. That's real cool. We'll make people think it happened, or it could have happened, or it will happen. Movies like Bully are an industry embarrassment. The original 1940 version with Mickey Rooney and Judy Garland, though much more graphic and disturbing, at least had some snappy song and dance numbers to mitigate the profanity and sex. Id recommend renting it, and avoiding this piece of undeclared pornography.   "},{"Title":"Great, Disturbing yet Compelling.","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully is a spectacular film it is only a pity that this film did not recive a general cinema release in Australia. I found it to be disturbing but compelling. The story was done with flair and substance, larry Clark was in my opinion the best director to bring this awful story to the big screen. "},{"Title":"Incredible!","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an incredible movie!  If the movie were not based on real life events then it would not be as thrilling.  It would simply be another teen movie among many.  Nick Stahl portrays Bobby Kent with intensity and fire. He really brings a lot to the role and will probably be one of the next big young actors out there considering he will be John Connor in Terminator 3. Brad Renfro gives his best performance to date.  Lately all the publicity around him is about his off-screen exploits but one should look at this performance before they judge any of his future films on what goes on in his personal life.  Everyone in the film gives a great performance but it is carried by Stahl because everyone is waiting to see what he will do next. Anyone who says that the movie is dumb and not true to life because the kids in it were unbelievable and dumb should realize that this really happened in Florida in 1993.  Bobby Kent was a real person and now he is dead at the hands of his best friend.  I think Larry Clark did a wonderful job bringing to life a story that should be told because of it's unflinching take on one of the most horrific murders of modern time.  It does not glorify the murder but rather tell the tale. "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant, but you must have a stomach for it","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  You know you are in the hands of a top director when a familiar worn out theme, teenage alienation and murder, seems completely new and fresh. Larry Clark is not a guy that makes pleasant films, he makes films that suck you in, he captures you against your will. Bully is the story of teenage alienation, of a sadistic high school bully and his victims. The performances of this talented and known, but not famous, cast is outstanding across the board. This is one of the best cast of young actors ever put together. The realistic portrayal of murder, its consequences to its perpetrators, and the environment in which these teenagers move is something so rarely seen in movies that it makes it even more blatant how much crap we are fed by the commercial Hollywood machine. This is not a movie for everyone, there is lots of sex scenes, and Nick Stahl's bully characters is so despicable that you can barely stand it. The scene of young teenage boys dancing on stage for an adult gay crowd makes your skin crawl. I have to believe that anyone trashing this movie is because it attacks their sensibilities, rather than denying the absolute power of this film. This is writing, acting, and direction at is best. Once of the top 5 movies I have seen this year. Don't miss it. 10/10.PS I wonder why HBO insists in showing great movies at 2 AM. Goes to show what the mainstream is watching. "},{"Title":"A true Masterpiece.","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just happen to run across this movie and had heard some hype but still did not know the premise until actually watching. Very chilling, sad and strangely funny. I could not believe that slackers like this actually still exist anywhere outside of a Hollywood film then to learn that Bully was based on true events which took place in my state-too much! All of the characters are brilliantly portrayed and very convincing (esp. Brad Renfro who has some real-life problems). The kids seem to possess no moral fiber, no real compassion or understanding of human life. Their families don't seem to be terribly dysfunctional and yet they all sit around doing lots of drugs, having irresponsible, gratuitous sex and sponging off their folks. Only two had jobs! This lack of moral fiber provides the story with an evil villian-the bully, who is a real piece of work as he inflicts his violence on everyone. Of course, the rest of the slackers decide to band together and take him out. This is really where the film gets scary-their complete wild, reckless abandonment and disregard for human life.A riveting film with a fabulous cast-a definite hit in my books. Also must say that Brad Renfro sure did grow up nicely  "},{"Title":"dark, gritty, clever, brilliant","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let's set the record straight... Larry Clark was the director of Kids, if you hated that, than you might not like this. Harmony Korine was the director of Gummo, he had nothing to do with the writing or directing of this film. This film is R rated. If female nudity makes you feel uncomfortable, and sex scenes disturb you, stop reading now.still with me?   ....cool, on to the review.Bully is a dark, gritty story about a bunch of young, dumb, perpetually wasted wasted f*ckups who want to murder their friend, but have no idea what they are doing, or how to go about it. The characters aren't cool or slick, they're a bunch of idiots, and are cleverly portrayed as such with purpose and intent. This movie is much closer in feel to Kids than Another Day in Paradise, and like Kids, portrays a group of young Americans doing what they do, talking how they talk, screwing how they screw, with complete objectivity. There is no opinion to form, no message to learn, just a harshly realistic moving photograph. It is entertaining and artful without trying to be.If this sounds interesting to you, I'd recommend checking it out.If you've ever played Mortal Kombat while tripping on acid, go buy it!If you think She's All That is a good move about teens, you're not ready yet. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece, plain and simple","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having followed Larry Clark's work in photography with great admiration for many years, when he finally unleashed Kids on the world, I couldn't have been more disappointed. Clark did his job just fine, but the script was so meandering and desperate to shock that the film itself lacked any kind of narrative focus, and did inevitably seem almost entirely dedicated to being shocking, and nothing more. What though, I asked myself, could Clark achieve with a focused script, a bigger budget and some more accomplished actors? Bully is the exhilarating answer. Although shot in the similarly gritty style of his debut - Bully has so much more going for it in every conceivable department. All of the actors involved give truly phenomenal, frightening performances. The script is dark, honest and thematically uncompromising. Clark's visual sense has sharpened ten fold, revealing a film maker with an astonishingly accomplished grasp of both linear narrative storytelling, and cohesive, relevant stylistics. The best examples of both occur in the film's finale, when (for the first time in the film) Clark resorts to using incongruous pop music on the soundtrack. As the film slowly slips away, and the music eases us into the relaxed reality that we were, only watching a movie, the film's final image throws up a shattering caption which hits home like a fist in the throat. Its tough. Its utterly uncompromising. Its one of the finest films I've seen in the last ten years. I urge everyone with an open mind to go and seek it out.  "},{"Title":"The true story of high school revenge made into a great film.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully is one of the most overlooked movies of all time. Director Larry Clark has created a masterpiece that far surpasses his previous work on films like 'Kids' and 'Another Day in Paradise'.  Based on the true story of a group of suburban teens who take justice into their own hands against a neighborhood bully, the film depicts the true lives of teens growing up in America, and how parents truly do not know what their children are capable of. Performances are superb for both Brad Renfro and Bijou Philips. The film was not given the publicity it deserves, probably because of the negative pubilicity given to Clark's previous work 'Kids', because of the upset parents who did not want to believe that teens truly behaved this way. For those people, don't watch 'Bully'. You will be in for even more of a shock. "},{"Title":"Larry Clarke at his Best!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have heard some critics say that Larry Clarke is somewhat bizarre for his extreme interest in teenage sex, drugs and violence. Some would even say he was a pervert. But Larry Clarke is probably one of the best film makers that America has produced. Next to David Fincher, Larry CLarkes ability to shock and invoke make his films classics of our times. Kids was superb, but Bully, I think, was his pinnacle.As a budding film maker I take Larry Clarke as my guru. His realism and his 'dont give a f**k' attitude to makeing films makes my beg for more. I can not begint o express my amazement at his brilliance.Brad Renfro was perfect in his role as Marty. I think Renfro is a talented actor and has done well brakeing out from his child roles. Picking Larry CLarke was probably the turning point in his career.The film was dark and real, and you could relate, or well I could relate to all opf the charactors, watching their existance unfold up until the point of no return...well, words could not describe how orestruck I was. The opening line just set the scene for what has, in my mind, become the best film of the 20th century.And throughout the darkness, Larry CLarke still finds time to entertain, with the supurb Donny. Michael Pitt, who Id never seen before made me fall in love. A suberb charactor.I think Larry Clarke should be made ruler of the world, and I hope to see many more hard hitting real films like Bully.Brilliant film...well done to all. "},{"Title":"An amazing film that should be seen","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The reason I wanted to see this film so badly is because i loved the movie Kids which was also directed by Larry Clarke. After seeing this film it forced me to buy the book, as I was so involved with the charecters of this story. Just the fact that this is a true story is unbelieveable. There is a great young cast who put on great performances in this film. Its definetly worth checking out as long as you aren't offended by nudity, bad language and violence. This is definetly a film that will make you think. "}{"Title":"One of my alltime favourites","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was very impressed by this movie from the beginning till the end. It's a unbelievable strong movie. Raw, unpolished and uncompromised, unbelievable that such movies are still made in the US. The acting was so natural, that i had the idea i wasn't even watching a movie! Especially Brad Renfro and Lisa Miner are really talented, hope soon more impressive movies like this are coming our way. "},{"Title":"'Bully' (2001) definitely qualifies as a worthy follow-up-film to Larry Clark's controversial 'Kids' (1995).","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  > Marty Puccio is a high school drop-out living in Hollywood, Florida with his neglectful parents.  Marty is constantly pressured and beaten by his life-long friend Bobby Kent.  Bobby leads Marty into a sub-cultural lifestyle involving sex, drugs, and rock-n-roll.  Bobby enjoys forcing Marty into uncomfortable situations, like pimping Marty at a local gay bar, and Marty does nothing but submit to Bobby's purely evil nature.  After `going out' with equally troubled and promiscuous teens Ali and Lisa, Bobby's reputation as rapist and total asshole extends to four other marginal teens. Together, these seven brain-dead adolescents premeditate Bobby's death with spinning confusion and commit the gruesome murder with excessive incompetence and collective guilt.  Their appropriate convictions result from an `anonymous tip.'Bully deserves to be more widely seen because it offers a shocking yet brutally honest social criticism of family values amidst the excessive consumerism of a capital economy.  The eight teens of the film represent the entire spectrum of contemporary over-privileged middle class youth, and their extra curricular activities include surfing, petty car audio crimes, video games, prostitution, excessive drug use, cruising in sports cars, pornography, and extreme sexual activity.  The extent of these adolescent activities are  indeed controversial, but the portrayal of the parental figures is just as shocking.  The parents are naive at best and possess a complete lack of understanding for the sub-cultural lifestyle their children lead.  Marty, black-eyed and bloody, begs his parents to move far away. They refuse, claiming that they just can't leave their jobs.  Bobby's wealthy bourgeois father preaches correctness, quick capital gain, and entrepreneurship, but he is too busy to actually get involved.  Lisa's mother, an ex-Brooklyn native, acts as the voice of reason claiming that, `all you kids do is lay around, drive your cars, and eat us out of house and home.'  Honestly, free time is the devil's workshop, but for some reason, the parents are content with handing these spoiled children whatever expensive toys their economic status affords while neglecting to spend the necessary time to get involved and reinforce family values.  The ending punctuates this point.  The seven guilty teens feverishly quarrel and pass guilt during their pretrial, while revealing the embarrassing specifics of the murder for everyone to hear.  The camera then offers a reaction montage of sullen faces as the parents sit in total astonishment.  The parents still don't understand. "},{"Title":"Amazing film, a definite must-see","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I bought this movie about 2 months ago, but never got around to watching it....until today (3-31-02). The realistic plot-line and a good cast made this movie enjoyable.  The true story, however, differs from the movie. In real life Bobby Kent was supposedly in a gang, he and Marty hadn't been as close as the movie portrayed, and there was no latent homosexual tendencies from Bobby. The movie, on the other hand, seemed to convey Bobby as a closet homosexual (watching gay porn while he had sex with females), that he and Marty had been friends forever, and that the only gang tie was from The Hitman. All said and done, the movie made for great watching, and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Intense and disturbing but you're compelled to watch on...","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow...This film is something else! You know when you're experiencing something a little different when the entire row behind you stands up and leaves.From the start to the end you're taken on a journey of ignorance and decadence which appears to be all to common in America today.It's impossible to describe how well the fabric of this piece is woven together - I've never seen anything quite so intense in mainstream cinema.Prepare to be shocked on every level.Whether you love it or hate it you'll be glad you went. "},{"Title":"The best movie of 2001!!!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully is by far the best movie i saw in 2001! Larry Clark is the most talented director of our time! he is a genius! Like kids, Clark creates a raw, and believable world for us to watch. I loved this movie especially the performances! Bijou Phillips is so under used in film today and it was really good to see Clark use her and put her up to her full potential. i was plesantly surprised by Brad Renfro's performance here and I'm happy to see him doing such good films now. yes, the film is disturbing. i will admit that. but clark takes us into the lives of these kids and shows us that it could easily happen to any kid. as far as language and nudity goes, there's a lot of it in this film, all to make it more realistic.  all in all the best film of 2001! i loved it! p.s. i also loved seeing bijou fully naked! "},{"Title":"very entertaining, powerful movie","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just finished watching 'Bully' and felt like commenting. I had read many reviews before watching it and was really surprised how much different it was then i expected it to be. I had expected a movie very similar to kids, but i felt that Bully was far less reality emulating then kids. Kids was very much a movie documenting the lives of teens in new york, and it felt totally authentic, very much like a documentry. Bully was a completely different style tho, i had heard a lot about how bittingly real it is, but when watching it i felt it was more a movie from kids perspective, then looking at kids. the narrative feels like the experience of looking at things as a teen. I'm 18, and can relate to the viewpoint. I think a lot of people missed how lighthearted a lot of this movie is and how funny it is. I was laughing through most of it up until the murder, where suddenly everything fell into place where the reality set in. Then after the murder things begin to slowly unravel, and then the final scene is once again not very serious, and it still seems like there's not going to be much consequence and that everything will be ok. Then abruptly the sentences are shown on screen, and the reality sinks in. I felt the movie was brilliant in how it made you understand the kids so well in the movie, it was like being a silent viewer in the group. As far as many other writers finding the characters unsympathetic, i felt a lot for all of the characters, including bobby, they just seemed misguided. It felt almost as if they had made it through those few years in their lives, the after time would be ok, by 25 they'd be doing alright. It portrayed that awkward period so well. As far as the voyeuristic nudity side is concerned, once again i felt that reflected great with the adolescent side of the movie, immersing the viewer in the mindset of that age. Overall i thought it was a fantastic movie, and one of the best of the year. In a perfect world the nominees for best picture of 2001 would be Man who wasn't there, In the bedroom, Mulholland drive, Ghost World and Bully. Oh well, see them all!!Don't believe the hype, Bully is VERY different from kids.Very entertaining, with a powerful message. Too bad it didn't get much of a chance in the theatres. People need to stop overlooking movies like this, they are very important. Movies that mean something and take you into a another world, so that when you leave, you understand a little bit better, or feel a little bit more normal.Kids do stupid things not because they're stupid but because everything is so important and they don't think about the consequences of what they're doing. In the moment, that's what it is. Oh well. It's an awkward time...I'll stop preaching.See the movie with an open mind.10/10   "},{"Title":"Read the book, seen the movie","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I read the book and the last half of it had me hooked until it was finished. Then I still couldn't sleep! The movie is great as well. A must see. A movie that I'm sure relates to everyone in high school...dealing with a bully! "},{"Title":"bully","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really wanted to like this movie.  I had read reviews of both the positive (it's raw and uncompromising) and the negative (needlessly graphic) nature and was quite intrigued.  I decided that any one film that could garner such opposing and passionate responses must be worth watching.  So I rented it the day it was released.  I'm not going to give a synopsis, because one can be found on the main page.  So I watched the film.  At first I was interested and then let down.  The dialogue seemed to be very forced and unauthentic, there was pointless sex (yes, we know that teens have sex and lots of it, so we don't need countless crotch-shots) and parts of the script were just odd.  It has many unrealistic portrayals of teens and I found myself laughing at times and others, just embarrassed for Larry Clark, who really tries to be hip.  There is an explicit rape scene, which I must admit, is impressive in its intensity, but I was left confused afterward.  Nick Stahl rapes Bijou Phillips and then she runs out of the bedroom and tells Rachel Miner she's been raped and runs outside bumping into Stahl's father.  He walks inside and into his bathroom, where he meets Stahl, who is still naked and the two spark up a conversation about a stereo store they had been talking about.  Why was this included?  I found that it just destroyed the mood set by the previous scene.There is also a major problem with casting credibility.  I had a hard time believing that Stahl, with his relatively small physique, could bully Brad Renfro, who is much larger.  On a purely psychological level however, Stahl is masterful in creating a truly creepy character and I don't doubt that a large part of the bullying aspect is the psychological part of it.  I think if the two switched roles, we would have a far more believable story.  On a closer look, the actors do an admirable job of creating such stupid kids.  But I felt bad for the actors, in the hands of another director this could have been made into a masterpiece that doesn't rely on exploiting them. Parts of the film seemed to be accepted too easily.  Someone mentions killing Stahl and everyone's just like, yeah, sounds like a plan.  I eventually felt sympathy for Stahl's character and could care less about Renfro and his co-horts, which I suspect is exactly the point; that it was Rachel Miner who was the vicious one.I really liked Michael Pitt.  He played one of the best stoners I've seen in a while.  In actuality I had never heard of or seen any of these actors before, with the exception of Renfro who I remembered from Sleepers.  But Stahl I think, does the best job, he's almost hypnotic to watch.  He reminded me of someone, but I don't know who.  Don't ask me why, but the film reminded me of the song, The Night The Lights Went Out In Georgia, even though the stories aren't the same.  I think that despite my dissatisfaction in watching the film, that it is important to see. If anyone has doubts as to the decline of American teenagers (myself being the latter) watch this film.  Don't get me wrong, there are some excellent scenes.  Stahl's final scenes are brutal.  There are flashes of wit and brilliance, but they're clouded by exploitation and shock attempts.Since seeing the film I went to see a Sissy Spacek film called In The Bedroom, which to my surprise featured our Bully Stahl.  I was quite impressed that he could be so good in both roles and films (Bedroom is much better).  If you liked Kids, you should adore this.  I would urge people to seek out Clark's other film Another Day In Paradise if you haven't.  Also, Bully is based on a true story from the early nineties, which left me asking,  why are the actors watching Eminem videos in the film, when he was only going through puberty in the early nineties?  I don't know.6/10 "},{"Title":"By far....","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  By Far, One of the BEST movies I have ever seen. This movie, which is based on a true story, will leave you completely speechless after you watch this movie. Don't want to give away what the movie is about, so go experience it yourself. Now I will sound like a TV commercial, but this movie is truly a must have!! "},{"Title":"10/10 Brilliant and Controversial","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a person who considers himself moral by nature, I must say I was quite put off at first by Bully.  But as the story progresses, and you realize just how messed up these kids are, the film starts to grow on you.  By the final frame, you are left shell shocked and disturbed.  Not very many films can do that and then make you wanting to come back for more.Nick Stahl is amazing. "}{"Title":"Sick...but I Couldn't Stop Watching...","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully is a very hard movie to watch. Disturbing in every sense of the word, Bully follows the lives of a group of wasted teenagers who plot to have one of their tormenting friends brutally murdered. As I said before, the movie is sick and twisted, but addicting. All of the characters turn in superb performances, especially Rachel Miner and Bijou Phillips. Nick Stahl equally has a powerful screen presense in this movie. The music is great, the directing borderline beautiful, and the conclusion a masterpiece. I don't think I have ever been so deeply affected by a movie's ending than I was after I saw Bully.  Though not for the squeamish, Bully is a great film. The fact that this movie is based on a true story is beyond my belief. How could these kids do something so heinous and morbid? How could Nick Stahl be so cruel? It is hard to pick sides on who is right and wrong in this movie, because there is no right. See it for yourself. I promise you that this will be one of those movies that stays with you long after the credits have rolled... "},{"Title":"sad but true","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark, that voyeur of teenage decadence, has done it again Bully, easily one of the best movies this year. This true story of a group of socially retarded hedonists who murder one of their own, a twisted sociopath who rapes women who won't watch gay porn with him, is top notch. Calrk directs with a total sense of perversity as these aimless adolescents screw, drink, murder, and rape with raw abandon. Marty (Brad Renfro) is a high school drop out who has long been dominated by his sadistic friend Bobby. There is a disturbing undercurrent of homosexuality to their strange friendship (Bobby forces Marty to work on a gay phone sex line and rapes his girlfriend for kicks). Its not long before Marty and His new girlfreind begin to hatch a plot to murder this wannabe Marquis De Sade. Bully is an extremely graphic film, built to show you a world you would rather know nothing about. Yet, I'm sure it's a dark trip you won't soon forget, unlike your usual diet of Rush Hour 2 and Bandits. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Explosively dramatic","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Absolutely incredible job by Larry Clark... and brilliantly acted by Brad Renfro (as usual)... This movie coasts on some really great ideas on how to lighten up the whole storyline... As grim as it is, the dialogue can't help but make you burst out in laughter here and there... This was a very F-d up situation, and one that people should see... Nudity adds to the realistic nature of the film, although it does get really graphic at times, it is, nevertheless, entertaining...I highly recommend this film, and anticipate owning the release... "},{"Title":"A disturbingly frank look at teenage amorality in Suburbia, USA","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although a bit exploitative, Bully - based on real events that took place in 1993 - is an intriguing look at a set of normal suburban teenagers for whom life has developed no real meaning.Marty (Brad Renfro) and Bobby (Nick Stahl) are childhood best friends living in Hollywood, Florida--a sun-drenched Miami suburb. When they aren't working in a fast-food sandwich shop, they spend their time surfing, driving around and picking up girls. Bobby, the smarter of the pair (which isn't saying much), sees Marty as his physical, mental and social punching bag, abusing him in front of their friends or attractive girls. Bobby is shown to be equally abusive to everyone in their small circle of friends, culminating in an extremely unpleasant rape scene as Bobby forces his victim to Say I'm the best you've ever had! while he grabs her by her hair.When Marty begins dating the equally aimless Lisa (Rachel Miner), she begins to fantasize with him about what their lives would be like if Bobby no longer existed, how it would really be best for everyone. She suggests they murder him, and they casually mention their plans to the other members of their social circle. Not wanting to seem prudish, their friends smile and say things like, Wow, are you serious? and Cool... and they begin planning their attack.These aimless, dim-witted teenagers finally find a common sense of purpose as they plot to kill the monstrous Bobby. They set up meetings at Pizza Hut and plan the murder as if they were a 4-H club arranging a surprise birthday party for one of their fellow members. These meetings are led by the unbalanced Lisa, whose new-found determination gradually transforms her from a disheveled mouse of a girl into a trashy/glamorous femme-fatale. Miner's captivating, surprising performance is full of nuance and rage, recalling a young Piper Laurie. The young actors all do a remarkable job of realizing these characters that are troubled and sympathetic even as they willfully head toward becoming monsters themselves. They all want so much to fit in that none has the courage to speak up and say, Wait a minute...what the HELL do we think we're doing? Even Bobby is shown to be a product of a domineering father, repressed homosexual desires and self-loathing. Unfortunately, after being convincingly depicted as a horribly confused teen, he disappears from the film only to resurface when his friends' plan is set into motion. Here, any further character-development is abandoned as he occasionally grabs someone's crotch or tells them to give him a blow-job, indicating that no, he has not had a change of heart and yes, he still deserves to die.The acting by the adults in the film is less convincing, even wooden. This doesn't hurt the film, really, and may have even been intentional. It creates a sense that the parents are completely out of touch with the lives their children are leading. They are awkward when addressing their kids, don't relate to them emotionally and can only offer advice like, Ok...you kids have fun now and stay out of trouble.Aside from one obtrusive, dizzying camera swirl and some close-up crotch shots that seem randomly inserted into the film, Bully is a disturbing, thought-provoking look at how some basically good kids are drawn into committing a gruesome, unimaginable act for which none of them are emotionally or psychologically equipped.  "},{"Title":"A Very Dark Movie","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark's newest film, Bully is a non-stop ride of explicit sex, violence, and drugs, in much the same spirit, as his hit film Kids.  Unlike Kids, Bully is based on a true story that occurred in Hollywood (a suburb of Ft Lauderdale), Florida in July 1993.Mr. Clark based this movie heavily on the book, Bully by Jim Schutze.  VERY heavily.  In fact, up until after the murder, the movie pretty much reads line for line out of the book.  After, the murder Mr. Clark takes a little creative licensing on events.  For example, Marty Puccio's house was not raided by the police in real life. He turned himself in.  It was Derek Kaufman 'The Hitman' whose house was raided.  But these are small quibbles.  Also, Mr. Clark didn't cover any of the trials or much of the post-murder police investigation.  But, again, these are minor in terms of the story he is portraying.Two bigger changes that Mr. Clark made was Bobby and Marty's supposed steroid use and Lisa's weight problem.  In the book, Marty and Bobby are portrayed as muscle bound steroid users, with steroid aggression, beating up on anybody that got in their way.  Whether they actually used steroids or not, Marty and Bobby were very well built in real life.  Compare a photo of the real Bobby Kent to one of actor Nick Stahl and you'll see what I mean.  The reason, I bring this up, is the book makes it easier to see why people were intimidated and fearful of Bobby Kent.  It is kind of hard seeing Mr. Stahl as this ruthless bully.In the book, Mr. Schutze makes a big point of Lisa Connelly's weight problem.  In the movie Lisa (played by Rachel Miner) is very thin and in good shape.  The weight problem, which caused her to have problems with getting boyfriends in the book, makes her determination of staying with Marty despite abuse and rape, more understandable.A casual viewer might not understand why these kinds of points are relevant but they are since the book explored the dynamics of these dysfunctional personalities, whereas, the movie just displays them with no background or foundation.  In other words, the book better explored the backgrounds and personalities of the characters than the movie did.Overall, I like the movie for its entertainment value and enjoyed watching it despite its very dark nature.  I think the young actors (especially Brad Renfro) were great.  I think the camera work was excellent.  And the music was outstanding.BUT, with that being said.  Do not take anything in this movie as 100% factual.  There are a great many people who do not believe the book Bully to be completely accurate.  I personally believe the book to be very fictionialized and completely disliked how Mr. Schutze approached the subject.  For example, Mr. Schutze gives no references for any of the 'facts' in his book.  One is left to guess if they came from court documents, police reports, the convicted killers, or his own imagination.  Some events he described were detailed to the point of unbelieveability.  Even his narrative is flawed and inconsistencies can be noticed from one page to another.  There are many other flaws in it but this is not the forum to be listing them.  I am just pointing this out since the movie was based off the book and therefore might not be completely accurate to what really happened.Before you see this movie, beware that it is unrated.  If it had been rated I couldn't imagine any rating below an NC-17.  I actually saw a few older people walk out of the theater during the explicit sex scenes.  There is also gay sex, rape, drug use, and heavy violence.  So if you do not like that kind of material I would not recommend you see this movie.If you do go and see it stay thru the whole credits.  Mr. Clark listed the killers original sentences just before the credits started but a few of them (Marty, Lisa, and Ali's) were significantly reduced on appeal and two (Derek Dzvirko and Heather) have been released after serving a few years each in prison.  Mr. Clark lists this info AFTER the credits roll. "},{"Title":"Disturbing, but EXCELLENT!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am going to see this movie a second time. I cant wait till the DVD comes out too. I rarely ever want to own a video/dvd, of a movie, but this one I want forever.It accurately shows how stupid teens can be these days, the drug scene, and what can happen. Based on a true story. I took my 22 year old Frat brother to it, and he immediately called his girlfriend and said I just saw the strangest movie.. it was soooooooo GOOD.I highly recommend this film. If you surf, you would dig as well. "},{"Title":"Tough little movie","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a tough little movie with nothing to say beyond what it shows. It is riveting and sad. It is well written. The acting is superb. It's really an ensemble work....the interplay between the characters is masterful. Standout is Brad Renfro who brings eloquence and subtlety to a difficult role. The actor becomes the part, it all flows from a committed core. Not far behind are Bijou Philips and Michael Pitt....... real naturals. The movie sticks with you after you leave the theatre. Quite sobering. A note on sex there is a lot of it, but it's never prurient or titillating. It's always to the point. It's pervasive, provides motivations, and creates ambiguities never fully resolved. No cheap thrills here. "},{"Title":"this hurts.","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a movie that hurts. It's a good flick, it just hurts. Larry Clark likes to make people dizzy and sick to their stomach. He accomplishes that no prob bob in this movie. Nick Stahl and Brad Renfro were pretty good in this movie...David McKenna(Blow,American History X) writes a good, believable script. Watching Stahl rape Renfro's girlfriend while watching gay porn was a little much for me though. Not recommended for people with light stomachs.Brad "},{"Title":"This was a movie that had to be made","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark gave us KIDS and now he brings us BULLY.  This man is a gifted director that knows how to bring controversial subjects to the screen.  He knows the teen genre well and tells his stories to be perceived as brilliantly realistic.  This story has to be told.  If you have ever been bullied you have always dreamed of killing that bully.  Well this is your chance to see what the consequences of your actions can lead to.  I know as a bullied kid myself, I wanted to kill my bully but never had the chance. I am hoping this film will try and help those who have been bullied get over it.  It sure helped me.  I do realize this is based on a true story and I am sorry to hear that but we  need to show bullies that there can be consequences to their actions.   "},{"Title":"I thought it was a brilliant film","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I happened to catch this film late last week and when I finally had the chance to see it all the way through I thought it was kind of brilliant really.I disagree with what others have said about there being too much sex. This was one of the few films where I think I understood why there was so much.First off I want to say that I think it's another film that falls within the genre of 'the aftermath of the American Dream'. This is a world where the kids have everything; large luxurious houses, smart cars, parents that are solid and affluent etc.But they chose to live in Florida. There is something intoxicating about living in continual sunshine if you are basically of Northern European descent. What I mean is, you end up with too much of a good thing.Their environment doesn't test them - apart from school exams - which is a sanitised way for society to cream off the best and leave a heaving vat of wasted, average intelligence people to die slowly of misery and relative poverty.Sex is their ticket to thrills they can't get from the concrete jungle that has no trees for climbing; hunting; beating each other up; or climbing up rock faces to get honey etc etc. What I mean is the landscape doesn't test their strength - what tests them is how far they can go with sex and drugs.What teenagers know more than anyone else, is how much hope there is OUT THERE. And I am afraid to say, like so many kids from good homes that end up as part of the underclass, these kids have sussed that all that's left after their society has relocated jobs to the Far East or Eastern Europe, is working in Pizza Restaurants.In this environment, it would seem, murder becomes a solution to lack of motivation. "}{"Title":"Good except for all the unnecessary sex scenes between Renfro and Miner...","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Well first off, as far as acting goes, they all did a pretty good job. For me though, the best performance was by Nick Stahl as Bobby, the bully of Bully. I couldn't stand his character, yet at the same time, I found myself disturbed and disgusted by the scene where he was brutally murdered by his supposed best friend and his gang of skeevy accomplices. I also found it sad that the only character with any real potential for a future was the one that was killed, although I know this film was based on a true story so I guess that aspect couldn't really be altered too much. Yes, Bobby was a perverted closet homosexual and a wacked-out psychopath who fed his sadistic nature by beating up his best friend Marty on a regular basis, verbally abusing him to bring down his self-esteem, raping girls, and raping Marty even. But deep down, looking past of all his screwed up flaws and mental issues, you could see that he had potential as a human being to excel in life and make something of himself, as well as the possibility of changing his ways and actually becoming a decent person, maybe after finally coming out of the closet and realizing Marty would still be his friend without being forced to stick around through constant physical and verbal abuse.The rest of the characters annoyed me quite a bit. Marty seemed to have absolutely no depth, minus his desperation to escape the torment of being his best friend's b*tch. His girlfriend Lisa was even worse, with her needy and clingy obsession with Marty, even though she knew nothing about him except that he was a hot surfer babe who was good in bed and as much of a nymphomaniac as she was. Ali was your typical sl*t with zero sexual boundaries, willing to basically screw anyone and anything that was a willing participant, including her female drug addict friend Heather, another irritatingly shallow character. Heather's character was that of a skanky dirty-looking bored teenage girl just out of drug rehab. Donny was somewhat entertaining with his obvious stupidity and cluelessness, although he was just as burned out as Heather was, if not more so. Derek really served no purpose as far as characters go. He was just sort of there to go along for the ride. And Leo, the supposed hit man, was just a loser to put it lightly; a loser with a bad temper, actually.The only thing that these characters really have in common is that they are all bored, stupid, rich, spoiled, doped up on drugs, and have the sex drive of a rabbit during the spring time. The sex scenes between Marty and Lisa were too often and completely unromantic. They lacked any real chemistry and had an empty physical relationship that for some reason has Lisa convinced that it was true love. To be honest, the relationship between Marty and Lisa drove me nuts because it reminded me of a relationship I once had when I was around the same age they were. That was probably the only aspect of the movie I could really relate to considering I've never been that bored or wealthy that I decided to gather up some random acquaintances and go murder someone I don't care much for.As far as plots go, the story is tragically pathetic due to the characters being so eager to kill this guy that they were completely unprepared to handle the consequences of getting caught, which naturally, they did. It's a sad story, especially since it's true, but like I said, the only character I liked was the actual bully, Bobby. The rest of them were just plain annoying. And to be honest, if that's how these dumb kids actually were in reality, then I'm glad they're in prison. They shouldn't be allowed to reproduce anyway. My rating is 6 out of 10 stars, strictly for Stahl's character. "},{"Title":"Great Nick Stahl vehicle...","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" BULLY could have been awful, and probably should have been awful. But it wasn't, and this is in large part due to its cast; especially Nick Stahl who plays the lead protagonist Bobby, an aggressive, sexually disoriented misogynist and suburban nightmare. Two friends, Bobby and Marty, don't do much with their lives smoke pot, have phone sex with older men, screw the local girls, surf, drive around; rinse and repeat. Bobby, despite being Marty's longest friend, is a despicable bully, hitting and demeaning Marty at every turn, embarrassing him whenever he deems fit. It's only when Marty meets a new girl and finds partial love and acceptance does some light shed on his relationship with his supposed best friend. After a series of way unfortunate events, a plan is devised by Marty and his girlfriend Lisa to kill Bobby and end his domineering ways once and for all. But when your life is absorbed by drugs and sex, how fool proof can a murder plan be? As the plan slowly comes to fruition, more and more of Marty and Lisa's immature friends are enlisted to help in the slaying, and before anyone knows it, they're all past the point of no return. Tons of nudity by teenage stars, plenty of awkward sex scenes, acid-dropping, pot-smoking; basically all the staple qualities of a Larry Clark film are in full view, and honestly, it works better than it did in Kids. But this movie, all in all, was saved by the acting. Not everyone was great, but a few were, notably Michael Pitt and Rachel Miner. But Nick Stahl was by far the best actor in the film, owning every scene he was in. You hate him, feel pity for him, are disgusted by him, are confused by him, laugh at him and with him, and generally and consistently, are entertained by him. He's another fine character actor I just can't get enough of, and will assuredly be nominated for scores of awards before his time in cinema is up. Very good film not for the squeamish. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Bully' is an impressive movie, there's no doubts about it. First of all, even though the young actors aren't very well-known, the acting is superb, very realistic and convincing. I don't think more well-known actors could make a better job of it. Also, the attractive looks of the actresses definitely contribute to the appeal of this film. Their characters are well developed, which makes it even more realistic. However, I must say that the movie was shot from a men's point of view, which especially shows in some of the close-ups of the female characters. The girls were very easy and didn't have to be asked for sex because they offered it of their own accord. Also the dialog was so realistic and believable. I couldn't help marveling at the way they talked and behaved, it seemed so real. It made me scared, made me laugh, and made me emotional. I was watching it with complete awe. One frightening thing about the depicted events was the relationships the kids had with their parents. The parents actually had no idea what their own children were up to. They fell so easily for what they told them and didn't try to take a deeper interest in their lives. And that again is so true to life, because it is often the case that parents don't really know their own children, they trust them too much and fall for their lies. All in all, an amazing flick that will blow you away. "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant.......Bully is one of the best film of the 2001","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Hi friends here in IMDb, well i want to say that today Friday March 30, was the day in which i saw Bully........and here i am comment about this film, the reason is simple i like it a lot. I saw on National TV like 2 years ago a part of this film but i couldn't finish it and never know the name of the film but a friend told me that when i talk to him about the film.Well lets comment about the film Bully is a simple history of revenge but the director could do much more and bring to us brilliant scenes and of course the actors, most of them unknown but they are excellent in the film. The fact that is based in a true story makes Bully the movie that the parents most see and in a way this is very important.Bully is brilliant and i hope that you can see and enjoy this film like i did.... Bully 10/10PD well like a funny comment, don't you look similar the main character of the film with the character of Bully, the video game of Rockstargame.......well just a comment in a funny way.........also Bully VG is brilliant. "},{"Title":"Amazing film","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved this film!! It was true and exciting and shows how people can effect others lives. Bobby got what was coming to him, its just a shame that the naive group of kids had to be the ones to do it, and set their lives up to end! By the end of the movie i was feeling so many emotions i couldn't wait to show my boyfriend. He hated it!Its a personal taste, if its not your style it will disturb you.. If it is you'll love itRecommend it to everyoneGeniusI've seen the actors in a few movies since and i automatically felt for them, it was weird! As their so young and naive you really feel sympathy for them "},{"Title":"Education starts at home.","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A true story with a social message. I can't truly see the comparisons with Kids. In Bully it is shown that kids of upper social classes can also be a disease in society. The bully truly made some lives miserable but that isn't a justification for his murder. The acting is surprisingly good. A generation of new talented actors/actresses started with this movie. The sex scenes, or drug related material is very toned down compared with movies of these likes.The trial does not last as long as I would like, but still it's an important scene. So, the events in this movie can happen anywhere. Social class does not means education. "},{"Title":"Not very good at all, but read on","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" As a movie, it was awful. I went into this film not knowing it was a true story, or that it was based on a book. Throughout my entire viewing, i couldn't stop thinking how empty all the dialog was, and wondered if there would be any kind of pivotal scene. The only redeeming factor was the very end, as in the credits, when i discovered that this had apparently actually happened. However, i think the fact that it failed to entertain before i knew it was based on actual events says a lot about the quality of the film, and begs the question Does this movie only serve as a visual aid to the book, and not as a movie that can stand by itself? My answer is yes. I think that if u have a real interest in the story or have read the book this movie might be vaguely interesting, but otherwise i'd skip it. The characters are under-developed, there's nothing particularly interesting about the directing or cinematography...just a hole lot of empty sex scenes and violence. Definitely not worth the time of the average person. "},{"Title":"Controversial shouldn't always be considered a 'unmissable'","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Films like Larry Clarks 'Bully' seem to be becoming more and more popular. Unknown actors and the 'fly on the wall' style is now considered an 'arty' form of film making, and I'm all for trying out different styles and ideas. I'm also all for films that challenge the audience, make us feel uncomfortable, and don't gloss over the truth with happy ever afters.However, this film far exceeds all of the above. It is grotesque, horrendous, and UN -beleivably painful to watch. I bought it because i had seen 'Kids' (another film of Clarks) which i thought was superb. This took everything that was good about that film, added 50 scenes of animalistic sex, explicit language, graphic violence, and more. There is absolutely no point to this film. It isn't entertaining, in fact, its the exact opposite. I finished watching it and had this immense need to stress how awful it is.. It doesn't teach us anything, we have absolutely NO feelings with any of the characters, and its repetitive need to focus on sex is boring.We don't have to enjoy films to make them good, thats obvious. Bully has absolutely nothing about it that i could use to encourage one to watch it. The ONLY positive is the acting, again, like in Kids, the young people used in the film are incredibly believable. Even so, you can't help feeling like some kind of voyeuristic 'peeping Tom' just by watching 10 minutes of this film. "},{"Title":"Anarchic Justice","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Perhaps unconsciously, Larry Clark's exploration of teenage degeneracy and de-facto nihilism does a brilliant job of depicting the nihilistic consequences of life in an absurd world bereft of value...Spoilers This stark and appropriately gritty film presents, in a delightfully ungilded manner that keeps with the exploitation film genre, the last chapter in the lives of titular bully Bobby, his supposed best friend Marty, and the other disaffected, suburban youth that become involved in an eventually successful conspiracy to murder the aforementioned personification of all the problems with which these teens, and society in general, are grappling. The fitting focus of the characters' collective derision is a member of the upper class (as his domineering father, while firmly rooted in the same upper-middle income bracket as the rest of the community, affects a supercilious attitude toward his son's seemingly directionless, that is to say non-business-driven surfer cohort), whose future in the aristocracy can in no way be jeopardized by his brutal acts toward his peers, whom he keeps in a thrall of impotent fear akin to that in which his father holds him. While his father plans for college and a future in stereo sales (entirely disregarding any differing, autonomous desires his offspring may have about his own life), Marty, a high school drop-out and father-to-be (though the paternity of the fetus is questionable, possibly the product of Bobby, who raped Marty's girlfriend Lisa), must languish in a seemingly empty career in pizza delivery, or some other dead-end job symptomatic of suburban life. When Lisa's best friend is also raped by this reptilian sociopath content to use all people as objects of his perverted, ultimately homo-erotic lust (alluded to in less than subtle terms), a posse of random strip-mall archetypes are assembled to help Marty and Lisa rise up and exact vengeance for which they would pay with their already wasted lives. These accomplices include an obese, video-game obsessed virgin afflicted seemingly with arrested development, an aspiring Mafioso poseur, the drug-addled, kinky pretty-boy lover of Alli (the hardened best friend of Lisa and one of Bobby's literal rape victims), and the latter's waif-like friend who embarks on this mission right out of rehab. Each of these well-played characters contributes something, either helpful or otherwise, to the caper, and lends the potentially simple murder a revolutionary quality, as these oppressed, abandoned punks take back their formerly unused agency and end the life of he who ruined theirs (if not he himself, his class and kind)...The communal, cooperative event of the murder claims one of the more deserving (if anyone can be said to deserve death (whatever deserve means)) characters in recent cinema history, in spite of his obvious humanity and occasional poignancy, though the law only serves to punish further these scarred children who were just doing what the video games, gangsta rap and class-war violence in general had conditioned and divided them to do. However, their underlying nihilism (which created the lack of unity that resulted in their apprehension (and got them apprehended)) turned what could have been a beauteous act of empowering activism into yet another f**k-up in a life full of them... "},{"Title":"Wow....","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie tonight and could not look away. I mean, I felt kind of like a pervert for watching 'teenagers' get naked and all that..... but after a while you are numbed out to the sex and nudity, just as I presume these kids were. Not to mention the drugs..... these kids had heavily messed up lives.Thumbs up to Bijou Phillips...excellent job.....When I found out that this was a true story and there were elements even beyond what I had surmised in the film, I was both bowled over and sad. What a terrible fate for a bunch of suburban kids with every opportunity to get it straight.The only reason the 'bully' was on the straight and narrow is because it seemed like his strict father (who spends far too much time in the bathroom with the 'bully' character while he was naked for my comfort...what the heck was that??)would kick his butt into next week if he didn't.....& look what that turned him into...... A sociopath, homosexual hating, abusive rapist....for goodness sake let loose of the reins a little dad and let the kid figure out what all these feelings of rage are about..... I wish this kid had been able to figure out his sexuality & get some help .....He needed to deal with himself rather than take it out on others & then die at the hands of Marty and the friends of those he tormented.....The portrayals of the kids in this culture were so achingly real that I wanted to switch the TV off and go to bed, but was drawn into this real life hell that they lived in.I mean, the girls that keep going back for more. Sex and rape are exchanged like currency. It just seems like, 'oh well.... you have a boyfriend and his icky friend wants to get with you.... then you better let him'. I mean, you think that problems like that are not going on, but they are. Now I know where all the 'That's My Baby's Daddy' Jerry Springer guests come from....(.... I feel sorry for the confused, angry, bitter and sad Marty.... humiliated, beaten, raped for years.... acting out against his girlfriend & on his own life by becoming a 'less than'.....was any of that was taken into any account by the jury? ...... I guess I can relate because I am not sure that as a teen that the same kind of idiotic plot would go through my mind if the abusiveness of a peer was that severe.I have to say, this is a must see...it shines for & beyond it's sad plot...like 'Boys Don't Cry', 'Heavenly Creatures' or 'Monster' ....it is a movie I was deeply touched and I hurt inside for those in real life who suffered (whether their cause was right or wrong, they suffered).... but one I will never watch again..nor do I need to..I will not forget. "}{"Title":"The most powerful film I've ever seen","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I stumbled across Bully while watching TV late at night. I assumed it was going to be some lame teen movie we've seen time and time again. I was absolutely wrong! Bully has to be one of the most powerful and disturbing films I've EVER seen. The acting is superb, especially by Leo Fitzgerald and Daniel Franzese. The real star of the film is Nick Stahl as Bobby Kent. While he doesn't look even remotely like the real Bobby Kent, his portrayal is simply amazing. It's a shame his performance was largely overlooked. This film is definitely not for everyone. It's one of those movies you either love or hate. Either way, Bully is a film you won't soon forget. "},{"Title":"Idle hands are the devil's workshop","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Did these kids have zero supervision or what? Most of their parents walked around in a dream state as to what was going on in their childrens' lives. Apparently the brats were well cared for financially because they always had their smokes, booze, dope, and nice cars. The bully certainly deserved to have some serious ass-whup put on his worthless, perverted hide and so did his killers. What a worthless collection of sexual deviants, crybabies, and tough guy wannabes. This picture proves what I've said for a long time if you want to kill someone; do it alone, bury the body deep, and never tell a soul - not even your own mother. These blabbermouths couldn't wait for even one day before they began spreading their evil deeds all over town. The stupids deserved their fate. "},{"Title":"I will never pick on anyone again","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I must hand it to Larry Clark, after seeing his previous work, I thought it would be impossible for me to find a movie of his with a good storyline. Everything from Clark's other films are in this, a ton of nudity, unneccesary sex, drug use, and teens so stupid that it borders on stupidity. However, all of Clark's films are also entertaining, not because they are art, but because they keep you surprised and paying attention. Same goes with this wonderful film. The story seems straight out of fiction, so I was surprised to find out it was based on true events. A group of friends, after being harrassed by a kid who seems to be part evil part senile decide to kill him. I won't ruin any of the story after that point, but I must add that the characters are so stupid in this flick that it seems, oddly enough, real. The acting is right on, although I have something against the directing. The directing and camera work seems to pin in incredibly useless places. I have two knacks against it, one being a useless closeup on a girl's crotch, and another that has the camera circling around the group atleast 10 times, enough to make anyone sea sick. However, those minor problems aside, this film strikes a chord not soon to be forgotten. This film is a good flick if you look past the minor problems, and it will leave an impression on you for a while. 8/10 Pros good-par acting, well written script, good character developement, and tons of shocks. Cons Poor camera work and useless sex scenes. "},{"Title":"Hooray for Larry Clark !!!!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw the unrated version of Bully on one of the premium movie channels the other night and I thoroughly enjoyed it. This is definitely the best movie from 2001 that I have seen on pay cable this year. It gets the top rating from me.I'm so glad there are a least a few directors like Larry Clark still around. He doesn't care if he offends a lot of people and that's the attitude that more directors SHOULD have. He makes movies like they were made in the heyday of movie-making (1976-1985), when movie makers took chances and were concerned more about art than money. One of the reasons I don't like most of today's movies is because most mainstream directors try to go for the broadest audience possible and are such slaves to political correctness and that gosh-awful PG-13 rating (which, by the way, is ruining American cinema).I'll be politically incorrect myself my saying I really enjoyed all the nudity in Bully and I don't think it was excessive or gratuitous. It's refreshing to see nudity actually done by actresses playing leading roles in mainstream movies instead of by body doubles or silicone-infested porn actresses. This movie is a very raw and realistic look at teenage life in the early 21st century. There's nothing sugar-coated about it, which means this movie is not for everyone. As I alluded to earlier, they just don't make enough movies that anymore. I will also say that I was pleasantly surprised by Rachel Miner's performance. I had never seen her in a role like that before.  "},{"Title":"Remarkable","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  (8/10) Controversial movie from Larry King (director of Kids). No-one can quite capture/portray realistic teenage performances like this guy. Based on a true story of teenage bullying that gets too much and the kids gang up on one of their own. It has a lot more going for it than violence for the sake of it. As in his earlier movie, we see the adolescents having to face the responsibilities of their actions in a way that teenagers are often poorly equipped to do. We see them carried away by emotion, passion, all convincingly justified, but flying in the face of common sense. King's films might be one of the best tools we have for helping angry young people learn about themselves before it is too late. Sadly, they are classified 18 or often censored.  "},{"Title":"sh*t sandwich","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" How can you make a realistic,gritty film about a group of outcast drug taking misfit teenagers? Get a bunch of models to play them obviously! I found myself laughing at this film on several occasions including the acting of the lead role of Marty with his pouty i'm so messed up looks. In my opinion the only good point that this film raises is that of how the teenagers in the real story it is based on could be so flippant and not understanding what so ever the consequences of their actions. One of the answers the film seem to offer to this is that they do a lot of drugs (well pot which can't really be considered a drug) and acid which isn't exactly a sign of being depraved either. Another is that it's in the culture around them of hip hop (and there's nothing that i hate more than watching rich white Americans thinking that they are gangster). In the real life case Bobby (the bully) was apparently forcing Marty to have sex with him which is a much more feasible reason for murder. The mafia hit-man who aids them in the murder was another laughing point. Played by the gangly nerd from Kids, he's the most un convincing psycho/hardman in film history.The stupidity of this film is summed up by the fat kid who wonders if there's some sort of fine print that incriminates people for being at the scene of a crime and not reporting it. Idiots. Overall I truly do like the premise of the film and want to read the book however the story is wasted by awful casting and poor character development, I don't know how anyone could claim that this film is too real for some people, real compared with mainstream Hollywood maybe, wannabe shock factor otherwise. "},{"Title":"I am astonished - truly astonished - that so many decent-minded filmgoers and critics have so many positive things to say about this vile bag of tasteless garbage","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Watching Bully was one of the more agonizing, repulsive experiences of my time as an avid film-goer. Right from the unasked-for pornographic vulgarism of its opening few seconds, I detested every single tasteless, offensive moment of it. When it was all over, and I hadn't enjoyed or been fascinated or involved or interested or liked a single moment of it, it sunk right down onto my list of the ten worst movies I've ever seen. But what astonished me the most was when I discovered that the brilliant and insightful critic Roger Ebert, whom I admired and I still admire greatly to this day, awarded it his highest honor of four stars and called it a bizarre masterpiece. His costar Richard Roeper, whom I also admire as a movie critic, presented it with equal praise. But what was more astonishing to learn was that a vast array of other people - other people with taste and culture - liked this movie an awful lot. I've read many reviews in defense of the film about how it was based on real circumstances and a real-life murder, and that its director Larry Clark was trying to make a point about how drugs and bad company can twist the younger generation into sick, wicked, reprehensible miscreants. But you know what? That most certainly does not make it pass for a good movie.Bully is crammed end-to-end with repulsive images and dialogue, right from the beginning where our protagonist tells somebody on the phone to make oral contact with his genitals. What follows after this are many vulgar, sickening moments of bad dialogue, and countless moments where adolescents strip naked and sweat the sheets before our very eyes. And this happens over and over and over again, sometimes scene-after-scene. I have always been of the opinion that sex scenes are a complete waste of time in movies and Bully, if I may say so, rectifies my statement. What's worse, moments like these don't seem to stand up for the director's supposed intentions, as they will, in my opinion, turn on the audience instead of warning them. What will also do so is the movie's awful methods of making young women seem subhuman by treating them more as sex objects. Of course, when a young man is naked in the movie, we don't see anything of him from the waist down, but we get full body shots of Rachel Miner and other women and the camera wanders up and down their flesh and private parts, treating them as flesh and blood without hearts, feelings, or respect. This seems more encouraging to the concupiscent members of the audience than foreboding.The movie prefers to drag on with moments like these instead of focusing on the motivation of the characters to murder Bobby Kent, played with charisma by Nick Stahl. During its scenes of gratuitous sex and drug use, it ignores and throws away the fact that these kids want to murder Bobby, and as a result, the movie does not have any kind of primitive purpose. Was that because we were supposed to get in the shoes of the weed-smoking characters? That's not a good idea to begin with and I did not follow them at all. Nor did I learn anything except how vile and ugly an exploitation film can be if done wrong. Very wrong.And what's more depressing is that Bully is not even a very good movie on a technical level. Clark's directing and editing style is choppy and static, using his longer takes when examining naked female bodies as though searching gemstones for a blemish, and quicker takes when trying to expose plot information. And then there is that terrible, terrible moment when the camera spins like a top several times in the middle of a circle of characters. It's rare when the 180-degree camera rule is broken where it works, and here it is broken several times and never works. Were we supposed to feel like we were high on drugs like the characters? Gee, what a tactful and goodhearted decision. And then there is the movie's climax, which is edited so badly and shot so badly that it looks like a couple of kids shot it with a home video camcorder and edited it by shooting in sequence.The performances by the cast of young talented actors and actresses are surprisingly good, but even they are not really redeeming qualities of the movie. Everybody in this movie is vulgar and stupid and reprehensible and I could not get involved in any kind of way, not even to a certain degree, as hating them as villains. And I feel sorry, truly sorry for Rachel Miner and the other cast members who were stripped naked and had their bodies exploited by the camera over and over and over again. The bar was lowered long before Bully was made with exploitation films, but it pushes the bar even lower, I say, because it has no real goal. It's just an ugly, terrible film without any redeeming qualities, no taste, no sense, no timing, no nothing. It's just one unendurable minute after another. It's just treacherous, bad film-making. It's fair to say that I hated this movie as much as I've hated any bad movie I've ever seen. Just because it's based on real events and tries to say something does not make it a good picture. Seldom before have I ever wished a movie would just stop with a dead-end and finish its running time with a blank, noiseless screen. You want to see a movie that looks similar, but is brilliant? See Stanley Kubrick's insane but fascinating A Clockwork Orange, which is also maniacal and out of the ordinary, but clarifies its intentions and does it with brilliance. This is nothing but a bag of vile, tasteless garbage and I hope I never have the displeasure to see it again. "},{"Title":"Clichd and exploitative","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bully is another chapter in Larry Clark's continuing crusade to tell everyone that the kids aren't alright. Even before I learned that this was a Clark-movie I noticed the obvious similarities to his previous piece, Kids. Whereas Kids was frightening in its realism, Bully is annoyingly blunt. Everybody's a slut, a dope-head or a rapist. Motivations are not elaborated on. Characters just love, hate and abuse each other for no apparent reason at all. Maybe that in itself is the message Clark is trying to convey, but it's not very plausible, let alone interesting to watch. What's worse is that the director doesn't miss any opportunity to show some underage nudity, rape and sex scenes. Hey, we all have the based on a true story label to fall back on, right? Ugh, it doesn't get much more clichd and exploitative than this. Look for some new topics please, Mr. Clark! "},{"Title":"So....Bad....","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  No one will ever convince me that watching this movie was time well spent. Sure, I watched all of it, but that was because I wanted to see if it would get any worse, and sure enough, it did.And so I spent almost two hours watching retarded teenagers fumbling around, playing video games, doing drugs in convertibles in BROAD DAYLIGHT (and somehow not getting caught), and most importantly, having sex. How much sex? Well, the leading lady spends two thirds of the movie completely starkers for absolutely no reason. I guess she doesn't have that many clothes. Well, hey--we all KNOW that when American teenagers aren't playing video games or doing acid or planning how to murder each other, they are stripping down to their scrawny birthday suits, right? RIGHT? (gag)After a while, you just get ticked off with Larry Clark's direction why must this guy make a point of, for instance, shooting tight close-ups in on every single girl's rear end? To make a point about teenage exploitation in today's society? PLEASE. You're engaging in it yourself, you sanctimonious creep. (Bijou Phillips was furious that the director included shots of her genitals in the final cut? Who did she think she was being directed by, Frank Capra?)No exaggeration--Every single character, adult and teenager alike, is singularly stupid and incredibly unlikable. The main antagonist has the potential to be an interesting character, but the screenwriter's best explanation for his meanness is that his dad is a jerk, which is, to put it mildly, lame. Time that could have been well spent in character development and tension-mounting is instead wasted (pun intended) depicting our unlovable hero and his disfunctional friends put 2 half-baked brain cells together and concoct the most poorly-thought out, unreasoned, unmotivated murder since Cain vs. Abel. And they get naked more, too. Whoopee.I have no idea why this movie was made, but I do think that Kids was a decent, passable movie told in a mediocre, exploitative fashion. THIS movie, however...what were they thinking??? And on top of it all, just when you think this scenario was based off a true story, and thus carries a glimmer of truth, a little disclaimer at the end explains otherwise Some of the characters and persons have been composited, invented and recreated and a number of incidents have been fictionalized, emphasized and exaggerated for dramatic effect. In layman's terms, everything you see here is all Larry Clark's idea, and all Larry Clark's fault. Man, if I was one of the teenage murderers depicted here, I would probably sure for libel--and I would probably win, too.Bottom Line If you like ugly, unlikable, exploitative, voyeuristic, shallow, sanctimonious, heavy-handed, cringe-worthy, hand-wringing, bottom-of-the-barrel movies that insult your intelligence and every decent fiber in your body and between all of this somehow manage to be boring as well--well, this is YOUR movie, Jack. "},{"Title":"Strong Piece.","Date":"17 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Very disturbing all up. More disturbing than the murder itself, or the activities of the bully, was my knowledge that they were going to get caught for the murder well before the point in the storyline when they did it.How foolish and clumsy can you get? The 'hit-man' guy was also foolish to even get involved. He should have sensed that these fools were just that, fools, and had none to do with any of it!So frustrating to see such foolishness. That was the disturbing part. Well crafted tension all the way through, some documentary like moments. Well placed music, diegetic and not.Only found out it was a true story after the fact. Worth a watch to learn how not to do a murder !! "}{"Title":"Frightening true story with a faulty script","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Larry Clark, director of the controversial coming-of-age drama 'Kids', takes a turn into a darker territory of the coming-of-age genre, diving into the story of the infamous murder that took place in Hollywood, Florida in the summer of 1993. This film centers on high school dropout Marty Puccio (played by Brad Renfro) who was friends with a popular kid down the street named Bobby Kent (played by Nick Stahl) since childhood, and was dating a sweet redhead Lisa Connolly (played by Rachel Miner) who also happened to be a high school dropout. As Marty and Bobby grew up, Bobby developed a more sadistic side and began abusing Marty, physically and mentally; and was further more cruel to Marty's girlfriend Lisa Connolly. Fed up with his abuse, Marty and Lisa conspired with some old friends Ali Willis (played by Bijou Phillips), Donny Semenec (played by Michael Pitt), Heather Swallers (played by Kelly Garner), and Lisa's cousin Derek Dzvirko (played by Daniel Franzese); to murder Bobby, with the assistance of self-proclaimed hit-man Derek Kauffman (played by Leo Fitzpatrick).When portraying a chilling story like this, it is important not just to keep it faithful to the real-life event but also give it an authentic touch; a task director Larry Clark slightly stumbles with. There is no doubt that the story is relentlessly frightening and spine-chilling because it is. The film does a solid job at conveying a disturbing atmosphere when depicting the cruelty of youth and juvenile delinquency, the story pulls no punches to shock viewers. As the plot developments, the story hits greatly on the nihilistic nature of the characters. The screenplay is the aspect that lies the film's flaws. The story portrays the teenagers as morbidly trashy with their constant experiments with drugs like marijuana and acid, which several sources have claimed to have been happening during the events. But then there is the explicit sexual activity and nudity that runs rather rampant throughout the picture, with nonsensical nude shots of Rachel Miner and sex scenes that are borderline pornographic. The scenes portray the characters in a more exploitative than realistic manner, and the depiction can be quite appalling for many viewers. Overall, this seems to be the biggest takeaway of the authenticity of the plot, though it doesn't necessarily hurt the story. The performances are fine to very least, Nick Stahl is very convincing as the tyrant and conveys the strong sense of cruelty in his character. Bully is quite a disturbing movie inspired by a true story that leaves chills down your spine. This is film is not bad, could really use a more realistic approach rather and probably a more powerful script. This is film is definitely not recommended for those under 17, mainly for its lewd and disturbing content which can be uncomfortable to sit through. "},{"Title":"some interesting performances","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Marty Puccio (Brad Renfro) is a life long friend to Bobby Kent (Nick Stahl). The problem is that Bobby is a violent bully who is obsessed with gay porn and uses it to dominate his friends. Marty has sex with Lisa Connelly (Rachel Miner) but Bobby beats him unconscious. Lisa discovers she's pregnant and convinces Marty to take out Bobby. She starts recruits her friends Ali Willis (Bijou Phillips), Donny Semenec (Michael Pitt), Heather Swallers (Kelli Garner) and her cousin Derek (Daniel Franzese). The incompetent teens can't get up the courage and decide to get 'hitman' Derek Kaufman (Leo Fitzpatrick) to help.This tale of disenfranchised youth is quite compelling. The young cast is haunting. Renfro, Miner and Stahl are perfect at being these kids who are spending all their time drinking, smoking and going nowhere. This is very much like River's Edge. Director Larry Clark, who directed Kids, is leering a lot at the young people's bodies. The meandering plot and the aimless teens keep the tension not that high. There are some interesting work from the actors. "},{"Title":"Typical Clarck flick based on true events","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Larry Clark and his controversial flicks. If you have seen one of his flicks you know what you will get. A lot of blah blah, teenagers having sex and go skating. Not that in, again, a controversial flick. This is the flick people liked the most coming from his hand because it is based on the murder of Bobby Kent. Two things make it controversial. Teens having sex, do smoke dope and are just hanging around. People will be offended by the nudity of the teens but Larry knew the law, they are all above 18. But they are all unknown 'artists' The second thing that makes it hard to watch is the fact that friends can influence each other to murder a good friend. That it all happened in real life makes it more weird. Just watch they way Bobby was killed...it's not for the easy offended. It's a rather difficult flick to watch due a lot of senseless conversations and the way they are talking to kill their best friend. It isn't filmed like a big production, it's Larry Clarck so shocking for some it will be.Gore 0,5/5 Nudity 2/5 Effects 2/5 Story 4/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Mimic their actions","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie kept my attention but I wasn't sure about the gay aspect of it and why that was important. Overall, I liked the film. I like the use of some of violent scenes where they did not show it. The scene where they brought the bat down in front of the car was pretty graphic by imagination only. I like that. The use of sex is pretty accurate of that culture and is the same location and energy of most high school spring break trips... there, it's just all year like that. I don't think we needed to see all of the full frontal, but I don't think it took away from the film. The hot wax and things like that were things that were mimic'd in my high school because of this movie. We used to joke about some of these things, but would also do it to be cool. Ah, the ignorance of our youth. "},{"Title":"An excellent teenage psychological drama that is gripping throughout","Date":"27 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those films whereby you initially force yourself to watch it just for the sake of viewing just another part of the wider reality. Even though none of the characters have any charm about them, one feels attached to them because they are only misguided teenagers. The director has done an incredible job. What I really appreciated was that how this turned out to be one of those specifically psychological drama that is gripping throughout and you feel tensed throughout as well, and at parts even consider not finding out what happens next. Perhaps because Bobby portrayed the most hateable character whose murder you actually affirm (highly justifiable morally), and the thought of Marty and Lisa getting caught is something you hope against. The ending is very climatic with the perfect soundtrack. I love how the director captures teenage paranoia so well, something I have observed in only a few films. The acting is incredible, especially of Dornie! Also, for me, this film strengthened my stand against capitol punishment. Marty's subjection to the electric chair was the last thing you would hope for. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"30 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Director Larry Clark does a fantastic job in relaying a very important message. As kids we are told to stand up to our bullies. Of course there are the right and wrong way to do things. Unfortunately the teens in this movie make the worst possible decision. Bobby Kent torments his best firmed Marty and rapes multiple girls. They don't make much of an effort to stop Bobby until one day they decide to murder him. Bullying is a huge problem around the world today and this movie shows the high level of emotions one can obtain from being bullied. Stand up for yourself but also make the right decisions. Don't follow your friends because after you do, you may end up realizing how dumb your decisions were. "},{"Title":"True story, but graphic scenes not for everyone...","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is so difficult to rate and definitely not for everyone! If it wasn't based (supposedly very accurately) on a true story, it would be hard to believe kids (and parents) are this trashy, ignorant, & self destructive. It's difficult to watch the graphic rape, nudity, porn, teen sex and bullying, but I understand the movie was trying to show how these kids were so casual about sex and had no self respect, dignity or skills to stand up for themselves. If it wasn't for the fact that it was true, I would've thought this just a stupid, explicit, gratuitous, teen sex film. On the other hand this movie can really open our eyes to how desensitized, ignorant and/or oblivious our society can be to the degradation caused by casual sex, bullying, drugs, teen peer pressure, violent video games, lazy parenting, etc. It's shocking how time after time we hear about kids killing and raping and how disconnected the parents are to the life their kids have been living. **Spoilers** This story shows a boy, Bobby, who has bullied (mentally & physically) his best friend, Marty, all through their childhood. He rapes and mistreats other friends, and is finally killed, through mob mentality, drug influenced, ignorant revenge, but there is so much more to the story. Although this movie is centered on the teens I was disturbed by the parents who give their kids cars, money, no restrictions, and who turn a blind-eye, just letting their kids waste their lives away, hanging out with other deadbeat friends, doing drugs and not giving them any expectations, rules or building blocks to life and self respect. I was frustrated that the parents are so oblivious to their kids cries for help...like the passiveness and ignorance of a mom who lets her daughter hang out in her bedroom (door closed) with boys and girls, doing drugs, making out...and plotting murder; a son who comes to the dinner table in only boxer shorts, with a bruised face and begging his parents to move away from this neighborhood and they just yell at him that they aren't moving; a teen girl who's parents take care of her baby while she runs around half naked, hanging out with friends, having sex, and doing drugs; and the one parent that seems to be hands-on, trying to set expectations and goals for his kid, does it in such a forceful (bulling) way, with no care of the kids thoughts or feelings, that he drives his son to act out his lack of control and frustrations, out on his friends. It's unbelievable and shocking! There are lessons to be learned through this movie, but I doubt that the people who need the lessons would watch or understand. Because of the content (full nudity, sex, rape, porn) you can't really show this movie to kids and it's even too hard-core for teens. Maybe it will further open up the eyes of some of society to what is happening out there in some families, but I'm left with the question...what can we do about it?? The main lessons are to be engaged/involved with your kids! Listen! Be aware!! Don't conform to society... Don't let them do things just because everyone else is doing it...like going to unsupervised homes, dressing slutty, playing violent videos, being disrespectful... Parents do have more control over teens than they think...take away privileges their cars, their phones, money they don't earn and enforcing curfews & restrictions. But the key is Love and Respect and to be involved and hands-on when they are young. If you instill respect, empathy, compassion and self-esteem from when they are babies, you won't have half as much trouble with them when they are older...I digress... anyway, I give it 3 stars for all the nudity, sex, porn, and disgusting content but 7 stars for the truth, grittiness and showing the mentality of these people and situation. I know it's contradictory, but I guess I just want to warn people that it is an interesting story, but definitely hard to view and not for everyone IMHO! March 2014 "},{"Title":"Generally pretty try-hard, but I could only get my hands on a dubbed version","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" To keep this review relatively short, I'm just gonna say that at least in the dubbed version, which of course takes away from the performance of the actors, the mood seems to be pseudo-extreme throughout the movie. There are too many shots that try to provoke the viewer and fail to do so. This wears off rather quickly as well. Maybe 2013 is just too progressive in comparison to 2001. There are better movies and series that explore the transformation of a normal person into a bad guy. Wouldn't really recommend (anymore?), only if the OV significantly improves the quality of the dialog. I might give this a second try, though, because this dub seemed to be especially awful and I would like to compare the versions. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed IT & Made Me Think!","Date":"8 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" What I like about this film was the way it made me think about things, how teenagers think, how naive they are, how a bit of guidance was required, and how they'd feel about what they had done later in life.The film started by doing a good job of making me fell that Bobby was a nasty piece of work who deserves what's coming to him, but then you realise they are all a bunch of misguided idiots who probably deserve all they get also.In the end Bobby is a messed-up teenager who has a father who loves him very much, who will be heart-broken by his death, you are led to appreciate that such violent acts have far reaching consequences, there's far more to this than gaining revenge over a bully.The group who plot the deed talk themselves into it, many believing that if they didn't actually push the knife then there was no blood on their hands, just being there didn't equate to taking part.In summary it showed what a mess this was, kids who didn't appreciate the full consequences of what they were doing, all in denial, many felt that telling all their other friends about it was a cool thing to do, and the fact is if they hadn't spent so much time hanging out with each other and had used their time more constructively, none of this would have happened. Mob-mentality took over, each fuelling the other's egos, none wanting to back out in front of the others, bravado leading to the death of a teenager, who just happened to also be a bully, 20 years later they'll be thinking If only I knew then what I know now! Great film to watch but recognise the lessons being told! "},{"Title":"Sex and drug surfeited teens, trapped in their relationships, murder a bully","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Neo-noir sometimes goes in the direction of narratives of killing, as in In Cold Blood and Badlands. This one is told entirely from the point of view of middle-class teenagers who have cars, do drugs, and are promiscuous. The story I gather is accurate or even a bit toned down from the reality. The acting throughout is excellent, so that you never even doubt that you are watching real people. This is not some cheap film nor is it an exploitation film. It's the story of a murder, and it brings to mind the way that The Honeymoon Killers was done, that is, with ordinary scenes and people of no great intelligence who do evil deeds. And that story also was based on a real case history.We are taken directly into the sex and drug-filled lives of this circle of teens and their parents. Their language is constant expletives. The unrated version takes the sex and nudity for granted.The movie mercilessly depicts the clueless and ineffectual parents and relatives who have raised these indulgent teens who have been using drugs for years. The wider culture is clearly a failure as well. This case is the extreme result.One of the teen boys bullies another boy and has done so for years on end, and they regard themselves as close friends. The bully is bisexual and his violent sex with one teen girl alienates her, plus he is violent toward his buddy's girl friend and interferes in his flirtations with other girls. His bullying leads into the girl friend organizing a conspiracy to kill him. This is no doubt very very dumb. Their moral code and self-control is already stretched exceedingly thin, so that convincing themselves that this is right and the right way to handle the bully is actually realistic, even if hard for the average viewer to understand. But that's what's going on. They do each have individual reservations and they are uncertain about what they are doing and what actually will occur, and this group and individual uncertainty facilitates the ultimate deed.The girl friend loves the bully's victim so deeply that she is possessed by the idea of murdering the bully. He is both a rival, including sexually, but also is harming her beau. Lacking the means to move away from this town as the victim asked his parents to do, murder beckons as their solution.After the murder, certain feelings and fears rise up, but not before. These teens lack the imagination to envision the full force of the consequences. But during the killing and afterward, saving their own skins becomes paramount, and rationalizing their participation becomes important to them. Their conspiracy quickly falls apart. Their tight group cannot hold together in the face of the knowledge of what they have done. The fear of being caught takes over. Furthermore, they cannot help themselves as they blab and confess to others what they have done or what they rationalize has happened.During the killing, they've brought in a young man who is part of a family of criminals, and he tries to get them to see the reality, and he really doesn't succeed. These teens are alive but they are living in a kind of haze such that they are estranged from the reality of murdering someone. The head conspirator has a chat with a friend after the murder and treats the whole thing like any other incident. It is an attempt to be cool about anything and everything, rather than engage.There is a lot of deep psychology related to the culture going on here. This is not your typical manufactured serial killer movie where the viewer cannot grasp the motivations of the killer. These teens have ill-formed notions of authority, have little or no direction, operate in a groupie way, and are in a drug haze. As their hatreds fester and magnify, murder is the course they decide upon and choose. They are not entirely sure how it will happen or even if it will happen, but they are quite sure. They have planned it. To them it is almost enough that they see their victim as an asshole to judge and eliminate him. "}{"Title":"Though the film has an engaging murder plot, it's overshadowed by repugnant characterisation.","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Bully' gives the viewer an insight into a group of maddeningly awful young people. They communicate in ways that is an affront to the English language; their diction is an ugly mess of incessant swearing and pseudo-ebonics that's punctuated with an exasperating misuse of the word 'like'. Worse than their lexicon is their degenerative lifestyles &#x96; they're lazy, feckless, horribly ignorant and amoral. They've become so rotten, warped and stagnant whilst living in their scummy Floridian microcosm that they seemingly think their behaviour is acceptable. Well, they probably haven't considered what's acceptable or not as they don't *think* about anything. The film, which is based on the true story, starkly reminds the viewer that there are people out there who are this scuzzy and revolting.I wanted to hate the film because I hated every character, but the characters were clearly purposefully constructed to be that way. To hate the film for its ugliness could be deemed as missing the point, it's a depiction of extreme adolescent degeneration, I suppose it's something of a cautionary tale. Its chief success is how it portrays the ugly messiness of violence; it covers a spectrum of emotions from its characters during the visceral, realistically unpleasant climax, a scene that's very well constructed by the preceding twenty minutes or so.However, Larry Clark's trademark perversion is all over this film, paying gratuitous attention to the bodies and sex of the teenage cast. It's ultimately rather one- dimensional; its narrative of murder is captivating, but its study of reckless, idiotic culture is quite suffocating. Its absence of any somewhat relatable characters and presence of many detestable ones overshadows the film's acting and engaging murder plot.Although it does deserve a degree of commendation, there is ultimately little incentive to watch this film. 'Bully' is another lurid Larry Clark film that smacks of attention seeking.62%www.hawkensian.com "},{"Title":"This was truly inhuman and honestly...childish.","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Actually it has been a few years since I watched this movie and possibly I'm not even in the position to produce spoilers . I'll tell though that I did tend to vomit at the time of the appearance of the credits.The story lineTroubled kids plan to murder their high school bully... sounds pretty good hey?Well it is not!Things get out of hand and evolve in a giant turd of a film with the speed of light.Yes the troubled teenagers of the USA deserve their story told but not these untroubled ones.Exaggerating situations and baking-powdering parts of plot does not make this film any more shocking or real-like,it just makes it worse.To be exact and honest I'm not American and my different opinion may be based on the different culture that I grew up in but still...teens do have morals their not soul-less robots that walk the earth with the sole purpose of destroying it as this movie desperately wants us to think.I would like you to read at least this last sentence this movie will make you feel sad and disgusted,because of the movie itself or because of how badly it is made.You don't have to put yourselves in this position.Pardon me for being offending but the other reviews made me furious. "},{"Title":"A raw look at the epidemic of bullying","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This story is sad for a variety of reasons. Marty & Bobby grew up together & were supposed best friends, but Bobby was a HUGE bully & bullied Marty terribly for years. I watched both the movie & the documentary, as well as reading the book. This movie is a raw, in your face look at the epidemic of bullying & what could happen when this bullying goes too far. I'm not condoning what these kids did by any means, but I found it ironic that Bobby's family thought their son was too good for Marty, when in reality, it was THEIR son who was the problem. I was disgusted when, in the documentary, Lisa acts like she was so scared (even going so far as to keep her face shadowed), when SHE was the catalyst behind this entire plot to kill Bobby. Not only was she the one who brought up the solution of killing Bobby to Marty, but also was the only one who knew Derek the self-proclaimed gang member (he was so NOT one & even his little brothers laughed at that). After the murder, Lisa bragged to anyone who would listen about what MARTY did, never once putting any of the blame on herself. She even dragged her naive cousin, Derek, who really wanted nothing to do with this whole thing, (he was content playing video games & told Lisa he didn't want any part of it). Ironically, Derek (cousin) was pretty much bullied himself into participating. In the documentary, Allie makes herself out to be a whole lot more innocent than she really was. She was was a spoiled girl with a new Mustang, a baby that her parents took care of & would be considered loose as far as boys & sex was concerned. She had no problem going to Marty's house & taking Bobby right into the bedroom the first time she ever met him. Heather was the sad, train wreck of the group. She had a miserable life in a violent family. Donnie was nothing more than a hanger-on who was pretty much up for anything & very much a follower, as well as completely under Allie's sex spell. Derek, (wannabe gangster), portrayed himself as a thug, so when these kids came to him for help with their scheme, he had to take the role as leader. If he didn't, he would be exposed & everyone would see him for the nobody he really was instead of a gangster. As much as I would like to, I can't feel very much sympathy for Bobby Kent. True, nobody should die like that, but in addition to his appalling every day treatment of Marty, he degraded females, calling them the b word & w word (no profanity can be used in a review) & used them for rough sex even if they didn't want to. Bobby had no problem humiliating Marty in public & in private, both verbally & physically. Notice that Bobby was much bigger & stronger than the slightly built Marty. Would this have happened without the coercing of Lisa? Maybe. Marty had never stuck up for himself throughout his entire life when it came to Bobby Kent, so I doubt that he ever would have. After Lisa relentlessly keeps the pressure on Marty that the only way to get rid of Bobby & his bullying is to kill him, I think Marty (in extremely bad judgment) most likely felt that this would be the only way to ever get rid of Bobby. I thought it was really sad how Bobby humiliates Marty in front of people, beats him up on a regular basis & makes Marty's life a living hell. And Bobby is supposed to be Marty's best friend since childhood? The bottom line of this whole story is that NOBODY won, not to mention the fact that it was 6 on 1. With those odds, the outcome for Bobby wasn't very good. Marty got rid of Bobby, but now he's in prison & probably getting bullied by people far worse than Bobby Kent. Lisa Connelly has she & Marty's baby in prison, Allie's child has no mother, Heather has just continued her family history of violence, Derek (cousin) was a pretty good kid who got caught up in his cousin's scheme & wasted what life he may have had. Donnie (the person people knew the least about), is in the same boat as the others & Derek, the fake gangbanger, is finding himself in the gang world of prison & he sure won't fit in. All the actors/actresses in this movie did an excellent job. Nick Stahl was amazing in his portrayal of Bobby Kent. Like I said, I'm trying to find some sympathy for Bobby, but it's hard. I was bullied all through school from Kindergarten through high school to the point where I dropped out of school & got my GED. The ramifications of this bullying is still with me years later. Killing a bully is obviously not the answer, but what is? It seems like today, kids don't listen to their parents, teachers or anyone who's tries to tell them they're not going in the right direction. To those that are bullied, it's hard to realize that school won't last forever & that they WILL survive, but it's easier said than done. Both murder & suicide are permanent solutions to temporary problems. People need to speak up & stand up when bullying going on, but it's not always out in the open. A lot of the bullying that Bobby did to Marty was in private & from the details of this case, neither set of parents knew what was going on between the two. The bottom line is that situations like this, as well as school shootings, etc., will continue. There are no easy answers, but the fact that it's out in the open finally is a step in the right direction. "},{"Title":"Grim and disturbing tale of our spoiled youth","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bully is Grim, Disturbing but tells the truth about certain section of youth. Movie was made some 10 years ago but still has a strong stamp as i can relate to it. I graduated with no clear sight but to earn good. In doing so, neither i have any plan nor anyone who can guide. Teen age life is different where you think you know everything but in reality it is not. We all know that. But, still we all make mistakes which we regret throughout whole life. Bully shows us the same. Simple bunch of teens with no clear motive in life but to enjoy time plans a crime, rethinks that, gets the help, execute the crime and life is never the same again. One murder is committed but it ruined 7 lives. "},{"Title":"A dark and disturbing ride through the unjustifiable","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The kind of teenagers depicted in both Larry Clark's Bully and his previous effort Kids are the kind that make my skin crawl. Idiotic, rebellious deviants that believe everything revolves around them and that nothing could possibly ever go wrong for themselves or their friends. Despite these despicable characteristics, Clark has made Bully a strangely sympathetic picture, putting viewers in a position to connect with the characters, learn a bit about them, and buckles them in to stick by them as they go along for this absurd and profoundly ride of sheer rawness.The film is an absolute adrenaline rush, combined with primitive, realistic editing, slick writing, a ton of heavily built up tension, and performances around the clock by actors you've never heard of, all blended together to create a reenactment of a chilling true story. The film centers around Marty Puccio (the late Brad Renfro) who is best friends with Bobby Kent (Nick Stahl). Bobby is a physically, verbally, and sexually abusive neanderthal Marty has been friends with since birth. The picture suggests he could be a repressed homosexual by producing homosexual porn and forcing Marty to dance at a male dance club, but such assumptions aren't the prime focus here.Marty and Bobby double date with Lisa Connelly and Ali Willis (Rachel Miner and Bijou Phillips), two young girls they met at their sandwich shop. Bobby and Ali seemingly connect, while Marty and Lisa strike a deeper friendship, one build on lust and sex. And there is a lot of it. Rather than jumping to the conclusion that director Larry Clark is a pervert, if one were to do research on the actual case of Marty Puccio, they would learn that the teens in question were always having sex, possibly to breed purpose in their empty, dirty lifestyles.When Bobby winds up raping and beating Ali, her, Marty, and Lisa come up with the idea to murder him. They band together a few of their friends, and hire an alleged hit-man (Leo Fitzpatrick of Clark's Kids) and decide to carry on. The consequences, regret, and mental stress that is birthed because of this decision is unlike any of them could've expected, and what follows is a series of suspenseful shots all leading up to the breakneck, sinister conclusion.Some will say that the idea to kill their friend because he is an obnoxious narcissist is stupid and pointless. Because it is. Instead of talking to Bobby's parents, bringing this up with the authorities, or talking to their own parents about it, they devise such an ingenious plan to kill the offender making themselves just as bad as the rapist teen. This is what the film is all about; showing how warped in a world of nihilism and ridiculous gratification these kids were - a recurring theme in Clark's pictures. While Clark's Kids is on another level when compared to Bully (it played more like a documentary on doomed degenerates rather than a true film) it's the depiction of instant, impulsive satisfaction on the teenagers' part that still acts as one of the central focuses. Their desire to feed inner demons, never considering the consequential repercussions of their actions. They do not contemplate their parents' reactions or how society will view them as a whole. The only thing that matters is when and where the event will take place and if beer and marijuana will be served.The film explodes with performances all over the board, from Brad Renfro's enthusiastic portrayal of Marty Puccio, to Rachel Miner's good girl gone bad Lisa, and, let's not forget, the wonderful explosion from Bijou Phillips that never tends to become unbelievable or overdone.After watching both this and Kids in the same week, I almost feel trounced in my optimism for the youth of today. Larry Clark has made two brilliant pictures depicting the disheartening corruption of teenagers, and has left few bright spots along the way. Bully is a disturbing picture, yet like Kids, one of many high points and of many high, high points. It again shows what harm the lack of parenting and artistic exposure will have on kids. The building blocks for a hopelessly lost adolescence is being raised without ever being exposed to challenging mediums, testing your mind and opinions, having careless, uninvolved parents who do not care what you're doing until something is clearly, seriously wrong, and mixing in the feeling of true worthlessness. The writing, again, is beyond commendable and at the end, you're left crippled, shaken, and possibly scarred. Larry Clark is a filmmaker for those craving a slice of honest pie.Starring Brad Renfro, Nick Stahl, Bijou Phillips, Rachel Miner, Michael Pitt, Kelli Garner, and Leo Fitzpatrick. Directed by Larry Clark. "},{"Title":"Powerful and painful","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Larry Clark's third film was his best received and, thanks to a more coherent plot and tighter script, it may well be his best, or at least his most watchable, though it isn't any less painfully blunt than Kids. Like Kids, Bully is generally about spoiled, privileged, obnoxious teenagers doing some very bad things - but this time Clark manages to get the viewers to sympathize with the little monsters, which leads to the irony that while Bully is more watchable and more accessible, it's also more powerful and more difficult to swallow. While Kids could be viewed coldly and detachedly as a document of decadence, Bully successfully draws the viewer in.This strong immersion in the story is achieved through the same hyper-realism Kids had. Unknown and semi-unknown actors deliver extremely naturalistic performances - Brad Renfro, Rachel Miner, Nick Stahl and Daniel Franzese are all frighteningly convincing in their roles, though the more familiar faces of Michael Pitt and Bijou Phillips, coupled with their slightly over-the-top acting, I found distracting.A word about the sexual content, which is a staple of Larry Clark's films and always serves an important part in their atmosphere. Kids was accused by some for being exploitative and promoting pedophilia; but the sex there was clearly meant to repel and disturb rather than arouse, and it did the job. On Bully, though, I feel like Clark may have gone a bit overboard, especially with some of the more outlandish sex scenes (Miss Phillips, in the bathtub, with hot candle wax...) and feel like some of them are there mainly to maintain Clark's reputation and distract from the story (though a few of them are very much an integral part of it).Overall, Bully is a fascinating and powerful film definitely worth your time, if you can stand the experience, and it should be viewed with an open mind and an empty stomach. "},{"Title":"Haunting Film.","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There are only certain films as disturbing as this one that warrant it's content with a real subject matter that explores a situation in as full depth as this particular film does. There is no film that could compare to the way Larry Clark approaches this material and the way he presents it. There are far too many films these days that almost seem to glorify the violence that it shows.Larry Clark whose fascination with teenage culture was apparent with his debut film Kids. Now that film was more or less just shocking without any reason for the audience to be subjected to the horrors given on screen. Now I did enjoy that film and appreciated it for what it was. But nothing in that film prepared me for this film.Bully is not exactly what you would expect, most directors with this material would have focused on Bobby Kent being completely evil (which the film does) but would have made the other kids out to be heroes. The other kids in this film are true examples of what happens when true apathy sets in on the youth and they live only for the moment.During this film Marty Puccio has a best friend Bobby Kent who has been terrorizing him for years. One day Marty and Bobby meet Ali and Lisa. From this meeting Marty and Lisa begin a relationship in which Lisa takes very seriously very fast. So she begins to think that if Bobby was out of the picture, Marty would be better and therefore she would be better since he could then focus all his time with her. From this Marty and Lisa are joined by Ali, Heather and Donny to come up with a plan to kill Bobby. This plan ends up involving Lisa's cousin and a want-to-be hit-man.The conversation about killing Bobby is perhaps the best written scene of the movie. This type dialogue is extremely difficult to write. To make it seem real, since in other movies it's easy to tell the actors are just reading the lines.The acting in this film by this fine young cast is beyond perfect, it seems as if they were made for there roles. For some reason Kelli Garner the actress who portrays Heather Swallers always stands out to me especially when the scene involving the back history of her family comes up.This is perhaps one of greatest examples of what people are capable of together that apart none of them would even consider. The mob mentality can be a dangerous thing.In 2001 when this film was released I was 14 and did not even know this film existed at the time. Remembering some of films that I watched at that time that were major blockbusters at the time and looking back this film would have been much better to watch. Some so called PG-13 family friendly films are almost more damaging to teenagers then something that truly shows human emotions and what violence against others is really like. Where some films show murder as entertainment, this film shows it for what it truly is; ugly, messy, and damages far more people then people like the kids in this film think. I would recommend this film to any thoughtful teenage or adult. However one disclaimer would be to be prepared for a real film. "},{"Title":"Typical Clarke for the first part; excessive sex and nudity. But the last half is shocking, violent and relentless","Date":"3 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It's 4 a.m... do you know where your kids are?This film is based on a true story and is a very personal exposure of the events before and after the murder of Bobby Kent by his friends in the summer of 1993. It's a very hard-hitting and shocking film; which goes without saying when you're talking about a Larry Clarke film, whose debut film Kids shook the western world and questioned the culture and well-being of modern teenagers in society. He'd go on after this to make the notorious (and perhaps even more controversial than Kids)Ken Park.This happened in Florida, and in the film, we see the very strange relationship that best friends Bobby (Nick Stahl) and Marty (Brad Renfro) have. They both work together at a deli - and appear to have a kind of homo-erotic relationship - and Bobby is a real bully to his friend. He physically and verbally abuses him on a daily basis. Marty only takes this because it's how it has always been between the two of them. Bobby, strangely, also acts as a type of pimp to Marty, selling his services to gay men at nightclubs, and making him help out in making gay porn films. However, the pair also pick up girls together. They go on a double date with Ali and Lisa, and Marty begins a relationship with Lisa and gets her pregnant. As their relationship grows, Lisa gets sick of seeing her boyfriend being abused by Bobby, and when Bobby rapes Ali, the group decides that enough is enough. They plot to murder him, to get him out of their lives for good.A film starring Keanu Reeves with a similar plot to this was released in 1986 called River's Edge also starring Dennis Hopper. That was a striking film portraying the apathy of youth, but it was also quite boring. Bully is almost twenty times better. From the word go, you know that you are watching a Larry Clarke film. Most of the first forty minutes is sex and nudity, with some very perverted upskirt and nudity shots (Including one where Lisa is urinating; unnecessary? I think so). But once the plotting to murder Bobby starts, it really becomes tense and interesting. Don't get me wrong, I was enjoying the film up until the hour mark. It just really gets better after that, but up until then, in between the sex scenes and all, we had the character development and the scenes where Bobby abuses Marty. Marty looks a lot more aggressive and is a lot more stronger than Bobby, yet he takes this abuse off him and rarely retaliates. It's been this way his whole life he tells his girlfriend. Which goes to show the extent of power that a bully can have over it's victim. The bully in this is a 'friend', in Marty's case, his 'best friend'.I've seen two Larry Clarke films now; Kids and this. Bully is not as hard-hitting or as powerful as Kids - it seems to lack the raw and intense nature of Kids, but it still is an excellent film that stayed with me afterwards. The acting is all superb, it has to be said. Say what you want about Larry Clarke, it can't be denied that the man gets the best out of his young actors in his films. Bijou Phillips and Rachel Miner are superb, but the best performance comes from the brilliant Brad Renfro, who you may recall made quite a stir with his amazing performance in The Client when he was just ten years old. Renfro tragically died of an overdose three years ago at the age of 25; wasted talent. And speaking of wasted talent, everyone remember Leo Fitzpatrick? who played one of the most despicable and disgusting characters to ever grace the screen - Telly, in Kids. Fitzpatrick was almost... too good in that film you could say. I've never seen a performance like it; he was so cool and his own vessel all through that movie. Well, he decided that he didn't like acting after that film - which was his debut, and pretty much disappeared, just appearing in the odd film or TV episode here and there. That was such a shame, because he was so young and had shown such potential in that film. Well Clarke picked him up for this film, where he plays the hit-man Derek Kaufman. Needless to say he steals the show in every scene he is in - again, he is cool and natural and very realistic. It's such a shame that he never found a passion for acting and pursuing a career in it.One thing that confuses me about this film was the apparent homo-erotic relationship between Bobby and Marty. There seemed to be an attraction there, but both of them came across as straight guys. But it comes into question when we see the video tapes that Bobby does be making, trying to sell to shops. And in a very disturbing scene, Bobby makes Ali watch one of the tapes while he rapes her. And this is pretty much what sparks off the plot to murder him - the final straw, in other words. The murder itself is extremely brutal, as Marty and Donnie take turns stabbing him before Kaufman finishes him off with a baseball bat. Kaufman, a self-described hit-man (Leo Fitzpatrick) is recruited into the plot due to his specialty in the field and is acting as an 'advisor' to the crime.Bully is a tough film to watch, albeit it's not as tough or raw as Kids. The first half of the film contains more sex and nudity than Kids did, and almost becomes excessive at times and boring, but it really kicks off just before the hour mark and becomes a suburban nightmare, tainted in the pain and apathy of the youths involved in the crime. "},{"Title":"Question on Bobby and Rachel","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Question to those that have seen the movie. I found it very peculiar that the movie, which is already filled with lots of teenage sex, did not clarify what exactly happened between Bobby and Rachel. There is a scene where Bobby watches Rachel closely as she is having sex with Marty, and then another one where he walks in on Marty and Rachel having sex, shoves her off of Marty and cries next, but the movie is unclear what happens next (does he have sex with her? with him? leaves?). The hint is, that when Rachel realizes she is pregnant, she think it may be Bobby. But what I don't understand is why the director leave that unclear? There is so much sex, some of it quite violent, that it is bizarre that such a central issue (as it is Rachel that really wants him dead) is not clarified. Thanks for any responses on this point. "},{"Title":"When rich beach kids go bad.","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought that this movie was pretty similar to what I read in the book. It's about a group of kids who plot and kill another who is picking on his best friend. The acting was great and the actors looked just like the pictures in the book. The actor who played Bobby was pretty skinny. I thought that he could have had more muscles but it doesn't destroy the whole movie or anything.The character of skinny Derek was really scary. His tone of voice and his facial expressions just say that he has no warmth in his heart, he is just pure psychopath.I really liked the movie, KIDS and I think that the director also did an excellent job on this one as well.Watch who you pick on! "}{"Title":"Feral teens","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bully (2001) Like Larry Clark's film Kids, Bully is an unflinching look into the empty eyes & souls of a loose knit pack of teens, who wouldn't know a good friend, good idea, or good feeling if it came up and stabbed them in the heart. Based on a true story, and supported in concept by 1986's River's Edge, we see minds that are too young, and too addled from drugs, try solving their current irritation, without giving up the only world they know. Outstanding acting by all, including Brad Renfro, Nick Stahl, Bijou Phillips, Rachel Miner, and Leo Fitzpatrick (of Kids), brilliantly brain dead dialog, camera work, and music tracks all add to the frightening realism of this recreated event. Note although the visual violence is minor (for these days), there is quite a bit of nudity, profanity, and psychic disturbance to this story. If you're the delicate type, or have children to protect, you might want to skip this one. If you want a high quality and very disturbing film, it's a must-see. "},{"Title":"A realistic account of teens in America","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I am a Larry Clark admirer. He makes very realistic films that are not for everyone. I have seen Bully many times because I find the story intriguing and the acting and storytelling are excellent. I have also read the book. As you know, this is based on true events. Mr. Clark follows the book very closely, to the point where the dialogue from the book is used exactly as written in the movie. The portrayals ring true, which adds to my fascination with this movie. He does go slightly overboard in some shots of the actors, particularly Ms. Philips who is quite beautiful.I recommend this movie very highly, just be aware that it is quite graphic at some points and is therefore not for all individuals. "},{"Title":"Very Strong Motion Picture!","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you have teen-age kids (ages 16-20), I strongly recommend this motion picture. Bully gives an insight (and a strong one at that) as how some teens get mixed up with the wrong crowd, and some of the things they do without mom & dad around. As I watched, it gave me a view as to how some teens can be controlling & domineering & how they deal with it. It makes one wonder how quickly lives can be changed from one instance to the next. Since I have daughters, a friend suggested I see this. I must say that after watching this, I now make it a habit at staying in touch even more with my daughters. Again, if you have teens, watch this movie. After which, you'll understand why it's so important for parents to stay & keep in touch with your kids & who they hang around with. "},{"Title":"A Good, Realistic Portrayal of Today Bad Kids","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully is one good film about a group of teens who get picked on by a bully and decide if they are going to kill him or not. I have never seen any of these actors play in a movie besides Nick Stahl(Terminator 2, In the Bedroom) and Michael Pitt(The Village, Murder by Numbers.) But all of these characters in the film were great especially Nick Stahl as the Bully, Brad Renfro, The Hit-man, Leo Fitzpatrick, and Bijou Phillips. The other actors were good also. The movie was very realistic, I mean I know it is based on a true story and all but everything was just so real. There was so much sex also in the film. I mean when it first started out I didn't really notice until it just kept going on in the film. It kinda brought the film down but the movie was still great. The acting was awesome and the script was fresh. Good movie and I highly recommend it if your looking for a realistic movie, not all about war realistic movies.Hedeen's outlook 8/10 *** B  "},{"Title":"very very good!","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've just seen this movie and thought it was very very good! I can understand how the plot may seem very serialised, maybe a bit like scooby-doo! but i think it is a very good look at the pyschie of young Americans today, i remember sex looking that real and clumsy,kids smoke weed, kids have guns, its scary thought but a true one and this is a very good look at when childhood innocence gets lost! in a puff of majaranja, maybe!Also the fact that its a true story can confirm the desperation of this story! I don't find it shock but challenging! I find Larry Clarks work real, intriguing and provoking, its a shame Hollywood has lost its way into a world of computer generated nonsense to understand a film necessity has to be a good story, not freezing New York! I say watch this!  "},{"Title":"couldn't finish","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I couldn't finish this film. And it's not because it was too 'shocking' or too 'real' or too 'raw.' I couldn't finish this film because it was boring. Larry Clark's beautiful visual direction could only hold me for so long. Half way in I just couldn't continue. Perhaps it was because I couldn't relate to the actions of the characters (Why can't Larry Clark have a likable character? Would that not be real enough?) I've hung out with sketchy people, and there is usually one or two people you can find yourself liking. Perhaps it was because I wasn't in the mood for pornography. And yes, that is what it is. It isn't art when it becomes needless. Especially when it's a film about bullying. I was willing to tolerate the explicit nature of KIDS, because the film had a lot to do with sex. But there's no need to be shown sex scene after sex scene. It ends up seeming like Larry Clark just didn't have enough material that actually dealt with the psychology of the characters, and so he used all the sex as filler. And if you've seen KIDS, and you've had your wake-up call, do we really need another movie telling us about how horrible children can be? Do we really need another movie telling us about how silly grown men and women are? Larry Clark's films are beginning to seem more and more like romantic comedies trite, predictable, and a waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Who's the bad guy?","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A sad story of reality where stupid people always lose. A tale of how a homophobic society and judgemental parents can turn a gay man into a machine of hate. An honest look at how parents have lost control of their children in modern day America. So Who's the bad guy?Is it the product of parenting by people who grew up in the me generation of the 70's?Is it the monetary policies of the U.S. Government which manufactured the economic bubble?This film was kind of boring when I watched it and I would much rather have seen a movie about the criminal trials of these characters. But the overall impact still makes you think and try to place blame and lets you know, you will never blame yourself. Raise your hand if you think you have the right answer.  "},{"Title":"On my list of all time favorite messed up movies-its awesome","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I heard about this film a year and a half ago and i was instantly intrigued.  Having seen Kids, and loved it, i was sure that i would like this Larry Clark directed film too.  So, i finally seen Bully acouple weeks ago through a friend, and was shocked, disgusted, sympathetic, and left thinking.  Bully is one mean movie, and it delivers hard and w/ full force.  I loved it. Movies are best when there is no BS, and they are raw.  Also this a based on a true story, making the movie more eerie.  Did Bobby really deserve to die?  Thats left up to the viewer.  Larry Clark is a genuis, and the cast couldnt have been more perfect.  You'll be left thinking about the movie for a week at least. 10/10 Sony666 "},{"Title":"Amazingly Chilling","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully. I came across this movie doing a Brad Renfro search on Ebay. Had to buy it, even though I'd never seen it before. It was one of those movies that left you thinking about afterwards. It all leads up to the big murder scene, that's almost difficult to watch. Yes, there is tons of nudity & sex, but you have to give these actors & actresses a lot of credit for being able to get up there & do everything they did. And am I the only one who notices this or is every movie with Brad Renfro in it pretty much guaranteed to be excellent? He is an INCREDIBLE actor, who is very much underrated. Nick Stahl also gives an excellent performance in this disturbing yet refreshing flick. This is one of the most memorable movies I have ever seen. Everytime I watch it, I sit & think about it & can't get it out of my head for the longest time. I think that's what Larry Clark was going for, and that sure as hell is what he got from me. I would recommend this to everyone...except for little kids. )  "},{"Title":"Portrait of a sick society","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have been reminded on several occasions over the past few days, if we are to believe what we are shown, of the dreadful sickness of American society as depicted in several fairly recent films. Our cinema of social malaise in the U.K. generally views the causes as resulting from financial deprivation. It is much the same with the cinema of most other nations. But in the States as seen in such works as American Beauty, The Ice Storm, Bully and to a slightly lesser extent, Happiness, material good fortune seems to count but little for characters that are so hopelessly unfulfilled that only the vagaries of thrills resulting from marital infidelity, teenage sexual experimentation, drugs and joyriding seem to count for anything and then only as ways for relieving the boredom of routine existence. In a way nothing seems to have changed since Rebel Without a Cause (1955); it is simply the recent profusion of films like these which delve so much deeper into areas of sick depravity that makes the overall scene seem so much more depressing. And yet, to shrug the genre off as gratuitous navel gazing would be wrong as, just occasionally something remarkable is triggered off, albeit alarmingly. Larry Clark's Bully, ostensibly just about the nastiest and most disturbing of these, is at the same time a work of tremendous integrity that recreates unflinchingly an unspeakably horrible true-life situation when a group of young people ganged together to murder a member of their peer group disliked by some of them but hardly known by others who just seemed to go along for the ride. These youngsters are depicted as a pretty hapless lot. Mainly from fairly affluent backgrounds, they seem untouched by any form of work ethic as they while away their time borrowing their parents' cars, screwing each other and watching porn movies. The nearest they get to anything resembling healthy pursuit is swimming and the odd bit of ocean surfing. In the opening shot one of their number makes a phone call to a girl and says, I want you to s**k my big d**k. It sets the tone for much that follows. Why then is this a film that one cannot afford to ignore, one that demands the sort of respect accorded to cinema of quality? The answer lies in the way that each and every character behaves in accordance with their personal psychology. The seed of the murder idea is sown by one of the girls who is upset by the bullying treatment accorded to her boyfriend by his intellectually superior best friend. From then on it is only a matter of time before a plot is hatched resulting in the bully being senselessly and clumsily butchered and his corpse abandoned on a beach to make a meal for the crabs. It is the effect of this ghastly happening on the perpetrators that is the film's raison d'etre. I know of no other in which nemesis overwhelms evil-doers so swiftly and completely, pointing a terrible warning to any that might contemplate taking such a ghastly course. The sight of a group of girls cowering tremblingly in a car while the boys carry out the act that one girl has instigated is a powerful image that disturbs and haunts long after the film is over, evidence, as if any were needed, that Bully is, above all, a serious and deeply moral piece of cinema. "}{"Title":"My favorite line The Hitman needs a ride","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bobby was a bad guy; a teenage terror who ran roughshod over most everyone he knew--bullying, raping and being an overall jerk while keeping up a facade of respectability for adults until the night he meets his gruesome end at the hands of seven teenagers including his best friend (and most harassed victim) Marty.  Based on a true story, this film chronicles the events leading up to the 1993 murder of Bobby Kent and the aftermath.Larry Clark, best known for his 1995 film Kids, shows us, quite voyeuristically, another group of kids. Desensitized to violence, aimlessly drifting through life in a haze of drugs, alcohol and casual sex to the backbeat of gangsta rap, this group of kids come together for a purpose--to rid themselves of Bobby Kent.  Ironically only three of the teenagers involved actually knew Bobby; the rest joined in as they did everything--aimlessly, as if they had nothing better to do.Marty Puccio, Bobby's best friend since childhood, while clearly mistreated by Bobby seems to passively accept the abuse for the most part until he becomes involved with Lisa, who also finds herself on the receiving end of Bobby's abuse.    She also puts up with it for a while, willing to do anything to be with Marty, even offering up her best friend Ally, a wild girl only too happy to comply until she herself becomes Bobby's next victim.The plot to kill Bobby seems almost like a game of what-if at first, with Lisa and Marty deciding it's the only way to be rid of him but having no clear idea how to bring it off.  Lisa brings Ally into the plot, who in turn brings in her stoner boyfriend Donny and drugged out girlfriend Heather along for the ride, plus a self-proclaimed gangsta thug for guidance who lives in the suburbs and whose gang seems to only consist of pre-teen boys.  One of my favorite lines in the movie was The Hitman needs a ride. Lisa's cousin Derek rounds out the cast of conspirators--a shy, overweight nice enough fellow who never seems to comprehend what he's become a part of--and the plans go forward with all the grace you could expect from such a motley crew.  Faced with the reality of their deed, previous bonds of love and friendship predictably fall apart as the kids face very adult consequences.Bully is a powerful movie that tells a very disturbing story, all the more so because it's true.  I really don't know how close to the actual events Bully is, but it doesn't really matter.  A young man ended up brutally murdered and seven other young people were responsible--that's what's true, and it was told with unflinching realism and great acting all around.Nick Stahl as Bobby, was in turns boyishly charming, monstrously wicked and downright menacing--an awesome performance.  Brad Renfro as the picked-on Marty also gives a great performance as he seemed to always be churning inside.  Rachel Miner was also outstanding as Lisa, lovestruck and obsessive to the point of being the catalyst for the violence that ensues. I particularly enjoyed Leo Fitzpatrick's portrayal of The Hitman, who talks big and seems to know what he's doing but is in fact the blind leading the stupid. Leo is a Kids alumni and it was very cool to see him again.  Also worth mentioning is the excellent soundtrack--the thumping hip-hop tunes by such artists as Ole Dirty Bastard, Dillenger and Young Gotti, Cyprus Hill, Fatboy Slim and Tricky serves as the background noise for these kids' lives and shoots extra adrenalin into the film.Clark has been criticized of exploitation because of the many nude/sex scenes and closeups of barely concealed teenage flesh in this film.  A lot of it does seem gratuitous (Rachel Miner in particular seems to hardly ever wear clothes), but I personally had no problem with it, nor did it take away from the story for me.  On the contrary, in some ways the excess nudity only emphasized what these kids were about--playing adult games and almost casually getting in over their heads. "},{"Title":"Disturbing View of Teenage Life","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is almost a follow up to director Larry Clark's hugely controversial 1995 film kids.  As in the earlier film Bully is a portrait of shiftless, amoral teenagers who are busy wasting their lives away and indulging in meaningless casual sex, drugs and violence.Based on real events, the film tells the story of a teenage bully who enjoys mentally and physically tormenting his so-called best friend.  Eventually, the put-upon teen and his friends decide to take violent revenge against their tormentor.The film is pretty shocking not only for it's brutal scenes of violence but also for the copious amount of sex and nudity on display.   Obviously, these teenagers did have a great deal of casual sex, but the camera did seem to leer a little too much over the nude scenes.  Bully lacks the grainy, camcorder look of kids for a more polished, cinematic look, and yet the previous films savagery is still there.In my opinion this is a film that parents should see (along with kids) in order to learn about the disturbing world that some young people can very easily fall into.  This film could do a lot of good if it serves as a wake-up call to some people.   "},{"Title":"What to say about these 3 films?","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully is the second film of Larry Clark's trilogy on teenagers. The first was Kids and the third was KenPark. Having seen all of them, I'm now ready to make my final judgement on this kind of work.Analizing all three movies together, I see several things in common, being them the horrible plots (well, one of them  - Bully - is a true story, and the others could have been too), the attempt to shock the audience in almost every scene, the messy directing (although sometimes in a good way), and of course, and this is the strongest point, the amazing actors.One can discuss whether Larry Clark is a lunatic and obsessed with teens old man, but that's hardly the point here. The fact is that a lot of viewers were not ready for this kind of cinema when they came and watched it. They didn't know what it was really about. Having been a teenager 6 years ago, I can pretty much believe that stories and people like these characters can exist. Make no mistake about it. These lives, these environments, all this emptiness of values and principles are out there. The real point is, how good is Larry Clark's filmmaking?From all these movies, one thing that stuck in my memory were the incredible performances and some will never be forgot. Like Leo Fitzpatrick in Kids and Bully (hilarious in this one), Michael Pitt as the junkie of Bully (excellent), Nick Stahl (now a successful actor), Tifanny Limos and James Bullard in Ken Park, etc. All great, amazing work. You have to give them and Larry Clark some credit for that. It's not as easy as it seems to portray real life on camera.The best one, in my opinion, is Bully. Maybe I think this way because the story leads you somewhere, for a change, and also because the characters are either more hilarious and/or tragic than in the other two films.I do agree that Larry Clark could have made his point in a much different way in some scenes of these films, but it's up to him to decide what's best. It's his career and his choices on the line. Not ours. I, for once, tried to get some profit of having watched them. The time I spent was not wasted, for I have learned something from it.Yet, people who are easily shocked (and also parents with teenagers) should probably not watch them (or.. maybe they should).Overall, I believe Larry Clark's film making, although at times irresponsible and misdirected, added something to world cinema.  "},{"Title":"A hell of a movie","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I keep hearing that this is a 'River's edge remake of the new era but thats not true. It's extremely different, and i must say this movie was excellent. Everything moved so smoothly and the flow is incredible and you get into it. Anyways the movie starts with two guys, marty, and bobby and they are working at some place and they see two girls and they ask them to chill and they do. So Marty gets with this girl,Lisa and his friend bobby gets with Ally. Anyways... marty and lisa like each other and they continue having sex and Lisa gets pregnant with his baby. Throughout the movie we see Bobby hitting Marty and treating him poorly and it takes an emotional toll on Marty. Ally, the girl Bobby got with earlier is back in the picture and he rapes her... this behavior ensues Lisa, Ally, Allys friends Donny, and heather, lisa's cousin derek and the hitman to kill bobby. This movie shows the toll it takes on them and the way everything plays out leading to the murder. This is an exquisite film I give it 9.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Larry Clark is great","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  For those of you who dont like this movie, first of all watch KIDS and second of all learn a little more about Larry Clark. He is a great director and depicts this actual true story brilliantly. I can understand why people think that the acting is bad, but i cant say this enough THIS ACTUALLY HAPPENED AND THESE KIDS WERE REALLY LIKE THAT. This movie is great and larry clark does such a good job to show you what these degenerate florida kids really did to their so called friend. THere are some scenes that i can see would turn people the wrong way, but it is such a good depiction of juvenile delinquents and what actually happened. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Haunting.","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  While certainly not what I would call entertainment, this film has a lot to say and it does so very well.A satire on modern society, the story follows the background, planning, and execution of a bully's murder committed by high school teens.The depiction of America's youth as lost souls with no purpose, living lives of angst and darkness was haunting to me. The characters are all detached from the world, with no one to connect to. Their daily activities are those of drugs, explicit sex, and laziness. The best way I can describe the lifestyle these kids are living is...murky.The lack of remorse or comprehension of the act they are planning and eventually commit is staggering. The movie certainly sends a strong message about reckless, disillusioned youths. In this respect, viewing such a dark subject matter is not an entertaining experience, which is why I would not recommend it to anyone looking for a good time. But you certainly shouldn't deny yourself the experience it captures the mood of young America today perfectly and has a strong satirical message that cannot be overlooked.There's no other word to describe the experience except that it was haunting.  "},{"Title":"Terrifyingly real","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully is a film that snuck up on me this past year, when I just happened to catch it on one of those extra digital movie channels. I didn't really know what to expect; I had read a fair bit about the somewhat obscure drama, and knew a little about the subject matter, but nothing really concrete.Words failed me upon the opening few minutes of this harrowing docudrama telling the story of a group of disturbed youths who intend to murder one of their most despised peers - a dark, mean-spirited bully (Nick Stahl) who torments his close friend (Brad Renfro) and everyone else. I was frightened and moved most of the time, viewing with increased squeamishness the descent of these poor teenagers into pure madness...and the scarier thing is the fact that this entire film is presented with such a raw, unflinching look at the psyche of unstable teenagers. It's done in such a way that I don't think has EVER before been this effective in a teen drama. This is really, really powerful stuff. It's graphic, it's vile, it's nasty...but unfortunately, it's reality. The fact that this whole devastating ordeal actually happened is a source of great discomfort to me. It is no doubt a masterpiece in my eyes, just for its sheer level of pure authenticity. Sure, you hate to see and hear what these kids are doing half the time, but you've got to hand it to the cast and crew, who were able to channel the emotions and characteristics of the types of people we see every day moody, violent, uncontrollable, careless, and dangerous young people who seem to have lost any semblance of grip on their lives, and who want to expose their anguish to the world. This is hard-hitting, voyeuristic teen drama at its very best (and worst). "},{"Title":"Why are we Americans so uncomfortable with sex but not violence?","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I find it both funny and sad that the sexual frankness in BULLY creates more outrage than the depressing, brutal murder that the movie centers around. The bully got his throat slit open in the most graphic, unflinching shot in the movie, but all most people complain about is the nudity. Again, why is sex such a bigger deal than violence? These characters are amoral, aimless, drugged-out losers, but - shock! - they're naked a lot.  How unsurprising that most of those who complain about the nudity are Americans who can't handle honest depictions of sex but turn violent, pointless, emotionally empty action flicks into blockbuster franchises. (Am I the only one appalled that BAD BOYS II and 2 FAST 2 FURIOUS made so much money?)Yeah, right, Larry Clark's a perv for filming his cast without clothing for several scenes. But I remember another Clark (Bob) who had his young characters naked a lot too. Anyone else remember PORKY'S? Who of us took offense at all the nakedness in that movie?So, it's not the nudity that bothers y'all - it's the context. It's okay in a comedy but not a drama? I didn't find the nudity in BULLY inappropriate. Nobody was naked in public - they were alone with each other in the privacy of their bedrooms (as opposed to all the alfresco nudity in PORKY'S). I walk around naked when I'm home, especially after sex. In fact, I have more of a problem with movies whose characters get dressed immediately after coitus, or hide under the covers from the camera. It's a distraction because it's just not realistic. Good for Larry Clark for showing it like it is. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and Disturbing","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS WITHIN!This is a film that will make you feel guilty for watching all those Police Academy movies.  'Bully' is a relentless and disturbing piece of work, and also gut-churningly realistic.  Using a true case of teenage murder as its basis, Bully watches its bored and disillusioned teenage characters through an unforgivingly harsh lens as they are tormented and abused by a violent thug and ultimately decide to kill him.  While it might sound like the plot to some gruesome exploitation flick, Bully is anything but a b-movie. There is one scene that is particularly striking here.  As the main characters gather in a circle to discuss the murder they are about to commit, Larry Clarke's camera views them from within, swirling round and round from face to face as they frantically chatter away, creating a dizzying, nauseous-making effect.  The characters, and the world they inhabit, appear to be spinning completely out of control.  The murder scene is doubly unsettling and comes accompanied by a chaotic and dissonant piece of music by Thurston Moore that heightens the tension.But perhaps the biggest shock comes at the finale, when the characters are sentenced for their crimes.  We've become accustomed to them by that point, having allowed access to their most intimate moments.  When their final sentences are revealed in a series of still shots it comes as a genuine shock. "},{"Title":"The story is more real than some believe","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  (SOME SPOILERS AHEAD). After reading the book on which this movie was based to satisfy my curiosity about some of the details, I did a web search on the real characters. Someone said the sentencing was pure Hollywood.  In the Fla State Supreme court website, I found a recording (video/audio) of lawyers arguing to set aside Marty Puccio's death sentence.  They succeeded.  Puccio's lawyer in arguing to have the sentence changed to life (his speech to the court was about 30 minutes), summarized what happened in the murder.  I found it earily just like the book and nearly like the movie.  Not only did the sentencing turn out to be rather an odd mixture (which was how they convinced the court to commute the death sentence) but the details of who did what in the murder was right in line with the book and movie.  What Puccio's lawyer didn't say, the state's lawyer did.  Both lawyers painted a picture of some of these teens that was creepy and like the book and movie. Much of what they said was from the transcript in the original trials.I have purposely left aside the issue of how Clark presented the subject. But I wanted to make it plain that the story seems to be in accord to the evidence presented in court.  There are some who are disputing that portrayal (the one in court, book, and movie) in real life.  But it appears that the story in the book and movie is consistent with what came out in court as agreed upon by lawyers for both sides during the appeal.What conclusions you draw from this movie or book is up to you.  But you would be ill-advised to think that it was made up.  It was apparently too real. "}{"Title":"Manson Family eats American Pie","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  To me, this is in a small group of movies that really distured me, but in a cinemagraphic way -- like Midnight Express and Rosemary's Baby.Lead actress Rachel Miner is positively eerie!  i'd love to know more about the real case this was based on, but as a dramatization of what happens when ruthless bullying in a group of amoral teens goes to the extreme, i think this is fabulously real for the 21st century.The nudity and gratuitousness of sex is indicative of the characters & citizenry depicted.  if you have a problem with this film, you have a problem with the high school on your corner.Granted it's a 'movie' of what goes wrong in the extreme, but the bullying, clickishness and peer pressure sure rings true in the high school world i knew and the one i see today.if you're sensitive and/or young i would avoid this.  i couldn't watch movies like this (Natural Born Killers, Pulp Fiction) before -- i knew beforehand they were too violent.  this is in that graphic league, tho of course not in other qualities.if you're okay with watching evil, almost Manson-like violence, then check this out for the culture that birthed Columbine.  if you have trouble sleeping at night, avoid this till symptoms subside. "},{"Title":"In your face","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found LARRY CLARKS last movie 'KIDS' in your face and somewhat disturbing as do I find 'BULLY' the very same. For those who complained about 'KIDS' calling it 'Pathetic' or 'Unrealistic', open your eyes and look around.'BULLY' is the type of movie most dont want to watch because most people want to hide from the fact that situations like this just dont happen. They do. Kids getting high, drinking, beating up each other and sleeping around, IT HAPPENS. Thats what kids do. Not all, but some.I found 'BULLY' very full on and although I dont feel the excessive amounts of sex scenes were necassary though. What does that have to do with the plot of the story? Yeah the lead character likes to beat up on his best mate and rape his girlfriend and best friend but there wasnt any need for any more sex scenes. I thought I was watching a porno the first twenty minutes of this movie!Good story line, gotta hand it to the writers of the movie. However the direction was poor. What was with all the close ups on girls and the nudity exposure? It made me very uncomfortable to watch.BULLY 7/10 "},{"Title":"Was it a true story?","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't know it was a true story, or I must've fallen asleep when it ended!This movie was filled with alot of sex and a little bit of gore, but was okay , I found it great!8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Gratuity and Nudity mar an otherwise good thriller","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Possible SPOILERS???I don't know what is WITH Larry Clark, but he seems to have a thing for leering close-ups of girl's butts and panties and for long sequences of unnecessary nudity, sex scenes, etc. Do they add to the story, no, but he seems to think they'll draw a wider audience??? Add mystique??? Make it more gritty and real??? Oh brother. And maybe since this is a semi-foreign indie film, it makes him feel all the more free to take his license???It really is a riveting film actually. A bunch of Florida teenagers, aimless, disaffected, snotty, decide to kill one of the guys in their social circle. Bobby Kent (Nick Stahl) is a bully. He's mean to his best friend Marty (Brad Renfro), he rapes a self-proclaimed kinky girl named Ali (Bijou Phillips) and says hateful, misogynistic things to just about everyone. Marty's girlfriend Lisa (Rachel Miner, who gets lots of gratuitous nude scenes) comes up with the plot of getting rid of the Bully Bobby. In my opinion, all of the characters in this film are jerks, and Bobby was no different, no better and no worse, than the rest of these mean-spirited, lazy, amoral creatures. Ali likes kinky sex with Donny (Michael Pitt) and has a baby she barely cares about. Marty has domestic squabbles with Lisa and leaves her covered in bruises. Everyone loves to do drugs and drink heavily. These are not heroes or role models for any teen who might watch. They are just mean, weep for the future kids, the people who will someday rule the world.The riveting content of the film is mainly how these kids carry out their act of murder. A lot of tension builds up, somebody chickens out, a lot of new planning is done, and they finally ask for the aid of a more experienced criminal type played by Leo Fitzpatrick (of Clark's earlier film, KIDS). Thankfully, this is not a film about how the heroic kids kill the mean bully and get away with it. They, like I said, are just as rotten as he is. They do get what they deserve in the end. "},{"Title":"Hmmmmm......","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie would of been a whole lot better if they hadn't messed it up with all the strong sex scenes and explicit nudity.  All of that wasuncalled for.  The plot was good and the acting was good too, but all of those actors wasted their talents on just having sex and showing all of their body parts.  What a waste, you're better off watching a porno with young teens in it....that's what this movie is basically about!! I ended up not liking it!!  Maybe the costume person was fired the kids had to wear their birthday suit.  Even a little baby boy was naked while his naked mother held him.  That's so gross and sick!!! "},{"Title":"Very controversial yet profound movie","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A lot of people act like Larry Clark is just a child pornographer.  I totally disagree with that.  This movie rocks and Brad Renfro is really good in it.  Bully is based on a true story and this is how teenagers are now. Maybe they're not quite as kinky as the teens in this movie, but the real life characters that Bully portrays were involved in a prostitution ring, homosexual tendencies and were murderers.  So when people are like, how can he show that?  Why does he do all the gratuitous sex scenes, well, this is the only way this movie could have been done and effective. "},{"Title":"Startingly realistic view of teenagers","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  These children are everything I remember about high school.  As a middle class suburbian kid, I did too many drugs, slept with too many girls, and basically was a watse of time.  I got great grades, had friends who were as messed up as I was, and was alive, but not really living.The only thing is, I couldn't see this.  That seems to be the problem with these kids.  They are too obsessed with the miniscule things that they don't ever see the real big picture.  After living in Florida for a few years and seeing how the kids are down there, I really got to relate to this movie.After watching this movie I sat there for over an hour just contemplating what had happened and how similar it was to my life and the lives of so many of my friends.  It also makes me wonder how much worse we could have gotten if college hadn't spilt us apart when it did.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as Kids but an alright film about teen murder","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully I saw when it first came out at a theater and recently just saw an unrated version on HBO that really didn't have too much added to it except you see more sex scenes as their a little longer in their length and (for us girls)you see Nick Stahl's penis for like a second and teasingly you almost see Brad Renfro's. This movie is loosley based on a real-life murder case where the kids were all gangbangers and the bully was a musclehead a few years older than them and he took advantage and abused one of the teen kids in the group Marty Puccio,but not in the gay-like style that this film depicted. The girls in this film were complete morons as Rachel Miner's character falls in love with Renfro's Marty charachter like after just one or 2 times of sex which is unbeleivable and Michael Pitt's and Kelli Garner's characters just coming along for the ride to murder someone is a little unrealistic as well. Even Marty has really no reason to kill the so-called Bully why not just stop hanging out with the guy? I mean Brad Renfro could have easily beat the crap out of Nick Stahl and in the real life situation of this murder case the real-life Marty Puccio was a small wimpy guy who was getting beat-down by a fairly large muscle-head. Hollywood could have tried to place a little more reality to these charachters body-types to make this film a little more belivable.The acting in this film is very good as both Brad Renfro (who was awesome in Apt Pupil)and Nick Stahl are really good in both of their roles and also impressive are Bijou Phillips,Michael Pitt, and Kelli Garner. Rachel Miner needs more acting classes as that's highly apparent. I also read in another one of these reveiws that at the end of the film you see what kind of sentences these teen murders receive and that they seem far-fetched as it was Hollywood adding on to their actual real-life senetences. Well if you would have watched until the end of the credits you would have saw that most of the people involved sentences were shortened down as Ally received only 17 years of her 40 year sentence with a community supervision of 40 years and Lisa got her life sentence shortened down to 22years. Even Marty's death by electrocution was shortened down to just a life sentence. And no that wasn't Hollywood.That is what the real life praticipants received for this stupid senseless murder.*** out of *****  "},{"Title":"hot movie about revenge","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  *********CONTAINS MANY SPOILERS**************This movie is a hot one!!! It is based on a true story, and is filled with violence, (mostly) female nudity, explicitly sexual acts, and revenge.When a teen aged girl is raped, she and her friends plot the murder of the rapist, to the extent of hiring a guy who is supposedly a contract killer, but seems to me to be nothing more than a wanna be. The murder plot goes well (my favorite part of the whole movie, which got me extremely excited) and the group of murders and accomplisses seems to be doing everything right to cover their tracks; but then, one by one, they start to tell the story of what happened to people they should not be telling, people who are by nature blabber mouths, thereby condemning themselves to their fates. They are all caught (what a downer) and sentenced. 7 years, 11 years, 14 years, life, life, life, and death by electric chair....Note to any teenagers who see this movie, do **NOT** try to imitate it! "},{"Title":"what do you do when you can't make a good movie?","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark sure has figured out how to make horrible movies.  Simply fill it with a lot of sex and nudity and people will watch.  This movie isn't even as good as Kids which was vastly overrated.  Somehow Clark fooled the critics into thinking that this was a realistic portrayal of kids in mainstream America (which isn't even close to the truth), and they jumped on the bandwagon.  Lost was the horrible acting, and the non-existent plot.  Well, Bully doesn't even have that false air of importance.  Once again Clark has filmed unrealistic situations (yes, I know it really happened, but this is by no means what teenage life is like for the most part), so he needs to fill it with loads of sex.  This way, when no one goes to see the movie, he can blame it on the rating.  Rachel Minor shows that MacCauley Culkin was actually the ACTOR in their brief marriage, if that is possible.  Bijou Phillips and Brad Renfro are passable at best.  If you want sex, rent a porno.  The acting ain't much worse than this garbage.   "}{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark seems hell-bent on filming some of the extreme ugliness of contemporary existence.  Why?  I don't know.  With both Bully and Kids, I find that he's sending some mixed messages.Firstly, let's talk about sex.  Is sex bad or good in Larry Clark's eyes?  Well, given his nearly pornographic sexual voyeurism, he can't think it's too bad.  That said, his obsession with young, naked bodies is tempered by a sex is bad, mkay? theme that pervades his work.  Young people go out, do drugs, have sex with each other indiscriminately, and commit acts of extreme violence.  If you're portraying an unattractive lifestyle, and that lifestyle includes a great deal of budding sexuality, are you saying that there's something wrong with young sexuality?  You're certainly implying it, and it's hypocritical to do so when you're obviously drooling over Bijou Philips's goodies, Larry!Secondly, let's talk about drugs.  Is doing drugs bad or good in Larry's book?  Well, it's certainly a part of the same lifestyle that is the subject of his bleak films.  However, like sex, drug use does not have to lead to degeneracy and violence.  The message is unclear once again because Larry Clark acknowledges that hey, drugs are fun.So is Larry Clark a subversively perversive or a subversively prudish?  It's tough to say, but he damn sure is subversive.In the end, you're left with some mesmerizing images designed to titilate and horrify, sometimes simultaneously.  Given Larry Clark's background, you can understand why he appreciates the power of an image.  But what is he saying?  Are these modern/postmodern tales he spins moral, or is that not the point?  Are they just honest, or just melodramatic tripe?The answer to all of the questions I ask is, yes,  and it is within these contradictions that you, the viewer, comfortably resides.  Larry Clark makes movies worth watching.  Whether they're worth understanding is debatable.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"thinking process","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched Bully at 4 in the morning, only because i saw Brad Renfro's name on the credits. I have always been into very deep and twisted movies, and this one now is added to one of my favorites. It has this unbelievable plot, but at the same time, you think to yourself could i ever do this? i don't think that it is overexaggerated at all. I go to a high school that has many of the same type of kids that go there. They drive nice cars, don't have jobs, experiment with drugs to the best of their abilities... and the sex, oh, this movie makes me think alot about some of the people i know, and what i could even expect of them. Murder was not one of them until now. I am not going to say anymore about my personal life, but this movie just makes you think. I guess it might just make me think more because it reminds me of many peoples lives i do know. It does make teenagers look very irresponsible and just stupid in their thinking process... but isn't that what would happen? If you decide to kill someone, and you want to kill them asap, what else would you do? plus... drugs do that, they affect your thinking process! i haven't seen 'kids' yet, but the way this film was directed is amazingly brilliant in my opinon. The one scene, when they are standing outside Marty's house and the camera just has no knowledge of who is talking at that moment, and it just shows everyones facial expressions as everyone says what they have to say... it caught me, that scene is just what made me say this is an amazing movie. The second the movie was over, i raced to my computer just to read what everyone has to say about this movie. All of the positive feedback from this movie made me think even more, the way it affected other people, and so on. I can't see how anyone can think this is a bad movie, unless they don't like depressing or twisted movies. Or maybe they just cannot connect in any way so it doesn't seem to affect them the way it did me or other people whoms comments i have read. I know i'm not as good of a writer as many people on this page, but i couldn't let myself just not tell everyone my opinion. This movie left me laying in bed just thinking and thinking until i just couldn't think anymore... those are the kind of movies i like, and i am so happy i found this one.  "},{"Title":"Soul decay","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully is a mere description of suburban American teenagers without a soul and without a mind. Sometimes it's just unbearable to watch, the camera work sometimes is confusing and some dialogues are dull. But maybe Clark intended to do it this way. But, maybe it's Clark's most realistic movie. Whereas the characters in 'Kids' actually were human beings, worrying about themselves, the characters in 'Bully' don't have the ability to think for themselves or to feel human emotions. They are on drugs, not only alcohol, sex and weed, but they're also addicted - or heavily tied to - American suburban life malls, middle class cars, stupid jobs. They don't have any ability to think BEYOND that lifestyle, and neither does the film. Some scenes with their parents are extremely strong. It's a sad film because I didn't think that the decay of American teenagers has advanced so rapidly. Not all of them of course, but the lifestyle portrayed in 'Bully' actually IS typically US-American. "},{"Title":"Powerful movie that will leave you feeling empty","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to recommend this movie even though it won't give you that feeling of optimism that a lot of movies aim for.  I don't know how movies like this constantly get overshadowed by crap like The Hours and Adaptation.  This movie was awesome but not for everyone.  Even Bobby, who is a horrible person, wasn't all bad.  He really loved Marty(in a homosexual way). Every time he did something bad to Marty he would apologize and say you're my bestfriend, right?  It's kind of sad.  He was so scared of being gay that he was a really bad person.  They have a sick friendship which basically consists of Bobby making him do stuff he doesn't want to, abusing him physically and mentally all while really caring about him.  This movie is graphic and realistic.  I think it's much better than Kids and it even has Bijou Phillips naked. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film with staying power","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After seeing Bully for the first time, I still couldn't stop thinking about it a week later, and another week later had seen it two more times. It's impact never lessened, it never got boring, and I was able to enjoy it just as much with repeat viewings.The acting is brilliant. As has been seen with other movies by Clark, the actors get so thoroughly under the skin of their characters that its hard to believe that their portrayal isn't at least partially real or true to their own life, or that they could ever act in another role without some traces of this one (Leo Fitzpatrick is a great example that disproves any of that). Nick Stahl is great as the bully Bobby Kent, and he is very human. He behaves the way he does without telling us anything, stopping to explain his actions, or having teary confessions about a bad childhood. Why is he such a monster to Marty when he obviously cares about him? The audience has to come to their own answer. Brad Renfro gives himself nowhere to hide with his performance as Marty, and burrows completely into the life of an aimless young surfer. Leo Fitzpatrick is funny and believable as the Hitman; Michael Pitt is one of the most likable characters in the film as the stoner Donny; Bijou Philips becomes a completely convincing nymphomaniac rich girl.When I see some of the complaints people have about this movie, I in fact often cannot understand at all where they are coming from - and I am serious with that, I don't mean it in the faux-naivete manner. People accuse Clark of being a pedophile and a voyeur, a peeping tom, in general a sick pervert - and why? Because he tries to give his films this gritty, passionate feel - he wants his lens to be the eyes of just another character in the film. He wants realism and doesn't conceal anything, or try to glamorize anything. -With many films, 'special' scenes are extremely stylized. Murders, robberies, sex scenes, rapes, etc. And as a result when people see these scenes, they are watching it as part of the film but they are also watching it on another level, thinking, this is a sex scene...ah, it's interesting how much of that girl's breasts the director can show without revealing horror of horrors and confirmer of obscenity the nipple. They become separated from the film, the characters. In Clark's film, everything happens in the same world. People are eating, talking, fornicating, dancing, drinking, fighting, watching tv, having fun, being miserable - and it's all in thee same world. When Bobby beats and rapes Ali, it is just as real as the rest of the movie, and so has a far greater impact than if it weren't standard film fare with heavy doses of style thrown in. There's no seperation from the film. A pornographer? Clark is an artist. Complaining about the lack of black people? The story is based on true events and a real town, and in some towns, there aren't many black people. I live in one such place. Throwing in black people to appeal to nitpickers like that would only cheapen the film. My biggest problem with the criticisms this film receives is that they may poison the minds of people who haven't seen it before they get a chance to form their own opinions. -And last, I want to say that I find Bully to be superior to Clark's first film, Kids, which is very well-known and was his first movie - but I think Bully is better. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie. . .","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all, I think Larry Clark is a brilliant director. I found Kids to be an amazing film, showing the shockingly true face of reality that a lot of teens deal with on a daily basis. And this was another movie that was very realistic as well. That's why I admire Larry Clark as a director, he takes a very realistic approach at all of his films.I thought Brad Renfro did a fabulous job as the emotionally damaged best friend of Nick Stahl, who played the villain of the movie, thus the title Bully. Brad showed his undying bravery as he willingly killed his best friend in a heart-broken rage of revenge for all the awful things he had done to him, his girlfriend, & his other friends as well. I don't ever think I've seen such a great performance from Renfro.Overall, I found the movie to be very intense, but quite depressing as well. It's one of those movies that hits you in the face like a brick because it's so real. I really enjoyed it though. Makes you think a lot. "},{"Title":"Columbo wouldn't be needed here","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  These murderers aren't the most intelligent people in the world. The conspirators basically did everything to self-destruct their alibis within hours of committing the murder. This would be like a 10 minute Columbo movie, including opening and closing credits and advertisements. -) No mystery here, hell even the conspirators admit to it all while being sentenced as they argue amongst themselves.But that's not to say that this is a bad thing. Stupidity is real life, and stupid people commit murders too. It's probably what makes this a standout movie, it's the reality of the characters. They didn't plan the conspiracy out far enough into the future. They couldn't even decide whether to go to the mall or to another beach after doing it, to discuss their alibis.  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers This was a fantastic film, that was very mesmorizing.  I didn't realize until after the movie that the same guy that made Kids made this also. Leo Fitzpatrick as Derrick Kaufman really cracked me up.  I thought the ending where they got their sentencing was very powerful, particuarly due to the song choice Big bright yellow sun.  I agree that some of the sentencing seemed rather harsh, but did agree that Lisa Connolly deserved what she got, because she orchestrated the whole thing and kept pushing it to be done. I felt bad for Derrick Dzervecho, cause he seemed like a rather good guy who just got taken along for the ride, and would have never committed such a crime if it weren't for the others influence.  I do wonder however why they chose to murder Bobby instead of just avoiding him.  Eventually he probably would have left them alone or just moved on with his life after graduation from high school.  I think some of the blame must be put on the parents. Marty did try to warn his parents that he wanted to move, but they ignored him, even after seeing him bruised up.  Great Movie. "},{"Title":"What a Great Film!","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the few films that fall into the category of having no lame moments. I just happened upon it as it aired late one night on HBO and thought I'd give it a chance.  I did not know that it was done by the same director of Kids.  The two films look a lot alike so if you liked Kids, you'll like this one too.  Every one does a great job of acting and the atmosphere of the film rings true---from the choice of music to the parents' cluelessness of what is going on in their children's lives and their inability to effect change--as well as the cluelessness of the characters themselves.  Seeing this film makes me very interested in seeing everything else this director has done.It strikes me as very odd that I had never heard of this film before I watched it yet it is a wonderful film.  I find myself thinking about the concept that we are constantly bombarded with ads for one lame movie after another and yet, here is one great film and no one knows about it.  Seems like a shame.  The critics should have been heralding its praises--getting folks out to the theaters to build some word of mouth about a movie this good.  Movies of this quality don't come around very often.  Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Good film, strong performances","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark's voyeuristic study of aimlessly impulsive and frustrated youth scores over other films focusing on this topic by just taking the true life material and playing it straight.  The film stays with you for awhile by simply having a strong director's eye, a talented cast, and thankfully keeping deliberately smarmy humor away;  it shows its characters as young, living, breathing human beings with a burning need to escape their 'trapped' environment at any self destructive cost.  Instead of laughing at them, we feel for them.Every actor delivers but Nick Stahl stands out the fearless raw intensity he injects into the doomed abusive rapist/homosexual Bobby is a complete about-face from his (also doomed) sweet innocent boy-next-door son of Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson in In the Bedroom.  There's such a Jeckyl/Hyde difference between these two characters that it's impossible not to see the weakness in other good young actors today like Jake Gyllenhall and Toby McGuire  they're talented, but they've been doing the same thing in film after film whereas Nick Stahl has gone from one end of the spectrum to the other in just two roles.  Granted, it is difficult to be given an opportunity to show range these days but actors like Brad Renfro, Nick Stahl, Jared Leto, and Jude Law seem more than willing to take the risk.Bully is treated artistically and not commercially making it a powerful, memorable experience instead of something you forget once you hit the exit door. "}{"Title":"Stunning, Incredible....","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully is a masterpiece. I was completely captivated by the stunning acting, brilliant cinematography, and truly disturbing story. Brad Renfro, Bijou Phillips, Rachel Miner, and especially Nick Stahl were all at the top of their game. Bully isn't pleasant to watch, but it's one of the most electrifying 2 hours that film can produce. Requiem for a Dream and Dancer in the Dark are also recommended. "},{"Title":"Fair Play, the bad pay.","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie is a realistic and touching in a clever way. As seen kids in similar situations, I sure can tell this movie really made itself worth watching and recommending.The script is... great. Naiveness meets serious business and ends up as it should. "},{"Title":"We're the kids in America","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having been impressed with Larry Clark's earlier film Kids, I hoped that I would be with Bully. Although it is unfair to compare the two films as they are both trying to raise different points about generation x, I found that this tale wasn't as effect as the former. Although Kids wasn't a particularly comfortable film to watch, which I understand was the point, it did leave a lasting impression and the ending of that film particularly disturbed me. I admit that in this film there were disturbing scenes and one thing that Larry Clark does very well is never put a Hollywood polish on his movies, what you see is what you get, but I didn't really see a point to the scenes.Perhaps, I am, missing the point that the violence and sex was meaningless and that's what makes it so provocative. However, if you don't give me something that is going to grip me, to immediately grab my attention, then perhaps I will remain in ignorance about what the film is trying to say.Again not to make comparison to Kids, but I couldn't relate to any of the characters in this film, like I could the former. Although I have never led a promiscuous lifestyle, I can relate to a hormone fuelled existence. However, although I am middle class and from suburbia,I can not imagine being so casual about the things that they do throughout the film.Perhaps had the performances been a little more realistic, I may have got the film a little better. The three main female leads I thought did a good job, two of the few memorable moments in the film for me came from them. One when the girl in rehab discusses her Grandfather and when Ali is cradling her naked baby.However the male performances left me a little cold. I am a big fan of Brad Renfro as a rule but in this his performance was inconsistent and dull. In kids the characters were obnoxious but at least they were compelling to watch. The supposed Bully wasn't convincing as this person of terror and the guy from Dawson's creek just grated on me. Leo Fitzpatrick on the other hand was a entertaining as ever, although I was a little disturbed at first by him gone through puberty.Overall I thought that, although there were a few good performances, it wasn't a remarkable film. Had they had instead of trying to fit so much sex and close ups on Rachel Milner's nipples (who walks around naked that much) and actually built up a more compelling picture of how terrible this person was, I may have been more convinced. "},{"Title":"Stick with it till the end","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I heard a lot about this movie. Things like it sucked, it was pornographic and what have you. Then I started watching it and right away those were my thought exactly. However once the characters decide to kill Bobby(Nick Stahl), and once the new characters get introduced, the movie gets real good. The characters plan to do in Bobby it is so fascinating to see these dimwits all try to agree on the same page. The first 45 minutes or so do have no plot its a lot of sex and nudity and though that stuff does happen the whole movie once there is a plot established the movie becomes riveting and fascinating to watch.The main 4 characters your first introduced to Marty(Brad Renfro), Bobby( Nick Stahl), Lisa(Rachel Miner), and Ally(Bjiou Phillips) are all unappealing and uninteresting. Welcome to Dullville home of the Dimwits. They behave and act like their white trash yet they are middle class. Whats up with that I have no idea. However the characters Donny,Heather,Derek the Hitman,and Cousin Derek are all interesting and very colorful much deeper and better characters and better performances are given than the 4 main leads. I mean Leo Fitzpatrick as The Hitman is not only the best character in the movie he's the best actor overall too. Leo Fitzpatrick should be going places in the future his performance is that good. The girl who plays Heather,Kelli Garner looks like a young Mena Suvari. She's not TOO annoying. Michael Pitt who plays Donny who's always stoned is hilarious. The guy who plays Cousin Derek is great too he reminded me a lot of Ethan Suplee who's been in dozens of films. You get to see what happens to everyone at the end and its cool to see who got sentenced and charged with what.My advice is to sit through the first half of the film. I know it's painful to watch because its so bad but keep watching because you will feel very rewarded by the time the movie is over. I'm glad I stuck with it.        "},{"Title":"One of the most intoxicating and voyeuristic movies I have ever seen!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are many times where I had to stop this movie and ask myself questions like &#145;why was I watching this?' However by the end of the film I was glad that I could allow myself to watch such an extraordinary movie. With the feel of &#145;Boys Don't Cry', Bully stands out as a movie we can all learn from, but also understand what it means to be a teenager. It is also an astonishing look at the lives of young people in a downcast neighbourhood and the trouble that they do get into.This is the true story from 1993, where a group of friends planned to kill one of their own. Bobby Kent is not a nice guy. He beats up his best friend Marty every chance he gets, he abuses Marty's girlfriend Lisa, and rapes Lisa's friend Ali. One day Marty, Lisa and friends decide that enough is enough and plan to kill Bobby. However once the murder is committed, the group is unsure of how to handle the situation. Friends quickly turn into enemies, in a game that these teenagers did not know how to play.Until a friend of mine had pointed out that this film would be a good watch, I had not heard a thing about Bully. Boy did he turn out to be on the money, as from start to finish this film astounded me. This movie is the work of Larry Clark, who cleverly directs this film, with the mind set of a teenager. He pushes the boundaries of what makes a good movie, but I must commend him on his directive style which is original and fascinating.However, the camera work in this movie was a little hard for me to take at times. The women in this movie had to expose themselves many times, which I am sure pushed the envelope for what they thought was acceptable. I was amazed at how many scenes we see the naked body of a girl, as if the director is deliberately trying to point this out to us. Shots between the girl's legs, lying naked on the bed or simply going to the bathroom, the camera seemed fixated with this view. I was almost turned off the movie for this reason. Clark seems to me to be a voyeur, someone who deliberately show his audience graphic sexual detail. Then again I can see that he was trying to show us what these teenagers were like, one part of there existence was to be very sexual beings.There are some extraordinary scenes in &#145;Bully'. I like the scene which shows the group discussing how to they are going to commit the murder. It is ingeniously shot as the camera circles around the group for at least two minutes. This made me feel two things. One that I was part of the group and two that these people were in no frame of mind to do anything, much less plan a murder. Yet the murder scene itself was well shot. I believe it paints an accurate picture of what really happened to Bobby Kent. I also like how the different members of the group react to what has just happened. Once again the camera work is crucial to this scene. It is as if we are we are actually there helping to kill Bobby and being affected as well.The young cast put with this movie do a wonderful job with some demanding roles, as none of these characters have no place to hide. Nick Stahl played the violent and abusive Bobby well. His role was so believable, that many times when I saw him onscreen I shouted &#145;I hate you&#145;. Watch out for Nick whose starring in the third &#145;Terminator' movie. His supposed best friend Marty was performed by the unknown Brad Renfro. I like how we are introduced to these characters, as Marty is bullied by Bobby, which shows that Bobby has been a cruel friend for many years. This also sets the tone for what's to come. Marty's girlfriend Lisa was performed well by Rachel Miner. By the end of the film Miner gives her character such an evil manner, that she seems just as guilty as anyone of the murder. Bijou Philips portrayal of Ali was amazing. As well as being into sexual experimentation, her character used her seductiveness to distract Bobby, enabling the group to murder him.Let me get one thing straight, the world is not disadvantaged by the loss of Bobby Kent, as he was a wicked and &#145;bullying' human being.  But does anyone deserve to be murdered like he was? I say no, because although he did do some appalling things to his friends, Bobby had no way of being sorry, even though he pleads with Marty as he is attacked `I am sorry for whatever I have done'. His &#145;friends' did get there just desert when they were put on trial. With the conflicting stories I am certain that whoever was handing down the sentences to these cruel people, must have had a difficult time doing so. In the end, Bobby's friends were just as bad as he was, showing that this entire group of friends were &#145;Bullies' in one way or another. Bully is the sort of film to view if you want to see something that is challenging to watch and extremely disturbing.CMRS gives &#145;Bully' 4 (Very Good Film)  "},{"Title":"A terrific film about the consequences of the modern youth culture","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched Bully simply because it was the only movie on TV that I hadn't yet seen.  By the time the final credits rolled, I felt luckyt that I had caught the movie.  This picture is not only a commentary on crime and punishment, but also on the neo-urban-youth culture that pervades modern America.  The acting is superb all-around, and while the plot provides no sudden twists, it is a captivating story.  Somehow, this film manages to make you feel empathy for both the murderers and the victim of murder simultaneously; mixed emotions are just one of Bully's strong points.  I highly recommend this film! "},{"Title":"Wanting.","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wanted to be Kids, ended up to childish. Also the camera work was jerky and seemed it wanted the documentry look with none of the downsides. Oops. Overall their are two scenes that make you feel akward but they pass bye in seconds you hardly get the full feeling. "},{"Title":"It's Larry CLARK","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The director who directed both Kids and Bully is named Larry Clark, not King. Nick Stahl and Brad Renfro are especially moving in their respective roles. This movie will definately keep your nerves on edge the whole time. And, yes, the movie is quite amazing. "},{"Title":"People are naked in this movie","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully is relentless and powerful. In the first half it really shows how people can consume drugs and sex in mindless, destructive ways. And then it becomes almost a sort of black comedy, as Leo Fitzpatrick plays an apparently amateur hitman who gets in over his head. The group of teenagers who hire him to kill their evil friend are clueless of the consequences of what they are doing are, and I'm not talking about the law. He has to yell at them to stop talking about the murder out in the open in their own neighborhood. They could be talking about any other activity that a bunch of people could be excited about. A lot of people might not like a movie populated with characters so stupid about committing serious crimes, but I found it fascinating at how inept they are. As far as how exploitive the film is, especially concerning the sex, in this type of movie I think it's appropriate. Seeing all the aimless sex, drugs, and violence gets you situated in their everyday world, and is the only way to make the murder believable. Is Larry Clark a pervert or a pedophile? Well, I think most of the nudity is meant to be emotionally ugly and desperate, it's hard to imagine he filmed it for erotic purposes, although even if he did, all the actors who are naked are over 18, and in that case I have to ask, what's wrong with a lot of nudity? Are there this many grown people offended by nakedness? I myself am rather pro-nudity and in this case it only enhances the drama in Bully. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"A violent and uneven film from the dirty old man himself.","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark has been saddled with the &#145;dirty old man' tag since his breakthrough film, 'Kids'. With his follow up, 'Bully', it's perhaps somewhat warranted. An uneven, violent and vulgar film, it's not necessarily bad &#150; just not very good. The performances range from generally good (Brad Renfro, Michael Pitt, Nick Stahl, Rachel Miner at times) to the poor (Bijou Phillips and Leo Fitzpatrick) , which gives the film a varied feel. Some of Clark's shots seem to err on the side of bad taste (e.g. the close up of Phillip's crotch), but thankfully he doesn't sensationalise the sex scenes as much as had the power to do. Some of these scenes are brief, some painful to watch &#150; Stahl's raping of Phillips, but they generally stay on the tasteful side (or as tasteful as Clark's ever going to get). Renfro and Miner, sick of the abuse Stahl's character has heaped on them plot to kill Stahl, and this is where the film seems to spiral into a long, violent and manic state, with Miner getting more and more histrionic and losing most of the credibility she held from the beginning. A film that, like the superior 'Boys Don't Cry', leaves a bad aftertaste. Not recommended unless you happen to be a fan of Clark or the subject matter. "}{"Title":"Great flick","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to admit that Larry Clark is one of the best directors. He puts  intriguing true stories to life and forces the story to intertwine with teenagers today. When I first saw his movie Kids I told myself that there are no real teenagers like that out there, it was exaggerated. But after thinking, I realized... yes! there are kids like that out there. He is a phenomenal director and this is one of the greatest movies of the teenage genera "},{"Title":"Very interesting.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I stumbled upon this movie on a movie channel and watched it twice in the same night.  The movie was good, but in a unique sense of the word.  I haven't been able to read the book, so I cannot compare the two.. but I felt that the story was portrayed well.  The characters really stood out to me.. on one hand I can relate to them, being their age myself.  Though it's a bit startling how easily a group of semi-normal people (protagonist and antagonist aside) can be swayed to commit a murder in cold blood.The heavy subject matter, graphic depiction of the act, and abrupt ending kind of left me unsure of my thoughts on the movie.. but now that i've had time to sleep on it and reflect, I think it was done very well, and given some time i'm sure to come back to it. "},{"Title":"When I finally saw it, I was not disappointed.","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Because I live in Australia I had to wait a year to this great film which really peeved me off, I was literally counting down the days.When I finally seen it on the 26/7/02 I was definetly not disappointed I knew what to expect and it was great. The actors definetly pulled off the realisation of the real people who actually lived that life and committed the murder.I sat there literally feeling sorry for the real Marty who apparently had to go through that pain and the only way to stop the pain for good was to kill his best mate Bobby.This film definetly sends a message and that's the way Larry Clark likes it.This film is definetly one of my favourites and I can't wait until it comes out on VHS/DVD.Simply you just have to go see it.  "},{"Title":"A dark, voyeuristic journey next door","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark's films are like snapshots, very much photographs inmotion or action. Therefore, unsurprisingly, the character is in thedetail. Rather than layered with characterisation, this film revealscharacters in still moments (a couples' naked embrace, a family ata table, a naked mother embracing her baby).Being a photographer before a director - and before that the son ofa baby photographer - Clark's artistic form hits a peak in Bully.Visually, the film is a voyeuristic intervention by Clark. He getsinside the intimate moments and doesn't flinch - the casualviolence and drug abuse are survival tools for these wasted,suffocating youths. Its filmed very much inside the teen world ofthese kids who lack not only purpose but an identity of their own. Attheir age, some may argue this is ordinary but these charactersrequire some base which is sadly beyond them and their families.The  essentially vacant children here are dominated by parentswhose concerns translate as demands rather than any activerelationship. A blind eye is turned at every event, the youngadolescents worlds become increasingly sadistic as they oftenmimic their parents. The Bully of the title, Bobby, is his father's sonand the hint of a darker side to their relationship simmers beneaththe surface. The father's constant verbal degrading of Marty -Bobby's best friend and target - and intense expectations of hisson create the bully. Bobby enjoys the power but only because ofMarty's powerlessness - within his own family, in his friendshipwith Bobby, and romantically. Marty's revenge is the result ofbuilt-up, repressed anger easily teased out by a young woman,Lisa, desperately in love with him and seeking a more concreteplace in his life. Her painful need for Marty - she calls him herdream with an obssessive, dangerous glint in her eye -motivates but doesn't cause the tragic turn of events. The group'smindset is like a snapshot - frozen in a moment without foresight -and their lack of any feeling bar self-protection is coherent in thecontext of the surrounding film.  The background to these young peoples lives is entangled in theblankness of their families whose shocked faces at the end of thefilm carry a - too late - burden of guilt.The performances are suitably shell-shocked and sadisitic, andthe feeling that this is all a game for the teens continues till thelast.  This is a film where sex and nudity are all about power - be itmonetary, emotional or physical. Clark's camera is itself complicitin this world at times, intoxicated by it and his handsome subjects,but finally this gives us access to the teens world in a way a morecontroversy-shy director may have missed. Like Kids, this is a filmcolliding with reality with raw, confronting results.  "},{"Title":"Live, Love, Kill for Kicks...a ferocious film from Larry Clark","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"   If you are going to watch a Larry Clark film, you are going to watch a truthful account of American youth, not glossed over in any way at all.  Think how far apart this and 'American Pie' ( another film about American youth ) really are...... this is possibly on a par with kids as far as controversy goes.  Marty( Brad Renfro ) and Bobby ( Nick Stahl ) are longtime pals, despite the fact that Marty suffers constant abuse from his so called pal. They then meet two girls, and this maps out the story, Bobby turns his attention to Marty's girlfriend, and she now decides his reign of terror must end.  The film shows how the youth form a deadly plan, but don't see anything really wrong with this, the acting is great from all the leads, but perhaps there is a little to much nudity, which for some could make for uncomfortable viewing.  Brad Renfro, Nick Stahl, and the other cast members all put in great performances, but in my opinion ( Rachel Miner ) seems a little out of her depth in her role, and at time annoyed me, but that is the only flaw in this hard hitting great movie. "},{"Title":"Another two hours of my life wasted","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this film since I was impressed with Clarks' previous work Kids. Unfortunately with Bully I was left disappointed and frankly, bored. I can't say the fault was with the acting as some have proclaimed here, perhaps one girl at best wavered in her abilities, the rest were stellar. The shots of nude teenagers however, were excessive. Unless you are a teenage boy, there weren't nearly enough. Clark a pervert? I don't know and I really don't care. What bored me were the characters, their vacant minds spewed on endlessly about nothing-they thought of nothing-were ruled by their (very) limited emotions. (yes I know these are teenagers, but lets add some depth please) I also realize they were on drugs for the most part, but did they have to be portrayed as mindless zombies the entire stretch of the film? For all Clark's ambition to portray high reality on this particular project, he over shot and boomeranged back to stereotype land.If you like unnecessary nudity, bloody murder, kids on drugs and watching characters ramble on endlessly and act like idiots, please rent this movie. If not, well, you know what to do.  "},{"Title":"nausiating","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I do not recommend this movie to anyone even though I was totally immersed in it the entire thing from beginning to end and it emotionally affected me quite a bit. Movies that can effect you deeply, no matter if it's uncomfortably or passionately or disgustingly, usually make the best movies. However, Bully brought so much disgust and discomfort to me that I wouldn't recommend it to anyone just so no one else has to feel such intense feelings. They aren't fun ones to have. I literally had a giant scowl on face that wouldn't come off for an hour after viewing this movie and I had to tell myself that I am not one of the people in the movie. It leaves you feeling like your life is just as screwed up as the kids in the movie. It really plays with your mind and makes you feel like you're in the movie, too. thus, after it is over, you feel totally hopeless and low. It sucked.If you are a person with lots of empathy, don't watch this. It's mentally torturous.Also, I do not think Larry Clark is a pedophile or messed up or anything like that. I think he is portraying messed up people and it not him just getting his kicks at watching young girls topless. the nudity is NOT as bad as everyone seems to think. Sometimes you wonder why the people are sitting around naked, but that's the least of your worries. There are more things to wonder about concerning why a character is motivated to do something. I don't think blaming the director for the nudity is the answer. The characters are supposed to be messed in the head and do things that normal people don't do. like sit aruond naked all the time or pour hot wax on each other while having sex. So don't blame the director. I think it's very real and there are people out there who do things like that. If Clark censored it to make them seem to have normal sex lives, it wouldn't fit the story. "},{"Title":"Horrifying","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After seeing Kids a few months ago I was absolutely disturbed by the harsh reality that the movie has. Up until now I never thought that there could be a more disturbing movie made, but I was wrong. Larry Clake has again managed to make a movie so shocking that it should be viewed by all teens and parents alike. Although it doesn't pack that same punch that kids had it does make a strong statement about the youth of today and their parents as well. Brad Renfro is perfectly cast as Marty. A hunk who is fed up by the way his best friend has been running his life. With the persuation of his girlfriend Marty decides he is going to kill Bob. The performance are all well acted and believable but it is Kids star Leo Fitzpatrick who steal the spotlight. Fitzpatrick gives a gritty, slap-in-the-face performance as a ganster type character who keeps telling the teens that what they have gotten into is not some sort of game and there is no room for fooling around. Although this movie focuses more on the violent aspects of teen life Clark again returns to Kids teritory with messages on drugs, sex and peer pressure. There is a very powerful scene in which Marty and his girlfriend are laying in bed smoking some weed and Marty tells of the first time her tried it. His words Being raised in a Christian family I learned that it is a sin to make you mother cry and mom told me if she ever seen me somking weed it would make her cry. He then tells of how he only did it because Bob pressured him into trying it. Harsh stuff. Also teen pregnacy is adressed in the film. I was simply horrified during a scene near the ending where Ali is sitting in a rocking chair holding her naked baby while her boyfriend and Heather are having sex in the bed right beside her. I also like the way the parents are portrayed in the film. All of them seem to not really care or know what their kids are up to. The best example of this was when all the kids are standing in Marty's garage with knifes and baseball bats talking about how they will kill Bob and when Martys mom comes out she doesn't even care where they are going she just tells them to have fun.This is the kind of movie that will make even the strictest of parents flinch when they see a do you know where your kids are commercial. It's really hard to believe that this is a true story and it kind of makes you wonder whether Larry Clake is a genious or just a dirty old man. On one final note, if viewing this movie doesn't change your outlook on life, your probably to far gone to even have one.  "},{"Title":"Cinema as an experience.","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  *Contains some spoilers* I saw this film about two months ago and not a day has gone by since that I don't think about it.I came out of the cinema feeling sick to my stomach but I also could not wait to see it again (which I did the following week).No film,not even my previous favorite Fight Club ,had ever made me feel like this.The movie is brilliant in how it builds up to the truly sickening murder scene.But for me personally it is the last twenty minutes or so after the murder that is the hardest to watch.The Fatboy Slim song playing in the background during this segment is easily the best use of music I have ever seen in film.Oh and the acting is great too.I strongly recommend this to any teenager who is sick of clean-cut teen fodder populated by dickheads with clear skin and perfect teeth.this shows what really goes on in life (well obviously some stuff is not entirely accurate).My only dread is that the next time i see this film it will be on video and i just know that the Irish censor will cut the movie to s*** and I will have to shell out to import a directors cut so i can enjoy the best film ever made as god(well Larry Clarke)intended. "},{"Title":"Larry Clark's Hollywood Heavyweights- More Kids.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark's gift to Hollywood is his ability to get kid actors to  simply act their tails off. In the case of Bully, Clark's second feature to host an ensemble cast made up of mostly young adults, the performances mirror that of some of Hollywood's heavyweights. For starters, Brad Renfro and Rachel Miner play a young angsty couple continually abused, in Miner's case raped, so much by their friend (Nick Stahl, In the Bedroom) that they decide murder's the only way to stop him. All three roles demand the actors to be in aggressively violent and sexual situations and their execution is equally fearless and impressive. Renfro and Miner's chemistry is so uncomfortably raw, in fact, I couldn't help myself reflecting upon Basinger and Rourke in 9 1/2 Weeks. And Stahl! His role as the gut-wrenchingly evil bully is a knockout performance that's furiously on target. He's an incredulously brave actor, folks- Watch out for this kid. Of course, whether ALL this is a credit to Clark remains to be seen.  Here's my one bullying point I think Clark's trademark shock FX, at times, is  misdirected. Blatanly over dramatizing a film with unnecessary see and violence for no reason, diminishes telling a good story. Yes, his films are character-driven, but wouldn't it be great if he could tighten his plot up and hire a decent editor!  Hey Larry, you might land up with an Oscar someday. Worst case though, Clark's giving some talented kids an amazing jumpstart to their careers, ones they can bully around the bigger kids in Hollywood with. Note The DVD is packed with insightful cast interviews (Clark says that Stahl reminds him of James Woods). And don't miss How the Actors Landed Their Roles. It won't disappoint.  "}{"Title":"It's A Bit Cheap","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't mean fiscally cheap, I mean cheap on character development.  I am quite familiar with this story and think the film did a relatively good job bringing it to life.  However, I think there was a great amount of gratuitous sex scenes and nudity that merely made the kids into a bunch of sex crazed teens (as if they were in a slasher film) and that took away from the complexity of their relationships.  It tried to be Kids and it wasn't there story-wise.On the good side, there is the uneasiness that is due such a violent story. The dialogue is also remarkably well written.  The parents are represented in a way that shows their naivite and failure to care about what their children are doing.  It's not the groundbreaking film it wants to be but a decent one overall. "},{"Title":"Insidious &#150; a film to experience, not to enjoy.","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very uncomfortable viewing but nonetheless powerful. The thing that jumps out is the amazing cast &#150; everyone involved are excellent actors and talented but the story reeks with dread. We know what the outcome will be, but we can not but watch in horror as these dim kids proceed with their horrific task. There's been debate about the gratuitous nature of the film. Yes, it is sexually explicit &#150; but I think its surely commenting on the promiscuous world that these teenagers and many others inhabit. It happens, it exists. Deal with it. The only obvious concern is the way in which Larry Clarke chooses to demonstrate this, he makes it voyeuristic, and long lingering shots of naked teenage girls sat on the toilet doesn't help his cause. Overall though, this is challenging stuff and ought to be seen. "},{"Title":"It was almost a good movie, but it never quite made the jump.","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Maybe the director's cut would have had a little more impact, I don't know.  The movie was dark and interesting, and it had some very impressive scenes, but I was left with the feeling that it could have been better.  It was like there was something holding it back.  Still, if you like Larry Clark movies, it's worth watching. "},{"Title":"Violent Racy and Real","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark's movies are known to be extreme. Every thing he does reaches the viewer's emotions. His films effect the viewer on a personal level and he shows reality. The film Bully has an incredible young cast that all have real futures in the industry. Bjou Phillips gives on amazing preformance as well as Brad Renfro and Nich Stahl. This movie does have explict hardcore nudity and extreme language. So if you are extremly sensative do not view this film. But if you enjoyed Kids or another day in paradise I reccomend this film with all that is within me. this film is violent racy and real. "},{"Title":"Bully is a very interesting true movie of dysfuncion in a friendship","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was one of the most interesting films that I have come across this year. The movie told the true story of a very dysfunctional and violent relationship between two friends that eventually ended in the murder of one. I think that people should see this film. It is definitely worth watching.  "},{"Title":"So Close to Reality That the Reviewers Were Shocked","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just finished reading the book and must say that the film follows it very closely. The movie got a bad rap from most reviewers who were clueless about the story and appalled by the sexuality. But what you see on the screen is about as close to reality as you can get. It took a lot of courage to make this movie. A few major omissions--Marty and Bobby were absolutely sick kids who would seek out mentally disturbed boys and throw a football off their heads and try to catch it. They did this many times. What a scum duo they were. Lisa was very heavy in real life, over 250 pounds. Also, Bobby would lie on top of Marty while they watched gay porn. What a strange couple they were! The book points out that Marty was digging the gay scene, and Bobby would beat the crap out of him when he got too gay! Yet paradoxically, it seems to have been Bobby who initiated all the interest in male sexuality. What really went on in their bedrooms as kids growing up? AND, most important, the film doesn't discuss the boys' use of steroids, which they took every day while pumping iron at a local gym. They worked out for two hours each session. I think the steroids certainly affected Marty to the point that it brought out all his hatred and viciousness for Bobby. But, the film is really very honest and fair in its portrayal of their lives and their demented scheme to kill someone. Don't you believe for a second that Marty and Lisa are celebrities--they were really messed up and in no way are role models. This film is disturbing, and of course it has to be, as it presents a fairly disinterested view of the ugly side of humanity. "},{"Title":"Not much of a Bully. Not much of a movie.","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  To begin with the movie has to be reviewed from two perspectives. The first being its life as a film, the second, the alleged claim that the events depicted are all true. How can any one author claim to know exactly what was going on as presented in the film?As a film, Bully presents a series of unbelieveable contrivances. To begin with no one in the world will ever believe the buff and hulking Brad Renfro could be bullied by the skinny underdeveloped Nick Stahl. It was wholly ridiculous watching them in their roles.  It's clear the director made a big mistake. The females are interchangeable, and their acting ability poor. The whining, super-brat mentality which permeates the film disguises the clear under developement of the characters. Having sex with anything that moves does not a character make. Whether these events are true or not doesn't change the fact that the film itself is laughably insincere. I vividly remember the events of this tragedy as I was living in Lauderdale. Each day new and colorful lies from the mouths of those involved graced the headlines. Each new revelation seemed crafted to top the previous.  The tales grew like a brush fire out of control. They fought amongest themselves, and pointed wild fingers.  And, as the drugs wore off in the days following the mass arrests a reality set in, a dark and strange barbarism rose from the stench. They didn't care. They didn't understand. And they didn't really know what happened.Now that would have a made a better movie. But for this to have been a better film, it needed a real film maker, it needed a passion for Bully. Mr. Clark has no passion for his subject, murder. He does however possess a vibrant lust for sex which makes him a horny Peeping Tom.To Mr. Clark a naked girl and a naked boy are the same thing provided they are discussing sex. Clark seems preoccupied with ease-dropping on children discussing sex. I find this odd as Mr. Clark should know (if he watches his own films) children may understand the mechanics of sex but they haven't got a clue as to the whole nature of healthy sex.Therefore, despite its murder alure, Bully, is just another volume of Hey let's talk dirty cause mommy and daddy are busy.HAVING SAID ALL OF THAT --- as a soft-porn film (the director's Cut of course) Bully is erotic but raw and again, unbelieveable. (i.e. When Nick Stahl was raping the 'whore' HA! If it were real, that girl would have punched that skinny-assed boy out the damn door -- she was twice his size!!) "},{"Title":"WOW...","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film delivers in true Larry Clark style. Raw and emotionally  intense with fantastic performances all round, the experience is also enhanced by the fact that the events depicted are based on a true story. A harrowing portrayal of decadent youth and the teenage social malaise that precipitates the film's violent and shocking climax. Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Great...Powerful Movie","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a really good movie. I know that most people will probably say that it is exploitative trash but if you look past the gratuitous sex scenes it is actually a great film. I strongly think that any teen that is having problems with the police should see this. I admit that I have gotten into trouble with the police a few times and I can really relate to how these kids must feel. Obviously there punishment would be much more severe but it is still along the same lines. This movie should also be seen by parents concerned with their kids. It is another wake up call just like Kids showing the world what teens have the power to do. "},{"Title":"SEE THIS MOVIE, NOW!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie two days ago on video and it's been on my mind ever since. Larry Clark knows how to get under your skin.  I'm a fan of all his movies and feel bad that I, one, didn't see this in theaters and 2, hate that I saw the R rated version. I went to high school in a all white suburb and really kept my friends to a minimum. After seeing this film, it makes me wonder if I knew any kids that may have done or  considered doing something like this. The story is based of true events which is often difficult to capture dramatically in two hours or less but I think Larry Clark did a fine job. He really knows how to get the best out of actors with little to no experience. I will definitely be purchasing the DVD!  "}{"Title":"Serious movie - shown without comment","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great acting. Good pace. Interesting (and true) story. Adds up to a good movie. The acting deserves special mention - it was truly outstanding. The movie tells its story dispassionately - but there is a message within it - that children left to their own devices will grow up to be dysfunctional adults. I gave it 8/10. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"This was more of a powerful and disturbing porno than anything else","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wish this werent such a sex driven movie.  I can understand larry clark portraying just how horrible nick stahl's charcter really is by showing the rape scene, but it got a little gross seeing brad renfro and rachel miner have sex every other seen.  My heart was pounding and my palms were sweaty when michael pitt's character takes the first move on Nick stahl.  I thought Brad Renfro did a good performence, you could see the anger in his eyes as he stabbed Nick Stahl.  I really enjoy movies that get portray the horrid reality of human nature through children.  I recommend Lord of the Flies to anyone who enjoyed Bully.  One advice to Larry Clark, tone down the sex involving teens. "},{"Title":"There is nothing more frightening than violence without reason, and this is what Larry Clark explores in this remarkable film.","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The theme and mood of Bully is not new, done before most effectively in River's Edge by Tim Hunter and starring Crispin Glover, Dennis Hopper and River Phoenix. Alienation and Nihilism in the North American backwaters. The two films are similar in many ways. Drop-out kids with no direction, no hope and no ideas hit on a 'killer idea', literally. But what Larry Clark brings to it is a sexually charged apocalyptic vision in which these kids, mostly middle-class and well-off have chosen this route. Society hasn't 'done' anything to them. They have chosen to not care. Bobby, who has 'a b-average' at high school and is all set for greater things prefers to hang out with his surf buddy, Marty, rather than work or study. Marty, has given up on being a surf super-star, it seems mainly due to the abusive relationship with Bobby. At the heart of this is some intimation towards Bobby's repressed homoerotic fantasies for Marty. These fantasies explode in moments of violent abuse. The kids are almost always high, They drink liquor, take acid, smoke 'dope' and listen to hardcore rap with endless lyrics about sex, killing and guns. Their hero is Eminem. And in a very well observed scene Marty raps along to an Eminem video, beat perfect. These guy's lives are in tune with the Suburban rap star, and the myth of Rap also helps shape the world for them. Dr.Dre and Eminem are both their poets and their Muses. Possibly the best performance of all comes from Rachel Minor is Marty's girlfriend. The sense of the film takes shape after the murder, when all their bravado and their camaraderie fall apart, and it is Rachel Minor's performance here that shines. She enters something close to delirium when she tries to elicit the help of her friend Claudia. After Kids this is Larry Clark showing his moral underbelly. Kids was very careful not to judge its characters too bluntly. They were intelligent, metropolitan middleclass social drop-outs. The film didn't step in too heavily with any moral baggage with which to weigh them down. But in Bully, Claudia's indignation is also the indignation of the filmmaker. She works for Pizza Hut - a stepping stone to college, no doubt - and she is the mirror of sanity in which we see Lisa's madness. By listening with Claudia's  ears we can really gauge the depth of Lisa's confusion and her alienation from normality. When Marty is driven away by the cops his little brother wears a t- shirt that reads 'Strength to resist drugs and violence'. There is no political reason for this rebellion. There is no social deprivation to motivate it or understand it. They have loving parents, perhaps a little too strict in places, perhaps a little too lax. But these kids have understanding and money. The problem stems from them. And so, surely, does the answer, says the film. The decent into hell that these kids take is truly harrowing, and the image of the little brother, is placed there as one of hope. The other obvious aspect of the film is the director's eye for teenage sexuality. Provocative shots litter the film and achieve many things. First, in the camera's pornographic fetishism of erogenous zones he does achieve a very sexually charged atmosphere. It is desire that powers these kids, as it did in his earlier film. And perhaps it is desire, desire running wild without any true social cohesion, that leads them to murder without care. The shots, especially of Ali in tight cut-ff jeans, titillate, shock and boost the film's erotic centre. It is the element of their lives that both fascinates the director and repulses him. He respects it - in the beautifully shot tableaux of their bodies caught in mid-coitus or post-coitus; and he despises it - the pornographic crotch shots. He loves them for their sexual energy - defined positively in activities such as skating and surfing, but also fears them for it - defined in their acts of violence. In a similar fashion to Kids Larry Clarke has caught American sub-culture at its most subversive. Subversive because violence without cause or reason is possibly the most frightening violence of all.  "},{"Title":"Oh my goodness...","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this film knowing of Larry Clark's work (which is exactly why I didn't let my sister watch it even though she begged me, she's only 13 by the way...) I know his style is very raw and intense and he never sugarcoats the storylines. Extensive nudity and drug use were definitely not spared, but I think it made things more realistic. That's probably the key word in all of Clark's films, they're always taken from a realistic point of view. It's refreshing to see such honest work, but at the same time, very shocking. I thought the actors were well cast, except maybe Rachel Miner, I didn't care for her much, I'm not sure if it was cause her character was sort of clingy and annoying or if it was how she portrayed Lisa. I always thought of Brad Renfro to be the bully type, I was surprised he was the one being harassed, but he pulled it off, I enjoy his work, he's terribly underrated. Nick Stahl was great and Leo Fitzpatrick also did a nice job. Not to mention, Donny was hilarious. I'm gonna keep an eye out for Michael Pitt, he seems like he's going to go onto more great projects. Overall, this film could bring out some taboo I can't believe they're doing that feelings, but definitely worth your time... 8/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is down to life realistic.  The sex scenes do not constitute romance or beautiful well built women, but honest teenage sex.  The plot of murder doesn't  constitute a well executed plan, but impulsive teenage thinking. This movie is sensational about real teenage truth. "},{"Title":"disturbed","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very different movie. It is about these kids who lives in a suburban area with no jobs or school to go to. One kid, the bully, is not very nice to his friends. Although his friends don't like it, they don't do much about it, until they incubate this terrific idea which should solve all their problems.  That's what they think. I think the plot is as weird as the characters. However, a shocking/disturbed movie can be fun, like kids. "},{"Title":"Intense","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie during a limited run at the theater & recently rented it and came away with the same feeling of shock and disbelief. This film illustrates how gullible kids today are, and, to a degree, just how little respect they have for life. Spoiler - Yes, the bully of the film deserved retribution for most of the things he did (especially rape), but most of his actions are common characteristics of alot of trouble kids.  The cold, calculated plan of his murder is what shocked me more than the action itself.  The way they planned it was as if everyday people make plans to go to a movie. Spoiler - Still after viewing this movie 3 times, I still do not see why the character played by Brad Renfro was the only one to receive the death penalty.  All of the teens were involved in the planning and act of murder and should have received equal sentences. I feel that this film would have been a MTV movie of the week if the brilliant Larry Clark hadn't made one of the year's best films. "},{"Title":"Bully is contemptible filmmaking.","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the definitions of pornography is the depiction of acts in a sensational manner so as to arouse a quick intense emotional reaction <the pornography of violence.  The director Larry Clark makes it too easy to lash out at the film's countless scenes of graphic sex and nudity, which from a plot standpoint are all truly superfluous. Everybody has a voyeuristic side to himself or herself and this movie is one big peepshow I'll tell you that. If getting the audience's rapt attention was Clark's main goal, he did succeed but he needn't have done so by such ignoble means.  This true story has innate prurient interest already and its message is an important one.  Clark had only to examine the true mindsets of these kids in order to bring home his pointed obsession with disillusioned youth.  Unfortunately, just as in Kids, he chooses to show rather than tell and the end of this tragedy leaves us with a battlefield of inhumanity whose logical manifestations are irresponsibly absent as if to say our children are not human.  There's nothing more amoral and disgusting as murdering someone and I imagine it must take a truly volatile, hopping mad, disturbed person or persons to go through with it and the activities that the youths in this film indulge in are totally inconsistent with their actions in the end.  Borrowing from the old hippie saying, `Make love not war', it would seem that these kids' motivation after screwing and smoking and drinking and tripping their brains out would be merely to crash on a chaise-lounge and soak up some rays.  If these characters were on that much acid and grass they probably couldn't manage a trip to the bathroom never mind beating and bludgeoning and bashing somebody to death. A good film is usually the result of insightful and well-developed storytelling.  In Bully the plot is merely an excuse, a backdrop to showcase Clark's heavy boner for decadence.  In somebody else's hands, even in TV's movie of the week hands, you would have gotten a better story. "},{"Title":"Truly original, Truly disturbing","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  WARNING  POTENTIAL SPOILERS INCLUDEDBully is unlike anything you'll see on the big screen because its filmed in a voyeuristic, documentary style that is very unsettling.  The most disturbing aspect of this film is the fact that it could all be true.  I am not a teenager, so I have no clue what teen life is like these days. However, I get the feeling from watching Bully that I'm catching a rare glimpse into what being young in America is all about circa 2002.  I heard a Roger Ebert review of this movie that described the teens involved as being 'incredibly stupid.'  I'd prefer to say that they are misguided.  The hardest scenes in the movie to watch are the ones involving the parents. The old saying sickness breeds insanity is vividly displayed here.  The actors who portray the parents are dead on, they have that we were born all grown up look about them.  The gap between the kids and their parents in this movie is as wide as the grand canyon.  So, director Larry Clarke should be applauded for tackling such an unpopular, often ignored subject. Unfortunately, the film comes up short from an artistic standpoint.  I would of preferred that Clarke spend more time on the bullying relationship between the two main characters.  Their complex entaglement is the most fascinating part of the plot.  Clarke should of mixed more of showcasing the character's self destructive habits with main narrative, which is after all, the planning of the murder.  The climax of the film does deliver, as we get to see just how crazy and hopeless these teenagers and their parents truly are.  The final scene, showing the teens parents staring at their convicted felon children is a shining example of just how messed up parenting in this country has become.  I think Bully should be watched with an open mind. It covers a subject matter we'd rather avoid and pretend doesn't exist. But the unfortunate fact is we see it all the time in the school shootings and rise in juvenile detention and teens in rehab facilities.  Bully is a wake up call, and I'm geussing most adults in America are going to choose to hit the snooze button and instead rent Zoolander.   "},{"Title":"startlingly realistic","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"    i was very excited when this movie came out, being a fan of brad renfro's.  and when i finally saw it, i was shocked.  i sat mesmerized, as though i had been watching people that i could have been friends with on camera, kids that i see on the streets, teenagers who run around and actually plan that stuff out (whether they go through with out it or not is of no matter).   of course this horrifyingly realistic film is credited to genius larry clark, who seems to have this uncanny knack for knowing exactly (and i mean EXACTLY) how teenagers/young adults perceive life, love, sex, and sometimes ponder murder.     the man who created kids (if you've never seen it, get off the computer and watch it-it will remind you of yourself or your friends, or if you're a parent, it will let you know exactly what your child really is doing) has magically done it again, capturing the shocking finale of a misspent youth.   there are many sad parts to bully (what marty receives for his crime), but to me, the saddest was realizing how many kids there are, out there, going through the same things-how many times have we seen this story on the news???   my rating 10/10 "}{"Title":"Heavy","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I highly hesitate to say this film represents reality so well...in my opinion, it really does (even though I'll have to bring some nuances on that point), but I would not recommend this to paranoiac parents...okay, this is a Larry Clark film, he made KIDS, and this looks like KIDS a lot.  For parents out there, watching this, don't freak out, there are some cases like these children's, but Clark exaggerated the thing a bit, especially when the parents of the kids appear and the kids look okay...they're high or drunk all the time, but when they're talking to their parents, it's like they forgot that their characters were high...anyways, that's a negative point of the movie, but they are rare.  The film is truly disgusting to watch, (Spoilers, but I would qualify the following as the offensive material for some viewers) teenagers dressing like prostitutes and having sex with multiple partners, while being high or drinking are always on screen.  There is some plenty of drug use and detailed reactions.  I'll have to say that the film reminded me some old bad trips or nights being sick because of substance/alcohol use.  This movie will touch you even more if you have a past that makes a certain parallel with the character's lives.  The film criticizes today's youth, showing 8 year old boys drinking beer, teenagers killing someone, boys raping girls, among so much more stuff you wouldn't want your children to be involved in...but still, sincere congratulations to Mr.Clark, who wasn't afraid to show what was needed to give his message.  The realistic aspect of the film makes it so disturbing, and pretty hard as well as easy to watch.  The sexuality is disturbing, so realistic, the drug abuse too, and, of course, the murder too.  It really demonstrates how it should feel like for first-time (and young) murderers.  The directing had something very special, especially at one particular part of the movie, when five or six teens are talking about murdering a friend, and they're all high, and the camera turns around them while they're speaking, and it's important for the story to listen to the dialogue of that scene, but the camera makes you feel high by turning repeatedly around the actors.  The main problem of the film (the biggest, which is, in this film, not so important) is the SOOO short time spent on the idea of killing the bully...their idea seems so stupid, and some of the murderers don't even know him yet in the story, and already hate him, it seems almost like Clark had forgot to introduce the story, because of the long amount of time spent on showing how messed up the characters are, and he just had to rush for the story introduction.  But Bully delivers more than we expect.  It's realistic, but here's an important nuance to make; it's not all the teenagers that are like this, so, parents, don't worry, this is some of the worse cases you could imagine...but the murder idea in the film has nothing very realistic, seriously, for the beer and drugs, okay, for the sexuality, well that's a little forward (at least usually), but for the idea of killing someone...nah, even though the murder sequence is rendered wonderfully, its basis is exaggerated.  I don't know how this movie could be released with only an R rating (it really deserves an NC-17!).  Oh yeah, by the way, the ending is a good conclusion and interesting.  Overall, this movie is a great one, really, it's raw, powerful, but exaggerated a bit...Excellent actors, except for Mrs.Bijou Phillips...Heavy advisory, this contains graphic, realistic sexuality, violence and gore, substance abuse, and pervasive strong language.  This is NC-17 stuff, that's obvious...anyways, I give Bully a 8/10.  A 9 would have been possible too... "},{"Title":"Beautifully Disturbing","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS CONTAINED!!!!!!!!!!!!I was really impressed by the acting and overall characterization in the film.  Nick Stahl's Bobby Kent is one of the most complicated and evil characters I've seen in cinema since Malcolm McDowell's Alex De Large in A Clockwork Orange.  He is disturbing not only because he bullies Brad Renfro's Marty, but because he has a strange homoerotic attraction to him.  He alternates evenly between humiliating and beating Marty and telling him repeatedly that you're my best friend.  He forces Marty to dance for gay men to make money, and make homemade tapes of him masturbating to sell to porno shops.  He even taunts Marty about underlying homoeroticism, saying things like,you know you like d**k.  The audience feels the hatred for Bobby that Marty and his friends do, and I found myself wanting them to go through with their plot to kill him.IF YOU DON'T WANT THE ENDING RUINED, STOP READING NOW!!!!!!!When the murder actually occurs, though, the audience is presented with an interesting moral dilemma.  Bobby's murder is quite gruesome, and you can feel his desparation in trying to stay alive.  That made me realize that this person, who really is horrible, is still a person with a right to life. Though I do think he should at least have been thoroughly beaten because he is the type of character who will only learn his lesson when it is forced upon him.  Right or wrong, I didn't really blame Marty and Co. for killing him.  I merely felt sorry for them because they are all so painfully stupid and naive about what they were doing and how to handle it.  I can see why people might disagree with my viewpoint, but I think that is the point of this film. It makes you the audience evaluate what you would have done if you were in the shoes of these characters. "},{"Title":"Shocking story","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie today and it shocked me, and I watch a lot of movie, and seldomly something shocks me, but this one did. This portraits the life of a few young kids, and their uncaring lives. THIS NEXT SEGMENT CONTAINS SPOILERS. Their raw and careless use of drugs, unprotected sex, with Larry Clark again shows us in a way parent won't like. But the one thing that shocked me the most was the brutal murder of Bobby Kent, the graphic slaughter that he went through.IF YOU WOULD LIKE THE SEE THIS MOVIE, AND DON'T WANT TO KNOW THE END DON'T READ FURTHER.But what really game me a punch in the stomach, what that on the end credits it said that this was a True Story, and that I didn't know this while watching it, and it just made the movie more shocking, and important to tell, what would have happened if Martys parents had listened to him, and followed up that he wanted to move, and get away from Bobby, 8 lives would have been saved (1 dead, 7 in prison). "},{"Title":"American Teen Murder Bloopers","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  uh, what can I say about this movie? It was a good movie and all but what stands out most of all is the ungodly amounts of more then welcomed nudity and the number of f**k scenes. The rape scene was probably one of the most brutal in film history, even more brutal then A Clockwork Orange. The plot kind of suspends me in disbelief. I know people are stupid but is it possible for human beings to achieve the level of self incriminating stupidity that the charecters in this movie seemingly reside in? Then again with my own eyes I see on a daily basis stupidity in all manner of ways. But yet I can't believe people could be so dumb. But yet I know they are capable of being that dumb. But yet I still can't believe it. Oh well, try not and think to hard about it. Just sit back and enjoy the beauty that is the human female body.  "},{"Title":"America is lost?","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Another film which is hard to sit through, not because of the violence (although there is a rough murder shown) but because of the compassion and engagement for the characters. You can't hide from the feeling of growing terror in the minds of the teenagers, the feeling of heat in the Californian night and the sense of hopelessness. Why are these kids living? What do they have to look forward too?This is a film of life and death and Larry Clark has really done a masterpiece here. It's really much of 2001 in it and that's bad enough. The actors are very talented, talking in a way which is very far from Tarantino's clever lines and choreographed behaviour. This is just a dirty plot about terrible unhappiness and can be recommended to anyone who has doubts about our so called freedom, which threatens to make so many lives miserable.    "},{"Title":"A powerful film","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark is often criticized for his films which are described in many reviews as teensploitation and fleshpot, in reference to Clark's glorification of teenage nudity. In the midst of these reviews, it has you wondering if he's showing reality or personal fantasy. In his latest film Bully, Clark takes things up to a whole new level. Based on a true story that occurred in 1993, Bully tells the story of those whose contempt for one young man led to his undoing at their vengeful hands. In a small Florida town, a young man named Marty has found himself at the constant abuse of his best friend Bobby for years. It's only a matter of short time before Marty's girlfriend finds herself a victim as well as her friend. With the help of more people, the two plot Bobby's death and find themselves facing the very real possibility of dealing with consequences. Clark pulls no punches with Bully, like he did with Kids by showing the reality of teenagers living a life without parental guidance, and the kind of lives they lead now. With Bully, the characters do everything teenagers do in the world today as a backdrop to provide the kind of people they're becoming. He pulls the cover from our eyes to see that parents aren't as attentive as they should be when it comes to their own children. The murder sequence itself is actually executed quite well, because Clark catches the real vulnerability of these characters and how far you can really go into a situation without falling. A disturbing film, Bully is something you wouldn't want to see on a Saturday night because it's very far from the mainstream in every way. Look for Clark in a small role. "},{"Title":"Can't stop thinking about this movie","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's raw, shocking and even erotic.When I first left the theatre, I couldn't shake the images of Bijou Phillips' magnificent body (of which we see plenty in Bully). Yes, if you want to see lots of good-looking female flesh, there's enough to go around. Phillips and Rachel Miner have enough nude scenes to fill an adolescent's fantasies for a long time.Later in the day, however, other thoughts crept into my mind. It's a true story, but even if it were total fiction, it still would hit pretty hard. It's a brutal story about seven young adults who are willing to murder one of their own. The stark portrayal of the events leading up to the crime and the killing itself just won't leave me.I find myself looking for every bit of information about this hideous murder. You'll laugh when I tell you the name of the last movie that sent me looking for more background like this -- Titanic. Talk about opposite ends of the spectrum! "},{"Title":"Plays Like a documentary","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  BULLY is clearly the best release this summer.  Raw and powerfully written, directed and performed.  Larry Clark gives us a dramatic film that within the first five minutes you forget that you are watching.  It seems more that we are eavesdropping on something that is actually taking place before our eyes.BULLY is based on actual events that took place in Hollywood Florida in 1993.  A group of under achieving, low self esteem teenagers decide that the only way to protect themselves from one of their own, A Bully, is to kill him.  These kids are sad because they are so hopelessly stupid and naive.  They numb themselves to the harshness of reality with a constant diet of sex and drugs. All through the film I kept thinking that it was all such a waste. It was all so sad to watch, knowing what MUST happen and hoping that one of them will put up a hand and stop the madness before it is too late.This film is raw.  Rachel Miner the chief plotter in the murder spends much of the film in the nude.  The sex is strong and at times shocking for a mainstream film.  But it is totally believable and necessary.  When you have nothing. No goals, no jobs, no education, no direction, sex is bound to be a huge desensitizer to the pain of the real world.I urge you to go see this film.  It is a shoe in to make many Ten Best lists for 2000.DL  "},{"Title":"Kids These Days...","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It has been incredible watching young mansteak in waiting Nick Stahl grow into legal fixin's. He's maturing rapidly and growing into his deep smoky eyes quite nicely. He's the main cat, Bobby Kent, in Bully. A mean, creepy over bearing friend who pushes his underling friend, Marty ( Brad Freno) too far. So far in fact, that instead of simply avoiding Bobby or ceasing to hang out with him Marty and his white trash posse decide the best thing for all involved, perhaps the world, is to kill him.The saddest part of Bully, and the thing that keeps you from leaving the over Indie- Indie 40 minutes into the thing, is the fact that this is a true story. Based on a group of Florida teens, suburban misfits from semi-normal families, (an oxymoron) who in 1993 actually plotted and schemed to execute their friend because he was a big bad neighborhood bully.Granted Bully's Bobby's a bit of a cruel sadistic nimrod. He makes, forces, poor moronic Marty into mock stripping for 100.00 to help a couple of gay fellows better enjoy the evening. He rapes the town slut. And I mean she does anything to anyone, and was having sex with him when he got rude-n-rough, so technically YES it was rape. He also slept with his best friend Marty's girl Ho. In fact when the darling wee trash-lite gal gets pregnant she's in a quandary over which sperm donor is actually her future career grocery-bagger child's teenage daddy.The director, Larry Clark (who also brought us the ominous Kids in '95) gets an over zealous with the trash le Blanc on trash le Blanc sex scenes. Okay we get it, teens have sex. Teens have kinky sex. Onward please. He ads to the point of squeezing a two-hour movie into a three-hour documentary-like life lesson filled with shocking revelations for the gasping parents of teens across the globe who find themselves in his audience. But, for we folks in the know of the pubescent monsters high on Eminem (or who ever is the Backstreet-InSyncy-Britney Aguilera- bubble pop in idol that day) the whole thing got a trifle boring, and tried too hard condemn the species of teen. Not all kids get high on acid everyday, not all kids know more about Kama Sutra then Hugh Heffner, and, certainly, not all kids dissolve their childhood friendships with a quick bludgeoning and a (stab or 40) in the back. You wouldn't think that if Clark's version of adolesance was your text book on the subject. Lucky (and sadly) , for Clark this was a true story or Bully really would have been intolerable.The young cast members were excellent. Except for Brad Renfro who was the star, Marty. Heapparently was told drama equals excessive drooling and smooched tiny teeny lips with pursed eyebrows. He's young he'll hopefully learn to stretch that Brady Bunch anger routine. Although, he was super unnerving as the jock-neo Nazi a few years back in underrated Apt Pupil. Maybe, it's just I have seen better from him...Nick Stahl besides being baklava sweet on the retina is quite the budding actor. I have enjoyed every peice....of work he's done. Here, even with the shock filled dialog he was given as Bobby, he came through as menacing and dangerous not because of his vicious filthy words, but because of what Stahl had brewing behind those handsome piercing eyes. He wasn't this guy needs to die for the good of mankind menacing but, he made Bobby as bad as the dialog allowed.Rachel Miner, who plays Marty's innocent- as- a- banshee -in- heat gal pal Lisa, did a great job until the beating/murder of Bobby Kent. Then she was possessed by Joan Crawford's Eye's! Watch my eye's  soul risen from the Hollywood ham's grave, alive and kicking with film noir over acting.Bijou Phillips (sibling of Cynna and Mackenzie) on the other hand as Ali the town whore, was unbelievably good. She hit every emotional plateau the script called for with realism actors twice her age are still reaching for. She's great at these rock-groupie-minishirted-bl**-ya-for-a-joint style gals. Keep your eye out for this kid.Bully a bit long and repetitive. If edited a wee bit it could be riveting. That and wipe the godforsaken drool from Renfro's mouth. It's shocking to see kids, I mean kids, go this far, so fast. They have now regard for taking another's life, a friends life. You couldn't see a dram of conscience between them.See this if just for the up and coming generation of talent hodge podged on Clark's canvas, but be ready to be dragged through gratuitous teen sex scenes, and mind numbing visions of a group of youths so lost in oblivion you'll think twice about giving the drag racing teen next to you the finger ever again!Snack recommendation Pizza HutStarring Brad Renfro, Rachel Miner, Nick Stahl, Bijou Phillips, Michael Pitt, Kelli Garner, Daniel Franzese, Leo Fitzpatrick, and Deborah Smith FordDirected by Larry Clark (who has a brief appearance as the hitman's dad. "},{"Title":"Art???","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  While I would agree that the 2nd half of the movie was very well done, I find it laughable that Larry Clark is considered some kind of genius artist simply because he photographs shocking images.  Anybody can do that, Larry just tackled this subject first.  Most of the disturbing sexual images in this film had nothing to do with character development or the plot; in fact, the constant nudity of Rachel Minor's character was contradictory to what the movie was trying to say about her character.  Like someone said earlier, it was so exaggerated that the point was lost, much like films that exaggerate happiness.The 2nd half was better because Larry was forced to concentrate on plot, and this true story is very intriguing (they did have a working script, by the way).  It actually revealed that if Clark wasn't so obsessed with the nudity of pubescent girls, he could fashion some good storytelling.Some of the nudity and shocking images could have been attributed to the art of realism, and I feel that with this story, there is a place for displaying some of the sexual behavior of these kids.  But Clark's claims at realism are exposed when he has a beautifully lit, mature sex scene between two drug-addicted kids; a slow, lingering shot up Kelli Garner's body that looked like a shot from Baywatch; a tracking shot behind Bijou Philips butt for 10 seconds; and most ridiculous of all, a between-the-legs shot of Philips' crotch while she's getting her nails done.  Hmmm... for some reason, I'm questioning the claims that Clark is all about realism and not titillation.P.S.  Good performances from everyone, but amazing  performances from Daniel Franzese and Michael Pitt. "}{"Title":"teen boredom gone awry","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark again exposes his courageous (or sick) audiences to the surreal world of listless and flat out stupid white teens who are so bored with their insipid existence that only constant sex and drugs provide any recreation or entertainment.  Like Clark's first feature, Kids, Bully was released without an MPAA rating (which certainly would have been NC-17).  And similar to Kids, this film depicts these teens' lascivious and sometimes perverted outlets with unblinking candor.  The film centers around a tormented boy (Brad Renfro from Apt Pupil and The Client), who appears to have little opportunity outside of his job in a sandwich shop.  To make matters worse, he must rely on a childhood friend (Nick Stahl from Man Without a Face)for his rides to the beach and gay bars where they both dabble in hustling.  Renfro is not so much Stahl's friend as he is his bitch, suffering unwavering physical abuse without any apparent ability to defend or stand up for himself. Stahl goes as far as to rape Renfro's girlfriend (an annoying Rachel Culkin Miner) after smacking her with a lifting belt and pulling her off of him.  After getting pummelled in the face, Renfro begs his parents to move the family away. Renfro, Miner, and a circle of their friends decide that the only way to deal with this bully is to kill him.  The plotting involves the enlistment of a hitman (Leo Fitzpatrick of Kids)who is possibly even stupider and more confused about the job than the rest of group.  As disturbing as the film is, at times it delves into hilarious comical moments, mostly involving the pot and acid feuled banter of the kids, particularly, an out of town video junkie named Donnie who joins the group.  Also humourous are the scenes involving the kids' unsuspecting parents.  The actual murder is violently carried out in a gator infested swamp.  As it unravels, some of the group are unsure what to do. One girl immediately jumps into the car and balls up in a fetal position.  A gentle giant is hesitant even to carry the dying body for disposal in the swamp. Needless to say, the kids become consumed with paranoia and frivolously attempt to exculpate themselves, leading to their eventual arrest and convictions.  Bully demonstrates perfectly the notion that teen sex and violence ensues from lack of direction and achievement, and from an absence of self worth. As Fitzpatrick articulated years earlier at the end of Kids, if you take sex away from him, then he's not left with much else.  For the group in Bully, it goes a step further. The plotting of a murder provides a kind of project or creative outlet, an opportunity for these hopelessly bored teens to gather socially and work toward a common goal.              "},{"Title":"Raw, Disturbing and True","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  My curiosity builds with filmmaker Larry Clark.  Is he a radical or secretly working for the conservative right?  Clark delivers this film with the intensity of  `Kids'.  By giving the audience a simple story rapped around teenage sex, drugs, and revenge.  Based on a true story, Marty Puccio (actor Brad Renfro) and his friends are tired of being bullied by Bobby Kent (actor Nick Stahl). Kent is by no means a pleasant friend to hang around with. Constantly belittling those around him, taking anything he desires, raping anybody he knows and in the end he shrugs it off.  So how do you get rid of this menace???  Simple kill him.  That's the conclusion of which his friends have come across too.  It's simple right?  No one will find out, man? It's like a video game, huh?  Larry Clark supplies us with a very simple answer and a costly price of stupidity.  After viewing this film, would one be truly offended by it graphic depicture of ordinary kids?  After thinking about it, I don't think so.  For the radicals you have graphic sex, drugs and anything which may turn you on.  On the other hand if your conservative, then this tale would re-enforce the belief drugs, underage sex, and a lack of discipline doesn't pay off.  Overall, with it's superb acting, direction, and photography, I give it an eight. "},{"Title":"Larry Clark mix of teen flesh and moral (and cranial) emptiness.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Despite some unintentionally hilarious dialogue and appallingly bad acting (e.g. Rachel Miner as Lisa) this was a thoroughly enjoyable movie. Set in the empty 'burbs of South Florida, these still-living-at-home teens have a lot of free time on their hands; time to strip at gay clubs, run a phone sex business and plan a murder! I swear I was watching an early John Waters flick at some points. Brad Renfro is set to be the next Teen Hunk star; the chick who played Heather looks like a baby Veruschka (a famous sixties fashion model, kids). And if you've ever wondered about Eminem's fan base, look no further!    "},{"Title":"Entertaining and delightful, once you get past the shock value.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully is the best of Clark's films.  It has the best story, probably because he based the film on a true story.The film was shot in only 23 days -- without a working script.  Nearly all the actors are unknowns, with several giving impressive performances.Telly, from Clark's first film, Kids, returns, this time playing a hitman.Clark could have done a better job of showing the victimization of the characters, which must have occured based on the outcome of the film. They don't seem so helpless -- just more like dormats.The film doesn't try and take it too seriously, and in that sense, it is more of a comedy than the drama one would imagine it to be.Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"This is a very unique story that deserves to be told.","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After reading the book by Jim Schutze I was apalled that these teens could be so blind to believe they had done nothing wrong. The book details background that is not touched in the film. However, what is shown in the film is so disturbing that it is almost unbelievable that this could have really happened. Much like Kids, Larry Clark does a wonderful job making this look real and not glamorized in any way. Clark is a brilliant director and I can't think of anyone else who could have done this movie justice. It is one of the best movies I've seen in a very long time. Most movies you see are so perfected that you know you are watching a movie. Bully is raw and believable and you feel like this could be happening in your suburban neighborhood in any town in America. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A film that will continuously be in your thoughts for years after viewing it. In fact, it has been sometime since I last watched this, but having stumbled upon it again here, I feel it's my duty to give it the review it deserves. Bully is quite simply, one of the best movies ever made. A sweeping statement I know, but having watched thousands of a similar vein, I can't ever tire of the dangerously hypnotic truth that sets these characters apart from so many. Each living the American Dream, or so they believe, yet their actual lives are thick with angst and desperately torn by insecurities that they fulfil with drugs and sex. Clarke's ability to depict them as the true, purified white trash they are, is a depressing portrait of the teens that fight against the seemingly dull reality of life. We meet Marty & Bobby, friends at heart, yet closer to the shore are signs of detrimental physical and mental abuse. Bobby's battles are somewhat deeper than Marty's, but both live uncertain lives. Bobby's issues are with his father, his sexuality and the claustrophobia that new friends can bring when Marty is no longer his 'best pal'. Then in comes Lisa, Marty's one and only true love &#x96; a fresh faced young, but naive girl who only wants the best for her blooming boyfriend. Add punk Heather and fun-loving Ali and the recipe is starkly brilliant for the melting pot they are about to enter. Various encounters Bobby has with both Marty and Heather lead to the rest of the group deciding Bobby's fate. As I'm sure most of you will be able to piece together the puzzle, I won't spell out for you the rest as it really is something you need to experience yourself.The thing about this film is that, such a simple premise, can make for such impending questions about society and life. What we believe to see, as harmless and pathetic teenagers trying to get by, turns into a sincere questions about the realms of life, friendship and morality. Clarke digs deep underneath the spectrum to upturn the lives of these symbolically 'innocent' teens, to show the audience the very fact these individuals thought they would get away with such a crime, yet this is something we are able to believe &#x96; these kids aren't a product of society but society is a product of them. An example pans to the end of the film when Ali asks her mother directly whether or not if one of her friends was part of a murder or crime, how important would it be to report it? This is a great depiction of how naive these kids are and the belief that anything they did or carried out was completely above suspicion. What we're left with is a sour taste in our mouth, unable to truly process the events carried out in the second half. Clarke doesn't miss out any detail - certain scenes are fuelled with sex, violence and drugs, but this is done with dramatic effect and for the audience to delve into the lives of these delinquents, to try and understand their lives and backgrounds. What also always got me was the true form of Marty's and Lisa's love, initially it's quite hard to believe the authenticity of their passion, but as the film evolves, their relationship becomes so boldly intense. Soon we realise that Lisa's love for Marty doesn't hold back on any episode, the fight to the bitter end sends her in a dismay of love, hate and anger that sets to blow her final fuse of guilt as she confesses everything to her friend. The ending is something that to me, always stands out, and brings an array of emotions to front which when you have gone on the journey with these characters, can't help but feel confused, bitter and angry. With the fear of over-telling, I can't promote this film enough, if you like to explore the darker sides to humanity that haven't necessarily been explored then this is something you should experience. You'll never regret it. "},{"Title":"Uncomfortable and Awesome.","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bully is based on the real life murder of Bobby Kent in 1993. Iconic Brad Renfro leads a cast of young upstarts in a movie that (I'm sure) does justice to the real case. If not, and the movie was changed for dramatic purposes, it was changed perfectly. Despite there being great acting by a great cast, the violence is gory and there's lots of explicit sex. So I recommend watching this alone. Not with a group, not with one boy or one girl, alone. Trust me on this.Brad Renfro plays Marty Puccio and Nick Stahl plays Bobby Kent. Marty and Bobby has been best friends since they were children, but Bobby has always mistreated Marty. Bobby has mistreated everybody in very disgusting ways that's all shown. Everybody gets fed-up with Bobby and all plan to kill him, with Mary being the most motivated.Renfro stated that Bully was his favourite movie of his. I must agree that it is his best he was in and the best he's acted in. So there's lots of sex among other things that make for an interesting viewing, but for a dark teenage crime-drama, it is a slam-dunk! As you might have guessed, Brad Renfro is the best in this and Nick Stahl is right behind him. There was something so awesome about Renfro in this that made his portrayal so sick and made me shake. That's right, Renfro did such a good job in this that he made me shake. Nobody else has ever done that to me. "},{"Title":"Reall well acted, but the disturbing subject slow and boring","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" You have a bunch of kids, barely out of their teens, hanging together, having sex like bunny rabbits, popping children like crazy and getting drunk and stoned on a daily basis. Typical white trash. And one of them is a psychopath in the making who likes to torture both physically and psychically the people around him. That's why it is called Bully, see? So what's the solution? A huge and ridiculous public conspiracy to kill him. This is based on a book that is based on a true story.Well, the people in the movie played great. The movie is an independent film, with low budget, so all you have going for you is the story. And the story is disturbing, to see all these incredibly stupid people, wasting their life one way or another, acting all cool and emotionally numb. But it is really slow and after a while even the disgust and civilized outrage wear off and you get just as numb as they are fracking kill him already! And they do, and then the movie ends.Bottom line if you want to feel the moral and mental degradation of youth in poor industrial regions, do watch this. It is educational. But beside the instructional value of the film, there isn't much else there. Just a long wait for the movie to end and add it to your film belt. "},{"Title":"Reminds me of where I come from","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" To me this movie reminds me of the area and people I grew up with right outside Detroit. Growing up in a semi safe suburban neighborhood with the lower and middle class houses on one side, and the section 8 apartments on the other. A lot of the kids in this movie I could say I knew people like that in my life. Some on drugs, some with serious problems, some with no direction. I'm 23 now but every day I see suburban kids getting worse and more careless. I thought it was bad when I was 13 but now 10 years later its anything from better. It's like I live in a white Detroit.I think the root problem with the kids in this movie movie is the so popular out of control lifestyle that young people like to associate with. In my neighborhood the problem is the drugs and crime that comes out of our section 8 apartments. All of that spilled onto our neighborhood and turned the middle class white kids into drugged out thugs. I chose to disassociate with kids that tried to turn me into one of them. I at least grew up knowing right from wrong and not to get myself into a mess, even if that meant getting rid of my old friends.It's not just my area, its the whole metro Detroit area that has become like the city that sits right next to us.I feel Marty grew up in a good home, however his father figure may or may not have taught him how to defend himself. It's also hard to let go of your only friends, even though they might treat you bad. I noticed Marty say in the movie Bobby had a major influence using peer pressure against him.Kids now a days don't have the respect my family's generation was brought up with. I'm no Psychiatrist, but my guess would be this generation has had it easier when it comes to discipline and respect. It could be the previous generation had things too hard and took it easy on their kids. Not to mention it was a different time with lower crime levels. Kids have a fascination with urban society now a days and think its cool. Not to mention the drugs and violence that come with it.The media also plays a huge part on how kids are with music and T.V. I grew up with Ninja Turtles, and Power Rangers. I didn't start listening to rap music until I was about 13 but I never tried to become the people that made the music because I knew that life wouldn't of helped me in any way. I knew I didn't come from that type of home and I didn't like trouble so I listened to it but I never let it influence me because I thought it was cool.So all in all I think bad discipline, white kids fascination with hip hop, and the media were the problems in this movie.My explanations, 1. Bobby probably wasn't disciplined.2. Almost all the characters in the movie talked ghetto or listened to rap music, and in turn came the drugs drugs.3. Yes, the media is partly to blame because they advertise and sell violent things everyday. "},{"Title":"Underlying Evil of Apathy, this is Bully","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Everyone comes from this film a bit effected by this film. It's a story about suburbia's kids committing a heinous act. What I got out of this film was that suburbia is the problem. When you have non-define, sterile neighborhoods with nothing to offer but strip-malls, the kids will get apathetic and small problems turns into full blown disasters. This story is all about the complete disconnect between parents and kids. That even if the parent is available the hands off, let your kid do anything approach, doesn't work. I think there has always been an underlying evil to these so called planned closed communities. They have no identities, therefore the kids have no identities. I think the last scene of the movie sums up the movie. The scene where all the kids are sitting in the defendant's box and the parents all sitting in the stands with the complete look of perplexity. In fact they seem so disconnected from their kids as if they are looking at a used car. They seem as if they accepted the fact that they threw away their kids. And that understated acting by the people who played the parents has been overlooked. Sure, the actors that played the kids were great, especially the actress that played Lisa. She was so convincing as a lost team with no sense of direction in her life. This is a remarkable movie that I think parents should watch. I have to warn you, there is a lot and I mean a lot of nudity. Now all the actors who did expose themselves were all over 18, but it still made me uncomfortable because they all were playing young. Now the nudity and simulated sex scene are important to the story to drive home a point. That horny stupid kids make stupid decisions and perhaps if they weren't living in a disconnected state known as suburbia, maybe they would be better off. So, Bully is not a movie for everyone. In fact more people will dislike it then like it, but I can guarantee you this, if you watch it, it will stay with you. "}{"Title":"A great film about the frail dark sides of suburbia.","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Let me Start off that I think that this is the best Clark film. It has the deepest story and the most developed characters. While Kids and Ken park show the lives of individual teenagers, this film shows us a group of kids who have problem. The problem is named Bobby Kent.Bobby has been Marty's best friend since they were young. This isn't the normal type of relationship. Bobby picks on Marty and pretty much treats him like crap. The only Marty stays with him is because he has no one else .Our main characters meet two females and 'hook up' with them. Throughout the film, Bobby manages to rape both women and our group of protagonists decide to kill him off.There is a planning process involved in order to kill him and that's where they hire Leo F. from Clark's earlier film KIDS as the hit-man. As the process evolves, more characters come into the picture.the film then turns suspenseful up to the murder scene and while dying, bobby's cry of help for Marty haunts the viewers. The remainder of the film is pretty much the character's downfall in similar fashion of Dead Presidents (1995). The kids confided in their friends and the viewers can get a sense of the foreshadowing that ensues. The cops eventually find out and the kids are tried for their actions ranging from 15 years-Death.Overall, this film was excellent. It showed the dark sides of suburbia and a group of kids who don't have anything to look forward to. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Larry Clark has an unhealthy fascination with teenage sex. We see lots of it in Bully. In fact, if Clark's worldview is to be believed, American teens have nothing else to do except kinky sex and smoking pot. That leads to very exaggerated plot developments. This supposedly ground-breaking and painfully realistic film is anything but. This may be based on a true story but isn't at all well directed. All the characters are one-dimensional caricatures with no real motivations. The entire murder motivation and planning is without any convincing rationale being given. This film just does not work for me because of the poor characterisations. "},{"Title":"You Can Only Push Someone So Far Until They Crack","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Like another user commented before, Bully is Strangely a masterpiece. Centered around a good kid gone bad Marty (Brad Renfro)and Bobby (Nick Stahl), Marty's so called Best- Friend, Bobby is a very mean, sociopathic person, as he cracks as soon as things don't go how he planned. Marty is basically his lapdog, he makes Marty dance with him at a gay bar, almost immediately ruins his chances with the very promiscuous and aimless Ali (Bijous Phillips) by making her watch gay porn while they have sex and when she doesn't want to he rapes her, and finally while on a more legal level, is just an all around asshole with no motive to Marty's girlfriend, Lisa (Rachel Miner) The plot kicks off after a great amount of backstory and alredy a history of terrorizing all of the characters, Lisa says to Marty that he should stand up for himself, which leads Marty to tearfully admit that Bobby's brutalized him all his life, so Lisa says they should kill him. This is where I start to believe Lisa's character is about as psychotic as Bobby. Marty, though he already appears to be throwing his life away is one of the only characters you can feel for, and he knows this plan is more than likely flawed, but after countless attempts at getting his parents to move he wants Bobby out of his life any way possible (going to the police would have been an option, but they probably wouldn't have believed him. I wish they would have at least addressed this in the movie)Enlisted on the killing are a couple more brain dead teens, Donnie, a druggie who sometimes seems to be placed for comic relief, played to perfection by Micheal Pitt, Mike steals every scene he's in especially the It's not like he's gonna swim or Okay I stabbed him but only like this much and so on, and his girlfriend, Heather, a rehab escapee, and came from a screwed up family. After there first attempt at killing Bobby fails, as Lisa get's cold feet, Donnie insists they get professional help as they hire a hitman (Derek I, played by Kids Leo Fitzpatrick) who's partners in crime are a bunch of 12 year- olds, and Lisa's fat cousin Derek II (Daniel Franzese), they get some more weapons, such as bats, knives, and aa baton. They decide they're ready again, and as they break into 2 groups they drive down to a swamp and they do kill Bobby, in a VERY brutal manner, kudos's to Brad Renfro, Nick Stahl, Micheal Pitt, and Kelli Garner especially. It becomes clear they are all in over their heads and even what they thought was thoroughly planned was still no where near solid, and soon enough Derek II decides he can't take it and turns everyone in. And in in a very touching -toward the end- scene, where Marty is arrested, and his brother, who Marty told to be good a few scenes before this, stares sadly as his brother is halled off to jail. In the last scene, the 7 reunite in court and they begin the court case begins, and we find out that Heather got 7 years, fat guy got 11 years, Ali got 40 Years, Lisa got life, Hit-man got life, Donnie got life, and poor Marty got the death chair. Though that was their sentence in reality all the girls are out now, and Marty ended up living but he is in for lifeFinally there is the major likes and dislikes of the filmLikes, the acting choices they chose for this film, everyone is perfect at their part, the hilarious one liners but Donnie and Heather, and the point that you can only push somebody so far until they crack. The writing is intense and the first time you see it you will be left thinking for hours, and want to learn more. A very naive group of teens these kids were, but a very interesting, multiple sides-to story they have created.Dislikes- WAY too much sex, I'm not a prude but some of the scenes were pointless and not that hot, like anytime Marty and Lisa had sex. Lisa has boobs like a man. They seemed to just be adding time on to the movie.Still, Larry Clarke is a great director, and I love his sad but true, gritty filmstyle.R.I.P Brad Renfro. "},{"Title":"Wow I'm depressed","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie made me want to tie a rope to my chandelier and hang myself. Bully was one of the most powerful movies I've ever seen. I found the acting to be very convincing and the script well written. I had no idea that this was a true story until I read more about it after. The fact that this is true is quite disturbing. Although I've seen some pretty messed up sht in my day, this definitely had me questioning wtf is wrong with today's youth. This movie should serve as a reality check to anyone who is naive enough to think that this kind of thing can't happen because it can and it does on a regular basis.Nick Stahl is the sleaziest actor alive "},{"Title":"Wooly Bully","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is quite possibly Larry Clark's best film to date. It's a horrifying film that peeks at the world of these kids with very little direction in their lives and even less drive. They spend their days at the beach, drinking, doing drugs and having sex at almost every free moment. One in particular, is a complete and utter scumbag who the other kids decide to take out when they've finally had enough of him. That's pretty much the story but it actually manages to go a lot deeper than that and into the thoughts and minds of these kids. This plus the fact that it was based on true events make this film a painful experience to watch, each and every time.I have to give Nick Stahl a big thumbs up for his work as Bobby, the bully of the title because he is so loathsome in this that you sincerely grow to hate him for all the abuse he heaps on everyone around him. I hate to say it but if the real Bobby Kent was this much of a prick in real life, he had it coming. Nick Stahl gives a chilling performance and hits so many notes with it that you can only expect great stuff from this guy in the years to come.Everyone else is pretty good, especially Brad Renfro, Rachel Miner and Bijou Phillips (who plays her role just a little too convincing if you ask me). I think one of the best things about the film is the acting. Most of these actors and actresses I've seen in other productions and they all do quite well. It was actually interesting to see Leo Fitzpatrick (Telly from Kids) in this as the so-called Mafia hit-man. He was actually damn good in this! There's one thing I have to say about this film. For me, I don't mind excess. Be it violence, sex or whatever. The one thing that bugs me about this movie are the unnecessary crotch shots and sex scenes. There's a shot where Bijou Phillips is on the phone and for no reason at all, they cut to a shot of her barely concealed genitalia for no reason at all (a fact which caused Phillips to confront Clark afterward). I don't want to come off sounding like some kind of prude because I'm as much of a pervert as the next guy but with Larry Clark, it just comes across as wrong. There's a lot of sex in this movie and the funny thing is, I'd say about sixty to seventy percent of it could have been dropped. That's my only gripe with the movie, it's just a tad excessive in the same way that his other creep fests are, most notably Kids and Ken Park. Whatever statement he was trying to make with this film was dampened by this.One of the things I love the most about this film is how everything slowly unravels after the murder. You can literally feel things coming apart and watching it feels almost like being in a building that is slowly collapsing with no way out in sight. This is where the actors do their best work and make their characters believable.This movie is definitely one to see. No matter how many times I watch it, it still disturbs the hell out of me each and every time. Very well-made, well-acted and well-done.RATING **** out if *****. "},{"Title":"Makes the teen alienation of Rebel Without A Cause look quaint by comparison...","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Surfing on TV I came across this unknown film (unknown to me, anyway), and was quickly drawn into the story despite the most unlikeable, mindless bunch of foul-mouthed, acid dropping teens ever brought to life on the screen. Only later did I find out this was based on a true story of an incident that happened in Florida among a bunch of fairly affluent high school dropouts given little supervision by parents and bent on self-destruction.Years ago we had stories of teen-age rebellion or alienation like Rebel Without A Cause which made a teen icon of James Dean. Here we have Brad Renfro heading a cast of relatively unknown actors but giving an intensely believable performance as a kid abused by his best friend (Nick Stahl), a bisexual sociopath and bully, with a taste for S&M who abuses all his friends for his own pleasure.When a gang of teens hatch a plan to clobber him, led by Renfro's girlfriend, the whole half-baked idea ends up with them barely having a well thought out plan of how to make the kill. They hook up with a mafia man (local neighborhood punk with a reputation for contract killing), who finds out at the scene of the crime that none of them are as tough as they bragged about when it comes to the actual kill. Strangely enough, you find yourself rooting for the hit-man character (Leo Fitzpatrick) who has brains rather than the hapless teens playing follow the leader.A chilling, disturbing crime story, laced with plenty of vulgar situations and casual use of foul-mouthed language, but honest in its telling of a very graphic murder committed by teens because of bullying and, it seems, an addiction for brutal video games. The teens are depicted as having mind-numbing stupidity, with one of them close to being retarded when he's on drugs.At the closing credits, the sentences meted out to each teen is noted on the screen, each paying severely for mindless murder and mayhem.Shocking tale is realistically presented and definitely not for the squeamish. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but kind of dull ...","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When I watched this movie, I didn't knew what was it about. I just grabbed a VHS and started watching it. It started OK, it had some sense. A teen was upset because the friend was always pissing him off, then he and his new girlfriend plan to kill him. Everything's fine until here ... Unfortunately, the plot in it's fullest view seems somehow a bit absurd.I mean, do you usually see a bunch of kids who don't know too much about each other planning to kill another kid? Still, from what I've heard and read afterwards, it is based on a true story, so that makes me think that American teens have sh1t in their brains. I'm not trying to provoque anybody with this statement, but how can someone be that stupid like the way they show in the movie ? They just committed a crime and go around telling everybody what they did? That's stupid.I didn't felt any emotion about any of the characters. At the start of the movie it seemed that the director just wanted to show the 'kids' having sex. Marty is making out with Lisa one night ... right after that, they are already dating ... and right on the next minute she is pregnant.Overall, it had an interesting start, but in the end is just plain dumb. "},{"Title":"Perfect!","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw Bully quite recently and i think it's one of the best independent movies i have ever seen and you know it's movies like these that make some of the best Hollywood movies look rubbish. It really is amazing for such a low budget movie. The story is the absolute nuts!, the young actors were all brilliant. Brad Renfro who i did not even realise was the kid from 'The Client' and 'Apt Pupil'was incredible as the confused and hurt Marty and Nick Stahl(T3 of course!)was one of the most craziest villains as Bobby (what a nasty bastard). The scene where they kill Bobby on the beach was the most tense and realistic killing i have ever watched. Totally cool. I now think after seeing his 'Kids' as well Larry Clarke is one of the most talented directors around. An easy ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"Too crude to be great, but it has its moments... (possible spoilers)","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 2001's Bully from director Larry Clark (Kids, Another Day in Paradise) is indeed a good movie. I won't tell you the plot details here, since you can check the plot higher up on the page.Bully has wonderful screen writing for the most part, nice direction, and the acting was all good, too. Nothing great, just good.The film is indeed based on a book, which is an account of a true story, and is very compelling.Now we get to the cons, almost every other scene features sex between Bijou Philips or Rachel Miner, or at least one of them nude, now this doesn't really irk me all, and the two of them (Bijou Phillips much more, though) are quite nice to look at. But after a point you think, wow, this is just gratuitous. How is this important to anything in any way? I also found it hard to sympathize with several of the terrorized kids but I don't think this is a bad thing. These kids were, for all intents and purposes, useless (I'm not talking about Nick Stahl) except maybe for Marty Pucchio, who coulduh been a contenduh...at surfing.Now, though, for Nick Stahl. This is the character I felt most sympathetic about, because sure, he may have been a bit of a bully, but it seemed to be because he couldn't get in touch with his feelings. He was afraid and yet at the same time intrigued by his sexual confusion which several teenagers go through. I know kids like this (except maybe about the homosexual feelings, because thats only my business if they tell me) and this poor kid needed counseling. However, this, for me made the pivotal scene, the climax, that more powerful. What was left after the climax though, still carried that power, because of the final song in the movie. It worked great.Final word, Too much sex, too much nudity, and a little too much language keep this film from becoming truly great. "},{"Title":"What the *(#&%(*#&%(?????","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  ***SPOILERS**I don't know about you, but this movie p****d me off to no end. Teenagers cannot be this dumb. Who would half plan and execute a murder and then ask certain people (not involved in the murder) for help in a) moving the body; b) should they call a help line and report the murder c) an alibi for the time of the murder. Just stupid. Three of the 'Kids' involved in this murder did that &#150; Stupid. The police 'DO' investigate murders and they 'DO' ask your friends questions like 'Did he/she say anything to you about a murdered body?'The Kid's who talked to other people about the murder in this movie, did not kill this 'Bully', they watched. The Kid's who actually did kill Bobby, didn't say anything to anyone &#150; like the plan was suppose to be. Come on, when you commit a crime, you are not suppose to go around and tell people about it. Anybody knows that &#150; I don't care if your high or not. You just don't do that.Also, this Bobby character is not that typical &#150; a lot of guys are mean spirited closet homosexuals. They have dominating fathers always on their case to succeed and do better and a mother that says nothing, but babies them. And they always have a very close friend that they can dominate over and bully, case in point Marty.I just found this movie to be a little stupid. Kids can't be this stupid &#150; even if their tripping on acid or pot. I thought the pregnant girlfriend of Marty would be the level headed one &#150; but she was one of the idiots that went around asking for help in moving the dead body.Overall, the only character I really did like in this picture was the Hit-man. He was only sane person in the group. He tried to get everyone to understand what they did &#150; but alas &#150; stupidity won over thinking correctly.One thing I did not agree with was the sentences at the end of the movie. Marty received the most harsh sentence out of all of them. The Hit-man was the one who actually did the final blow that killed Bobby. Marty only slashed his throat.This movie did not make any sense. I think you would have to read the book to get the real understanding of the true story.  "}{"Title":"Shocked? No, just a bit bored","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Once more, Larry Clark unzips the fly of modern youth and exposes something unpleasant. Apparently, teenagers have nothing better to do than bump uglies, treat each other badly, take drugs, and have poor relationships with their parents. Someone call Revelations R Us, quick.Okay, so killing someone because he's not a nice guy isn't exactly reasonable, but I've heard of people being killed because they burped too loud. So if Clark is out to shock, he's failed. The most shocking aspect of this movie is how little we care about any of these snivelling miscreants.Kill him, don't kill him - do what you like, just take your pathetic little selves somewhere else, you losers. "},{"Title":"Bully is GREAT!","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The misc. crotch shots of bijou p. alone make this one worth the rent. So take my advice (as i am a registered legal advisor) and run to your local rental shoppe and grab this movie and scream at the top of your lungs I HAVE A POCKET FULL OF CHEESE SLICES!!! "},{"Title":"Shameless voyeur-fest with virtually nothing to recommend it","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was fully amped up to see this film. I had been waiting a year for it to be cleared down here in New Zealand. I shouldn't have built myself up so much because it was so disappointing and is without a doubt Clark's worst film There is so much wrong with this film. First off, some of the acting is great, in particular Nick Stahl as 'The Bully', and the girl with the curly brown hair (I can't recall her name), but most of it was so out of touch and incredibly unbelievable, especially Leo Fitzpatrick. He's a veteran of Clark's films now and he was so brilliant in 'Kids', but in 'Bully' he invests his lines with such solemnity as to turn his scenes into a parody virtually. The screenplay felt like it had been written by a first year film student. No sorry, a high school student...one who has never seen a movie before. And I couldn't fathom Clark's intentions. Was he trying to point out the meaningless of these kids' existence? It sure as hell didn't stop him getting in a damn good perv. I'm no prude but I didn't need to see teenage breasts and buttocks every 5 minutes. I still maintain that Clark's best film is 'Another Day in Paradise'. It's fantastic and I don't think he'll ever top it. "},{"Title":"Are there really people this stupid?","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Are there really people this stupid?  I assumed people like this were only made- up for Jerry Springer.  This is either a horrible caricature of teenagers in Florida  or people have gotten incredibly cheesy and stupid in the last few years.  Either  way, this was one dumb movie. "},{"Title":"Compelling, but what's the point?","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's hard to know whether Larry Clark wants you to pity these kids or despise them.  Perhaps he's just telling as it happened, and leaving it up to us to decide.  But if honesty was the intention here, `Bully' would have worked so much better as a documentary.  There, the motivations and backgrounds of the protagonists could have been more thoroughly explored.  As a dramatization, there are just too many characters for the really interesting thing - the psychology behind such morally vacuous teen mob behaviour - to be satisfyingly explored.  The gap is filled with a few falteringly written expository scenes - Marty sobbing to Lisa on the beach; Heather giggling about her awful home life - which try to show the emotional torture and moral emptiness which might lead to such criminal lunacy, but succeed only in sounding contrived.  Generally, the cast make the most of what their given Nick Stahl is great as bully-boy Bobby (though the character is underdeveloped) and Brad Renfro as Marty is particularly convincing (as he always is).  It might not be pleasant, but with its relentless cycle of nudity, profanity, drugs and sex, `Bully' is at least compelling.  I'm just not sure I'm any wiser for having seen it.  And if that wasn't the aim in bringing such a story to the screen, then what was? "},{"Title":"waste","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  of time.  clark is spinning his wheels and leaving a path of poorly miscast, unguided performances (some from genuinely gifted actors) slouching through two hours of hip hop soundtrack.  see the dvd extras to get a real sense of exactly why this movie is so weak.  The flat, one dimention characterization, no sense of place/time in the environment, unformed relationships between the charcters.  No single character can you get behind, and none can you sympathize with.  kids put you  the middle of a horrific journey, it was unnerving and bold.  bully breaks no rules, takes no chances.  there is one moment when the tention is built up but it's sputtered away in a steam of generality.  the only specific choices seemed to center around how much skin could pass btwn a NC17 and X rating.  it's pointless to touch on the exploitive aspect of this work for two reasons, 1) nobody on the project knew anything substative about the real people involved, and 2)soft porn by it's nature is exploitive.  love clark's boasting about how talented and superb his cast is.  how damaging is it for a director whom many admire to say one actor or another is going to make it or get work in Hollywood, or as he puts it, referring to Brad renfro have Ed Norton's career  oh man, who's going to keep him working Larry? You?  Regardless of weather any of these young actors have a big future ahead of them or not, it's not clarks place to make these kind of predictions,  it shows little regard for the actors as people.  what kind of predictions did clark make for Justin Pierce? "},{"Title":"Very Brilliant film","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully is clearly one of the most brilliant films I have ever seen and I see everything/ Larry Clark has made a movie that shocks you but keeps your attention the whole time. Nick Stahl and Brad Renfro play excllent lead roles as does Bijou Phillps and Rachel Miner. The film has a lot of sex, nudity and a very violent scene. But it's worth it. When you see this film make sure you see the DVD. 10/10/ This film is Oscar worthy. "},{"Title":"Bullseye Perfect!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  `Bully' is the best film you will see this summer! That is no bull****. The film is based on a true story about a group of teenagers who team up and murder an adolescent bully. This horrific event took place in Weston, a suburb of Ft. Lauderdale.   Larry Clark, who also made the controversial teenage rebellion 1995 flick `Kids', directed it. His work is masterful. The ensemble acting was `bullseye' perfect. Brad Renfro, who plays Marty the bullied-upon spacey surfer boy, was amazing. Renfro, who himself has had his troubles with the law, has become an `apt pupil' of acting and will definitely be a `client' of the most prestigious acting agencies of Hollywood. Rachel Miner, who plays Marty's girlfriend, was also very good and the `naked truth' (which she was in most of the film) about her is that now she has a promising future in acting. Miner, the ex of Macauley Caulkin, was in various sex scenes in the film and made you ponder that maybe she was not `home alone' when Macauley was out of the house. Nick Stahl, who plays the bully, was very convincing. Bijou Phillips, who plays the slut of the group, will leave images in your mind that will stroke you I mean strike you after the movie is over. Phillips, who is the real half sister of Mackenzie & China Phillips, will strengthen her career `one day at a time' until that one day where she will ` hold on' to be one of the best young actresses around. I know- Big Statement! This film is not for everyone! I have never seen so much sex in a mainstream film, and there is quite amount of violence. If this is not for you, I will not bully you and force you to watch the movie. However, in my opinion- it is a very important film that tells a very crucial story on how bullying could impact a young person's life. I am sure `bully' will push around its way into my top 5 films of 2001. ***** Excellent  "},{"Title":"don't jump on the bandwagon","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Anyone giving this film any type of positive review is suffering from an Emperor's New Clothes mentality.  What's being marketed as a raw, cutting edge, pushing-the-limit film is really no more than college project-type work gone bad.  It's actually a very bad movie with very bad acting and a very bad script.  Too bad, too, because the book (it's a true story) spells out the plot clearly.  The editing is poor, the cinematography horrific, and did I mention the acting?  Veterans Brad Renfo and Nick Stahl need to keep this film off their resumes. And director Larry Clark?  He got away with reeling us in Kids, but now the joke's on us.  "},{"Title":"A film that misses its mark","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully is an interesting attempt to create a film that says something about how teenagers think and act when left to their own devices, but it almost completely falls flat. Although some of the acting is good, especially on the part of Nick Stahl, the actors aren't given too much to work with. The script is a major problem. What (I assume) is supposed to be a provocative script just caused far too many laughs from the audience that I saw the film with. The characterizations just weren't developed enough to make any of their actions truly believable. Hence, the unintended chuckles. Not a complete waste of time, but a film that could have and should have been much better. I give it a 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"This Movie was REPULSIVE and STUPID","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I dvr'ed this movie the other day, and couldn't wait to watch it, as I had read the book a few years ago and was entrhalled by the story. I don't recall the book being all about gay sex and parents so ignorant that they aren't even believable on the screen.If I can say anything about this movie, it's a drug infested, soft-core porno and if I wanted to watch a bunch of teenagers having sex with anyone and everyone I would have rented something like that. I really thought the movie would go into the feelings of the characters and why they felt that this boy needed to die. I guess they really were just some stupid, spoiled kids though, as the movie showed none of that. I have a hard time believing any of the story. I cannot believe that parents are truly that ignorant, and if they are, then shame on them. These kids are rotten, spoiled, drug addicted brats, and I was a teenager once too, and not that long ago, and I never seen or acted as stupidly as these kids did, maybe because we had parents who cared about us, and we cared about ourselves. I got into my share of trouble, but this movie is just a glorification of ignorance and self abuse. I couldn't even bring myself to finish it, that's how unbelievable the story and characters are. I wonder if the real life kids were really this ignorant and stupid. If so, then I guess they are right where they belong, behind bars. "},{"Title":"Clark pushes the envelope and sends a scrambled message.","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was the first Larry Clark film I saw, and is probably one of the worst. The direction is bland and routine, the screenplay tries to be authentic but seems contrived. The characters are all ridiculously stupid, to the point you have trouble sympathizing with any of them. There were a few powerful sequences, but not enough to create a great sense of atmosphere.The problem I have with Clark is not the fact that he seems immersed in the lives of teenagers (though this is quite an unhealthy habit). He just doesn't break new ground often. Part of what made Kids so successful was the question mark over Clark's unique cinema verite style. As I said, this was the first Clark film I saw, but I had heard enough about him to know what to expect.Quick synopsis Marty Puccio and Bobby Kent have been 'best friends' since just after they were born. However, Marty is growing tired of Bobby's physical and psychological abuse, and doesn't know how to escape it. Enter Lisa Connelly and Ali Willis, a pair of female friends who become more than a little involved with Marty and Bobby. They too grow tired of Bobby's abusive nature. Lisa suggests to Marty that they should kill Bobby, and Marty agrees without much hesitation at all. Marty, Lisa, Ali, and three other friends conspire to murder Bobby. They enlist the help of a 'hit-man', Derek Kaufman. Of course, it takes them ages to kill Bobby and almost all of the murderers are swallowed by their guilt.Bully is as much about the murder of Bobby Kent as it is about the lifestyle of aimless, hedonistic teenage. In three words; sex, drugs and booze. I wasn't disturbed by the amount of nudity, and nothing really shocked me, though I do think Clark was quite pervasive on this front. True, the teenagers depicted would have been having sex quite a lot, but is it really necessary that we witness every moment of coitus? I didn't really add to the story at all.One of Bully's major letdowns is the fact that it takes itself too seriously. The dialogue is laughably bad at times, and the characters idiocy continues to switch between frustrating and amusing. I realize that some moments were meant to be humorous, but some potentially powerful moments were botched with either terrible dialogue or poor acting. Kids could afford moments of strange dialogue or average acting because, despite the underlying political statement, it was about teenagers having fun. Having fun and murdering a bisexual rapist are totally different subjects.The acting? It was nothing special. Brad Renfro scowled his way through the movie (as he does and most movies). He played his role quite well (though admittedly, he always looks like he is going to murder someone), but it wasn't an excellent performance. Nick Stahl was good, but totally miscast. Rachel Miner looked particularly devious throughout the whole film, and did what she could with a taxing role. Phillips and Garner were quite poor, but that's not surprising. Fitzpatrick looked the part, but wasn't terribly convincing as a hit-man. He suited Telly in Kids, and did a great job for a young actor, but he is no acting expert. At least his dialogue was a bit clearer in Bully though.The stand out is Michael Pitt, as the slightly deranged but forever entertaining Donny Semenec. He's crazy, always high, and genuinely funny. He provides this film with three of my four stars.The characters are all stupid. The murder wasn't pulled off very well, and the scenes when they are all together (getting high, bonking, etc.) are painfully empty. I didn't really sympathize with them enough to get involved in the story.It was also a shame to see that Clark never really exploited the irony of this story. Bobby Kent was the only College bound character in the story, but this only gets mentioned in scatter-shot moments. When you've got potential irony in a story, you have to exploit it. No excuses.People have said that this is a true representation of the youth of America. True. However, at the end of the day, the movie was supposed to be about Marty Puccio and his friends murdering Bobby Kent. The story (or lack thereof), failed to impress me. "},{"Title":"is everyone serious?","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I can't believe the ratings and comments everyone has given this movie. The movie was basically a dozen sex scenes, a murder, and the tragic downfall of all the characters. I know the director was trying the portray the 'confused' teen with all the drugs and sex, but I felt like I was watching A soft core porn with Shannon Tweed. The most appalling fact of the movie to me was its length. This movie was over two hours, and I feel like an hour of the movie took place in a car. Some people complemented the acting in this movie. Did anyone notice the hit-man? If it wasn't a true story, a would insult the plot. I feel like the movie was based on shock value, and trying to inflect sympathy for a group of bad people. I felt like this movie was entertaining simply for the fact that it was one of those really bad movies you laugh at with your friends. If your trying to watch a serious movie, then this will waste two plus hours of your life. "},{"Title":"Lies and Fabrications","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having been a personal acquaintance of both Bobby Kent and Marty Puccio, I must say the movie bears even less resemblance to the truth than the book (purportedly a true story) with its outright fabrications and lies. Marty certainly did not have a younger brother and surely did not smoke the way he was portrayed.  The SWAT-like scene at the end did little justice to a person who voluntarily turned himself in to the Broward Sheriff's Office. The only value of the movie is entertainment, especially for people interested in pornography and pederasty. "},{"Title":"A compelling film from under middle class America's rug","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In Bully Larry Clark takes a bold, fascinating, and realistic look at an American subculture which has received too little exposure in film the middle class teenage loser. While we've all seen films about  disaffected youth from ghettos and barrios with murder aplenty, little has been done since the ground-breaking Rebel Without a Cause to expose the seething socially sick segment of the monied middle class in denial about their sons and daughters for reasons of parental guilt. Bully takes us there with a beautifully shot but disturbing look at the young people who have the bodies of adults, the minds of children, the freedom of money, and lethal potential as they plan murder as casually as they would have sex or smoke weed. Clark walks the fine line between exploitation and reality courageously as the audience bears witness to a film version of a true story which has divided critics and audiences alike in opinion. Bully will be most appreciated by those who are familiar with the class of young people it portrays. Footnote At this writing there's an interesting dip in IMDB.com's demographic (gender & age) breakdown of user appreciation in the middle...about where you'll find people of the age of the parents of the kids in this film. Denial or clueless? "},{"Title":"Quite simply...the worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was without a doubt, the worst movie I have ever seen. And that's sad, i've watched some pretty bad movies. Let me put this in perspective for you, I watched bully right before Wrestlemaniac, and without question, bully was worse.It's truly rare that I can say that there is absolutely nothing good about a movie. I mean, the nudity was this movie's ONLY slightly redeeming factor, but it was used to such an excess that it was entirely ridiculous. Every time any character is alone they're automatically naked. Sometimes it doesn't even take THAT.The cinematography is so juvenile it's hard to put into words. The defining scene of this movie's cinematic genius was a circular spin reminiscent of That 70s Show. But the camera was moving SO FAST that it hurt to watch. Not only that, but it really didn't have a reason to, because half the characters weren't doing anything in this scene! Only 2 or 3 actually had lines, and the others just stood there wasting my time by making a different unbelievable facial expression every time they came on screen. I think the goal was to make it look like one continuous 4 minute scene, but since the film kept jumping at parts it was pretty obvious that it WASN'T.The plot line...where do I begin? It's so pointless, I can barely put it into words. It seems like we just progress from sex scene to sex scene with barely anything substantial connecting them, until we finally reach a murder. He makes me feel bad. and the next line is Let's kill him. Ughhhhh...not only that, but for whole sections of the movie the plot line is entirely lost and we're pulled off into useless scenes, like the mortal combat one. In addition, everyone in this movie is CONSTANTLY on drugs. I don't just mean they're drug users, I mean in EVERY SCENE OF THIS MOVIE, they're doing drugs...it's overkill.I'll just toss the acting and script into one. The acting wasn't believable for a moment - every character just flat and one-dimensional. Every time they attempted to throw in character development it was just pointless, absurd, and out of place. Blue-haired girl's story about her grandmother really didn't contribute anything to her character, and is the only bit of development she gets. YET WE SEE HER IN NEARLY EVERY SCENE. As for the script...I don't even know what to say. When you have lines like Kill him, like, kill him in real life? in your movie, you know you've hit rock bottom. For the first 30 minutes of the movie, I don't think we really saw any dialogue whatsoever, aside from an occasional comment between sexual moaning.The one positive thing i will say about this movie was that it was good for a laugh. I mean, if you have a bunch of sarcastic people around you, this can be a truly fun time, but it's only because the movie is so unrespectable.*****RANT OVER****** 0.8/10 "},{"Title":"a depressing view of the younger generation","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Numb-brain teenagers who spend their days watching music videos and getting high, decide to kill an obnoxious member of their group(Nick Stahl). What is extraordinary about Bully is the incredible immaturity and lack of any sort of brain activity on the part of the teenagers portrayed.The decision to kill another human being is no more important to them than what to have for lunch.One of the most chilling scenes in the movie occurs after the brutal killing.While having sex, two of the teens begin laughing about the death of their former friend.I suppose every generation has its share of aimless people, but the group of teenagers in Bully are as in-substantial as the video images they spend so much time watching. "},{"Title":"Worst film ever","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" After finding himself at the constant abuse of his best friend Bobby, Marty has become fed up with his friend's twisted ways. His girlfriend, a victim of Bobby's often cruel ways, couldn't agree more and they strategize murdering Bobby, with a group of willing and unwilling participants in a small Florida town. In the midst of their plotting, they find themselves contemplating with the possible aftermath of what could happen.The story is simple, You Have Marty and Bobby, Bobby is not a nice guy, he is constantly abusing Marty, both in physical abuse and in physiology i.e pimping Marty out at a gay bar is nothing more than a thrilling chance to grab some cash for Bobby despite how uncomfortable Marty feels with this. However when Bobby turns his unwanted attention to Lisa, Marty's New Girlfriend, and her friend Ali, Lisa decides she has had enough of Bobby's wicked ways. So what are Marty and Lisa to do?? Well they plan to kill him.With the help of a few other brain dead teens and a so called Hit-man, who can't be much of a Hit-man if he uses Kids no older than 9 and 13 for his crime ring, the group plot out to murder Bobby. The interesting thing about the group and the inner dynamics of the group is that there is no leader, these kids are alienated, high school drop-outs. The plan happens so fast that there is no thought behind the murder, this is where BULLY calls the bluff of all those other films that claim to deal with bored and alienated teenagers. These Kids are literally Brain Dead, they are the dumbest of there generation and in some strange way it makes for an interesting story Its Bleak, Dark, Depressive, and Strangely Sometimes the Dialogue comes across as unintentionally humorous in a dark way. Soaked in shots of naked teens, violent sex and behavior for the first half which set up our motives , while the second half deals a lot with such as stress, realization of what they have done, and the compulsion to tell everyone about what they did. The film captures everything i loved about the book in a perfected way "},{"Title":"An explicit made for TV movie","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie seems like it was made only to cash-in on a shocking news item. Despite being based on a true story, the horribly out-of touch writing makes the characters and their motives unbelelievable. There are also many unnecessary crotch-shots of the under-age looking actresses, which I found more disturbing than the movie itself. I think as far as cinema goes, the director Larry Clark has said all he needed to say. His whole point seems to be to leave a bad taste in your mouth and while perhaps that needed to be said with 'Kids', it's not something that needs to be said over and over again. To be honest I was not a big fan of 'Kids' but as tasteless as that movie was, it at least had some shock value. 'Bully' is just plain dull. Now whats on the other channels?  "},{"Title":"Sturm und Drang","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's hard to imagine that a bunch of middle-class high-school kids could be so thoroughly dissolute that they would murder a member of their group because they didn't like him, but it happens.  This incident happened to take place in Florida, but there was a similar murder, a parricide, in San Rafael, California, that was written up in an interesting sociological way by somebody who's name now escapes me, maybe Levin or Franks.  I wish I could remember the details of that book because the two cases have so much in common.  Both took place in anomic bedroom suburbs nucleated around malls.  Both were prompted by irritation rather than immediate threat.  Both were initiated by young girls who instigated their boyfriends and others to commit the murders.  Both were sloppily thought-out and disorganized.  In California the kids tried to barbecue the bodies at an outdoor picnic site when they couldn't think of anything else to do with them.  In Florida they threw the body carelessly into a ditch.  What a picture of subsonic youth Bully presents us with.  Succulent teenaged girls, suntanned young men, none with any evident talent or purpose.  They drop acid, go to a mall, and try to fatalize characters in a video game.  They vomit on the street.  They pointlessly spit big ginders onto mirrors.  We see nothing of them at work or in school.  It's as if those spheres of endeavors simply didn't exist for them.  Sex is taken for granted, almost an irritant to be gotten out of the way.  Few of them talk about love, and the one young girl who does has no idea what the word means.  They drive flashy new cars.  They don't think at all about the future.  Their parents aren't stupid but just irrelevant.  They seem motivated chiefly by boredom.  How stupid can you get?  I'm green with envy.Why did Clark make this movie?  It's no improvement over River's Edge.  It offers no insights into the minds of these kids.  Well -- how could it?  How could you suggest an insight into, say, a bowl of vanilla pudding?  The photography is B-movie level.  The violence in it is pretty realistic, although not up to the best -- that is, the worst -- levels that we've seen in recent films.  The sex is graphic.  Welcome to the party, says the Bully to a girl he's just met and pulls her head down to his lap.  Not to leave anything out, there are constant implications that the Bully is bisexual.  While the girl is going down on him his eyes are fixed on the normal act of coitus that his best friend is engaged in, in the back seat of the car.  Is that why Clark made this movie?  Because it's sexy and violent?  The director must have convinced himself there was more to it than that, but the more doesn't amount to much more.  He seems to have been happy with his control over the camera.  A girl is having a phone conversation and the camera drops down for a pointless peek at the crotch of her cutoffs, out of one side of which one of her glabrous labia droops.  Thrilling, but if this is really what a viewer wants to see, he or she could simply go into the back room of the local video store.  Another scene that will literally make you dizzy.  There is a rambling conversation among four or five of the kids.  They are standing in a circle around the camera.  And the camera pans around slowly as if on a pivot, regardless of which direction the lines are coming from, and it slowly spins and spins and spins, completely out of control, accomplishing nothing except to draw attention to the fact that there is a director named Clark who is causing this to happen. What a picture of youth.  When I was in high school, we were forbidden to use any cuss words, even the mildest, in front of girls.  Wow.  The movie doesn't blame the parents, at least.  That would be the easy way out, to explain the absurd semi-existence of these people, who seem to have skipped directly from infancy to jaded middle-age without ever having gone through the self-discovery of adolescence.  Blame the parents, right.  That's what Rebel Without a Cause did.  Gosh, aren't we misunderstood?  But this movie doesn't do that, perhaps because no one involved thought about explaining this life style, any more than the homicidal kids thought about how to dispose of the body.  Is this movie really such a piece of junk, though?  Well -- yeah, it is. "}{"Title":"Larry, what were you thinking?","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I admit I am missing the point.  But I just don't get why an audience is supposed to endure lame dialogue, motiveless, aimless plot, and unlikable characters just because this is based on a true story.  So what?  What's so frustrating is how obviously talented Renfro, Miner and Phillips are, and how such lackluster characters do absolutely nothing for them.  I loved Kids... Larry, what happened? "},{"Title":"is this meant to be a comedy?","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" a friend lent me this film and said i would like it as i like 'wierd stuff'. I read a few reviews saying how brilliant this film was and that anybody who disagreed probably couldn't handle the content or where not in the right age demographic. Firstly i am 21. secondly two of my favorite films are 'Once Were Warriors' and 'Requiem For A Dream'. I feel this would make me the target demographic for this film. I laughed through the entire film . Kids may have been a great film but this was utter garbage , starting off with poor casting decisions , bad writing and laughable camera work that aimed to make it 'edgey'. Perhaps If I were American i would get more of the context but i doubt it. There were some good performances in it though (excluding The main girl going through the whole lady Macbeth). All in all it is an unbelievable piece of garbage that should never see the light of day. "},{"Title":"I guess this is not for everybody","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am not a viewer, who is not easily offended (if I can be offended at all) and to be honest this film didn't offend me a bit. I must admit though, that it took me a while to get adjusted to the film in the beginning, due to the amount of sexual scenes portrayed. In the beginning it just felt like I was watching a soft pornographic adult film without any real story. This feeling I had though, faded away after 20 minutes or so, when the story of the film unfolded and I must say it did so nicely. Larry Clark and all of the involved actors (they were all cast brilliantly and performed very well) do a great job, keeping the story, interesting and thrilling. They have a little help though from the music department as well. I mean I did not notice a lot of musical score throughout the film, but in the two most important scenes (the kill and in the end) I noticed it, and it certainly helped make the scene better. All in all a great effort by Larry Clark (who'll never make it big time) and the actors who portrayed the main characters. I see potential with some of them and I think that they all can make something of themselves. If I was a director and I needed a few spaces filled, I'd definitely knock on some of their doors (as other director's will). Good luck to all of you young promises. As for Larry Clark, I'm sure he'll continue to do what he does and I'm sure I'll check out some of his other films.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Rubbish","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Larry Clarke's 'Bully' lazily documents the drug-taking, quick-f**king existence of several desperately boring teenagers who decide to kill a friend who is, wait for it, a bully. The only bully encountered watching this miserable film though is Clarke. His sad and insistent preoccupation with throwing screen time at the bodies of pubescent girls, at the expense of both plot and character development is misery inducing. To believe, as is expected, that these characters were bored enough, or passionate enough, to involve themselves in a murder is to gift this film dues it doesn't deserve. Incredibly, Clarke had the assistance of an existing novel, complete with back stories of the characters depicted in what is a true story, and yet he has managed to create a film with a structure devoid of intention or focus. Rather, this is an insipid, exploitative, and genuinely dull experience. It displays cringe-inducing lead performances, from inexperienced and largely miss-cast actors who suffer badly from Clarke's failings as a director. Jarring lines, ridiculously unconvincing mood swings and flat interactions are the staple here. An incongruous musical treatment binds this horror of a film together appropriately enough. If you watch this film on DVD though, the best insight into the passion and storytelling abilities of Clarke are given us by Clarke himself, in an interview which is undoubtedly the comic highlight of this viewing experience. "},{"Title":"Lady Macbeth","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.We are in the midst of a flood of films that portray the adolescence experience with extreme gloom. `Ghost World,' `Donnie Darko,' `Ginger Snaps,' `Gummo,' `Go,' Korine's work, many others. This one plays it so straight one wonders who they thought the audience might be. The treatment (frank sex, `real' pacing, zero intelligence required) seems targeted toward the same demographic as that shown. But the very values of that group, especially the salacious sex, are just the things shown to be bankrupt. Yet the camera goes just where a teenage boy would put his eyes. Puzzling.These kids do a fine, professional job. They certainly seem committed and some surprise. The young women here seem to know what is needed and put themselves in just the right place, and give the right faces. But they lack the control over their body that is required for real effectiveness. I suppose either you have it or not. The nudity and simulated sex seemed exactly right for the story and did not seem gratuitous at all. That, and the commitment behind it, goes a long way toward hiding this deficiency in how you act with the many elements of self.I tracked this down because of the obvious Macbeth reference and the fact that a redhead (artificial, it seems) was the focus. I haven't worked it out yet, but there's something special about redheaded harridans in theater -- those who use sex to influence and control the violent acts of their lovers. This is one of the deepest archetypical touchstones of storytelling I suspect.But the film fails for me. And that's because the director thinks making films is all about acting. And what we have here is collection of actors operating within the general tone set by the director. But there is no cinematic skill in tying the elements into a smooth narrative The story unfolds in a drugged way. There's no pushing from one scene to the other. No collaborative space among the actors into which we can enter. All of the films noted in the first paragraph did this much better.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Kids with More Skin, Less Motive","Date":"15 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" While working together in a Hollywood, Florida fast-food eatery, surfer dude Brad Renfro (as Marty Puccio) and his kinky companion Nick Stahl (as Bobby Kent) meet two prospective new girlfriends. They are sex-starved Rachel Miner (as Lisa Connelly) and her skanky companion Bijou Phillips (as Ali Willis). The four teenagers are quickly copulating in a car. You know something else is up when Mr. Stahl looks at Mr. Renfro instead of his sexy female partner. Stahl likes it rough, and digs gay sex while he's playing it straight. Stahl likes to beat up Renfro and force himself on young women. He's a real big Bully. The main problem arises when Ms. Miner decides she really loves Renfro, who has been under Stahl's control since they were little kids. Miner figures she can only have Renfro if Stahl is out of the picture...With all the sex going on, you wonder why there wasn't room for one with Renfro and Stahl...Bully takes some time to figure out, unfortunately. Stahl's character must be gay or bisexual, as supposed in my short synopsis, above. In the actual film, this is far too subdued. This forces the viewer to waste time trying to determine what is controlling Renfro's character. Specifically, we wonder why he is bullied. There is no evidence of a cognitive problem (although he may have some learning disability). Since the film is based on a true story, it's surprising that director Larry Clark does not elaborate or even fictionalize. Far from shy, he shows acres of young flesh. Renfro seems detached from his sketchy character. Blessed with the villain role, Stahl is quite convincing. Miner is believable. Led by hitman Leo Fitzpatrick, from Mr. Clark's superior Kids (1995), the supporting players impersonate their types exceptionally...Stay tuned, as after the credits, an update of the characters' fates are shown.******* Bully (2001-06-15) Larry Clark ~ Brad Renfro, Nick Stahl, Rachel Miner, Bijou Phillips "},{"Title":"Expected Much More","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" After seeing and enjoying Ken Park and Kids, I was definitely interested in giving this film a watch. Larry Clark has a unique directing style, which comes out well in Kids and Ken Park, but not so much Bully. The IMDb plot was very intriguing, it got a 7/10 so I was expecting a decent movie, but was unfortunately let down with this one. There are some major points where this movie fails, the main one being the acting, which I will talk about first.The acting in this film, for lack of a better word, is crap. I first noticed this, during a scene where a teenage girl just encounters some trauma, and goes to tell her friend about it, and is trying to hide the smirk on her face, and it's not believable at all. Stuff like this goes on throughout the whole film, it's just really unbelievable, which is weird, because I have seen a few of the actors in this, do very well in other films. This was the main failure of the film, the only character that was really believable to me was Bobby Kent, played by Nick Stahl.Now, this film had an interesting story, which apparently was based on a true story, while the film exaggerates some parts, as you would expect. The film fails to bring this story to life and make it believable, there are so many plot holes, and so many parts where you are asking yourself Are a bunch of young adults really stupid enough, to do/say this s**t?. That is what was going on in my mind for half the film, also there seemed to be many points, where the same questions get asked and answered, over and over again.This is most of what I have to say about the film, but the last thing I have to mention, is a scene where they are talking in a circle, and to shoot it, someone just stands in the middle of the circle spinning the camera around. I have a feeling Larry Clark was trying to copy the scene at the beginning of Reservoir Dogs, but he failed here. It was just a pointless gimmick that was ultimately annoying, and I ended up skipping the scene, because it was making me feel sick, as the circle was much smaller then in Reservoir Dogs. I give props to Larry Clark for trying to make this story on film, but he didn't succeed in my eyes, and made a movie that I wouldn't say is worth anyone's time. This made me hesitant to check out his other films, and question the people who gave this film a high rating. "},{"Title":"Horrifying account of misguided teens","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I must say that this is one of the more brutal films I have ever seen. To say this movie is hard-edged is an understatement. Only the most hardened among us would not find at least parts of this movie difficult to watch. One aspect that I found to be truly disturbing was the degree of callousness and conscienceless ease in which this group of south Florida teenagers plotted the murder of one of their peers. No matter his misdeeds against them, the taking of a human life is no small, casual undertaking. The story does a good job in conveying the irony of the plotting and the ultimate act of bullying against a bully. The reality of their actions does not seem to occur to them until it is too late. Many of the characters hardly seem any more redeemable than the bully himself. Their own despicable characteristics are on full display.The film contains copious amounts of sex and nudity. Numerous scenes of drug usage and conversations about drugs. And plenty of profanity. That combined with a few scenes of physical abuse, a disturbing rape scene, discussions of both male and female rape and one brutally violent scene make this a movie not for the faint of heart. "},{"Title":"Real...real film...tumbling down....","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" As another reviewer mentioned, this is not something for everyone, which is why I liked it. I don't gravitate toward blockbuster commercial mainstream movies. It also is shown often on IFC an excellent indie film channel, in a miasma of HBO and Showtime pablum routinely thrown to the audience.It was based on the true story of what happens to a bully, from his friend Marty Puccio, the strange relationship they had and how it ends up. Marty is well-portrayed by Brad Renfro (died tragically in his real life). His friend and somewhat dominant bully is Nicholas Stahl, who plays the part well. Good-looking but sociopath. Bijou Phillips and also Garner, the actress who plays the real Heather Swallers, is also worth mention. Rachel Miner is believable as an instigator, who does more than is initially revealed.The aimlessness and general malaise of South Florida is captured. Having lived there the strip malls, bored kids riding and partying in their convertibles, a lot of it is shown here without being trite. Rather it is startlingly fresh, like a scene where Bijou Phillips is talking to her mother while they are driving...What if someone commits murder...what happens?... . Her Mom then says ...you mean real, like a real murder...? . The denial and parents who are too busy with their own narcissism to even care what their kids are doing until its too late.As a character in and of itself, the town of Hollywood Florida is perfect setting, disjointed, some people with decent jobs, overpriced (now deflated houses thanks to the bubble and Wall Street). Marty is a lost kid, probably never will finish high school, there are no job prospects anyway. Nick Stahl is a kid who may get to college, or may not.If you like this story you may want to check out the book, its a real story, and this film is well-written, the actors turn in real and stark performances. Highly recommended. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Larry Clark Exploiting teen sexuality...again","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bully 1/14/2011Director and photographer Larry Clark's work is often controversial as it deals with teenage life and sexuality in a very raw and documentary like style. His first film Kids shocked the country and launched the careers of actors Rosario Dawson and Chloe Sevigny. Bully released in 2001 also features a number of great young actors such as Nick Stahl, Brad Renfro (R.I.P.) and Michael Pitt. Bijou Phillips also plays the role of a promiscuous party girl, the same role that she has played in every movie she appears in. This film is also loosely based on a true story of a group of teens from Florida.Bully is a very dark and depressing story of a bunch of bad kids doing a bunch of bad things. It looks to draws more attention to it self for its blatant sex and nudity then for the story it's trying to tell. But when told with in the context of these characters it does seem to fit. Clark's work is often labeled as exploitive as he dives into to find the most intimate details of a young person's life (real or created) and throws it out there for everybody to see. This is story about a bunch of lost and morally bankrupt teens that get together to kill a bully (played by Nick Stahl). His character of Bobby is troubled and sexually confused; he's gay but is afraid to overtly tell people so he puts up a tough macho exterior to convince people otherwise. His best friend Donny (Brad Renfro) has been taking Bobby's physical and mental abuse since they were little kids and has finally had enough. **Spoiler Alerts***A lot of the story follows Donny's new girlfriend Lisa (Rachel Miner) who is quickly impregnated by Donny. She hatches the plan to kill Bobby after her friend Ali (Phillips) is raped by him. Sounds pretty crazy huh? This teen soap opera really doesn't want you to like any of these kids, but you do end up feeling a little bad for them. The absence of the parents or family members is a likely culprit for there misery as these kids go searching for love and acceptance where ever they can find it. Each of them follows one another without any thought of consequence or feeling of right and wrong. After the kids go through with killing Bobby, the guilt and emotional toll hits everybody and all are shortly arrested and jailed. After ten years this film already looks a little dated. But is it a good film? I would have to say not so much. Watch it at your own risk or if you are interested in the work of Larry Clark. "}{"Title":"See Kids, not Bully","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this film shortly after I rented Larry Clark's 1995 film Kids. Kids was an extraordinarily good film with excellent cinematography, top-notch performances and an unbelievable soundtrack. Compared to Kids, Bully seems effortless, gratuitous and poorly executed. The plot centers around a group of Florida teenagers who become sick of the constant torment and brutality they are subjected to by the character played by Nick Stahl. So what do they plan to do? Talk to him--maybe reason things out? Have an intervention of some sort? No, out of the blue, one of the characters suggests that they just kill him. Groupthink takes over and pretty soon everybody wants a hand in killing this guy. Since its based on a real-life murder case, don't expect a happy ending or for anyone to get off easy; also, since this is a Larry Clark film, expect a lot of drug-taking as well as teenagers in various states of undress. The acting isn't horrible, though Bijou Philip's character is unbelievably annoying and Leo Fitzpatrick's (Telly from Kids) performance as a laconic, wannabe gangster-hit-man is pretty underperformed. Also, why does it seem like Brad Renfro was cast as a dumbass in every movie leading up to his death? He's as retarded in this film as he was in Deuces Wild! Final Grade C- "},{"Title":"Goldilocks and the three bears","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The camera work is fantastic. Performances are adequate. Larry Clark, we need more from your factory.Until now you thought the teenager at your home is confused and directionless. Watch this movie and &#149; Eye-opener? No, your eyes will be popping out of the eyeballs &#149; Raise your suspicion level to its peak &#149; You will start praying harder to God to stop using the Ignore button &#149; And make even more honest attempt to counsel the teenage to stay away from this clear and present danger Bully gives you a slice of life into the teenage life in the West world and mind you, its nothing short of surprise... read that as shock. Drugs, killings, sex &#150; sadly to say the GenX appear to be the messengers of Satan.At the end, you will say Oh God.. please forgive them for they do not know what they are doing.PS Is the end of the world near? "},{"Title":"best movie ever","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" this is the best movie ever. Based on a true story about some high school dropouts who is sick and tired of being bullied by Bobby Kent. Bobby beats his friend, Marty, rapes Ali and Lisa. Marty and Lisa get help to kill him, including a hit-man. The first time they were going to shoot him, but they chickened out. After that they got a hit-man. They took him to a deserted place and beat the crap out of him, then dumped him in the water. The problem is, the kids let the guilt get the best of them and blabbed about what happened. The police find out and arrest the kids. They show them in court in the end and they are all fighting because they haven't been able to do their drugs. True fact, all but Marty, the hit-man, and Donnie are still in jail, all the others have been released from jail. "},{"Title":"True story","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was directed by the Larry Clark who also directed kids. He seems to have an artistic and creative way of capturing ordinary lives of young adults and the twisted realities they live in. Bully takes the true story of some outcast kids that were tormented by a high school bully. They decided enough was enough and sought revenge in a very violent manor. There was some fairly graphic sex scenes; it seems like this director likes to put racy sex scenes in his movies. The story was interesting, and it did a good job of creating a lot of tension. I really wanted to know what was going to happen. The acting was great all the kids seemed real and the only semi famous person in it was Brad Renfro, but he has really kept his career to offbeat indi films and he is a great actor. I've never read the book, but I am interested to see how true the movie is to the actual events documented in the book. "},{"Title":"Drastically Extreme, Better than some.","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I was enthusiastic about watching Bully not just because of the IMDb rating of 7.0 but also because I like films that deal with growing up and teenage trauma. This film is a roller-coaster ride of emotion and leaves you feeling sick at the end of it - not sick because of the graphic nature of the movie but because of the abrupt ending and the hollow view it has towards teenage thoughts and actions.The film starts very strong with very violent and sexual imagery which at times (particularily as I was watching with my girlfriend) is hard to watch because it is real and arguably (at times) unnecessary.The relationships in the film are superbly written and the characters are brilliantly portrayed by the actors. However as the film progresses the storyline begins to fade and the film does seem to drag on a bit.The scene near the end when they finally kill the bully was very well done as it was raw and shocking and even the build up to it did not water-down the shock value of the murder.Worth the watch if you can bear the brutality of it however I wouldn't give it anymore than a six due to its blatantness and how far fetched it all seems at times.- Ash out. "},{"Title":"Crime and Punishment the misanthropist's version","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Larry Clark's 'Bully' is like a modern day retelling of 'Crime and Punishment', and based on a true story. Clark is the high priest of the art of debunking myths of teenage innocence, and he certainly does this here the film tells of a gang who kill an obnoxious, bullying acquaintance, but with their callous disregard for all human life except their own, they're arguably even less appealing than their victim, while the soundtrack makes a strong, though unsubtle case, for considering hip-hop the music of hate. But while the story may be true, one wonders at Clark's motives for making this movie is the film really indicative of teenage awfulness, or simply Clark's own misanthropy? Likewise, there's something distinctly prurient in the movie's denunciations of its characters' obsession for porn and sex. On the other hand, in spite of its repulsive cast and extreme storyline, to Clark's credit the film is watchable, plausible, and unsettling throughout. But I'd like to believe on behalf of my species that we're really not this bad. "},{"Title":"A weird film!","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" what's even weirder is that it's inspired by true life. That's really sad.Okay, here's the deal a bunch of kids in a clique endure physical and verbal abuse at the hands of one of their own, a guy named Bobby (played by Nick Stahl). Eventually, when they all decide that he has gone too far with his abusive behaviour, words and character, they decided to lure him out into the woods one night where they each take turns beating and insulting him until they eventually kill him. After his death, conflicting stories arise about what really happened as the case goes to court and makes headlines all across the US. Brad Renfro, Rachel Miner, Bijou Philips and Michael Pitt co star. "},{"Title":"Relating my own life","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched the movie Bully, and its scary that i can relate my life and my friends to the movie, of course we have not killed anyone, but i can relate to the group of characters. (However i did just quit working at a pizza hut) I have a group of friends a good 7 or 8 of us that are together non stop, pretty much live our lives the same way the characters in the movie do. Which good or bad, its kinda how it is. We go out and all party together and just hang, drink, whatever, every night, and the same kinda things go on between people in our group as did with the relationships in the movie, and of course u do always have the occasional asshole of the group. i just think its amazing that a movie portrait so closely to something i can relate to. "},{"Title":"Hyped-up digital video experiment","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A companion piece to Larry Clark's earlier Kids (1995), Bully is based on a true event, that of a murder in Florida in the 1990s. Utilising digital cameras and the director's favored cinema verit style, Bully dramatizes this true story as a hyped-up digital video experiment in reality TV. It feels like a home movie at times, one with the necessary roughness to portray the dark world inhabited by those Floridian teenagers.The acting is very good from all concerned but at the same time the film feels exploitative much like an afternoon TV movie with less noble intentions. Nevertheless, Bully is a refreshing change from usual true-life adaptations. "},{"Title":"entertaining but a little off the real story","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" for anybody who hasn't followed the real story they won't notice the things that are off about this movie but I, happening to be an observant person, did. for one, the bobby kent in this movie was tall, thin, pasty white and looked as American as apple pie and had a flowing mane of long hair. the real bobby kent was actually Iranian, shorter with a stocky build, had a crew cut and dark middle eastern features. the hit-man who's name was Derek Kaufman, had dark hair and was a skinny sh*t, i could've kicked his ass, the real Derek Kaufman could've played linebacker for the dolphins as he was 64 250 pounds, with blonde hair. another thing was, if you can tell me how its possible to drive a 2000 mustang in 1993, id be interested in knowing because is far as i know its not until the advent of time machines. and I don't know why they didn't mention that Marty puccio's death sentence was overturned, and why did bobby's father just walk into the bathroom without knocking and what guy over 5 years old is gonna stand there naked for seemingly an eternity while he has a conversation with his father, and not even bother to get a towel? further on, if you are an angry kid who wants somebody else dead, wouldn't you be smart enough to know that the more people involved in a plot the more complicated and risky it gets and the bigger a chance somebody will find out, why didn't Alice Willis just go and kill bobby by herself, it doesn't take much to stab somebody in the back, u just have to get them to turn around and then the knife does the rest, instead she brings all these other idiots into it and they go and tell everybody in Broward County within an hour,and she still did only 6 years for murder, sometimes idiots don't get what they deserve. "}{"Title":"Braindead earth zombies plan murder!","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really wish that I had known that this was basd on real events before I watched the movie. It wouldn't have made me enjoy the film, but it would have at least helped me understand its intentions. To begin, I have never witnessed a more annoying, disgusting, completely morally corrupt group of characters in all my life. And that includes Nazi villains from films like Schindler's List and The Pianist. Hell, even the Passion of Christ!These are teens with money in their pocket, drugs in their system, but nothing between their ears. I don't know why I watched it - maybe it was like witnessing a car wreck - you know it's bad but you can't look away. I wanted to change the channel, but I also wanted to see how badly these morons would screw up their crime. Which they did admirably. It didn't help that all of these freaky pseudo-child actors were in it. Let's see, the kid from the Client? Pretty boy from Dawson's Creek? Macauly Culkin's wife, for god's sake! Weird enough, thank you, without having that. Sure, this Bobby character likes his porn and raped a few chicks, but in all honesty I didn't dislike him any more than any of the other people in this film. I hated the Donny character. He spends the entire film consuming precious oxygen from our atmosphere, and exhaling pot smoke like Mt. St. Helens - and he certainly never had anything interesting to say. Just greasy hair, a nipple fascination, and bouts of vomiting. If there was ever a film where I wanted to crawl into through the TV with a shotgun, this would be it.The hit-man was the only semi-intelligent, reasonable person in the film. I say 'semi-intelligent' because he was stupid enough to get himself mixed up with these morons' murder plot. Which they blab about to anyone who'll listen the very next day. The body's not even cold yet! Hey, if I told you something bad, you wouldn't tell the cops, right? Right? For God's sake, learn to keep a secret! You're all teenagers, it shouldn't be hard!The director sure liked his nudity-for-the-sake-of-nudity. Let's put the camera between her legs when we show her on the phone, yeah, that'll be classy! I'm sure he was trying to be as graphic as possibly, to give the film whatever punch it needed - that I can understand - but the point of the film is what? There was no chance of sympathizing with any of the characters, and after that all there is is the point of the movie. What is it? That stupid people can't get away with murder? That no amount of sex will get you out of the electric chair? Hard to believe. And this film was hard to watch. Fitting.  "},{"Title":"A Cast of un-sympathetic Character","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film, with all of it's rawness, failed to provide even one sympathetic character. The most empathetic that I came close to is Brad Renfro's Marty, who received the harshest sentence of all of these Kids. The parents are just a bunch of self consumed morons having their lives run by these spoiled brats, who don't work, have kids of their own and fancy (if Camaro's and Irocs are considered fancy) cars. The cinematography is very Floridian and is captured nicely. The acting is very good, Bijue Phillips surprised me, and Nick Stahl really delivered as a messed up kid confused (?)about his sexuality which is something that neither the film or the book explored. I gave this film a six on IMDb, and had some sense been made of the actions of the characters other than Bullying by Stahl, wherein they all had cars and other lives anyway, it might have garnered an extra star.  "},{"Title":"Bully,not perverted just honest","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have personally been waiting for a movie like Bully to come out for a long time. I have began to grow tired of viewing these pg-13 movies about teen age life when I think we all know that teen life is truly a nc-17 movie. I also unlike most people did not think that there was to much sex in the movie, because it is very obvoius that this director was trying to catch the true way in which these particular kids were living and in order to do that you are going to haft to make a graphic film.however there were a few sexual scenes that i felt had no point in this film such as showing Rachel Miner's full frontal while she is standing in the bathroom, and also the shot of Bijou Phillip's crotch that was kind of perverted, but I guess the director had his own reasons for doing that.Kelly Ganer (plays Heather) is sexy!  "},{"Title":"Not so Shocking","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Movie has mesmerizing performances, and a great example of what film-makers today can do on indie budgets.  However, I'm surprised at how many posts are using the film as some sort of insight into today's youth culture.  It's a shocking film about a specific (and shocking) crime, but to use it to generalize an entire generation of kids is naive.  First of all, their behavior (aside from the murder) is no more or less shocking than the behavior exhibited by my classmates at a Catholic school in Missouri in the early 80s.  We didn't listen to gansta rap - no, we only listened to death metal and wore Satanic symbols.  Half my graduating class smoked pot and snorted meth and dropped acid.  I had classmates who were bullies, who were lazy, who hated their parents, who picked fights and got into brawls, who were rebellious and shiftless and shallow.  We had video games and television and date rape and bad parents.  Indeed, the murder rate among teens was much higher in the 1980s than it is today.  This is a fascinating film, and surely nobody would be as interested in a film about the many teen-agers whom I work with who are bright, articulate, and motivated. Our school systems have definitely declined, and working parents work more now than ever, so don't get me wrong - teenagers today have many more social pressures than ever to contend with.  But don't let this film influence you into thinking that Marty and Ali and Bobby are typical teenagers.  My theory is that Larry Clark is actually a secret Republican operative, out there making movies designed purely to scare the living heck out of parents... "},{"Title":"The bully generation","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am 43 years old and I have seen Bully at least 10 times or more.I have seen the whole,uncut-nothing left out version-whatever.I live in Florida, and I can understand what goes on down here.But what I cannot understand-is in my generation- if we chewed gum, pulled our shirt out of our pants,talked in class,or skipped school- All hell broke loose.,and we were either expelled or punished. Now-kids get away with everything. And this  gun in school stuff is not new. I came from the generation of being bused to different schools back and forth and blacks and whites rioting,shooting-and stabbing each other in my schools-1973 was not a picnic-and was much worse than Bobby Kent.  So this is nothing new.Even with what is going on today with Generation Y or E or whatever the 18 year olds are being called now.I went back to visit my high school last year and was frightened. These young kids need to learn to be less interested in drugs, and sex,as well as wanting to always beat up and kill people. And not dress like criminals-nor act like them.Now about the movie-I think the gay references were valid. Anyone who could not see that Bobby was hiding behind women and could not admit he was gay- should not be watching movies at all. I have been gay all my life-and believe me-I am quite sure that even Marty got turned on by men. Why would he have danced at the Copa which was the bar he stripped at. He definitely got a rush from it. But not only did Bobby display- the I think I am Mr Macho which I grew up with my whole life with kids who picked on me, and he was a closet case-but he didnot even like himself-spitting in the mirror-thats what that meant,that he hated himself. That was very apparent. I can also very much relate to Marty but I have never thought of getting a gun or killing  someone for beating on me. I have been abused physically throughout my whole life. I also-do not blame the parents at all! I blame the company these kids keep.And the way the conduct their lives, and dress, and their hero's who influence them. Whether it is in person or on the TV. I read the Bully  book-and looked at the shocking photo's. Its weird-a couple of the girls look just like the actresses in the movie-that was creepy. I think what these people did was very very wrong and unforgiveable.I think all guns should be outlawed and noone should have one at all.And if caught they should be put in prison. After all, I live in a state that is 10-20-LIFE.We can't blame the parents, we can't say that these kids just don't care and wanna kill people. But I do believe that rap music and videos, and movies and friends of these kids, and the screwed up concept of what it is to be cool causes all this.But then again I could be wrong- I am from the flower power,Richard Nixon, End of Vietnam,Pre-Disco years. Not the pull your underwear up-or drop your baggy pants so you are almost naked- gold chains and pop a cap in someones ass generation. I have alot of disrespect for these kids. They could have thought of other ways to deal with this creep. I also thought there were too many girly type slut things in the movie.  The movie was about kids going over the edge-not everyone banging everyone else,or wearing no clothes.I also find it hard to believe that the heavy guy could not have kicked somes ass. Like I say- in the 70's they were just beating each other up at school and the police broke it up.Occasionaly a stabbing, and even gunshots the year after I left high school in 1978. This movie  is just an updated version into the 90's of what the kids I grew up with would have acted like now. It was well written and the book was too. I feel sorry-believe it or not for Bobby's family, they did nothing at all to lose a son, that way.I can't help but think that if the kids today were treated with strict dress codes at school, even like we were-no gum,no talking,hair groomed, you know the Kennedy Generation attitude. I guarantee you that this would not have happened. Someone has to discipline teenagers today, not be a role model that shows them how neat it is to have a gun, wear 40 chains on your neck, or wear sloppy as heck clothes. And kill your friends. Being cool or macho is not about letting everyone know it-or showing it-it is knowing yourself you are a man.I bet these kids would have felt alot  different if this had happened to their brothers or sisters or families. And yes, I believe drugs influence alot of this stuff too. I said it-someone has to. Marijuana was the drug of the day in the 1960's and 1970's. You never saw anyone wanting to blow someone away and leave the crabs to eat them smoking marijuana. It was hard enough to walk or remember where you were. But these drugs today- geezzzee..Last but no least, Brad Renfro was a hottie as usual. Nick Stahl is hot looking now-in Terminator 3, he was too busy being a butthead in Bully to be cute-but he did play the part very well in this film.You may wanna catch the nude mirror scene when he talks to his father, but you gotta look really quick.I recommend getting the book also and reading it. But the picture of Bobby laying face down is not pretty. "},{"Title":"Realistic or Not","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bully is one of those movies that can be seen as either realistic or exploitative. Sometimes I had the feeling that it was just sensationalism. Another movie with its doomsday warning about the horrible nature of today's generation. Yet thinking back on my high school days I did know morons like this--people can and will be cruel.***SPOILERS***Something keeps this movie from being truly a good movie. I suspect it is in the character development and motivation. More of something needs to be seen as to why Bobby is hated so much or why Lisa worships Marty so much. We are told Bobby is a bully who deserves to be killed, but he only seems slightly more mean than his peers.In defense of the director's, Larry Clark's, crotch shots, I think in much of the movie he is trying to show us what these teens see--maybe give us an idea of what it's like to be a young male full of hormones. And in the scene where they meet with the mob wannabe guy and camera follows them around in a crazy, fast circle that makes the viewer want to vomit, maybe Clark was just giving us the feeling of being wasted on drugs in the middle of the day. Clark wants you to see how muddled the teens are in their thinking.The ending of the movie is quite good when the teens spill their guts about what happened--and that does happen in real life with homicide. It is reminiscent of another true crime story movie, Boys Don't Cry. "},{"Title":"Bobby Kent was a jerk","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  If Nick Stahl's portrayal of Bobby Kent was accurate then this guy deserved to get shanked by his friends.  All the actors have a lot of strength to put themselves into these characters.  The sex and nudity are not overdone.  The acting is average though throughout the film.  Leo Fitzpatrick was the funniest as the wanna be neighborhood gangsta.  The movie had it's powerful moments.  5/10 Average "},{"Title":"Soft-core porn.","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think I've seen this movie before, except it was called Erotic Confessions and it was on Cinemax.This movie, while it attempts to be shocking and thought-provoking, is nothing more than a soft-core porn.  Every other scene involves some kind of sex or revealing pose, and there is not much a coherent plot to go along with it.  Secondly, the movie would have benefited if the leading actors' roles had been reversed; i.e., the actor who played Nick would have been better suited to play the role of Marty, and vice versa.  Also, whether or not the movie was BASED on a true story, the plot was completely unbelievable, and the actress who played Marty's girlfriend is neither believable nor frightening.  All of her attempts at seeming either of these come off as cheesy and actually kind of pathetic.  The only thing good about this movie would have to be Leo Fitzpatrick, the hit man, who is awesome (see Kids, Storytelling).  Even though he has a small part, he is pretty good.  The biggest problem with this movie is that it has nothing else to go with its raunchiness.  It simply tries to shock the audience, which is not enough to justify wasting 90 minutes on it. "},{"Title":"Okay, it's time to write a review...","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now that I have finished the movie and read through the assorted materials and links on IMDB, I am ready to write my own review.  It will be split into two sections, the first a look at the artistic content, the second my personal feelings.  If you don't wish to read someone else's opinions, please skip part two.  Spoilers may follow.To start with, this film is indubitably very interesting.  Several teenagers gang up on the neighborhood bully and decide to finish him off.  Clark successful directed it, all except for the one scene in which he puts the camera in the middle of their group, and decides to turn it around and around.  It's unfortunate most of the actors/actresses were rather new to the game.  Their performances suffice for the most part, but at times their amateurism seeps through.  I don't think I can really complain about the script, as it is based on a true story, so I will leave that for part two.  It seems as if Clark were trying to make a point through shocking his audience, just as Aronofsky did in Requiem for a Dream, but the comparison would be a crime to make, as Requiem for a Dream is a masterpiece, and Bully seems as if it wants to make a point, but can't quite decide what it is or how to make it.  As a final note, the fact that it was filmed in 23 days is quite astonishing.  Please skip the following section if you are likely to be offended. Now, did I like this movie?  No.  I hated it.  I abhorred it, I detested it.  I did not like a single one of the kids, except for the hit man, but I didn't really like his acting.  I felt a bit of sympathy for Marty, and extreme hatred for Bobby, especially with his sexual violence toward women, and also toward Marty.  I didn't like Lisa's acting, and didn't really care for her character either.  Also, I couldn't stand Donnie, and although Heather was hot, I didn't much like her either.  The reason for this is probably because they are just empty shells of people, having had their brains eaten out by their constant use of drugs.  Such emptiness and hollowness really bothered me.  Another aspect I didn't like was the way it bothered me.  Not quite disturbed me, just really bothered me.  Requiem for a Dream and A Clockwork Orange disturbed me, but in a good way in that it made me ponder the questions set before me.  This movie seemed to just show these dead people walking around and smoking and dropping acid and getting in on with whomever whenever and wherever for no real reason.  By the way, it definitely would have been rated NC-17, thanks in no small part to the sexual violence and constant nudity.  I also didn't like the script.  It seemed to focus for a bit on the kids and their depravity, then for a bit on the bully, then for a bit on their murderous actions, then for a brief moment on the consequences.  It never really seemed to focus closely on one aspect.  To conclude part two of this review, this movie bothered me greatly, and I despised it.To finish this review, I will attempt to give the movie my rating of it.  Based mostly upon the artistic talent presented, but without ignoring my personal feelings towards it, I give it a 7 out of 10, or, to be more exact, a 6.7 out of 10.P.S. Does anyone in Florida wear clothes? "},{"Title":"Pretty good... not Kids, though","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well I watched this movie on late night HBO.  I liked it but my girlfriend thought it was trash.  I think it is interesting to entertain the thought of killing somebody you absolutely despise.  I just hate how these kids are so tragically stupid to not understand the realism behind what they plan.  If you ever watch this movie, ask yourself if you would be able to follow through with the end result.  I was crazy like these kids were when I was in high school.  But, these kids are probably the dumbest high schoolers in America.  The moral I learned from watching this movie was this  Only kill somebody with people that you trust.  Oh yeah, the scene introducing the mafia guy made me almost puke with the camera spinning around.  It felt like it lasted 15 minutes of watching 6 dumbasses.  Good acting though and interesting sex scenes. "}{"Title":"Kids will be kids","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie, based on a true story, is yet another example of fear mongering among the boomer generation towards the youth of today. It is technically sound and well acted, but could have used some artistic liceense to actually say something bigger. What is the issue at hand here? What is going to follow from the making of this film?  "},{"Title":"A disturbing look at a real-life murder","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bully takes us into the world of bored, spoiled, and shiftless Florida teenagers who murdered one of their own friends for reasons which, on the surface, seemed complicated.  Larry Clark, and the book which he virtually used as a shooting script, get below that surface and show us the monsters that the teenagers became.** SPOILERS **Bobby Kent, played brilliantly by Nick Stahl, is a harsh, violent teenager (20 in real life) who regularly humiliates and assaults his friends, especially Marty Puccio (Brad Renfro).  Bobby and Marty and their friends don't do anything in life except get high, have sex, play video arcade games, and listen to rap music. Marty's girlfriend Lisa, on the receiving end of Marty's violence, determines that Bobby is the source of Marty's rage and killing Bobby would leave Marty free to be loving and kind towards her.  She enlists her friends and even her cousin, but when she chickens out, she gets help from another teenager that they believe is a gang-banger.  The next night, the seven of them go out and brutally murder Bobby, stabbing and bludgeoning him and leaving him to die face down in a swamp.Bully gives a realistic portrayal of wasted and ignorant youth, addled by drugs and an overly permissive environment, and the interaction between the characters feels very real.  The second half of the film in particular is very haunting.  You want to reach through the screen, slap them, and scream, This is not a game!  WAKE UP!!  Larry Clark ends the film brilliantly, using the musical score to set up the collapse of the conspiracy and bringing us into the courtroom for the first hearing.  As the conspirators bicker, accuse, and laugh, the parents and the community sit back and look at these children as if for the first time, aghast.  This is not to say that Bully is without flaw; it has plenty, and they will alienate audiences.  The casting of Rachel Miner as Lisa Connelly is odd, although Miner does an excellent job.  Lisa Connelly was overweight and somewhat unattractive at the time she was going out with Puccio.  This is, in fact, one of the primary motivations behind her desire to kill Bobby and keep Marty.  Miner, who shows up naked over and over again, can hardly be described as either overweight or unattractive, and her ferocious attachment to a loser like Marty is hard to understand.Another issue is Clark's unrelenting use of teenage sex throughout the first half of the movie.  It seems like all the girls are undressed more than they are clothed, and it feels very much like exploitation.  Especially reprehensible, and superfluous, are two close-ups of Bijou Phillips' crotch.  (Supposedly, Phillips was outraged by them when she saw the final cut.)  You need some of this to understand the state of mind, but this was way over the top and it takes away from the movie.Lastly, for a film which really tried very hard to stick to the book -- whether the book stuck to the facts is another argument, as it assumed conversations and states of mind -- Clark oddly jumbles the end up.  The scene where Marty is arrested actually happened to Derek Kaufmann (credited as The Hit Man, I suppose to avoid confusion with Derek Dzvirko, Connelly's cousin).  Ali's tantrum and demand for an apartment happened before the murder.  Connelly's mother and Ali's parents both hid their kids out in motels prior to their voluntary surrender.  And Clark neglected to include a crucial meeting between Connelly's family and their first attorney that pointed out how bankrupt the families were in forcing their children to take SOME responsibility for their actions, both before and after the murder. In fact, Clark makes Lisa's mom look like she was the only one willing to do that, when in fact at the end she was the worst of the bunch.Overall, I would recommend both this movie (at a 7) and the book on which it's based.  The performances are almost universally excellent, and the story needs to be told and understood.  Larry Clark needs to quit crossing the line over into exploitation so that more people can see him when he's brilliant.   "},{"Title":"Unrealistic ending (spoiler)","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie was gripping. During the 30 minutes building up to the murder, I was literally shaking in my seat. It was that tense. And I loved it for that reason. But the end was too unrealistic. The murderers were literally teenagers. They were all between 16-19 years old. Most of them were under the influence of heavy narcotics during the murder. Only three of the eight kids actually aided in the killing. And they were emotional wrecks. With all that information, four of the eight kids got life in prison, and one got the death penalty. Ridiculous. With the information provided, it's logical to assume they all would have been found guilty. But the sentences were absurd. The movie was based on a true story, but the sentencing was obviously all Hollywood. A perfect example is the character Lisa. She was present at the murder, but she didn't raise a finger to the victim, nor did she provide any of the weapons, move the body, or plan the murder. At 18 years old, she was given life in prison. What a joke. It was a serious movie, but when I saw the sentencing at the end, I couldn't help but laugh. Talk about ruining an otherwise thrilling movie. "},{"Title":"Larry Clark did it again. Another masterpiece.","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm impressed, I'm highly impressed. Bully is a total masterpiece, that's the only word to describe it. Kids was one of the rawest and the most startling, amazing and confusing films of the 1990's. It was also one of the greatest movies about a purposeless lifestyle of a modern misfit youth ever created. I watched it numerous times and I still haven't grew tired of it.What Larry Clark did with his magnificent directorial debut he succeeded to do for a second time. I never doubted it, I knew Bully had to be good but it was way, way better than I ever expected. Actually it was nearly as good as Kids. Knowing what a classic Kids nowadays is to me it's hard to say this but in some ways Bully was even better. This film gives you the same kind of a strange after-taste. At least to me it gave the feeling that I should watch it again right away. The scenes and the dialogue stayed in my mind days and days after.The fact that this is a true story makes the experience even more shocking. Bully (just like Kids) also includes an incredibly black and creepy type of a humor. Audience will have to deal with a big matter of conscience is it all right to laugh at this? And another thing how did Larry Clark once again found such a huge bunch of fantastic young actors/actresses is beyond me! Nick Stahl (whose breakthrough role was beside Mel Gibson in The Man without a face) gives an excellent performance as Bobby. Larry Clark tries to drop hints that in many ways he's actually the sanest one of this gang so what does a closer look at him tell about the other kids...?Leo Fitzpatrick comes back 6 years after Kids playing wonderfully the role of the hitman. He's character is simply hilarious. At first I didn't even recognize him, I just wondered why he looks so damn familiar. Michael Pitt played one of my favorite characters, Donny. His splendid performance shows us just how pitiable and simple-minded today's child can be. He's like Justin Pierce's Casper in Kids. Bijou Phillips and Rachel Miner played the leading female roles successfully and with a massive devotion.Of course I understand people who don't appreciate Larry Clark's extreme way of filmmaking but I do because he doesn't underestimate the viewer but shows all there is to see no matter how shocking it may be. Bully is a weird and powerful sensation and one of the best films of 2001! 10/10. "},{"Title":"Has a great potential which it unfortunately quite doesn't manage to fulfil like it should have","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark's Kids (1995) was a sensational film depicting sex, drugs, violence and AIDS among seemingly normal and well raised American teenagers. The film had plenty of the kind of nudity and sexual dialogue, that the film got immediately in trouble with MPAA and BBFC in Britain. Still, no matter how explicit, the film had its important and universal message delivered without hiding anything, and naturally something like that could be expected from Bully (2001), Clark's film based on the real life event that took place in USA in 1993. The film is written based on the Jim Schutze book Bully A True Story of High School Revenge and the writers are pretty unknown (well, not anymore I think) Zachary Long and Roger Pullis, but also the film's major flaws lie in the script and the characters.Some characters and events were changed for the dramatic purposes for this film but in a nutshell a bunch of 20 somethings girls and boys struggle in their life as there isn't anything else in their lives than video games, surfing, drugs, acid and most importantly sex and not a sign of any emotional and warm human relations. Marty Puccio (Brad Renfro) has a life long friend Bobby Kent (Nick Stahl) who abuses Marty in mental level and likes to humiliate him in front of others and is also not so willing to see him having anything going on with girls. Ali (the young model beauty Bijou Phillips) and Lisa (Rachel Miner) are also friends and get to know Marty and Bobby. Marty and Lisa start to date and this Bobby doesn's like at all. Lisa notices how Marty is abused and bullied by his best friend Bobby and in her anger decides to get rid off Bobby, in other words kill him. What follows is insanely straight planning of the murder as everyone they tell about the situation is willing to take part to the killing and Bobby doesn't know anything about it..The cast includes also Leo Fitzpatrick as The Hitman and Leo is best remembered for the leading role in Clark's Kids as Telly. Kelli Garner plays the drug addict teen Heather Swallers and Daniel Franzese plays the overweight Mortal Combat addict Cousin Derek. Sweet Claudia (Nathalie Paulding) is perhaps the film's only/most innocent youngster who fortunately is included in the film to make the contrast at the finale more powerful. The cast is young, very talented and natural.The screenplay moves the story at incredible speed that really makes the first 40-50 minutes of the film go as fast as any talented storyteller ever could. It is truly wonderful to see what kind of segments and montages film maker can create by clever editing and cinematography and Bully seen in home on video is still a very intensive experience and it all would be just perfect on big screen. The beautiful beach settings are shown very briefly and with fast edits to depict the teenagers' restlessness and the raising terror about which Bobby knows nothing about. The characters are introduced with Kids like sexually explicit dialogue and they all become from the very first scenes depicted as some pieces of flesh that are lead by their instincts and hunger for sex, not much else. Also the nudity which is plenty and female oriented, is shot very 'temptingly' with various close ups to depict the sexual passion the characters are struggling with. Some will definitely think the shots of female crotch and skin are too explicit but still they can't deny they're true and real.What is the most severe flaw in the script is that the characters develop way too fast and act so brutely it all starts to feel little unbelievable. When the kids decide about the killing, it really starts to feel unreal as everyone at the first moment accepts it and is willing to be there while the victim is going to be killed. Their lust for blood lives inside human nature but it is not well enough motivated in the script that how the teenagers are so willing and ready to accept this kind of horrible and calculated manslaughter so easily. Also, the kids start to talk about it before and after very loudly and to everyone they meet so it really makes me wonder didn't the writers want to think about the dramatic elements of the film in these parts, too.The murder scene is also pretty effective even though it could have been done even more powerfully and mercilessly but even now it is very harrowing and effective scene. It never gets gratuitously violent or graphic, the scene's impact lies in the mental side and how the kids start to finally understand what they are doing. Also the happenings after the act are important as the kids change, get anxious and most importantly and chillingly (and realistically) start to turn against each other in order to save their own skin. By this point the film's message is very strongly jammed to the viewer's face but the ending takes it still further, and very greatly so.*some mild spoilers ahead about the ending* The sentences the murderers got were and are very strict and definitely much higher than any viewer could had expected. In real life, some of the sentences were reduced but still they remained very strong. As the film ends with the original, very strict, sentences, the dramatic creepiness is very powerful as in the film's world, there aren't any lower sentences or reductions, and why should have because this film's intention was to dramatize the event in a way that it would never happen again and make it all as harrowing and powerful as possible. It is the point to show the most horrible results their crime resulted, whether or not they are the same in the film as they were and are in real life. *no spoilers*Bully is the kind of film that leaves you pretty much breathless even though it could have made you almost faint. If the characters had been stronger and the gaps in the screenplay filled, this would have been a very powerful motion picture. Even now it is among the most interesting and important films for long time, and naturally it makes me hope Clark could continue his personal line and make closer to perfect films in the future. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Where are all the Black People?","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know about you, but I kept an open eye out for any black people to make a cameo in this movie. Besides one of the security officers at the final courtroom scene, I don't think there were any black people in this movie. I mean, I've been to Florida when I was a kid for Disney World, and I do remember seeing more than white people walking around Florida then. I'm sure Miami has more than 1 black guy walking around. Even though the story rotates around a group of lower middle class white kids, the limitation of having no black people even as simple background players, makes the movie ever more fiction than it is. The most amazing thing about the movie had to be the transformation of Rachel Miner's character. At first, Rachel appears to be Snow White. Pure as snow, beautiful and very innocent. By the end of the movie, she had gone from Snow White, to simply White Trash. An excellent acting performance which holds the audiences' attention whether or not she is naked. The nudity is one thing in Bully, the message is completely different. Don't watch the movie without getting the moral. "},{"Title":"Based on a true story.A bullied best friend has had enough of the so-called best friend's demeaning actions,assembles a motley crew of accomplices to kill him.","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie isn't great, but Bijou Phillips is completely naked so it is worth a look!The cast is very young but not totally inept.The story of an obnoxious bully who rapes his best friend's girl,makes his friend and others watch gay porn and is basically a loser who has no self-esteem and probably deserved what he got. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Shot Film of a Horrible Story","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film wonderfully portrays the angst and struggles of these young people in this small Florida town.  Having read the book several years ago, the direction was stunning and he really shared their stories in an honest and upfront manner. Disturbing to watch this film, yet the manner in which it was filmed makes you question who was truly guilty. It is unfortunate that the aftermath wasn't as well documented in the film; that is a complete another film I imagine. Though about teenagers, not suggested viewing unless their is a way to discuss what they see after the fact.  "},{"Title":"are we being provoked yet?","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  kids was good. bully, on the other hand, is not.it would seem like the director thinks he has found a success recipe for film making, provocation, and does his best to do just this. the result is a movie about teenagers taking drugs, having sex, taking more drugs, having gay sex, rape, murder.. oh, yeah, and harsh language.Since the movie is based on a true story, unbelievable is better (apparently). Well, I would disagree. At times Mr Clark tries so hard to provoke, it (almost)is hilarious. All in all the film remains as a pointless struggling piece where the main focus is PROVOCATION.some of the actors are good to be kids. Don't bother. Go see Lilja 4 Ever instead. "},{"Title":"This story was perfect for Clark","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Whether you like him or not, Larry Clark is a filmmaker with a good eye for harsh, realistic, and the dark side of American Youth.  Kids was a fine example of this, but Bully makes Kids look like a John Hughs movie.This movie was not about entertainment or charactor development.  In fact you are not supposed to care about these charactors.  Instead, you are forced to wonder how a group of 6 kids could be so casual about setting up someone in their circle to be murdered.  Although these kids had a lack of any sort of direction to begin with, after the murder occurs, none of them feel that they were personally responsible.  Having had the opportunity to view one of Larry Clark's photo exhibits at the Toledo Museum of Art (Toledo, OH) I was given a great insight to Clark's view on the darker side of adolescence.  In his Tulsa exhibit, Clark photographed his friends in their most candid states  Injecting Methamphetamine, casual nudity and sex, firearms, all this sometimes in the presence of infants or young children.   Clarks subject matter, the way he portrays it and his style in cinematography all reflects his background as a photographer, and a former 'meth' user.  Like it or not, it is very honest.  Rather than assuming his nudity and use of casual sex is gratuatis, it is very much grounded in reality, as his photographs have shown.   His honest and no-holds-barred approach is very refreshing in this day and age of film catering to the largest audience possible. Both Bully and Kids are important works because it is ground that few, if any, filmmakers are willing to touch.  It gives realistic, almost documentary style, insight to a side of youth that most of us would rather assume didn't exist.  If nothing else, Clark is sending the warning to parents, Do you know where your kids are? ***/4 stars "}{"Title":"Pointless film","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  As is typical for a Larry Clark movie, he thinks that an abundance of nudity and violence makes for a good film.  It doesn't.  The only part of this film that is in any way interesting is when it shows the difficulty of a large number of people trying to cover up a crime.  Otherwise, this film was a bore.  I wish Clark would spend even half as much time on plot and character development as he does nudity and violence.  It's also interesting to note that in Clark's world, only the women seem to get nude, so even these favorite scenes of his lack any kind of reality.  The concept of the film wasn't bad, but the plot was awful.  Please Mr. Clark, next time you have a bright idea, write a good script before you start filming.  "},{"Title":"Powerful yet exploitive.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gripping portrait of aimless teens focuses on a high school dropout whose pregnant girlfriend convinces him and their circle of peers to murder his abusive best friend, a college-bound yet rapist brute.  In typical Larry Clark fashion, he inundates the film with blatantly gratuitous teen sex and nudity, which (while eye candy) undermines the serious tone of an otherwise powerful film.**1/2 out of ****Available in R and unrated versions; the latter with more explicit teen sex. "},{"Title":"IN KOOL BLOOD","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is supposedly based on the true story a teenage revenge killing in Florida. The characters are as shallow as the crime they committed was vile. The screenplay only superficially describes how a teenage 'bully' turns his peers into his cold blooded killer but it falls into place rather neatly since the killers are nothing but superficial themselves. It is a sad story of wasted and meaningless lives and hopefully does not tell the story of any generation. But something very similar to this DID happen and the motives were just as nihilistic as this movie. "},{"Title":"Nothing esle but exploitation","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had read the book before seeing the movie so I knew what to expect.  Although the book and the film claim it is based on a true story, I wonder whether any of it is true. The actions of these kids are just too unbelievable. Were they that stupid? I have discussions with people over this movie and many arguments. Most people who have seen the movie and loved it, tell me that the kids were that stupid and that is the point of the movie. But i just dont buy it. The bottom line is that we will never know what happened that night and days before the death of Bobby Kent. I read a lot about the murder on the Internet and the murderers stories have changed over and over again.I also feel that Larry Clark was the wrong person to direct this movie. Once again (just like in Kids) he gives the viewer no explanation for the kids actions and no solutions. Basically there is no point to the movie. And the quote Clark is telling like it is is becoming annoying. We know how it is. We know that kids kill other kids. But we dont need it to be shoved in our faces with extreme sex and violence. I like sex in movies but I dont like it when it is being exploitive. There is just no point to it. Also Clark's lingering shots of the teenagers bodies feels creepy. After the dreadful Kids, I thought Clark had matured as a film-maker with the excellent Another Day In Paradise. I was wrong. Shocking and exploitive movies do not make good movies. "},{"Title":"One-Dimensional","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The characters in Bully are right out of Larry Clarke's earlier film, Kids. They all walk around with blank stares, spend the whole day smoking dope, having casual sex and playing video games. The cast of Bully is all very good at playing these one-dimensional characters, but this only goes so far. I found it impossible to get emotionally involved in the story, as there is no one who is even remotely sympathetic. The bully of the movie's title is a sadistic creep who pretty much deserves what he gets; the perpetrators are idiotic almost beyond belief. The parents of the teenagers are stereotypical movie parents, utterly clueless to what their offspring are up to. We may be living in a time of cultural decline, but Bully manages to exaggerate this to the point of absurdity. It's unintentionally (I assume) funny at times, which detracts from the shock value that Clarke seems to be striving for. The camera is constantly seeking the most unflattering poses; these teens seem to walk around dead-eyed with mouths half open all the time. The characters are barely able to speak in complete sentences. Bully is apparently based on a true story. It's a safe assumption that the teenagers who committed the actual crime were not exactly high functioning members of society. However, it's a kind of cop-out to suggest, as Bully does, that they are all drooling morons. It almost takes away any sense that they could be held responsible for their actions. Bully is like watching a live version of Beavis and Butthead, or maybe Southpark. The problem is, it seems intended as serious social commentary. "},{"Title":"Here's a neutral glance at some stupid suburban teenagers; gratifying but unenlightened sleaze from Larry KIDS Clark.","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This picture is based on a true story of a revenge killing by a group of Florida teens, distilled from a more detailed book on the subject. Director Larry Clark gives the story plenty of his trademark grittiness lots of unglamorous teen nudity and sex, realistic set pieces and harsh dialogue.  All this is engaging enough to give the viewer that slice-of-life atmosphere and a sense that we're looking at something relatively real.  Aside from this, though, the picture is a fairly routine look at a bunch of dopey suburban teens who felt justified enough to dispose of one of their peers because he was an overbearing brat.  Clark tells the story with a neutrality that, while not annoying, is somewhat exploitive of the characters and never really enlightening enough to make the incident all that shocking or bewildering.  The revenge motive is pretty much the driving force here, but the buildup to the killing is not satisfactory enough to make it anything more than a whim by a bunch of brainless kids.  Clark gets some good performance moments from his young cast, but the lead casting causes some real credibility problems.  You never feel that lean-and-mean bully Nick Stahl really has any physical advantage over pudgy, sulking Brad Renfro. Stahl plays his teen sadist with a nice touch of sophistication, but Renfro is unconvincing as either a victim or a boy sensitive enough to get his girlfriend to initiate the vengeful murder. Renfro is notably the weakest link in the picture.  You do get a nicely played murder scene here and an engagingly uninhibited look at troubled teenagers but, in the end, it's unenlightening sleaze.  It's no surprise that revenge seems sweet but that you can be relatively sure that murdering someone isn't going to be as gratifying as you might think, especially if you're a kid.  The most interesting thing about this case is the fact that nearly all involved truly felt justified in their brutality and the movie doesn't explore that aspect with any conviction.  Too bad.  BULLY is sensational and somewhat silly.      "},{"Title":"The trouble with being earnest","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I would say Bully is a tragedy of modern ages. The movie is in tune with its subject, the actors are perfect in their parts... but it's based on a true story. A tragical true story but a common true story.The result is a near-perfect documentary and a dead-serious movie. Should movies as works of art educate masses? Should movies based on tragical true stories exist just for people to get relieved their lives are not so bad, they raise up their children o.k. thus they actually do something positive? Well these are just a few ideas that occurred to me as I was wondering 'what's the use in a fake and real documentary?'Following those lame bums and losers till they got trapped in their own senseless waste I'd call that experiment a morbid one. Perhaps I should label Larry Clark a morbid director, period. "},{"Title":"We're all doomed","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  If the kids in this film are any indication of the future,then we're in big trouble,because they are without a doubt the stupidest crew of teenagers I have seen on film in a long time.But,as I was watching this movie,I was reminded of some of the kids I knew in high school,and although we never killed anyone,we never planned out any of our nocturnal adventures too well,either.Director Larry Clark has painted a picture of Florida suburbia that is chilling and scary.Scary because not only are these kids incredibly stupid,but so are all of their parents,who are living in a completely different world than their children.The last half hour or so of this film has some of the best camera work and dramatic intensity you will ever see.The constantly circling camera in the scene where they plot the deed caused some members of the audience to flee from the dizzyness.But that is exactly the effect Clark is looking for.All of the performances are top-notch.These young actors are uncompromising in their depravity and lack of comprehension of what they've gotten themselves into.Although Brad Renfro's character probably needed killing,by the end you're just happy to know that the whole bunch has got their just rewards. "},{"Title":"Bully","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 63-year-old Larry Clark, interested as ever in the malicious youth of today's America, proceeds to deliver yet another ambiguous moral bore-fest in the form of Bully.Or is he ? Based on a true story, the first half of Bully follows a bunch of American teenagers, who are only interested in smoking pot, surfing, playing Mortal Kombat, driving around aimlessly, having unprotected sex, and generally behaving like losers. One of them is a particularly nasty piece of work, bullying and harassing people around him. The bully though is the only one showing any kind of social ambition, and also coming from a middle-class family. All the other kids are more or less lower-class social outcasts. Ouch. This part of the film is boring, unrealistic, contrived and completely stereotyped.Angry at the bully, the other kids decide to kill him. Erm, OK. What happens before the murder scene is totally unrealistic in a funny way, but the murder itself (by far the highlight of the film) manages to raise genuine suspense and involve the viewer. In the end, for reasons best known to themselves, most of the kids involved in the murder tell other people about it. OK.Amidst all this nonsense, the parents are completely absent, living in their own world of everyday jobs and financial taking care of. They only appear near the end, complying with the law and shallowly maintaining order in a society that is in a state of crisis. That seems to be the message of the film. In other words, it's nothing original, nothing interesting, and spoiled by too many silly unrealistic scenes. Maybe Larry Clark should focus more on doing films about 63-year-olds instead of teenagers. "},{"Title":"Worst Thing Evar","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you want to torture someone, show them this movie. It is unrealistic and boring and insane.I had moar fun watching furry porn.The characters were one-dimensional, and the fetish with gay porn was harder to watch than a cat being burned alive. I hated every single one of the characters, not because they were bad, but because they were stupid beyond proper human imagination. White boys do not sing rap. They just don't.Even though I saw this movie for free, I wish I hadn't.I advise every single person in the world to stay away from this horrible piece of worthlessness. "}{"Title":"gratuitous nudity","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is an excuse for the director to show young kids get naked and have sex. the sex scenes go on too long and the nudity is unnecessary at times like watching Rachel Miner pee while naked. It was almost like watching kiddie porn. If it wasn't based on a true story, this movie would have been pathetic. Also, the characters are borderline crazy. Especially Rachel Miner's character. I do not know how much of this movie was accurate, but I am sick of watching Bisou Phillips get naked for the hell of it because she is so in love with herself. She wears a bikini top to school that doesn't really fit her. That is so unrealistic! Further, the director did not go into enough detail about why the Bully was so bad to everyone enough to be killed. All we hear is the kids talking about what he did but it is rarely shown. That is why the movie was so terrible other than the gratuitous nudity. "},{"Title":"What i thought of Larry Clarks BULLY","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When i first saw this movie i really was expecting a good film because i love KIDS.But when i saw it i was disgusted. Not from the nudity just from the characters. The whole movie is UN realistic.A guy beats him up so all these people who don't even know each other just wanna kill him for fun.I thought it was stupid and really fake.Heres the spoiler. The girl gets RAPED by the bully and then tells her best friend that hes cool and to go out with him. And she gets raped. I thing the guys girlfriend should get killed. All the kids are idiots and I'm glad they went to jail. But i wanted to see what happened so i watched it all. "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" before i knew this was based on a true story, through the whole movie i was saying to myself even the biggest idiot on the world would never do that... its awful, no one knows to act, especially when they are on drugs, and the conversations... . I saw movies which had nothing to do with drugs, but the scenes with drugs are a hundred times more convincing... they are telling everyone that they killed bobby, WTF? and the scene on the beach, that hit-man was just talking non sense...as soon as the killing was done, they all started blaming the others... that was bound to happen, but we are not given a reason why it happened then.. "},{"Title":"This is not believable, even for a true story","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Look here is the big deal. There is this group of pot-head teens who take things way too far when some dumb kid is considered to hard on the group. So they bash his head in and hide the body. Then they are jailed when one of the kids rats them out ( cheers to that kid, probably my favorite character ) Now I know teenagers are doing this these days and it's a true story. Well I'll say this is unbelievable, I mean they show retarded teenagers having' sex with each other every 5 minutes, and it's not even that good at times. Larry Clark is dumb for just putting in random sex scenes every few minutes. He just seems like the guy who doesn't care about the plot, but just wants to get to the sex. And these teens are messed up in Larry's world. Yes they did murder someone, and probably did their share of sex in their free time, but not as graphic and disturbing as Larry puts it. This movie isn't even good, because it always goes out of it's plot time to put random scenes in. The huge problem is, the story could be put into a good movie if it stuck to it but sadly, Larry Clark has to mess it up by shredding it useless sex, drug, and normal scenes. This movie was a true failure for true story movies. Get's a true 5/10 "},{"Title":"Very disturbing film","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This extremely unpleasant and explicit film depicts the lives of a group of late teens(mostly high-school drop outs) who decide to plan to murder an abusive member of their group(Nick Stahl). All logic is thrown out the window from this point on as the group continues to sustain abuse from this menace and then finally come up with a plan to kill him. The rest of the film is filled with meaningless and almost random sex scenes. The question that most people should ask themselves during and after this film is what could possibly possess these people to actually kill this kid? Sure people can be awful, but why kill them? There is no way that they could ever get away with it. Are there not other ways to punish this kid? Reporting him to the police, pressing charges. That is how ridiculous this film is, it just doesn't make any sense. Nobody could be that stupid. "},{"Title":"And they call this a movie?","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"    ***MILD SPOILERS*** I saw Bully last night on TV and I can say I regret staying up that late to see it. First of all, why so much sex and nudity was there when it wasn't needed? I guess it attracts teenagers to watch this movie. A rather poor way to attract audience though I have to say. Ah well, it's good if you're 13 and want to see naked chicks all around.Actors in this movie weren't bad, this I noticed. I mean you can't really call this thing a movie since it has such a stupid plot that it may be understood as no plot at all. There's a good and a bad buy. Bad guy treats a good boy bad. Good boy's friends don't like it and kill the bad boy. Good boy and his friends go to prison, whoa, does this sound a masterpiece or what? Everything is totally predictable that it's not even funny. My conclusion - if you have better things to do than watch this movie - do them. I rate this film 5 for good acting...or should I give less...?  "},{"Title":"soft porn with better acting","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm no prude by any stretch, but more story and less sex would have been nice.  I like my porn to come with an opaque, brownish/blackish plastic bag and bad acting, like any self-respecting, red-blooded american male.Bijou Phillips seems to have a penchant for playing these annoyingly promiscuous low lifes (Black and White).  They may be fun and challenging for the actor, but not very compelling to watch, in my opinion.I can see why somebody would want to tell this fact-based story to a wide audience; the events themselves are compelling and baffling.  However, I just don't know why these people couldn't make a choice to not hang around this bully.  I mean, I'm sure that there are people this stupid in real life, but I don't really want to waste two hours watching them.  "},{"Title":"Idea is good but..","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The good thing about Bully is that it has a strong message and it provokes thinking after watching the movie. Unfortunately I think the movie lacks in actualisation. It has a slow and underlining narration, characters are a bit over caricatured and thus unconvincing. So I didn't like enjoy the movie that much itself. The theme would have had  potential for a much better movie. "},{"Title":"Crap that tries to be provocative","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was so bad, it wasn't even funny.  I really admire what Larry Clark did with KIDS.  In fact it was on again recently and it still holds up just as contemporary as when I first saw it upon it's initial release. Bully pales in comparison.  It's actually hard to believe that the same man directed both of these flicks.  And Bijou Phillips?  What is up with her? Everything that she is in she comes across as a cheap sleazebag looking for attention.  Just because you have a famous parent does not mean that you warrant stardom or can act.  Miss Phillips is a prime example of this. Even Nick Stahl, who I normally like, was over the top, and there's nothing worse than seeing actors you usually like tripping over themselves.  Why this movie got so much hype I have no idea.  But my advice would be to pass this mish mash and enjoy your time with something/anything else. "},{"Title":"Exploitation Movie Pretending to be ART","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Whatever Larry Clark's capabilities as a director, this is as exploitative as anything which has come out of The Valley or Milth Berton's empire.I honestly don't know how Mr Clark can justify using and abusing a cast who are quite obviously as f***ed up as the characters they play. The effect is that of a voyeur. "}{"Title":"Almost too painful to watch","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After reading the book, I thought they would at least clean up all the sex and drug use a little bit. Nope. They showed it all. I realize that all of this is true, which makes it even more scary to think that these kids could do this and think they could get away with it. Although, it probably sounded good at the time, since they were doped out of their minds. The acting left something to be desired. You wouldn't think it would be too hard to play a stoner, since that's what most of the kids are.  The story begins when Marty's girlfriend gets sick of watching him get beat up by his best friend, Bobby. So what's the best solution? Why.... kill him, of course! What other explanation could there be? And who took the last of the weed? Frightening, isn't it? The whole movie is based around sex, drugs, and harsh language. I know that most movies contain this, but this one takes it pretty far. A little too much reality for my taste. I'll hang around my highschool if I want to see this stuff. "},{"Title":"CLARK IS A PERVERT","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a much more cinematic film than Kids, although not as good as the underrated Another Day In Paradise. Suburban US bored teenagers are perfectly portrayed.Clark's camera lingers far too long on it's teenage subject's bodies. Lock him up, but let him out to make the odd quality film. "},{"Title":"stupid characters bring down this movie","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The plot of this movie intresting and could have been a whole lot better.  The characters had absolutly no common sense and were so stupid that it made me want to ring their necks.  They kill this guy with no plans at all and act as if they are so intelligent for doing so.  Even though Nick Stahl does a good job of portraying Bobby (i recommend In the Bedroom), everyone else's characters are just so stupid.  "},{"Title":"Bully Paedophilic Nonsense","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I recently saw Mean Creek, a film dealing with much the same core idea as Bully presents. The ever-interesting idea of comparing and contrasting two thematically similar films was my primary motivation in the decision to dedicate my time to this film, evidently a more visceral and uncensored treatment of the subject. Within one minute, my heart had sunk A Larry Clark film appeared upon the screen. I recalled immediately my viewing of Kids, a film to which I had rather looked forward when I finally got around to watching it, and a film which I found to be nothing short of genuinely offensive, not an experience I often encounter. No, I am not offended by graphic sexual scenes, language, portrayal of drug use, or any such thing. Rather, I am offended by a film so morally vacuous and repugnant, and direction so perverse and borderline paedophilic as to be almost stomach-churningly awful. Nevertheless, I am not here to comment on Kids, but rather to take fresh judgement to Bully. I convinced myself to approach the film with a fresh and unbiased mind, and not to let my opinion of the director's debut feature shadow my potential appreciation of this, his third. The very first line of dialogue, considerably too lascivious to repeat here, informed me that it was simply not going to go well. It was ever before the thirty minute mark that the ability to sit still left me, my limbs in constant motion as though struggling to escape, sweat streaking my brow in pained discomfort. To quote the screenwriter who went on to insist his name be removed from the film, it is revolting, offensive and childish&#x85; it much more closely resembles a porno. Unbelievably gratuitous sex, no story, zero motivation, no character development.... And that, dear reader, from the man who wrote the film. As with Kids, Larry Clark's directorial signature appears to be to shove his camera between the legs of a female lead, whether she be clothed or not, because we need full view of a character's underwear as she sits down. Of course. The gratuitous sex of which the screenwriter speaks is no understatement, few shots devoid of some glimpse of youthful flesh, an apparent preoccupation of Clark. So much can me said about the utter moral bankruptcy which accompanies such contemptible film-making, but I have limited time and word count, so along we must move. The latter two points of the aforementioned quote are key to the film's stupidity. The murder rationale comes in the form of like... um... so... we could kill him... like... totally... cool.... I do not care what mysteriously impressed critics may say, this is not a scathing portrayal of modern teenage lifestyle, of middle-class America, or of laissez-faire parental influence. This is garbage. Not one of the seven characters involved in plotting to brutally murder a friend (who, incidentally, is neither intimidating nor the least bit believable as an omnipotent and omnipresent force of terror) consider for one moment anything other than this course of action. This is not how real people function, no matter what the based on a true story tag may postulate. I find it immensely hard to believe that not one of the seven saw a problem with immediately resorting to cold blooded murder, but hey, this is Larry Clark's vision of the world, so some gratuitous sex scenes in the place of character development, realistic dialogue, or any sort of cinematic artistry will do. Speaking of cinematic artistry, as we're here, no Larry, a several minute long shot of the camera spinning around a circle of faces is not impressive, it's idiotic, but that's hardly a surprise coming from something with your name affixed. A quick mention needs to be made of the parents in this film, namely to wonder where the hell they are. They seem content to allow orgies occur in their homes, to allow their futureless children to drive about unquestioned in their cars, to provide easy access to firearms. Look, I know that people like this exist, but they are not the same people who are portrayed as concerned about their children, as these parents are. Again, the world of Clark is populated by characters almost as morally bankrupt, disconnected from reality, and inherently imbecilic as he. The man is nothing but evil, those who adulate and applaud him fools who have mistaken his perversion for art. Terrible films are one thing, but terrible films which dress themselves in a veil of artistic merit are so utterly and entirely ghastly, meretricious, obdurate, errantly dowdy, ignominious, opprobrious, and an infinite number of such synonyms as to make me want to find the person responsible and have them punished in the most severe manner possible. Larry Clark deserves a fate far worse than that of his characters combined for this pseudo-intellectual genuinely questionably perverse and dangerously-close-to-paedophilic kitschy ostentatious crap.So far removed from any form of morality that one can hardly manage to cry out in despair, Bully is mindless trash of the highest order from a man with the directorial flair of a pancake. Were it not for the fact that I detest him and his paedophilic nonsense posing as a serious treatment of a serious topic in a serious medium, I think I would pity him, for so distanced is he from any form of reality. I cannot begin to fathom how such a deleterious assault on cinema itself could possibly have been conducted without genuine intent of simply offending everyone unfortunate enough to encounter this garbage. Do not allow yourself to be counted amongst this group. If you want a film dealing with the bully psyche and dangers of fighting fire with fire within this context, please watch Mean Creek. If you want to see a genuine exploration of teenage attitudes towards recreational sex and drugs, why not try Bertolucci's The Dreamers? Anything is better than Bully, and I really do mean anything. "},{"Title":"Desperate attempt to shock induces only boredom..","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" After seeing Bully, i found it difficult to believe that this inept, supposedly shocking film was created by the same man responsible for the quite impressive Another Day In Paradise. This reminded me of those evils of youth films from the 50's, like Reefer Madness. Larry Clark, widely thought of as little more than an exploiter of teen angst, proved his directing capabilities in Another Day In Paradise, which is a far superior film to this. In Bully, the 'kids' are so over-the-top fu@ked up that it soon becomes hilarious. Clark never misses an opportunity to get in an exposed breast or ass shot, filming the teens having sex in every position, constantly doing drugs, like literally every second someone seems to be smoking a joint. We even get to see the young lead actress on the toilet, naked of course. IMO, these exploitative elements discredit the film from being a serious look at troubled American teens. Most of the performances were awful and stilted, (I guess it is hard to find someone with a nice set of boobs who can also ACT.) The film has the look of a cheap, made for TV effort, nothing too impressive in the technical department. The gruesome killing/throat slashing scene of the bully was right out of Saw II, as graphic as possible; pure cheap exploitation. I don't mean to imply that I don't love sex and violence in film, as I do. It was just totally inappropriate for a film that is trying to be serious. However I am sure this will shock some sheltered and very ignorant viewers that have never seen a quality film about teenage pain & confusion, such as Tim Roth's War Zone, but for those who look to the DVD section of Wal-mart as the only source of their film entertainment, I guess Bully will do the job. But I imagine anyone who has ventured out of the mainstream will find this to be total garbage. And I have nothing against Larry Clark. I have mentioned Another Day..., and I also found Ken Park to be a fine film as well, which deserves a look if you can find it. Ken Park is a better film than Bully because the kids in that film were believable teenagers, who weren't really bad, or so totally screwed up. In Bully, the kids were just hilarious stereotypes, who behave the way a paranoid fundamentalist Christian imagines just how EVIL those kids are today... I just think Bully is Clarks worst effort to date. "},{"Title":"Craptastic","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you enjoy horribly acted, pedophilic, jerky action films then this is your flick!  From the same man who brought you Kids, we get yet another voyeuristic romp into the lives of worthless teens and older who f*** a great deal.  And if you like to watch little kiddies get it on, then ala Kids you will again be able to legally get your rocks off!  Once can be called edgy and avant-garde if it has a story but twice to direct a movie like this is what they call a condition.  Avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"Oh so so bad","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" O.K., This one goes into my Bad Flick Hall of Fame. It was one of those films that was so ridiculously bad that you can't take your eyes off of it. You just have to see if it possibly can get any worse. And, may I say, there is something very ICK! about looking at constant nudity of girls who are supposed to be portraying high school aged teenagers.It's obvious that this screenplay was written (if written at all) from the different stories of the various characters. I say this because the continuity of the stories, and the points of view in different scenes taking place in the same approximate time are so vastly different. It's either that or the director is Bipolar. Take your pick.Definitely a stinker. I'd sit through a couple of showings of Ishtar before I'd watch this turkey again. "},{"Title":"False advertising as based on true story.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is advertised as based on true story, but after watching the movie it does not take much to convince me that the people involved in the murder of Marty Puccio were indeed out to give their own version of justice. It is more of one-sided story than anything, rather than fair and impartial view of the story.  It is like the defendant of the Puccio's murder trial told the whole version of story.  It is best summed up as exaggeration, fictional and false advertising.Larry Clark did a great job directing the controversial 1995 movie, Kids. However, in this movie, his directing performance was erratic.  His writing work was disastrous.  In one scene where the kids were talking of a plan to whack Puccio out of misery, the camera went spin around the crowd which was incredibly annoying, thus made me lose my `suspension of disbelief.'It is a movie good for people who like the nude and sex scene (rape scene included).  The actresses looked so young in the movie that it was like watching real minors actually disrobed for that movie.  Other than that, the movie was beyond terrible.  "},{"Title":"Comments on the movie BULLY","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have watched this movieBULLY numerous times & it amazes me that in this movie many of the parents didn't have a any idea what were going on with their kids or where they were or what they were doing. In one scene everyone was over this girls Lisa's house in her bedroom with the door closed. Her boyfriend, the other two kids from palm bay, which they were making out having sex while everyone talked about how they were going to kill bobby. I would never allow my daughter & friends in her bedroom with the door closed laying on the bed & floor together without knowing exactly what was going on. None of them worked except marty & bobby, no one had a diploma, Where were the parents in making sure that these kids got a GED or had a job instead of laying around getting into trouble. I feel the parents in the movie were displayed as irresponsible as to not being involved enough to make sure these kids worked or had an education. They were displayed as to trusting to allow them to all be in a bedroom where the door was closed & didn't think they were actually doing anything. I don't know if the parents were actually that naive. This was actually a sad movie to see these teenage kids pull themselves in a hole that they couldn't get out of. I think it was attributed to very poor guidance & involvement by the parents. "},{"Title":"Much is spoken regarding existential nudity","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There has been many discussions regarding the nudity and sexual expression amongst the youthful subjects of this delightfully disturbing film. Much has been overblown or misunderstood. The genius of the entire project IT blurs the distinction between artist, author, and recipient; antithesis becomes indistinct as this work explores the activities of contortionists, spiritual voyeurs and lyrical activists, alike, notwithstanding the obvious comparisons people will make with Debi Pike, spouse of the Troubadour. Actress Rachel Miner, a nubile young protg of troubadour Kirsten Dunst , in homage to Spiderman II, comes full circle experiencing both the allegorical mock suicide attempt and ultimate resurrection during the outworking of the story (though I'll refrain from the details to avoid a possible spoiler). The soundtrack, in deference to Roy Clark, and all of those weaned on the radical musicologists of the 1970's made me weep in pleasure and recollection. This is urban mythology presented in a manner which brings Dylan, Proust, and Finis Dake together in a phantasmagoric orgy of Dake-Bonoist ecstasy. This entire account is based, faithfully, on true events that occurred in 1992 in southern Florida shortly after hurricane Andrew. Nonetheless it is a remains a mythological urban folk tale for the 21st century and beyond. Ever adolescent fantasy and vice is represented in spectronomic Technicolor. Classic archetypes of tragedy, death, love, and resurrection and interwoven into the subplot, belaying this entire work into our collective anxieties regarding the futility that lies in attempting to establish a personal legacy.It isn't difficult to pay attention to this cinematic Emergency Broadcast, networked between all the bare breasted Barbies and Butches of the world and exuding an unremitting montage that obfuscates the distinction between looking at an image and giving it to someone else. The mental imagery and etymological collage overlap each other, creating a salient textured mass of sensory immolation which provides ENDLESS opportunities for subversion. Despite the revulsion one feels, The youth of your city block will relate to each and every enactment within the actions of their schoolmates and partners. This film is a tragic paradigm shift, impelling one to grasp the real and the fantastic in a bonoistic conversion of delight and sorrow. I can't recommend this any more than I already am. You will want to watch this movie over and over again.The knife only went in but so far. Yet guilty one could be? "}{"Title":"criticism of decadence","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" What is this film about? Shall it frighten off young men from terrorizing their contemporaries? Is it clear criticism of modern life in western societies? Does it criticize youngsters whose everyday lives are full of drug excesses and fast cars, who don't have emotional bonds or family ties - only sex with changing partners? Does it show how far youngster have lost the feeling for what is reality, how much their respect for humans has shrunk by sitting in front of computers and watching the colorful entertainment world at TV? No way, the film has a bit of everything in it and he does his job well.The youngster move in this cinematic world without any rules and it seems like a experimental world without moral, without a beginning and an ending. The days we may share with the characters seem almost timeless. Their decisions and statements are thoughtless. They don't have any confirmed opinions, they act in a terrifying way of naive unscrupulousness. They don't have any duties. Modern America can't provide them any challenges so their constructive energy is used destruction. They lack of the natural proportion between social behavior and the consequences of such behavior. We all have this feeling and we can all be just by treating our fellow men. Their only answer for bad behavior is killing. The film shows The emotional cripples our society has created will take revenge - if they want to or not. "},{"Title":"Kids.. stay in school mmmmkay?","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Spectacularly trashy film based on the true story of a bunch of teenagers that decide to murder one of their 'friends'. He is a bully for sure, pimping out his friend at a gay bar, insulting and disrespecting everybody and even raping one of the girls. Hey, it's understandable that the only way to get rid of him is to pop a cap in him, right? The kids are such dumbasses that they decide to pursue this course of action, even to the extent of hiring a 'hitman' who plans the whole thing. Of course the plan gets bungled from the start... This film, while dealing with some fairly dark subject matter, is still a great watch. The subject is dealt with frankly and is not sugarcoated in any way. The young cast are excellent, great performances by all involved. Language and nudity add to the sense of realism. A solid watch which won't disappoint. "},{"Title":"Exhibit Gives Insight Into Larry Clark's Subject Matter","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Whether you like him or not, Larry Clark is a filmmaker with a good eye for harsh, realistic, and the dark side of American Youth. Kids was a fine example of this, but Bully makes Kids look like a John Hughs film.This movie was not about entertainment or character development. In fact, you are not supposed to care about these characters. Instead, you are forced to wonder how a group of 6 kids could be so casual about setting up someone in their circle to be murdered. Although these kids had a lack of any sort of direction to begin with, after the murder occurs, none of them feel that they were personally responsible.Having had the opportunity to view one of Larry Clark's photo exhibits at the Toledo Museum of Art (Toledo, OH) I was given a great insight to Clark's view on the darker side of adolescence. In his Tulsa exhibit, Clark photographed his friends in their most candid states Injecting Methamphetamine, casual nudity and sex, firearms, all this sometimes in the presence of infants or young children. Clarks subject matter, the way he portrays it and his style in cinematography all reflects his background as a photographer, and a former 'meth' user. Like it or not, it is very honest. Rather than assuming his nudity and use of casual sex is gratuitous, it is very much grounded in reality, as his photographs have shown. His honest and no-holds-barred approach is very refreshing in this day and age of film catering to the largest audience possible.Both Bully and Kids are important works because it is ground that few, if any, filmmakers are willing to touch. It gives realistic, almost documentary style, insight to a side of youth that most of us would rather assume didn't exist. If nothing else, Clark is sending the warning to parents, Do you know where your kids are? ***/4 stars "},{"Title":"Entertaining movie but...","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  with many unnecessary scenes with sex, nudity, and drugs.  It's like every time we see Lisa, she is just hanging out in her room naked. Does that really have  to be in there? No. And the crotch shot of Ali when she is getting her toenails done, it was like it was filmed by some purvert. My big complaint was all these kids lived at home, but yet their parents didn't know about all their drug use and how slutty their kids were.  The parents were dumber than the kids.  Did these kids really think they could cover up a murder while tripping on acid?  Then after they committed the act, each one of them tried to play it as if they were not responsible and were already talking about what to do when they were caught.  They couldn't even keep the secret for 24 hours.I also would like to have known more about why Bobby was so mean and what some of the other things he had done. If he was really that bad, why did the other kids continue to hang around him. Why not just stop all contact rather than come up with the idea of murder.  Not to mention he was small enough they could have kicked the crap out of him easy.FINAL VERDICT If NC-17 scenes don't bother you, then you may like this movie.  Some of the kids' actions do get unrealistic at times, and they act so stupid. I doubt the movie stayed true to the real life story. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and Not For the Faint of Heart","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented the unrated DVD version of Bully without knowing anything about the storyline or what the movie was about and sweet Jesus was I in for a disconcerting surprise. The movie starts out on a lighter note - sort of like a cross between Happiness and American Pie. Its beginning somehow resembles a dark and deviant, misogynistic teen comedy of sorts. However, by act two the story digresses and unfolds into a murder scheme and the actions of its players become more and more disturbing. The most significant problem I had with this film is that essentially spends too much time and energy exploring and focusing on the sexual lives of its characters, thus resulting in a GROSS UNDERDEVELOPMENT of the meaningful storyline. Entirely too much of the film is spent on showcasing the kids' sexual exploits and not enough time is allocated toward exhibiting family and background information that is necessary for the viewer to understand anything about the characters' actions. I wanted to know much more about the adolescents' upbringings and their relationships with their parents that would cause them to act this way in the first place. This simply was not portrayed in the film.The only social aspects of the characters the viewer learns is they like to have a lot of sex, use drugs, play video games, and they are all very shallow and naive. The positive vantage point in this, and I am not sure if it was purposely intended by the director, is that it definitely stimulates the viewer's interest in learning more about the subject matter by reading the literature the film was based upon. In conclusion, because of its lack of character development, Bully fails in its bid to be considered a great film. However, its climax is shockingly alarming, incredibly raw, and definitely nerve-racking and uncomfortable. Overall, Bully is a life-like and engrossing film, yet incomplete in its story, and should NOT be viewed by those who are easily offended or upset by bizarre, grotesque, or graphic violence, sexual imagery and/or dialogue in film.  7/10  "},{"Title":"Fun to watch. At times unrealistic and ridiculous.","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It's an alright movie. Nothing great. I think the storyline is alittle bit bumpy and at times off-road. The bully character is maybe too mean. I don't think anyone would actually put up with this kid but what do I know. There's lots of sex and nudity all the time. I'd say there's enough sex scenes to consider it a porn with a considerable storyline and tolerable acting. There are some good quotes in the movie and it is sometimes funny. Some of the lines are delivered very poorly though. It reminded me of Degrassi acting. Oh yeah, you have to put up with lots of rap music throughout the movie. It's worth watching once as long as you have someone there with you to make fun of it. Or if you're really serious you'll probably like it. "},{"Title":"Poor direction","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film left me very unimpressed, it really had the making of a great film. The only thing that made this film remotely interesting was the fact that it was based on true events. The main criticism I have is that there was absolutely no character development, I was left wondering why the characters all did what they did. Why was Bobby such a dick? There was a half hearted explanation, his relationship with his dad, but is it me or was his dad just behaving like normal dads, hell all he wanted was for his son to be successful. They cast Brad Renfro for the role of Martin and he really doesn't fit the part for me, I mean he's physically much bigger than Nick Stahl so why did he put up with all the bullshit? Than there's the 'Hitman' would it have killed them to at least explain what was going on with this guy, since he clearly had issues, pretending to be a gangster? And what about Aly why was she as messed up as she was?None of these kids suddenly became the way they were and it would have made for a better film if it had explored this aspect. The actors didn't do a bad job especially when the kids were altogether before and after the kill, they managed some very realistic performances. When looking back at it now, I can imagine that's just how the kids reacted in real life.Larry Clark really ruined this movie for me, his lingering shots of prepubescent boys half naked, drinking and smoking just left me thinking he has issues of his own! The man just can not direct, for instance look at all the parents of the children they are the most brain dead people you could ever meet.Even if the movie was based on true events, its portrayal is so poor that I found it unbelievable. Based on the film, I didn't think Bobby was so bad, I thought the other kids were more f***** up than him. "},{"Title":"Don't rent the edited version","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had read the reviews and ratings of this movie and finally rented it in VHS form at Blockbuster.  The box doesn't tell you it's chopped to pieces.   You first see that warning when the VHS tape starts after 15 minutes of old trailers.  It's chopped and edited so much, that it pretty much ruins the movie in my opinion.  The flow of dialog and action is pretty obvious.  Try to find the director's cut. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Unfortunately, I can't say that I'm a fan of the movie and the director as whole. Even while watching Kids I could hardly restrain from falling asleep. Bully is much the same. The story itself is quite a tragic one, but it looks like the director is not interested in it at all, to say nothing of the actors. It seemed they don't understand what to do and, worse, they don't care about it. Boring, boring and boring. I can't say anything else. "},{"Title":"Stupid, stupid people","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bully is based on a true story which goes to show that there are some incredibly stupid people in this world. Unfortunately the movie about these particular incredibly stupid people leaves a lot to be desired. Awkward dialogue, underdeveloped characters, amateurish acting...this film has those things in abundance. What it doesn't have is anything to really grab you and hold your interest. This is a movie which tries to be painfully serious and yet often ends up being completely laughable. The true story on which this film is based has movie written all over it. Maybe with a different screenwriter, a different director and a different cast this story could have been turned into something worth seeing. But this movie misses the mark completely.Anyhow, the story here revolves around a teen named Bobby, the bully of the title. Bobby continually torments his best friend Marty. Marty's girlfriend, Lisa, gets the bright idea to kill Bobby. So a bunch of perpetually drunk, stoned and incredibly stupid teens are rounded up and they begin to plot the murder. Of course these people are too stupid to plot much of anything and everything inevitably goes to hell. These wannabe killers are so pathetic in every way you may well find yourself rooting for the supposedly evil Bobby. OK, so he is a little evil but he doesn't deserve to die, certainly not at the hands of these clowns.So the movie slogs along with these idiots plotting the murder, while taking numerous breaks from their plotting to do lots of drugs and have lots of sex. It seems that whenever the screenwriters got stuck they just threw in another scene in which one of their female leads got naked in the hopes that would distract you from the fact that absolutely nothing was going on. Whenever the characters do take timeout from all their sex and drugs to actually speak so much of the dialogue is cringe-inducingly bad. Maybe it's the script's fault but some of the performances from the cast are truly terrible. In the key role of Lisa, Rachel Miner's performance is stilted, forced and completely unnatural. It's impossible to buy into her character. You can't even really see her character, all you see is a bad actress. Leo Fitzpatrick's performance as a hitman is hilarious. Unfortunately he's not trying to be funny, he's trying to be serious. There are a number of other less than stellar performances as well. Brad Renfro as Marty, Nick Stahl as Bobby and Bijou Phillips as Lisa's perpetually naked friend Ali are really the only performers who turn in reasonably decent work but they can't overcome the awfulness which surrounds them. It's a shame this movie is so bad because the story's there. Unfortunately this story fell into the wrong hands and Larry Clark made a mess of it. "}{"Title":"One of the most far fetched stories ever told.Defies everything about human psychology!","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I can't believe there are people out there who believe this far fetched whopper of a story. Just because something says based on a true story, doesn't mean in this movie happened as portrayed. Try to useyour brain to process information people. With a little rationale one realizes that the movie is based on the defenses of the accused facing prison sentences. The only way out is to try and prove self defense. To have that many people involved and try to somehow say it was a self defense situation is the stretch of all stretches. All one can do is attempt to piece the way something like this could have played out, but if you even remotely believe this dude was murdered because he was this overwhelming bully is not only laughable, it defies everything known about human psychology. The dude's obviously not around to tell his side of the story. If all we know he was the one bullied or part of something gone wrong. All you could do is guess. The only thing we can be sure of, there's no way in hell the scenario played out like this movie portrays. Aside from that it's a somewhat entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Exploitive but fascinating","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Unpleasant film (based on a true story) of a bunch of high school and 20 somethings killing somebody because they don't like him. I didn't like director/writer Larry Clark's Kids and I refused to see Gummo, but I did (sort of) like this. It's full of gratuitous nudity (almost all of it female), explicit sex, tons of swearing and extreme violence. The first half-hour of this is a trial--the almost constant female nudity was getting to me (the guys aren't shown that much) and the unerotic, disturbing sex scenes almost had me bolting from the theatre. What kept me in my seat was the plot and the acting. The plot is well-done and scary and all the acting was good. Nick Stahl is physically very unintimidating as the bully, but he has a very scary look to him and makes you despise his character. Bijou Phillips is excellent as one of the girls who helps plot his killing and Brad Renfro is just superb as the physically and mentally abused Marty. Also the last half hour is excellent. Very unpleasant but interesting. Next time, however, Clark should cut down on objectifying all his female characters. "},{"Title":"More Smut From Clark","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first entered the unsanitary and perverse mind of Larry Clark, I was watching Kids with a group of friends. A number of those friends, who'd already seen the flick, communicated to me that the film was powerful because it painted a bleak picture of America's youth. Upon completion of that overrated, simplistic film, however, I felt dirty. I felt as if I'd entered the world of child pornography, but hadn't made the final descent because the film itself wasn't X-rated. Though I wanted to trash the film and Clark's direction, I bit my tongue and gave the movie a pass, thinking it was possibly the subject matter that sickened me and not Larry Clark. After watching and being totally offended by 2001's Bully, though, I will no longer give Mr. Clark the benefit of the doubt. In my humble estimation, he is a smut peddler whose twisted vision of American teens is both reprehensible and inaccurate. While some have given him much more credit than he deserves on the grounds that he makes us acknowledge our failures as parents, I find his work to be very average. And the fact that he's so preoccupied with capturing these nude or semi-nude images of teens diminishes his work even further.There is nothing exceptional about this movie. The circumstances surrounding the murder of Nick Stahl's character provide the only interesting angle, and Larry Clark deserves no credit for that, as the film is based on true events. He takes us to places we've already been, shows us behavior we've already seen, and expects us to not see through his transparent material. There is no depth to the characters, and Clark does little to provide energy for the struggling cast. If you like watching smut, Bully won't disappoint. "},{"Title":"It's God-awful!!! I could make this film WAY better than Clark in the future!","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The characters are seriously undeveloped, the entire movie has a lot of white kids trying to be black - no black kids whatsoever, the plot is not powerful, and the entire film DOES NOT match the true story that actually happened in 1993. Remember 1993 in Florida??? It was still the Grunge Era at that time and you hardly see white kids who referred to themselves as wiggas. In fact, if I buy the rights of the book Bully, I could make a film from this book WAY better than Larry Clark. Not in a Hollywood fashion, but in a raw and gritty Indies way that exactly matches the time line of the true story. Wish me luck if it happens...because this film is NOT RECOMMENDED FOR ALL. "},{"Title":"Bully","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" From the same director as the incredible awful Kids, this is actually a good film. Not like a conventional teen movie, aka a teen flick or teen slasher, but a good film with dark teenage issues and realistic events. Basically Marty Puccio (Brad Renfro) has been bullied by apparent best friend Bobby Kent (Terminator 3's Nick Stahl) since they (pretty much) met, and he wants it to end. All his proper friends agree with him that he is a non-caring person, and I personally agree. He's just bad, because he drinks, shags and at some points rapes and beats people, not just Marty. So all the kids including Lisa Connelly (Rachel Miner), Ali Willis (Bijou Phillips), Donny Semenec (Michael Pitt), Derek Kaufman aka The Hit-man (Leo Fitzpatrick), Heather Swallers (Kelli Garner) and Claudia (Nathalie Paulding) decide to end it by a plan to kill him. The first attempt didn't work because of nerves, but the second time, they got him really good, or bad from whatever point of view you have. Based on true events, this really is a film that gets you thinking. Good! "}]