[{"Title":"Deception, Betrayal, and Diamonds","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"44 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Reading over the comments for this film, I'm surprised how many people disliked it. They harp because there are no accents, different accents, or partial accents. They complain about wooden acting. I'm wondering of somehow the world is cross-wired, since the film I saw had very fine acting, gorgeous costuming, and excellent period dialogue. I was pleased scriptwriters didn't dive into the vulgar, although some scenes (most particularly the actual bodice-ripping) did push the mark.As a period film fan, I found this story not only exquisite but also fascinating. The plot is intelligent enough you don't have to check your brain at the door, unlike many other dramas. True, it's not completely historically accurate and they've made Jeanne la Motte much more likable and moral than she was, but that's the point of a MOVIE. It's NOT supposed to be reality, just a loose translation of a historical event. I found it worthwhile and watched it three times in a week... a rarity among films.If you're not too snobby to put on your thinking cap, give it a go. "},{"Title":"There's really only one thing you need to know about this flick","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"53 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Napoleon once said that the French Revolution was caused by The Seven Years War, the Phylloxera grapevine fungus, and The Affair of the Necklace.  It lasted for many years, eventually culminating in the Napoleonic Wars and the Empire Waist dress.  It is surprising to the serious student of history that three causative factors were implicated, as the screenplay for the Affair of the Necklace alone is surely sufficient cause to put a few assorted heads on the block.The Affair of the Necklace involves a historical scandal in the court of Marie Antoinette. Hilary Swank plays a young woman in a marriage of convenience to Adrien Brody's character, who feels her ancestral lands and family name were unjustly seized and taken from her by the French crown. She thinks if she can get to court and lay her tragic history before Queen Marie Antoinette, that the Queen's feminine heart will be moved by her plight. So, she marries the Compte de la Motte in order to get a title which will admit her to court. Marrying Adrian Brody has to rank right up there with La Gwyneth's marriage to Colin Firth in SIL on the all-time Top 10 ranking of Least Odious Arranged Marriages of Convenience in Motion Picture History.There's a lot of skullduggery involving licentious, ambitious Cardinals, jewelers who never hit on the fruity scheme of busting up an unsold necklace they were seriously in hock for making and selling off the diamonds individually, and a very odd charlatan psychic type mesmerist/seer played by the preternaturally-creepy Christopher Walken.I could tell you more, but why? This movie is beautifully-photographed, lavishly costumed, and by and large, dreadfully acted, edited, and directed. I cannot even begin to tell you how bad Hilary Swank is in it. The 1,000 word limit precludes that entirely.  And as for editing, when your cuts cause characters heads to jump around in the frame, that's bad.I didn't expect much, though, since from the very get-go, the movie violated Surreyhill's First Law of Bad Historical Costume Drama If the Dogs are wrong, forget the rest. They give Marie Antoinette a Chinese Crested as a lap dog, which is a big gaffe, since the first Cresteds were first brought to Europe in the mid 1850's, and this was to England, as part of a zoological exhibition. But then, I think that the Cresteds weren't the only members of the cast who were chosen for their interesting and unusual looks, as opposed to their actual suitability to play the part.The Cast is pretty high-octane for a movie that basically bombed at the box office and garnered lukewarm reviews. Christopher Walken is joined by Swank and Brody, and let us not forget Jonathon Pryce. Simon Baker is appealing in a beige pantyhose sort of way as the hero, but when your hero is a gigolo who hopes to personally profit from the sale of what is essentially stolen property, you are entering interesting territory, particularly if your lipliner also wanders around a bit, as Baker's does. The problem with Baker is that he seemed to have great difficult taking his lines seriously, and one can see why. There are some real clunkers in this movie, and also, it relies heavily on voiceover narration to make the plot comprehensible, and this is another sign a movie is in big trouble. It violates almost every rule of show, don't tell.I was disgruntled to find much time elapsed before first appearance of Adrian Brody. However, he does play The Compte and Surreyhill's Second Corollary of bodice-ripping clearly states that any male character under 45 who has the title of Compte de ________ is to be considered sexy, whether villainous or heroic, as Comptes are by definition, sexy.This Compte mutters his lines in a weird method hybrid of Brando and Queens, while the rest of the cast is assuming an English accent, which causes cognitive dissonance, since the movie is set in France and stars mostly Americans.Brody certainly does his best to kick some life into the plot, and he and Walken seem to be the only cast members who seem to have copped to the notion that they AREN'T in a serious, art-house type film which will accrue numerous Oscar nods, but that they are instead in the cheesiest of cheesy historical bodice-rippers and may as well have a bit of fun with it. There is little to ponder for most of the first third of the movie other than Simon Baker's neatly-tied queue, until this interesting and unusual-looking man shows up and starts waving a sword around.  Apparently, there is some sort of rule in this movie that all fights must be Shirts/Skins, and in the case of the first duel, Simon Baker is shirtless while Brody is dressed to thrill.But unfortunately for those of us who would prefer an extended shirts/skins dueling sequence, the plot grinds on and the necklace is put into play, and the Compte ends up being chased through the streets of Paris by a flatfooted officer of the guard. This has to be the lamest, most unathletic chase scene I've ever seen filmed. It also points up one of the main problems with the film, which is that some of the characters just were all over the map. The Compte has gone from being a agile hot-tempered duelist--quick to pull out his blade and make use of it, to an ineffectual drunk effete decadent, to a clever schemer, and now he is a man who cannot seem to get out of his own way, or out of the way of horses, fruitcarts, and peasants holding baskets of veggies. He finally escapes by jumping into a canal, or the Seine, or something, and presumably, this was in the days of open sewers, so the next place we encounter him is getting out of his bathtub claiming that he was so frightened he nearly soiled himself. He is bathing, moreover, in the presence of both his wife and her lover, Simon Baker. They're just all one big happy family of co-conspirators. Well, except that the Compte gets angered at some crack the lover makes about his manhood (they both mumbled their way through it as though both were embarrassed by the script so for all I know he was saying that the Compte's father was a hamster, and his mother smelt of elderberries), morphs into a dripping-wet, homicidal, Cesare Borgia clone, and goes after Simon Baker with a knife in one hand, while holding a towel around his waist with the other. I found it a bit tragic that the only conveniently-located weapon was a knife, and not a two-handed weapon, like a grenade launcher or Scottish claymore, for reasons that should be obvious, but the movie kept its R rating, I guess.One more observation from my notebook--the filmmakers seemed to have the idea that they needed to establish the Compte's Character by having him be either drinking, holding a glass of some sort of alcoholic beverage as if about to take a drink, reaching for a bottle, or going over to the sidebar to fill himself a glass in every scene. Yes, even the scene in the towel. Even when he is riding a horse, for the love of all mercy! Even when he is eating a bon bon. Even when he is having a bullet extracted from his hiney. The only real exception was when he was going after the gigolo with the knife, as it would clearly have been difficult to hold a drink, the knife, AND the towel without dribbling Beaujolais down all over his, er, without getting it all over the front of his towel. And yet, the character is never actually shown as being sloppy drunk, despite drinking continuously from morning to night.Clearly, our Compte has a head like a cast iron skillet.  Or the filmmakers think that the audience does, and unless they beat us over the heads repeatedly, we won't get it straight.Anyhow, there is really only one thing you need to know about this movie.Bon Bon Scene + Adrien Brody = a Man Who Knows How to Use His Tongue. "},{"Title":"Dispassionate waste of film","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I love period dramas.  I love the costumes, the sets, the horses, the street scenes.  I love the fact that maybe I can learn a little bit about history along with being entertained.  So it was with hope that I rented this movie even though it had only been in the theater two days and there were only two copies of it at Blockbuster (both bad signs).  I understand now why no one had wanted anything to do with it from the beginning.This film simply did not click.  There was nothing in it that made me interested in or care about the protagonists.  The main fault should go to the casting director who terribly miscast Hillary Swank as an 18th century French noblewoman.  Don't get me wrong, I do like Hillary and have recently praised her depiction of the young cop in Insomnia, but in The Affair she was like a fish out of water, too angular, too wooden and quite obviously a modern American actress faking an English accent depicting a French character.Then we must blame the director, because the sense of tension in this film was minimal.  This was a movie about a court intrigue where the stakes were huge both monetarily and punitively.  Much more passion should have been injected, more fear, more highs, more lows, intense love and ferocious hate, anything to get the viewer engaged.  That this was not done was unfortunate, because the film has a beautiful look to it and the sets and costumes do not disappoint. "},{"Title":"A ...NECKLACE Made of Both True Gems and Fabulous Fakes","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Despite John Sweet's uneven script, this fact-based tale of intrigue and scams in Marie Antoinette's court is watchable thanks to sumptuous production values (Milena Canonero's gorgeous costume design garnered an Oscar nomination), scene-stealing performances by Christopher Walken and Adrien Brody (who even gets into some swordplay as the heroine's dissolute nobleman husband.  Few people can make lechery and debauchery look as sexy and fun as Brody does here! -), and good solid work from most of the rest of the cast.  In this drastic change of pace from her Oscar-winning performance in BOYS DON'T CRY, Hilary Swank plays Jeanne St. Remy de Valois, who takes revenge on her father's death and her family's ruin by pulling a scam on Cardinal Jonathan Pryce involving an ornate diamond necklace designed for exiled Madame DuBarry and spurned by the Queen (Joely Richardson captures Marie Antoinette's self-absorbed naïveté while still managing to make me feel a little sorry for her, knowing she'd pay for her foolishness with her life).  Swank's performance isn't bad, but it's not as assured as it should be, considering that Jeanne's plot turned out to be instrumental in spawning the French Revolution.  Next to the rest of the sterling cast, which also includes Brian Cox and Simon Baker, Swank sometimes comes across as a little girl who's playing dress-up and feeling self-conscious about it.  FTR, my fave line comes from Brody who, after being shot by Swank's lady-in-waiting during his swordfight with Baker, is having the bullet in his butt removed none-too-gently by a doctor  `Good God, are you digging for potatoes?!` -) "},{"Title":"A well known tale ...and a redeemed Comtesse de la Motte!","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This storylike true story had already been filmed by Marcel Lherbier in 1946,with Vivianne Romance -famous for her bitchy parts-,a more than adequate comtesse de la Motte.This is the first mistake of this remakeHilary Swank portrays a genuine heroine,whose properties have been stolen by an unfair monarchy,whose father was some kind of Robin Hood who protected the poor against the cruelty of times.She appears most of the time as a victim,a noble adventuress,with a romantic love affair with her sidekick,but it's the ending in London that takes the biscuit,when she reads her memoirs to old posh sobbing ladies oh poor thing!oh poor dear! Les memoires de madame de la Motte -which were published in France during the revolution are obnoxious,trash stuff..Historian Jean Chalon quotes this line in that notorious book the voluptuous princess -she's speaking of Marie-Antoinette- was waiting for me in her bed ,and I must say she took advantage of her husband's absence...Actually Marie-Antoinette never met madame de la Motte and the scene under the snow when the queen accuses la comtesse of ruining the monarchy is pure fiction.The scenarists are as naive as the cardinal de Rohan,and as the people of Paris in 1786,who thought Madame de la Motte's punishment was unfair.La Motte wouldn't stay long in la Salpetriere anyway,and some say she was helped to escape.As for cardinal de Rohan ,he was far from being a saint,but he was naiveté itself.how could he believe that Marie Antoinette ,who had always despised her and never spoke to him,could use him as an emissary?The film is entertaining and a lot of scenes are more historically accurate -such as the grove of Venus and the trialthat's was the queen's mistakethe king did not need the parlament to judge somebody-. Walken is ideally cast as comte de Cagliostro ,as Brody as Nicolas de la Motte.But the Queen's execution (1793) comes at the most awkward moment ,and La Motte was dead (in 1791) when it occurred anyway.The scenarists suggest her death might have been a crime never an earnest French historian made a hint at that.At the time,the royal family had more important problems to solve .The scenarists say that the affair of the necklace was the direct cause for the French revolution,which is a narrow-minded view.It might have been the straw that broke the camel's back but the reasons were much more complex and the students should take a better look at it.The movie does not tell that after his exile,Rohan was restored to favor during the revolution ,became part of the Etats-Généraux in 1789 ,and died in Germany in 1803,the last of the dramatis personae "},{"Title":"A Good Movie That Could Have Been Great","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The costumes are lavish, the sets lush and resplendent. The story is compelling how a strange affair of court intrigue becomes part of a larger mosaic of incidences that will eventually bring down the French monarchy. As a backdrop to the main events of the film is the rising unrest of the French citizenry who are becoming more and more disillusioned with their monarchy. A couple of great actors, most notably Jonathan Pryce as Cardinal Rohan, stand out. And yet, although much of the film is there, it is not quite all there. Unfortunately for all its splendor, the final piece needed to make the movie a triumph is lacking a leading lady right for the part. And maybe some adjustments in the music department.First the positives Despite a number of misgivings, this film still has the one element I always look for in any film is the story compelling enough that, at any given moment, I care about what will happen next and it is not obvious what will happen next? And this movie definitely possesses the required attribute. Few movies have this rather simple facet, and yet, for me, it is often what will make or break a film regardless of the genre. Films as diverse as Star Wars The Empire Strikes Back, Amadeus, and The Sting have the notable quality of being unpredictable until the very end. These last examples are of course masterpieces of film-making where Necklace is not. It's a good film with a good story but not one that will make any critics' lists.The story of The Affair of the Necklace is extremely complex involving a countess, the Cardinal of France, the Queen of France, a gigolo, a sorcerer/psychic, a couple of jewelers, a peasant actress, forged letters, and a necklace of tremendous value and prestige. From the start, we know who did it, and the story back-tracks to tell us how and why the intrigue was perpetrated.Now the not-so-good news Hillary Swank, a 2-time academy-award-winning actress, is miscast for the part. The rest of the cast acclimates relatively well to late 18th-century France except for her. At times she seems to be playing a character more akin to an early 20th-century debutante than an 18th-century former member of the aristocracy. At times, some of her scenes appear contrived to provoke pity. The character is portrayed on the more innocent and vulnerable side of the female-character spectrum. This seems a bit hard to swallow as this woman is also a mastermind behind an intrigue that may have contributed to the downfall of the aristocracy. Maybe someone like Helena Bonham-Carter would have been a better choice...The music is also inconsistent. For the majority of the movie, 18th-century and even 17th-century music is heard which seems appropriate as this is a period picture. I noticed a brief excerpt from the Monteverdi Vespers of 1610 in one of the church scenes. At other times, original music sounding a lot like Enya is played which always ruins my disbelief. It reminds me we are in a movie made a couple of centuries after the events that are taking place. The filmmakers would have probably saved a lot of time and money by sticking to period music and not hiring a composer who writes new age music.That said, this is still a good film when good films are uncommon. Perfect, not by a long shot. The script? Inconsistent but has its moments. Absorbing? Definitely. If you like period pictures, particularly those portraying pre-1800 Europe, you will still get a lot out of The Affair of the Necklace. "},{"Title":"What a crock!!","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" When I first sat down to watch this movie, I thought it was positively brilliant. Hillary Swank is great in everything she does...hell, the whole cast did a bang up job! But mostly I liked it because I thought it was the truth. After all it matched all I had learned in high school.Then I found out what a big lie it all was.This whole 'Affair' was completely romanticized and history rewritten to show the world yet again how _terrible_ the Monarchy was. But since I'm armed with new information, I might as well inform everyone who thinks the same way I thought of some key facts.Fact 1 The Monarchy NEVER killed Jeanne's father. Her parents were LONG dead before this whole affair even took place. Her rage at the Monarchy stemmed from the pension she was suppose to receive from being a blood royal. Her rage at Marie stemmed her apathy, yes, but because she did not really sympathize with Jeanne's plight.Fact 2 Jeanne was not born a noble. True, she was illegitimately descended from royalty but all her nobility ties and titles came from her marriage to Nicolas. In fact, she was quite well off in her marriage, but that didn't stop her from sleeping around with the likes of both the Cardinal and Rétaux.Fact 3 Buying the necklace was all the CARDINAL'S idea. But Jeanne went along with it readily, but her greed got in the way. She ran to _sell_ the diamonds off the necklace in London and keep the profits for herself.Knowing what I know now, I'm infuriated at this movie not only for falsifying history but trying to tell us this is exactly what happened. Marie Antoinette was the true victim in all this (something Joely Richardson tried to convey in her performance) and Jeanne was exactly what the Monarchy said she was; a petty whorish thief. There was no honor in what those people did, they all had their own selfish reasons. I'm just sad with the pile of historical information we have at our disposal no one seems to want to use it. "},{"Title":"Lies! All lies!!","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The Affair of the Necklace is a film that has some qualities but only adds more layers of falsehoods to a story that is already fraught with them. This film is trying to make Jeanne de la Motte into an unjustly destitute noble heroine along the lines of Thomas Hardy's Tess of the d'Urbervilles. Nothing could be further from the truth. She was a thief and a whore. Here are a few documented factsJeanne's father was not dispossessed by the King's men; he pretty well did that to himself as a village drunkard and professional poacher. He married a servant girl who later became a prostitute. He was not a political agitator. Jeanne was actually generously pensioned by the King for being a true descendant of Henry II. She was introduced to Rohan by one of her many benefactors. She became his lover on her second visit. Cardinal Rohan, by the way, was not 'cardinal of all France', but Grand Almoner (or 'court cardinal'), a privilege he lost after the trial. Jeanne did not meet Rétaux as a court gigolo during one of her many fake fainting spells in court (three in all); he was a companion of arms and debauchery of her husband, who did not have a jealous bone in his body. At the conclusion of the trial, Cagliostro was also exiled from France by Parliament. After escaping from France, Jeanne did not retire to semi-gentility, lecturing English society matrons on her edifying adventures. She wrote pornographic memoirs in many volumes regaling the populace with further aspersions on the Queen's character, while her husband, back in France, made a very decent living getting paid by the Rohan family not to write his memoirs. She did in England what she had always done in France she whored. She fell out the second-floor window of a London house of ill repute, to her death.Other things bother me The necklace itself is a rather slim, cut-rate and unattractive version of the documented original. Marie Antoinette was not tall, spindly, stoop-shouldered and bustless, no matter how effective Joely Richardson's performance is otherwise. Most of the source music heard in this film was never heard within several country miles of the French court, namely Vivaldi, Haendel, Mozart and various English baroque composers (Saints preserve us!). The ditty 'Plaisir d'amour' (misspelled in the end titles) was never part of a stage presentation. The film's main titles and theatrical trailer are disgraced by a nondescript and rather hair-raising piece sung by Alanis Morrissette, which sounds to all the world like an African mass sung in Gaelic (What were they thinking?!).In the film's defence, it was shot in Versailles, it does show amazing detail, occasional accuracy, spurts of brilliance and a vigorous rhythm. Furthermore, it never stoops to the detailed depictions of bodily functions and gory acts of sadistic violence that have become the hallmark of recent euro-trash pseudo-historical epics (La Reine Margot, Elizabeth, Farinelli, Le Roi danse, Vatel, Ridicule, to name a few). It is infinitely more historically accurate than, say, Gladiator, but that's not saying much.My favourite quote about this film comes from Rick Groen in Toronto's Globe and Mail who wrote 'If life, as Keats suggests, is a 'mansion of many apartments', then this plot is its wrecking ball.' "},{"Title":"The Affair of the Necklace","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This was a movie I had always had a slight interest in seeing and never gotten around to it, then I eventually forced myself to rent it and I must say I really did enjoy it. For all the history buffs this is not a movie for them, but if you really just sit down and watch without analyzing every detail it is very enjoyable. The plot is very interesting and interwoven and for the most part the cast does an excellent job. My only exception was unfortunately Hilary Swank. I have always loved Hilary Swank, but she didn't seem to have a clear understanding of what she wanted to portray with Jeanne. Jonathan Pryce was absolutely fantastic as the cardinal. He conveyed a danger that was very subtle yet frightening at the same time. The costumes were amazing, and I was very happy to see some scenes actually shot in The Hall of Mirrors. Charles Shyer didn't blow me away with his directing style and some shots seemed uneven and out of place, but it was in no way distracting. Overall, it's a movie that doesn't necessarily require you to think very much, but it is still enjoyable. I'd recommend it for a lazy afternoon next chance you get. "},{"Title":"loved it loved it loved it","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I have to disagree with just about every critic in the world.  I completely love this movie. (No spoilers that wouldn't come from a preview or the back of the movie box included)True, there is constant voice-over narriation.  But this based-on-a-true-story-scandal movie involves a complicated plot.  Without the help of one of our tried-and-true secondary characters.  The historical characters, though obviously given modern color, are convincingly portrayed. Hilary Swank gives innocent looks as she lies shamelessly.  As the plot thickens, so does the number of fun players.  Christopher Walken seems to relish in his part of mystical cheater.  Adrian Brody seems to really enjoy playing the philandering jerk, banging back whiskey and happily flirting with all young actresses (street-walkers) he sees.  Jonathan Pryce actually made me fear him as the corrupt cardinal.  Impressive from the man I last saw as the kindly father in Pirates of the Carribean.The most lovable character, by far, is Retaux.  The cheerful court-wise gigilo mutters some of the funniest lines in the movie, and runs a full gamut of emotions, from flirtatious to distraught.Joely Richardson plays a WONDERFUL ultimately doomed by history queen. Her sweet naievety combined with indifferent ignorance paints a reasonably possible image of the French monarchy at the time.Oh sure, the movie's not totally perfect.  Really, there are two things that bothered me. (1) The all over the place accents.  But I'm willing to forgive it.  After all, the movie's set in France.  They're not speaking French, so they're not going to fool me into thinking they're French anyway.  (2) The sunglasses worn by Joely Richardson and Christopher Walken.  Quite forgivable, but still made my eyebrows raise.On the whole this movie exceeded my expectations tenfold.  The great costumes, powerful music, and tense time period give the actors a playground where it's next to impossible to fall flat.  But not a one of them would have anyway.   "}{"Title":"almost worth seeing for the costumes--but not quite","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This story could have been exciting and full of visual pleasure, but I thought it failed utterly. I could not muster up any real interest in the characters, and the writer made a major misstep in trying to make Jeanne (Hilary Swank) a quasi-revolutionary heroine instead of a scheming con artist. (This decision didn't even make sense within the world of the film if Jeanne is an anti-monarchist, why is she working so hard to get back her aristocratic name and fancy estate?) The screenplay was inefficient and muddled, and relied heavily on dull and unnecessary voiceover narration. (I did, however, appreciate some of the writer's attempts to create period dialogue.)Unlike most IMDB reviewers, I didn't care for the cinematography (I saw this on DVD; maybe that explains it?); I thought the colors were washed out and almost every shot infused with fog. I also found the composition of the images unexciting. You would think a nighttime scene in a garden of Versailles, with characters running around in 18th-century costumes, would be fabulous, but it was passionless; the whole film has a workaday feel.Some of the actors do well I liked Joely Richardson as Marie-Antoinette and the two jewelers were funny and engaging. Hilary Swank was partly effective, but I was distracted by her uneven accent. Christopher Walken had a similar problem he used some Russian consonants, but his distinctive inflection remained unchanged, making for an odd-sounding character. At the risk of offending most IMDBers, I must say that I think Adrien Brody is totally creepy, and I particularly never want to see his tongue again.I'm not sure why so many IMDB reviewers thought the characters should have French accents--if the characters are supposedly speaking their own language, it makes more sense for them NOT to have accents. Whether they sound English or American is immaterial to me, but it would be nice to have consistency, which this film lacks.Although I admired most of Milena Canonero's beautiful costumes for this film, I think they were wasted by a director whose visual sense doesn't match my ideal. For a more stylish (albeit puzzling and disturbing) movie set in the 18th century, try The Draughtsman's Contract.  "},{"Title":"The truth is better than this fiction","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" A great story was wasted by the trivialization of the real account of the theft of the necklace, based on a fictionalized mistreatment of Jeanne Remy de Valois. The woman was a fabulous schemer whose sense of entitlement is world-class. It would have been a great story if the writer had used the real one, instead of the weak screenplay composed using scant facts. The role of the fake Countess La Motte is a scenery chewer worthy of Faye Dunaway in her heydey and I would have loved to have seen Tim Curry assay the Cardinal Rohan character which is equal parts scoundrel and fool. The only victim in the real story is Marie Antoinette, in whose name the scheme is initiated, but who never had any part in the necklace theft - in fact turned it down three times when offered it by the foolhardy jewelers who designed it for the more audacious Madame du Barry, Marie Antoinette's godfather-in-law's mistress. The real interplay of ego and privilege ending in utter tragedy had all the stuff of a fascinating and lively movie. This wasn't it. "},{"Title":"Film is a misfire","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  They're are so many things wrong with this picture that it will be hard to list them all. Story is about a woman named Jeanne St. Remy de Valois (Hilary Swank) whose parents were killed as traitors to the French regime and now as an adult will do anything to get her family name and household back. She decides along with her lover Retaux de Vilette (Simon Baker) and the man she had married for convenience Nicolas De La Motte (Adrien Brody) would scheme a plan to convince the Cardinal Louis de Rohan (Jonathan Pryce) to purchase a very expensive necklace and give it to Marie-Antoinette (Joely Richardson). Jeanne forged letters from Marie-Antoinette to give the Cardinal for him to think that a relationship had been rekindled via mail. Jeanne keeps the necklace and uses it to purchase her home. First off, this film is miscast. Swank is a very good actress and I believe to be a more brave and daring one then some of the actress's in Hollywood that get paid millions and millions of dollars. She's a real talent but the film needed someone to evoke a more jaded personality. Jeanne is portrayed as some sort of martyr that we are suppose to feel sorry for. This was probably more of director Charles Shyer's fault than Swank. Shyer has directed nothing but light comedy before and this was his first entry into serious drama and I'm not convinced that he understood the story. Brody isn't bad and he seems to be genuinely having fun in his role. And in case you didn't notice, all the main actors are either English or American and most of them don't even attempt some sort of accent. Its suppose to be France and they didn't hire one prominent French actor. I guess if the French want to get back at us they could remake The Grapes of Wrath with an all French cast! And its hard to tell what kind of accent that Christopher Walken was doing in the film. Hell, its hard to tell what accent he does in American films! The film looks good though. The sets and locations are authentic looking and the construction of a good looking film was there. Unfortunately, the rest of the film is not well thought out. Wrong director, wrong actors and the wrong focus point of the story.    "},{"Title":"It's like petit fours.....","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I am sure my petit fours comment piqued your interest...or at least confused you. I compare The Affair of the Necklace to this fancified little cake because like petit fours, the film looks great but once you sink your teeth into it, it is quite unappealing. Looks good--but that is all is how I see this film.The Affair of the Necklace is a costume drama set in the latter period of the reign of Louis XVI of France. It's based on a true story of intrigue that only served to discredit the monarchy more and tip the nation a bit closer toward revolution. The problem is....who cares?! The film is too jam-packed full of knowing glances and quiet intrigues that it lacks the one important element in such a film--energy. You just don't care about the characters and the film is pretty but also quite empty.The film stars Hillary Swank--a very good actress and I am sure a nice person, but also a star hopelessly miscast. Her character is supposed to be an extremely desirable lady--but Swank just isn't that sort of actress and so the film was a stretch. I understood why the cast spoke English--it was NOT a French language production. But, it also seemed weird that the character of Marie Antoinette (Joely Richardson) was played by an English actress, as Marie was Austrian and SHOULD have had a German accent--or at least a trace of it. Regardless, the cast tried--but the material was too dry and too dull. The overall effort is slow going--and not especially involving. "},{"Title":"a beautiful disappointment","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Hillary Swank is terrific and the look of the film is gorgeous. The directing and the rest of the cast, however, is weak and the script is just plain ridiculously bad. The film makes the worst mistake possible with a historical drama it tries to teach a history lesson, rather than letting a great story unfold from terrific characters who just happen to be real. When placed alongside great films about 18th century France like Ridicule and Dangerous Liaisons, this film is painfully weak. This is definitely a wait for video/wait for cable film. "},{"Title":"A failed costume drama","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" There's nothing wrong with the acting in this movie, but it's still largely a failure, and that because of the script, which meanders here and there, not keeping the characters consistent, not explaining things that need to be explained, etc. Primarily, it fails to make us care about Jeanne de la Motte. Yes, it's terrible that she lost her family and home when she was a child. But deciding to take advantage of the very naive Cardinal de Rohan to get enough money to buy back her family estate makes her unsympathetic and foolish as well, as we know she will not be able to take advantage of any momentary success she might have in her efforts to deceive the Cardinal. Too often, the characters' actions just don't make sense. Jeanne remains distant, despite the occasional efforts to elicit our sympathies for her.There's no reason to watch this movie, I'm afraid. It's slow moving and uninteresting. "},{"Title":"Ah! It'll be fine,the aristocrats, we'll hang them!  (dvd)","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This is a period movie with an excellent cast and beautiful production. Unlike lot of others, the story is about a little story in the big one (the fate of a countess) but we can learn a lot of things about the Revolution and Monarchy. We can have also a good glimpse of a true mystery, Cagliostro (read Rule by secrecy by Jim Marrs). At last, it's also a thriller because we see a scheme invented, executed and punished. Nonetheless, this movie lacks something to be a real gem (no pun intended). Maybe it's a bit too long and too talkative but as a French living in Paris, the fundamental problem lies in the outdoors location as soon as the characters go out, we see a Paris that doesn't exist it's clear that it's Prague (except Versailles or Vaux Le Vicomte or the 1 second shoot of other buildings). But, it's a unusual movie in which the con is planned by a sincere and sympathetic woman and her ordeals can inspire future injustice. "},{"Title":"a Period Piece Misfire","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Woefully miscast and horribly staged, The Affair of the Necklace is the RARE historical, costume drama that I found myself greatly disliking.Necklace is based upon the true-ish story (some liberties were naturally taken with this) of Jeanne de la Motte Valois (Hilary Swank - Boys Don't Cry, Million Dollar Baby, Amelia) -- a French countess who's title had been stripped from her family by the crown in the late 18th Century (just PRE-Revolution). In hopes of regaining her royal title(s), Jeanne and a trio of men -- her lover (Simon Baker -- The Devil Wears Prada, LA Confidential), her husband (Adrien Brody -- The Pianist, King Kong) and an Italian count (Christopher Walken -- Catch Me If You Can, The Deer Hunter) -- conspire to obtain a priceless necklace that also catches the eye of the royal Marie-Antoinette (Joely Richardson - 101 Dalmatians, The Patriot, the Americanized Girl with a Dragon Tattoo). It is the queen's pursuit of THIS very necklace that ultimately leads to her very own rapid downfall -- I said there were some liberties/stretches here -- and the destruction of the French aristocracy.As Jeanne isn't a sympathetic character (we can blame some of this on bad writing), The Affair of the Necklace is neither engrossing nor engaging. It became a movie I didn't care about although I LOVED Joely Richardson's powdered bouffant hair-do's here. Even with three Oscar-winning actors in the cast (Brody, Swank and Walken), I cannot recommend this.If I HAD to watch The Affair of the Necklace all over again, I might begin wishing for the same fate that befell that French queen. I'd be asking for the guillotine faster than ... "},{"Title":"Light-weight bit of nonsense","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The plot is very slight, which is a major part of the problem. The contemptuous way in which English is mixed with Yank is another part - for to actors, both supposedly French, to sound so anachronistic makes no sense. If they all spoke Yank, you could excuse it as a sort of Star Trek episode. If they all spoke English, you could perhaps concentrate on the plot and the acting. With the bizarre mixture (and the jarring anachronisms in speech) it made it painful to watch.The script was very poor. The actors did do their best to make it work, but it just wasn't credible dialogue. Of course, it was supposed to be anti-monarchy, no problems there, but to be so ham-fisted as to try to hammer this in at every stage by silly devices made one want to be a monarchist and cheer Marie Antoinette. "},{"Title":"Wasted opportunity","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This film has so many of the ingredients of a great historical period piece-- sumptuous costumes and locations, accomplished actors, and a story filled with romance, scandal, deception, and intrigue which concerns notorious historical figures (Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette)-- that it's a shame that it turned out to be so mediocre. The direction is sloppy and uninspired. A few scenes, especially the execution scene, give a hint of unrealized potential, but they are the exceptions. Most of the scenes don't really come to life or have the dramatic impact one would expect. Had the lead role not been played by Hillary Swank, the movie might have worked anyway. Many an actor has lifted a film out of its mediocrity into something worthwhile with a great performance. But Swank does the opposite in this film. She's a fine actress, but she was seriously miscast here. She looks uncomfortable and is never quite believable. It's a case of an actress trying to fit herself into a role rather than making the role fit her, which is what must be done to give a great performance in this type of film. It's what Cate Blanchet and Bette Davis did when playing Elizabeth I, Katharine Hepburn did when playing Mary of Scotland and Eleanor of Aquitane, and it's what Judi Dench did when playing Queen Victoria. It's also what Joely Richardson managed to accomplish in 'Necklace' with her wonderful Marie Antoinette. But she isn't on screen enough to counterbalance Swank's performance, and when Christopher Walken shows up, forget it. Walken's gift is for subtlety, not hammy character parts. His Cagliostro is painful to watch.If you really like historical costume dramas and are willing to overlook serious flaws, then this movie might be worth your while. It's not horrible, just disappointing. But there are many better films of this type (Dangerous Laiasons springs immediately to mind), and your time might be better to spent seeking them out rather than settling for this. "}{"Title":"Spoiled by miscasting","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This whole film was completely spoiled, for me, by the miscasting of Hilary Swank. She did not even try to speak with an English accent.  I know that the action took place in France but everyone else used good English. Perhaps she should speak to Gwyneth Paltrow who, herself, would have been better in the role and can also speak very good English (Shakespeare in Love).  Hilary Swank did not convince at all in the part although everyone else was very convincing and the film was beautifully shot. A jarring American accent ruined the whole thing - especially in the leading part. "},{"Title":"C'mon, It's not that bad!","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Why is everyone ranting about this movie? The story was engaging, the cinematography was beautiful, and the acting was top-notch (with the slight exception of Miss Swank who was a little stiff for two-thirds of the movie). I can certainly think of many more period films that fall well below the style and effectiveness of this film - I'm thinking The Age of Innocence and The Golden Bowl.Nice little movie that won't put you to sleep or make you cringe with embarrassment for the actors involved. If you want an even better introduction to period pieces, go rent An Ideal Husband or most Merchant/Ivory productions. "},{"Title":"well...","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I watched this film because of its cast and is overall QUITE satisfied with it. satisfied in the sense that the director is not familiar with directing historical films, but is still able to portray believable and beautiful scenes, quite in the sense that the cast is not acting as well as I've expected. Swank is alright on the whole, but it seems to me that she's playing a Girls don't cry role (ie. emotionless). Walken is, as usual, creepy, which I guess is ok since his role is a somekind of voo-doo fraud. Baker is alright, quite believable, but I doubt whether a gigolo would have the nerves to stick with a married woman in front of her husband (is this a tradition of French royalties?). Pryce is perfect, a very unappealing, corrupted and annoying Cardinal, great job! As for Brody, he has brought liveliness and humour to the film, and as usual, a very charming character portrayed, though I don't quite understand what the director is trying to show us about his role a drunkard? a playboy? a schemer? a keen swordsman? I don't get it, even though this character is one of my favourites in the film. I am really disappointed that he appeared so late and so little in this film. A peculiar accent as well.Judge it as a historical film, 5/10. Judge it as a not-so-successful hybrid of comedy and historical film directed by a comedy director, 8/10.  "},{"Title":"A Lush Visual Experience","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I just got done watching The Affair of the Necklace. The soundtrack stays with me as I write this -- as do the visuals. It is a very stunning movie, both for the costumes and the cinematic feel. The story starts with a simple premise a young woman wants to get her home back. But her naive and honest attempts to petition the monarchy for the return of her estate are denied, so she must resort to more cunning measures.As a female, I was pleased to see a female as the instigator of the plot; the behind-the-scenes mastermind. Hilary Swank did an excellent job, despite occasional lapses in accent, but given the potpourri of accents in a film set in pre-Revolutionary France, I can overlook that small flaw. The supporting cast was also exceptional, and I especially liked the portrayal of Marie Antoinette -- not quite vapid, not entirely sympathetic, but not a villainess either. I'm not sure how historically accurate the movie is, but it does arouse my interest in that period, and I figure any movie that can do that is not entirely frivolous.Overall, I gave it an 8 out of 10. I would enjoy watching it again, as it has a subtlety that many movies lack. The rental fee was definitely well-spent. "},{"Title":"Very Interesting and Beautiful","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Although, this was not the best period piece I've seen, it was very interesting and well done.  It was hard to believe it, but it was a true story.  I don't know much about French history, so I was captivated by it.  I had visited Versailles and learned about how large, complicated and political the Court was with all the hangers on.  I thought this was a good portrayal of that.  I thought all the actors were good, especially the House Minister. "},{"Title":"Diamonds are a girl's best friend...and also her undoing..","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Poor Countess de LaMotte Valois thinking she could be politically correct at the time of the reign of Louis XVI, in trying to restore her former title and status, just before the French Revolution. How did she pretend to outsmart a sly fox like the Cardinal to get her situation fixed and to get to keep the valuable necklace? Well, those diamonds actually prove to be her downfall from grace and to a fate far worse than keeping the good family name and making her name in court. Oh well, had Anita Loos told the story, maybe she could have found a way to have this woman having her cake and eating it as well. But it wasn't meant to be, as shown in this dark and beautifully photographed film. The costumes by Manela Canonero are authentic and gorgeous. We can even hear the sound of the silk in Dolby sound. The Marie Antoinette of Joely Richardson is completely blown out of proportion. Her diction and singing abilities are just ridiculous. Ms. Swank tries her best, but doesn't succed. Jonathan Pryce and Christopher Walken make the best of what they're given to play. At least they can keep their heads high after all was said and done in the name of the French Revolution. "},{"Title":"Oscar Winners Slumming","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Hilary Swank, Adrien Brody and Christopher Walken all lent their considerable talents to this somewhat confusing tale of lies, deceit, sex, murder, and a gaudy necklace that would have made Zsa Zsa Gabor consider poverty as an alternative.I watched it all and I understood what was going on, I think, but it didn't make me care enough to actually pay attention.  I kind of can't believe that this all really happened.  For one thing, it makes Marie Antoinette look like an idiot.Jonathan Pryce, Simon Baker and Brian Cox add their considerable talents to this strange movie.I did laugh a couple of times, such as when Brody gets shot in this rear, and when the doctor is removing the bullet, Adrien asks are you digging for potatoes?  There was another amusing moment after that, when Pryce is about to take a sip of tea and finds that its still too hot, and orders his servant to blow on it.I would watch this again to make sure I got it all.  I will say that Swank, who I like very much, made me long for Isabelle Adjani or Juliette Binoche in the female lead.  Well shouldn't SOMEONE in the cast have SOME French blood?  5/10. "},{"Title":"We All Get What's Coming to Us!","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The infamous,and evil Giuseppe Balsamo,aka Alessandro,Count of Cagliostro,was arguably the most notorious fraud,charlatan,and bunko artist of the 18th century.And,as reliably portrayed in this story,he fit in rather nicely with the rest of the corrupt opportunists and swindlers.Having worked for 8 years as a prison psychologist in Ohio,it's been my observation that there are no guilty persons incarcerated.Instead,it seems as though the legal profession must be among the most corrupt and incompetent in existence.All of these innocent persons being advised by their counsel to plead guilty.My own observations is,that if they're not guilty of the offense for which they're being currently incarcerated,they ought to think about all the evil things that they've done and for which they've escaped punishment.It all comes out even in the wash,so to speak.So it goes with Cagliostro.While perhaps not legally culpable,he was certainly involved in this morally.And he DID escape punishment from the French.yet,he eventually got his.He moved to Rome.and opened a Masonic Lodge.Now,in Europe,the Masons aren't a men's service organization;They happen to be viewed as heresy.So,Cagliostro was arrested,brought before the Inquisition,and received the capital sentence.The Pope commuted the sentence to life imprisonment,and he spent the rest of his life in prison.MORALWE really don't need anyone else to foul up our lives,now,do we?We usually do a great job on our own. "},{"Title":"Accent? Moi?","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" If we do not like the American/English accents, the French should have made this movie. But they didn't. And if they would have -like they should have as it is their history- who would have seen it, apart from European audiences? But it is annoying that no choice was made of what 'accent' to perform it in. A clear decision was never made and that spoiled the movie for me (though the entrance of Christopher Walken was enough for me to hang on -and I loved the way he reacted to the guard before he was led into le Bastille).Historically Mozart's Requiem was heard in one of the scenes -but that was not composed till 1791. And at that time the Affaire of the Necklace was over and the Royals were in deep merde... "},{"Title":"I watched it twice and loved it","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Everything was well done in the movie; it was intriguingly written, well acted and one of the best period dramas I have watched. The pace of the plot kept my interest and it was cleverly presented. Not sure why some folks didn't like it. The scenery was authentic and magnificent and the action and performances flowed easily through it. It gave an in depth insight into the French Revolutionary period and inspired me to do more research. It was well worth watching. It did annoy me a bit to have the French peasant class portrayed with cockney accents; but that is my only real complaint. I thoroughly recommend this as an engrossing Sunday movie selection. I do so love a mystery. "}{"Title":"Stale history lesson","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Based on a true story, in 1767 Jeanne St. Remy de Valois grew up in privilege. However her father was sympathetic to the common man and the family loses everything. Her father is killed and soon she became an orphan. In 1784, Jeanne (Hilary Swank) sets off to plead her family's case to Queen Marie Antoinette (Joely Richardson). The House Minister Breteuil (Brian Cox) blocks her at every turn. With the help of Rétaux de Vilette (Simon Baker), she learns the ways of the corrupt superficial court. The duo seeks the patronage of Cardinal Louis de Rohan (Jonathan Pryce) to press her case. They convince him with forged letters to purchase a extravagant diamond necklace for the Queen. The scheme goes wrong and it causes a great scandal.It's a costume drama with plenty of costume but not much drama. There is a lot of decadence without much context of the coming French revolution. Somehow this story must be placed more firmly in the scope of history. It isn't really and the movie loses its power. The french court needs more excesses. The french public needs to be shown on its knees. A few riots with lots of dead would help the cause. The movie needs blood on the streets, and a few action battle scenes to break up the stuffy court.The acting is stiff for the most part. Hilary Swank has to take much of the blame. She doesn't fit costume drama that well. The dialog is clunky and it clunks off of her lips. The cast is composed of great actors and they do their best to keep this afloat but there is a general lack of tension in the story. "},{"Title":"God awful.","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  There is no merit in this film. Christopher Walken, Jonathan Pryce, and Adrien Brody all offer up their signature styles, which are the only saving graces of the film. Hillary Swank reveals her 90210 roots with a vengeance. We might as well be watching Neve Campbell on the screen for all her forced tears.The single most deadly thing about the film, aside from its leaden direction, is its insistence on connecting its historical source with the French Revolution. We are to believe that Valois toppled a monarchy. The whole movie is like that, standing on its toes to be more important than it is.Do not go see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Hilary Swank shines, as usual, and it delivers, though not my favorite","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  ****THERE MIGHT BE A SPOILER IN HERE!!****The Affair of the Necklace is well, basically, worth watching, and Hilary Swank, Oscar winner, is stunning in her portrayal as the main character. It wasn't totally captivating, but the drama did do what it was trying to do To make you feel for Jeanne's plight. Though, I must say, I feel they made too big a deal about things that would normally not be important. But heck, if you like movies about upholding family honor, and the like, then see it!  "},{"Title":"historically inaccurate, badly cast, let's see, what else","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Certainly the true story of The Affair of the Necklace is one of the most fascinating in all history, and despite a lot of problems, this 2001 film, deriving its name from said affair, is interesting if misguided. The director seemed to want a sexually-charged drama, though he didn't get one. The casting is odd, starring Hilary Swank as Comtesse Jeanne LaMotte. She doesn't have enough European sensibility. Adrien Brody plays her cavorting husband and doesn't seem to get the period either. As Cardinal Rohan, however, Jonathan Pryce is very good, as are some of the performances in the smaller roles.There are lots of complaints on this board about the accents, which goes to show you that this film failed on a few levels - people would probably not be mentioning accents if they'd really loved this movie. First of all, there isn't anything wrong with the accents, not the accents themselves or the variety of them. Films have mixed accents for years. For those who think everyone should have been speaking with a French accent, think again. The theatrical rule if you are playing a foreigner living in his own country, say France, he is not speaking English with a French accent; he is speaking his native tongue; therefore, no accent is required. Were this not the case, all Chekov plays would be performed with the actors using thick Russian accents just as one example. Many actors use the more attractive British accent instead. Maybe there could have been more uniformity, but you can say that about any WWII propaganda film, where Hollywood hired actual foreigners to work among the Americans.I actually found the movie intriguing, as it's a great story, even if it wasn't told particularly well. It did deviate from the truth quite a bit, though. LaMotte was not as she was portrayed. She came from a poor family but was of royal blood, and what she wanted was a good-sized pension from the Queen (here Joely Richardson, no teen queen), who ignored her as in the film. Jeanne's plot consisted of the forged letters by Marie asking Cardinal Rohan, in actuality Jeanne's lover, to lend her the money, not just guarantee the payments. Louis and Marie wanted a public trial not just because the Affair of the Necklace had further destroyed Marie's reputation, but because France was abuzz with the rumor than Jeanne was Marie's lover. As in the film, Marie did wind up in England and write her memoirs, but they were filled with stories of a lesbian relationship between her and Marie Antoinette.In portraying Jeanne as somehow sympathetic - denied her place in society, as well as her home and her name, and watching her father (who was in reality a drunk) killed by soldiers - a lot of the teeth is taken out of the story. While 1938's Marie Antoinette makes Marie a heroine, this one portrays her as a cold bitch. Selfish and shallow she certainly was and like much of history's royalty, completely out of touch with her people - but Jeanne was no saint either. A more accurate telling of this story would make for a much better drama. "},{"Title":"Well worth watching","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I disagree with some of the harsh criticism of the film on these pages. This movie is far from dull, the music, much of it classical, is just fine, and the acting is very good, all around, including Hillary Swank. The opening credits have to be among the most beautiful ever filmed, and relevant to setting up the movie. There is not a great deal of depth of character, but then there does not need to be; this is a great story. And it is an historically accurate story that I was unfamiliar with. I checked the entry in the Encyclopedia Britannica, and it matched the movie, so it cannot be too far off, unlike some so-called historical films. The the story is presented plausibly within the film, regardless. But it is not a documentary. It is presented with just enough of a light touch to not be ponderous. And there are a few amusing and surprising twists, particularly near the end. As to the accents, basically any film maker has to make a choice, to go for authentic accents, try to fake the accents, or just skip it. I feel skipping it is better than bad accents, which would call more attention to the issue. There is only one actor with a French accent in the movie that I recall. Who cares? Just as long as I don't have to read subtitles. The movie brings to mind the Masterpiece Theater version of I Claudius. Here all the upper class Romans spoke with a British accent. The acting was very good, but it was still a TV production. But it was a riveting historical drama. If you liked I Claudius, you will like this. Plus, the cinematography is vastly superior. As to Hillary Swank, I tried watching Boys Don't Cry, but never made it through; it was more of a teen flick. She does just fine here. Toward the end, her enunciation becomes less precise than in the beginning. I assume that as the plot unravels, she inevitably drops some of her earlier pretense of nobility, which is reflected in her speech. She is portraying a woman who was pulled from a noble upbringing at early childhood and orphaned, who is trying to return to her earlier station in life, with limited success. This is reflected in her out of date fashions, but also in her manners. I think Hillary got the role right. "},{"Title":"Marvellous, romantic and absorbing drama","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I had not heard about this film previously, and I wasn't too sure after seeing Hilary Swank as a boy that she could convince me that she was a Countess.  But, thankfully, she did!  What a wonderful film!  All the cast acted superbly and, with the amount of well-known actors and actresses, I'm surprised that I hadn't heard of this film before this weekend.  I became totally absorbed with the film, so much so, that I am doing some research into the history of this very important part of France's history.  For a woman of that time to show such courage and audacity for the sake of her family name was either blind ignorance or that the Countess was a woman born well before her time!!  I will definitely be buying my own copy of this film and recommending more people to see it.  A joy to watch with all the swash, buckle, romance and intrigue that you would expect from a film set in those turbulent times. "},{"Title":"Historical fun","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  After getting over my initial reluctance to see Hilary Swank as a beautiful female (I think of her as the ultimate tomboy), I started really enjoying this movie.  Its foundation in real events and use of historical characters heightens the pleasure.  It's a fun caper flick in historical drag.Hilary Swank won me over as the countess trying to regain her family estate. Joely Richardson as Marie-Antoinette is haughty and camp, just the way one wants Marie-Antoinette to be.  I cannot tell from the credits who played the faux Queen Marie, but she was wonderful in a small part in an attempt to fool the Cardinal, played by Jonathan Pryce.  Adrien Brody is always magnificent--here in a small role as the errant husband of Hilary Swank.You can get totally wrapped up in beautiful scenery (filmed in Prague and France), the intricate plot, the fine performances, the unspooling of history.  I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Something didn't click in this movie","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  A lot of interesting history (which apparently, much of it being untrue), but somehow, the movie seems to be just a bunch of talk on what the are going to do.  Everything else that is missing seems to be filled in by narration.  So what we end up is a documentary re-enactment.The film does eventually pick up when the conspiracy has been revealed, but it is only very brief.Strange thing is that rumors in the court that Jean is in part of the inner circle of Marie Antoinette.  But Marie Antoinette herself doesn't seem to know.  I thought these people live for rumors and scandals. "},{"Title":"Romanticised depiction of the 'Affaire du Collier' glitters prettily - but it's only paste","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" ****Semi-spoilers - only if you've never heard of the historical incident**** 'The Affair of the Necklace' is based on the notorious 'Diamond Necklace' scandal. The French court jewellers made an elaborate necklace for Louis XV's mistress Mme du Barry. They then tried to sell it to Marie Antoinette, wife of Louis XVI (the old King's grandson), who was understandably hostile to the idea. Facing ruin, the jewellers were targeted by the courtesan Comtesse Jeanne de la Motte-Valois, her husband Nicolas, and co-plotter Rétaux de Vilette. The de la Mottes and de Vilette devised a scam to get the necklace for themselves, duping Cardinal de Rohan, who was anxious to regain court favour. The story also features in 'Lady Oscar' (1978), based on the manga 'Berusaiyu no bara' ('The Rose of Versailles'), and the 1979 anime serial of the same name.'The Affair of the Necklace' opens with Jeanne's trial, and proceeds in extended flashback. It is visual beautiful, with exquisite 18C costumes and decor, but fails to live up to its appearance. The practicalities of the fraud - the stealing of notepaper, forging of letters, disguising of actress/prostitute Nicole Leguay d'Oliva as the Queen - are depicted reasonably effectively. But the script lurches uncomfortably between serious drama and attempts at comedy. While the supporting cast works hard with the material, Hilary Swank seems uncomfortable as Jeanne. She is not helped by the script's sentimentalisation of the character.Hollywood takes the premise that a film's protagonist must be made sympathetic and likable, so Jeanne is given a back-story reminiscent of Maximus's family in 'Gladiator' and of other recent revenge-driven pseudo-historical epics (e.g. the equally fictitious scene of the father and brother's executions in 'Braveheart'). Her idyllic childhood is curtailed when, in a much-belated (by a couple of centuries!) mopping-up of the previous royal dynasty, troops of the reigning Bourbons ransack the Valois château. They kill Jeanne's father, and her pregnant mother dies of grief. As a result, Jeanne is determined to regain her rightful title and estates. So far, so Scarlett O'Hara vowing she'll never go hungry again...However, this tragedy - motivation for the 'wronged heroine setting out to avenge her family and regain her rights' - *never happened*. Jeanne came from an impoverished rural family her Valois descent was illegitimate and had no political significance by 18C; her father died of drink. She gained a taste for the high life as a lady's companion, and became a courtesan to finance it. However, the film periodically revisits the fictional 'childhood trauma' to justify the means she adopts to further her fortunes. We are meant to view her as a misguided but essentially good girl, a victim, and some kind of proto-revolutionary, rather than a greedy call-girl on the make. But the film would have been more interesting, I think, had it taken a less ingratiating approach and shown us Jeanne de la Motte the adventuress and courtesan. Certainly it would have given Hilary Swank more to get her teeth into, instead spending so much time looking dewy-eyed and wronged. The concluding captions are also misleading there is no mystery concerning Jeanne's fate - an attempt to escape creditors!Hilary looks too obviously a modern American girl in fancy dress skinny and toothy, not an 18C style of beauty. Given that much of the supporting cast was British (or Australian, in Simon Baker's case), her variable accent jarred, too. Joely Richardson, with her porcelain-doll looks (as in 'The Patriot', she is an actress who really suits 18C costume), was more successful as Marie Antoinette, although too thin and minus the Viennese accent.The romance between Jeanne and Marc-Antoine Rétaux de Vilette (Simon Baker) also fails de Vilette's elevation from opportunistic gigolo to 'noble romantic hero' status is unconvincing. Nicolas, her dissolute husband (Adrien Brody), could have been introduced earlier, to show how Jeanne got a foothold in society - a significant narrative gap. He in particular fell victim to the film's awkward shifts in tone, sometimes a comic foil, sometimes to be taken seriously as a fellow-conspirator. However, Adrien looks exquisitely handsome in (or partly out of!) 18C costume - long hair, unfastened frilled shirt - and is particularly dashing in an all-too-brief swordfight. I'd love to see him swashbuckle more! (He'd be great as André-Louis in 'Scaramouche' or the tragic Michael in a more faithful 'Prisoner of Zenda'!) The supporting cast gave fine performances Brian Cox was as reliable as ever as Baron de Breteuil, and Jonathan Pryce stole the show as the flamboyant Cardinal de Rohan, Prince of the Church and devout libertine. (The film did not indicate that the Cardinal was *already* one of Jeanne's sexual 'clients' *before* the necklace conspiracy.) Christopher Walken's Cagliostro could have been used to greater effect we saw hints that he recognised in Jeanne a kindred spirit, a fellow trickster adroitly playing on the credulity of others. Simon Shackleton and Joely Richardson, as the King and Queen, make the most of their brief scenes out of touch with their world, but by no means the malevolent caricatures portrayed in the street theatricals and pamphlets we see. We are nevertheless expected (unjustly) to take Jeanne's part against the Queen.But despite the quality of the acting and visual charm of the costumes and locations, 'The Affair of the Necklace' fails because of its uncertain tone and transformation of Jeanne de la Motte-Valois into a sentimental heroine. Had the story been treated as a costumed heist movie, had it not attempted to paint its unscrupulous confidence-tricksters as romantic heroes, it could have shown more spirit and dash. All that glisters is not gold, let alone diamonds, and 'The Affair of the Necklace' is ultimately mere paste it would take more than Cagliostro's alchemy to transmute it. "},{"Title":"Excellent... finally feels like an honest period drama","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This movie was so good I had to watch it again! Hilary Swank, as always, plays her character incredibly well.What I liked most about the movie (besides the intriguing plot, humor, action and mystery.. yes they are all there!) was that the characters were real. There was no pretense that people back then were more proper than they are today; they had the same desires, used what they had, and made the same mistakes, just in a different setting.Fans of Christopher Walken will be pleased to know that he has as unique a role as always, adding his special charm to the film where needed.There are also some great outtakes on the special features, which is also unusual but very refreshing for a period drama.I hope you rent it and enjoy it as much as I did! "}{"Title":"That this affair may have precipitated the fall of Marie Antoinette and various other guillotine candidates is the most intriguing part of this `Dangerous Liaisons' wannabe.","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  `Good name in man and woman . . . is the immediate jewel of their souls,' says Shakespeare's Iago. `The Affair of the Necklace' plays on that metaphor as it chronicles the attempt of 18th century Jeanne Valois  (Hilary Swank) to reclaim the estate and good name of her family after its seizure by the pre-revolution French crown. There can be no other possible similarity to the Bard's work beyond my quote.That this affair may have precipitated the fall of Marie Antoinette and various other guillotine candidates is the most intriguing part of this `Dangerous Liaisons' wannabe. Perhaps just as intriguing is Christopher Walken as the infamous Cagliostro, the legendary wizard-charlatan, who helps Swank maneuver for the title treasure and her family estate. Walken looks like a Madame Toussaud composite of ancien regime bad guys with laughable wigs and brooding glances.  Walken has more fun than anyone else in film history parodying himself.Hilary Swank should never again be allowed to speak stilted Beaumarchais as if it were an SNL skit, and writer John Sweet should be flogged for dialogue such as this The wound in my ass is barking like a pack of hounds. OrS**t will rain on us in biblical amounts. I am not interested in becoming its catch basin.Surely warning should be given to fine actors like Jonathan Pryce and Brian Cox that unless they play their roles for laughs, they will risk their audience's suspicion that the actors believe the film is a legitimate work of art.Director Charles Shyer should go back to `Smokey and the Bandit,' Swank to `Boys Don't Cry,' and Christopher Walken to  `America's Sweethearts.' We all should go to `The Royal Tenenbaum's' for amusing and artful court intrigue. "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Horrible. Generally I enjoy period movies, like the excellent remake of The Count of Monte Cristo, but this was HORRIBLE!  Thought I'd give it a try in spite of Hillary Swank.  But even the scenes without her character were bad. I'm glad I only rented this bomb! "},{"Title":"The story of a necklace, and it's power to bring down all of France...","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The Affair of the Necklace is a surprising film for one that falls within the dreaded period piece genre. Whenever I watch films of this nature I typically feel like I have seen the story time and time again. A mismatched couple finds love together, only to have some tragedy befall them by the end of the film. It is the classic Pride & Prejudice scenario mixed with a blend of Wuthering Heights. It is sad because for a very long time Hollywood couldn't release a film that redefined the genre. Most viewers avoided these types of films because of the cliché nature coupled with the dull, monotonous acting that could only be accomplished by a short-list of actors. To me the genre is painful, but this film doesn't seem to fit within that age-old mold. What makes this film stand out from the rest within the genre is the fact that screenwriter John Sweet gives us deception and intrigue with our characters, coupled with a story that you would see in typical mainstream cinema. While it may be based on a true event, Sweet's story, coupled with the decent eye of director Charles Shyer (of Baby Boom fame) gives us a modern twist instead of the stale comradery that this genre is commonly used to.What makes this film stand out is that Shyer doesn't hide anything from us. This can be both a positive and a negative because it doesn't keep you guessing until the end. You know what is going to happen, it isn't sympathetic in nature, but instead demonstrates the power of the human desire and the corruption of the human need. What I found interesting about this film is the contrast between the class that Swank tries to fit within and that of the upper class citizens of Versailles. All that she wants is to be a part of her family's history, which is that of wealthy and social standing, while it is that upper class that ultimately destroys the reputation of France. Swank's character Jeanne is shown to become a symbol of the common class, but in reality she is just trying to reach up into a wide open sky. The struggle then becomes rather confusing as Shyer wants us to feel sympathy for the obvious villain (Pryce) or are we to feel sympathy for the central character, Swank, which commits evil deeds for her own self righteousness. While some will argue that this is a downfall to the film, I kind of enjoyed it. I liked seeing my mind flutter between the two, knowing that one seems evil and the other is evil. It was creative for this period piece to see the story unfold from the eyes of the thief instead of the savior. This worked until the end, when Shyer demanded sympathy from us and, in my case, found none. By the end, I could not care what happened to Swank because she had it coming to her all along, from the beginning we see her mind reacting to situations, and this one happened to put her in the hypothetical hot seat. It was this internal struggle with this film that really made Shyer's outing stand apart from the rest in the genre.While I would agree with most film critics that Swank is an actress that is not afraid of sinking her teeth into a role, I did feel that this singular role was not made for her shoes. Swank seems silly as Jeanne, attempting to bring a level of emotion to a character that felt more snobbish and jealous than honest. Her smile, her actions, her sex-appeal just wasn't prevalent in this film, nor did it work. This was her first feature role after Boys Don't Cry, and I think that Shyer really just wanted to ride the Oscar bandwagon, without thinking further within his character. Pryce is &#133; well &#133; Pryce. If you have seen one of his period piece films, then you have seen him in this one. I think directors know he looks like someone from that period, so he is instantly cast. Simon Baker is a decent choice to play the gigolo; he seems to have the smile that could melt women. Adrien Brody seemed to come out from left field for this film. He is a great actor, but he was used as a classic reveal in this film. A surprise known actors comes in during the center of the film to bring viewers out of the possible sleep they could be facing. Christopher Walken, a actor that I believe rules this generation of cinema, was odd in this film. I kept waiting for him to yell, COWBELL, this film needs more COWBELL. He wore a strange mustache and odd hair, but was fun none the less. Alas, Antoinette herself could have been better played than through the eyes of Joely Richardson. While she may be a decent actress, this was just too goofy for her. While I loved Sweet's story, it was Shyer's choice of casting that really hurt the overall sensation of this film.Overall, I could suggest this film to friends and family. I thought, outside of the performances, that the cinematography was beautiful, the change of direction from your normal period piece drama was a breath of fresh air, and that Shyer did a decent job of placing a new spin on a tired genre. There are some major sparks to this film, but it just didn't light a full fire in my eyes. The addition of Alanis Morissette's hypnotic voice to the opening and closing to this film added a strong undertone that set the pace for the rest of the film. It was a strong film for Shyer; redefining a genre is smart, but he could have strengthened his directing arm a bit more by adding crucial actors to better roles and a less empathy towards the true villain.Grade *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"( Necklace + French Royalty + Sycophants^3 + (-morals)^4)^Karma=  French Revolution+Napoleon","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The Affair of the Necklace (AN) is historical drama that proves that the  all for the want of a nail parable holds true. It starts out 10-15 years before AN, when a minor French noble family was wiped out, just for saying let's be kind to the poor, and their property seized by the French crown. The big mistake was leaving a surviving child (Jeanne (Swank)) that later wanted her family name and property restored. The bigger mistake was not giving Jeanne her request so she would go away. Being on a just mission, Jeanne stays and adeptly moves through the sycophantic royal court gathering strength and allies. Finally, an opportunity to get even and restore her family's fortune, results in the scandal of The Affair of the Necklace. This scandal further disgraces the French Royalty, gets almost everyone else in trouble, and totally incites the rest. This helps lead to the French Revolution, then to the Napoleonic Wars. The final irony is Jeanne goes to England, out lives most everyone while France, the Royalty, and the sycophants get their just rewards. Just one big happy karmic cycle.The cast is chocked full of big name 2nd lead actors like Christopher Walken, Swank, and Pryce. This movie is beautifully-photographed and lavishly costumed. Granted AN may seem dull at times but history and real people cannot be entertaining at all times. AN also shows more than enough pettiness at court to fill a book and further savor the fate that await everyone (Alas, Russia in the 1910's made all the same mistakes). Rating for entertainment, I give AN a C but, for showing conniving powerful people, ring nosed sycophants, and history in an ironic twist, I give AN a B+. Overall this movie is much like Vatel (2000) where the small guy tries to hold the tail of the tiger (royalty) while walking a tightrope, over a shark pit, with sycophants cutting the line. All and all, a good history/people film. "},{"Title":"Excellent film based on history","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The Affair of the Necklace is an interesting attempt to explain the Diamond Necklace Scandal that brought about the French Revolution and the downfall of the French monarchy in the late 18th century.Conspirators, who want to turn public opinion against Queen Marie Antoinette,convince jewelers to design an especially beautiful necklace to gain the queen's favor. The schemers claim to represent the queen who, they propose, will find the piece irresistible and will pay handsomely for it. The jewelers are flattered by the supposed offer and believe they will prosper from having the queen as a customer.To further the plot, the conspirators have a millineress (hat-maker), who resembles the queen, pose as Marie Antoinette and meet with the jewelers in the Tuileries Gardens at night. The jewelers are duped into thinking they have gained royal favor, and they set about to please their queen.When Marie Antoinette is presented with the finished necklace at the palace, she knows nothing of the agreement and refuses to pay. The French public believes the necklace is one more extravagance in which the queen has indulged while her subjects suffer in want and poverty. The public outcry leads to the overthrow of the French monarchy and government and the executions of the king and queen.An interesting sideline is that The Glory of the Lord from Handel's Messiah and Hedge Roses, a concert song by Franz Schubert, are played as background music when Adrien Brody appears in a park scene in the film. The music is historically accurate, as both pieces were written in the earlier part of the 18th century.The plot is complex and difficult to follow in the first viewing, so that I recommend seeing it again and again. "},{"Title":"Could have been great.","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  From what I hear, the studio gave up on this film because too many stupid Americans couldn't figure out the plot. The film seems unpolished because it is. It was abandoned too late in the process, so the studio decided to put it out anyway.I really wish the common viewer would have been ignored, and the movie given the finish it deserves. It's beautiful, and could have been so much better. A lot of time was obviously put into it; I have to wonder why it was abandoned so easily.If I was any of the people involved with this movie, I'd be embarassed, simply because it was put out for public viewing without really being finished off correctly.Other than that, it was wonderful, for what it was. "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  The brilliant cinematography makes this picture worth seeing. One scene after another was a piece of art. It was like visiting a gallery of master paintings so I wished I could pause the movie to study the details. The director and cinematographer deserver awards for their work.The writing was also excellent. I love to be taken into a historic time and learn about the people and culture. In this I was more than rewarded.  The court of King Louis and Marie Antoinette seemed very real and human. I liked the way they were portrayed as humans trying to cope with their roles in life rather than the shallow fare usually dished out in movies. I loved the way the story traced the politics of court life.Some of the top actors of our time managed to put their best work into this film. I especially loved Christopher Walken and Jonathyn Pryce in their roles. Hillary Swank was great in the leading role. Everyone deserves awards for their works. "},{"Title":"An Affair to Remember","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" After watching the trailers, knowing the fuss that was made around its sole nomination to the costume design Oscar category, i still wanted to watch this movie as this is totally my type. Furthermore, the cast was also a must see Hilary Swank, Joely Richardson, Bryan Cox, Christopher Walken, Simon Baker and Adrian Brody. Regarding the cast and the movie as a whole my one complaint goes to Hilary Swank herself. I agree with everyone else that she is, in fact a tremendous actress, but i do not agree she is the right choice for this part. She doesn't combine with the image i had of Jeanne; i imagined her to look more fierce, strong-minded and cunning, whereas Swank seems to delicate and fragile in a role that requires for the exact opposite. What she, in fact, succeeds is in creating an enormous chemistry with the other main characters of Adrian Brody and Simon Baker.My complaints aside i think this movie works extremely well considering its main purpose it isn't supposed to be one of those larger than life Ron Howard-Biopic-straight-to-Oscar-run type of movies; and in all of its (to some extent) modesty it stands far steadier than something called a Brilliant Mind. I do not blame those who liked it (and there were many) but I, personally, didn't. Technically the production has nothing to be pointed at costumes, sets, cinematography, the soundtrack (pay attention to it) are all first class. Although I'm not particularly fond of Director Charles Shyer's movies, i liked the way he conducted this one, and hand in hand with screenwriter John Sweet theykept the movie flowing with a constant rhythm that makes the movie not seem longer or shorter than it should have been. Some point out some of it's historical accuracy; if only the respect payed to the real events were considered as they were here, we could all go to the movies regularly and believe in those so called actual events. If Jeanne's character wasn't molded in a way that made her seem more caring, the audience would leave the movie not caring for the lead and that's not what's suppose to happen, and it didn't happen here. "},{"Title":"absolutely fabulous darling!","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Affair is great as a period piece. To hell what they say about Christopher Walken's Dracula like hair. I loved him. I've read a couple of reviews that are very down on the film. If it were titled Revolution of the Necklace then yeah, more action would be nice, but as a drama, it's great. B- "},{"Title":"Highly talented, soon-to-be-two-time-Oscar-winner lead actress + LUMINOUS film-making + all-around great supporting cast= Best-Picture Material","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  My God- this movie is breathtaking!Charles Shyer has it all with this one.  Not only does Hilary Swank excel in her first big-budget sophmore attempt after the breakthrough we saw with Boys Don't Cry, but The Affair of the Necklace is the first top-notch, well-conceived and highly effective costume epic that's been produced since Scorsese's Age of Innocence.  The only thing I might take issue with is the accent-non-realism- yet one is even willing to forget that the actors seem to all have British accents, somewhat inconsistent with how the film takes place in Revolutionary France, because of the luminous cinematography and the concise, gorgeous dialogue-acting.  Watch out for this one.  Could be a mega-blockbuster. "}{"Title":"The Americanisation of the Necklace","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I wanted to watch this film because of an interest in the period, and in that sense, I wasn't disappointed. For someone without a nitpicky, in-depth knowledge of the era, I thought the 'court' costumes were stunning, and the 'love scene' was made all the more interesting because of the layers of clothes Hilary Swank had to get through!I wasn't aware of the details of 'true story' beforehand, and so I didn't have any cause to object to the 'Hollywood interpretation', nor would I now. I can recognise the difference between a movie and a documentary, and don't think the former should necessarily sacrifice its magic for each and every fact of the latter. The opening flashback, recounting the events of Jeanne's childhood, however, was a little too formulaic - the hazy, sunset meadow setting, with the young Jeanne on a swing, and her father returning home to his pregnant wife, reminded me of the opening to the dire 'Musketeer', which I started to watch for similar reasons. More 'syrupy' than magical.I would prefer a film, particularly an adaptation, where French characters are played by French actors. A perfect 'experiment' would be a faithful portrayal of Orczy's 'Scarlet Pimpernel', with an English actor who can break into believable French! Until that ceiling-smashing film comes, however, I think English actors are less 'distracting' in such roles than their American counterparts. At least 'BBC English' can be mentally interpreted as aristocratic French, and (true) Cock-er-nies, or Northern English accents, taken as the language of the 'people'. Hilary Swank's American drawl sat awkwardly with the era and the setting. I know that an American film has every right to select an American actress, but if such a choice is perfectly fitting, then why was Hilary Swank desperately trying to clip her natural speech into a forced British accent? Her lines sounded like a high school recital. Adrien Brody suited the part physically, and I loved the scene with the doctor after he was accidentally shot, although it did seem slightly 'Carry On ..'-esque. The rest of the film seemed to demand he should have been fatally wounded. With the light-weight Simon Baker, I just kept wondering which Australian soap I recognised him from (Heartbreak High).There were a number of fade outs towards the end of the film where I thought the credits should have rolled - I agree with a previous review, in that there really wasn't enough story to sustain nearly two hours of film - but, in the style of Spielberg's 'A.I.', the bulk of the running time was easy enough to watch.A superficially well-dressed dramatisation. "},{"Title":"Not my cup of tea...","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Hilary Swank stars as the 18th century French countess who, having been stripped by the crown, schemes her revenge by obtaining a necklace worth millions.The only reason I watched this film was because I'm a fan of Swank. I've seen her in several films and I am occasionally impressed by her work, although I regret to say I was much less than impressed in this one. Christopher Walken is another favorite of mine, but his work here, I felt was overpowered by Swank's rather lacking performance, and I really never DID care for Adrien Brody.I'm not an expert of the time, and I know this film is based on factual events, the only part of this particular time in history is Marie Antoinette's part in it...Let them eat cake. So, hence, I really don't feel right on commenting on the events, themselves. The part that stood out in my mind, though, was that all the actors in this film gave more of an English accent, than they did a French one...or was I just imagining that? 3 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Splendid historical drama with top flight cast","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" THE AFFAIR OF THE NECKLACE Aspect ratio 2.391Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDS1780's France Whilst attempting to reclaim her family estate - stolen by an indifferent Marie Antoinette (Joely Richardson) - a spirited young noblewoman (Hilary Swank) sets in motion a sequence of events that will help precipitate the French Revolution.Violence and intrigue amongst the aristocrats of 18th century Europe, just before the guillotine curbed its worst excesses. Swank is miscast as an embittered avenger, but she plays the role with some conviction and is bolstered by Simon Baker (LAND OF THE DEAD) as the handsome libertine who falls in love with her and foregoes his sluttish lifestyle to accommodate Swank's quest for justice. Jonathan Pryce is the debauched Cardinal whose lust for power blinds him to the costly deceit perpetrated against him by Swank and Baker, leading to their eventual downfall and condemnation at trial, based on true events which led (in part) to the French Revolution. Christopher Walken is Pryce's flamboyant 'spiritual' adviser who sees through Swank's deception and uses it to his own advantage, with ruinous consequences for all concerned, and Adrien Brody is the tarnished nobleman whom Swank marries for convenience in pursuit of her birthright. Filmed on location in Prague, the movie is visually resplendent, and director Charles Shyer (2004's ALFIE) takes full advantage of the palaces and mansions which operate as backdrop to his fascinating drama. "},{"Title":"Not entirely a bomb.","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I cannot pin point where the film went wrong. It was engaging from the very beginning. The lush cinematography and production design were awe striking. My favorite actors were Joely Richardson and Brian Cox who stole every scene they were in. Ms. Richardson's Marie Antoinette gave the impression of an actor who truly researched her character to bring about the most realism imaginable. Antoinette, we gather from history books was aloof and naive, but mostly insecure about herself and other's perception of her. Ms. Richardson was uncanny in her role.  Somewhere between historical accuracy, or the chain of events in the screenplay turned the Countess (Hillary Swank) into an unbeliable canniving witch, and then much too soon she becomes a martyr. This is were the film went wrong. It was quite a stretch in performance for even a fine actor like Ms. Swank, too little time to pull off such a range of emotion. I can think of no other than Cate Blanchett to pull off such a task. In any case, had these problems been resolved, the film would have been oscar worthy. "},{"Title":"Should have been fabulous. It wasn't.","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This historical drama is very nearly fabulous - but just misses it. It is a famous tale of intrigue and scandal, one that lent fiery fuel to Marie Antoinette's bad reputation, which in turn led to her beheading. It is the story of Countess Jeanne St. Remy Valois, played by Hilary Swank in her first role after winning an Oscar for *Boys Don't Cry*. Perhaps the point was to see how Miss Swank could act while wearing a dress, but the results are mixed, to say the least. Made out to be completely sympathetic, the Countess sees her father murdered and their property taken from them, and she wishes to avenge the wrong done to them. Begging for an audience with the Queen (Joely Richardson *is* fabulous as Marie Antoinette), the Countess is rebuffed. Meanwhile, in an unrelated episode, the Queen's jewelers have designed a magnificent diamond necklace, but the Queen, though she allegedly covets the necklace, does not purchase it, leaving the jewelers in a tight spot. The Countess falls in with an attractive courtier (Baker) and also forms an alliance with Cardinal de Rohan (played magnificently by Jonathon Pryce), who is out of favor with the Queen, and convinces him to buy the necklace to smooth things over between them. Of course, the Countess is planning on stealing the necklace so that she may live happily ever after. Through machinations such a stolen letterhead, mistaken identities and other deceptions, the story comes to a boil when the details of the scandal begin to see the light of day, and unravels the careers of everyone concerned (especially Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette). It is a gripping story in the right hands. Clearly director Charles Shyer's oeuvre is comedy, and he's written, directed or produced many fine ones, such as *Private Benjamin*, *Irreconcilable Differences*, *Father of the Bride* and *The Parent Trap*. But historical drama is not his long suit. The supporting cast, cinematography, costumes and art direction are superb and engaging, but Swank is the weak link in the equation. She is simply not skilled enough to handle the role - she is passionless and wooden, but fortunately there are many scenes without her that sizzle with drama. All in all, there is a great deal of entertainment here, and if you though Hilary Swank was good in *Beverly Hills 90210*, then you'll love her in this.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre period piece which should have been made by the French","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  The Affair of the Necklace tells of the infamous French necklace affair which supposedly undermined the credibility of Marie Antoinette's reign contributing to her ultimate demise. With all the trappings of a period flick, the film fails on many levels not the least of which is a cosmopolitan cast moving woodenly though their roles speaking with a variety of accents, none French. A unfortunate effort,  The Affair... seems to try to be both a drama and a documentary resulting in a disjointed conglomeration of incidents lacking in  homogeneity, atmospherics, and a pervasive theme of cunning and wickedness. Not one of the better period films in recent years, The Affair... should have been left to the French to make. "},{"Title":"Muted effort.","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This film drags and although Hilary Swank is excellent and could get another Oscar nomination, I thought the lack of sub plots hurt the film.  This film spends its entire time trying to set up a deception which the main character hopes will pay off in her favour.  As good as the cast is, some of them are not given enough depth.  Christopher Walken is such an intimidating bad guy in movies that I would have liked to have seen his character expanded on here.  The only other character mildly interesting besides Swank's is the Cardinal played by Jonathan Pryce.  Director Charles Shyer moves the film's pace along well, but its focus is too much on some things and not enough on others.  This is not a classic by any means, despite the notion that it's based on fact and allegedly led to the start of the French revolution. Oh, well, stranger things have happened. "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie in spite of the negative reviews and was pleasantly surprised--in fact, I left the theater wondering if the critics had seen the same film I did.  The cast was outstanding, the cinematography was stunning and the story was intriguing.  If you like costume dramas and you're looking for some escapist entertainment, The Affair of the Necklace is a good pick.   "},{"Title":"Oscar-bait that misses the mark","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Here we have a failed attempt at securing a shoe-in for an Oscar.  For whatever reason, people are fascinated by these period pieces with their stuffy characters and boring plot-lines.  In this one, we have a rich girl whose birth-right (lots of money and the ability to have servants) were taken away from her by the French royalty.  Somehow, we're supposed to feel sorry for her and enjoy watch her connive her way to getting all her money back.  That's bad enough, but the acting is even worse.  For whatever reason, the director decided everyone (including the American actors) should have British accents, even though all the characters are French and the film takes place in pre-revolution France!  I think the French would be more than a bit offended and frankly I am too.  Americans are not so dumb that we think any European has a British accent!  Anyways, this film, while beautifully shot, is a complete waste of time.  That's why it's average rating is a 6.0. "},{"Title":"Bland and Generic Nonsense","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" A very dry, but lightweight, period piece that feels more like a British costume drama series than a movie &#150; and one produced by ITV rather than the BBC at that. Writer Sweet has never really done anything of previous note and his screenplay bares all the trademarks of amateurism, most glaringly in just how 'overwritten' it is, with every character being forced to explain every decision they make and every thought that runs through their head, thus killing any opportunity for emotional complexity or dramatic subtext. Director Shyer is a writer &#150; the mind that brought us populist comedies like 'Smokey and the Bandit', 'Private Benjamin', and 'Father of the Bride' - but behind the camera his talent is pedestrian at best, at times being so clumsy, with shots framed so awkwardly, as to actually draw attention to itself.The pacing of the story is very slow, with the entire first hour being little more than backstory and exposition before the necklace plot is finally introduced and any character is given any immediately pressing motivation. Things become more interesting and the actual mechanics of the scandal itself are reasonably well orchestrated, but all involved are so content to slide by with delivering exactly what we expect and not surprise us with anything remotely new, that the whole thing seems like a generic pot-luck of a dozen other movies and TV shows.Almost every character is horribly miscast. Swank once again reveals her limited range and Simon Baker is as bland an actor as can be imagined. The two are supposed to be romantic and passionate lovers, and yet possess as much on screen charisma as a couple of pickled herring. Brody has fun with a limited role and Walken does his usual 'eccentric' thing. Pryce and Cox can do this kind of nonsense in their sleep and manage, against all the odds, to create real characters, and Richardson makes for a seemingly authentic Antoinette. But in all, it's a pretty sorry line-up of dull and uninspired performances and the casting directors should be shot.It has to be noted that the soundtrack is appalling, with the opening 'song' almost forcing me to press the eject button before the film had even started &#150; a bizarre and offensive wailing like the very worst of Italian-restaurant-muzak.I Netflixed this movie on the recommendation of others after being so appalled by Coppola's 'Marie Antoinette'. But while Coppola's movie was one of the worst I've seen all year, it was at least a unique and visually engaging vision of Ancient Regime France. 'The Affair of the Necklace' does not have even that to recommend it. "}]