[{"Title":"Tender and Thoughtful","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"76 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  On the Long Island Expressway, Howie says, You got your lanes going east, you got your lanes going west, and you got your lanes going straight to hell. Perched on a barrier above the Long Island Expressway ready to jump, 15 year old Howie Blitzer (Paul Franklin Dano) tells us that the L.I.E. has claimed many lives including folk singer Harry Chapin, film director Alan J. Pakula, and Howie's mother in a recent car crash. Now scared and alone, emotionally distant from his sleazy, corrupt father, and having fallen in with a gang of thieves and male prostitutes, Howie is poised to become the next victim of the Expressway.L.I.E. is the coming of age story of a boy who must quickly develop resiliency to cope with the loss of the things closest to him; his mother to the L.I.E., his father to the criminal justice system, and his best friend Gary to the lure of California. More real than American Beauty, more honest than Ghost World, less sleazy than Kids or Happiness, L.I.E. is a tender and thoughtful, often funny, examination of the lives of suburban teens who are without guidance or adult role models and who must develop inner strength simply in order to survive.Like taking drugs to numb the pain of their boredom and loneliness, Howie, his friend Gary, and a few others have been robbing the expensive houses of their Long Island neighbors just for the excitement of seeing how much they can get away with. One of their escapades takes them to the house of Big John Harrigan (brilliantly performed by Scottish actor Brian Cox), a macho ex-marine well known in the neighborhood as a chickenhawk (for those uninitiated, an individual with a predilection for sex with young men). This encounter is a turning point for young Howie.Howie and Big John develop a relationship which, while the possibility of man-boy sex is clearly implied, is not threatening or exploitative, but provides Howie with the substitute father-figure he so desperately needs. In portraying Big John, first time director, Michael Cuesta resists moralizing and courageously defies stereotyping. (NOTE in reality, the sexual predator is more likely to be an inconspicuous business or professional man who uses sex in a furtive manner to satisfy some unfilled need, not the flamboyant, in-your-face sleaze ball that Big John represents).Paul Franklin Dano as Howie completely captures the confusion and neediness of a lonely teen trying to discover who he is, and he is very reminiscent of a young River Phoenix. Howie comes alive as an immature, lonely, and sexually confused teen, yet a sensitive and intelligent individual who writes poetry to give voice to his loneliness. Howie startles Big John with his knowledge of Chagall and quotes this Walt Whitman strain from Leaves of Grass to him while riding in his carNever more the cries of unsatisfied love be absent from me, Never again leave me to be the peaceful child I was before what there, in the night, By the sea, under the yellow and sagging moon, The messenger there arous'd-the fire, the sweet hell within, The unknown want, the destiny of me.It is uncertain until the end whether Howie will succumb to the forces closing in on him or develop the inner strength to cope with his loss.This movie has caused some consternation in some quarters because it shows a sexual predator as a complex human being with feelings. Cuesta does not advocate man-boy relationships but does show that these relationships can often be based on mutual need, something some may overlook when screaming sexual abuse. Cuesta forces us to look at the multi-leveled components of the relationship, both the predator and the protector, the manipulator and the manipulated. The filmmaker presents the older man as he is, an exploiter with layers of self-hatred and shame, but also as a human being, capable of warmth and love. At the end, if nothing else, I sensed that Howie through his pit stop relationship with Big John was older, wiser, and much more capable of dealing with his problems.Despite some poorly drawn characters (his father in particular is a caricature) and an oversimplified ending that would have been better left on the cutting room floor, I truly loved this film and would recommend it highly.Stupidly rated NC-17, L.I.E. is a film that should be seen by both teenagers and their parents. "},{"Title":"Sexual Honesty","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"67 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" As a sexuality educator I was impressed by the straightforward, nonjudgmental nature of a rather difficult topic. I vacillated between giving this film an 8 or a 9 and decided on 9 because we need more films like this. This topic requires understanding, not acceptance mind you, but real honest understanding. The very fact that it was given an nc-17 rating is part of the problem with our society. There was about as much sex as I've seen in R or even PG-13 movies, the rating was obviously ONLY because of the uncomfortable subject matter. How can society solve a problem that it clearly does not even want to talk about, let alone understand? "},{"Title":"Brilliant and daring","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"54 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's shocking that this film was ever made. You don't often get characters this well written in American independent cinema, and you certainly don't get characters who are pedophiles portrayed with this much thought behind them. Todd Solondz's Happiness can only be partially counted, as that pedophilic character was played half as comedy (very daring in its way, as well). Brian Cox gives the performance of a lifetime with this character - you won't entirely understand how perfect he is or how perfectly written he is until you see it. Any expectation you can come up with will be quashed when you see the film.But, aside from that, this film is about young Howie, also played brilliantly by newcomer Paul Franklin Dano. This is one of the best films about the status of high school students today. No, not all kids are like this, but these characters represent an important segment in the school population. This could have easily been one of those my-dad-is-too-busy-to-pay-attention-to-me-so-I'm-going-to-act-out movies, and, indeed, it is in a way, but the characters and situations are so well written - and the film's technique is amazing, as well - that they're entirely believable.I praise the hell out of Michael Cuesta for making this film. He's an absolute daredevil. Almost every piece of the film is like a highwire act, and he only stumbles at the very end. It's just too abrupt and simplistic, as if some producer thought that these characters shouldn't be able to live their lives. I hope Cuesta will make more films in the future. He's one of the best to pop up in the last few years.  "},{"Title":"Mouth dropping","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"44 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think that's the adjectivian phrase that i'm looking for to describe my reaction to this film. From the opening film scene to the abrupt end my eyes were like saucers as my head often shook side to side as if to say no. As a shrink who deals with children, this is an excellent examination of how many times there are no easy solutions and good kids can easily find themselves in bad straits. This is the best movie that I have seen in the past 3 years, which is quite a compliment since I attend movies regularly. I've warned fellow movie buffs of the strong content while suggesting that they look beyond that to examine what they think about the films commentary on teens developing their identities as they seek to enter into adulthood.  "},{"Title":"Realistic, pulls no punches.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This story rings true because it's something that happens in the real world all the time, whether people want to admit it or not. The film captures events and emotions that are complex, challenging, and confusing.Howie, a young, intelligent, good-looking boy attracts attention from the same sex and isn't sure how he feels about it. He meets Big John, and finds himself fascinated and impressed by the man's life, flattered and a bit scared at the attention he shows, and also somewhat repulsed by the man's attraction for young boys.John, for his part, begins the relationship from a position he's quite familiar with using his power as a worldly and canny adult to manipulate someone else. He feels physically attracted to Howie, but as they spend more time together, he sees the depth of the boy's character and a sensitivity similar to his own. Howie brings out the good side in John (and some people may be shocked that the film shows how a pedophile can have a good side, but this is reality and it is well depicted).Howie's feelings are excellently illustrated as they run a wide spectrum confused, repulsed, lonely, defiant, confident, aroused, at times even suicidal. I empathized with and admired the character, and found myself rooting strongly for him to rise above the tragic and frustrating circumstances in which he found himself. In the end I felt a sense of triumph as we saw that, despite his unfortunate situation and his own flaws and weaknesses, he does possess the strength and character to face the world and become his own person. "},{"Title":"Spoke to me in many ways","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Howie Blitzer is having some serious trouble dealing with the death of his mother. His father is never around and is constantly with other women and his only friend is Gary, another troubled kid who Howie is sexually attracted to and who leads him and a couple other misfits to houses to steal from. Eventually, Howie and Gary rob the house of a pederast named Big John(Brian Cox). Big John finds Howie and at first sees him as another teenager that he can fool around with. However, upon meeting Howie, he realizes that Howie doesn't needs a father figure more than he needs a sexual partner.There is one single flaw with the film. That is the ending. The film ends in heartless violence. It would have been better to end ambiguously. However, even that single flaw doesn't make me love the film any less. This is one of those films that is so honest, so pitch-perfect in the people it is depicting, so fearless in what it's willing to show, that, to me, it is almost required viewing.This film really spoke to me. I can really relate to it in a lot of ways because I had a terrible time back when I was fifteen since I had been bullied around and didn't really have anyone to talk to. I had experienced the loss of people I loved as well, and I dealt with those bad feelings for a while. I can really relate to the Howie character. I think we all, at one time or another, felt a little like Howie Blitzer. He's a great character. Despite his problems, he still is a good writer and he still appreciates art and the things that matter to him. The performances are remarkably natural and extraordinary, the cinematography is top-notch, the script is both hilarious and heartbreaking, and the whole film has such a strong sense of intensity and ferocity that it's really difficult to stop watching it once you start. It does everything a film is supposed to do. It's extremely entertaining, challenging, and bizarre. It's one of the best films of the 21st century. "},{"Title":"A true to life tale of a young suburban male teenager.","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I've practically lived this film so I know what it portray's isn't exploitive or audacious in the negative sense. It's a simple story of a kid growing up in the suburbs. The meaninglessness and frustration of this way of life I felt was painted nicely by the cinematographer and the director. The omnipotent lukewarm attempts by the high school and social structure were represented in a fair manner. It's a story of a teenager dealing with many things straight on. This movie is really an interesting look into modern western life as seen by a young kid. The movie draw's you in like all good film-making should. The acting is great. The story will hold your attention and be engaging to you regardless of your childhood. The only stumbling blocks will be your own pretenses or cynicism. It's not a complex story on the surface but everything that isn't spelled out is where the weight of the film resides. "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking, unsettling and at times downright disturbing ...","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Thought-provoking, unsettling and at times downright disturbing, this is nevertheless a brilliant movie. An excellent script is given justice by some tight direction and marvellous performances, particularly by Brian Cox (Manhunter, The Ring) in a career-best performance.It may not be sunny and happy, but it's a powerful piece of film-making. I could go on and on about it - but that's what message boards are for.9/10 "},{"Title":"Fine Job","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" L.I.E. is the name of the movie and short for Long Island Expressway. At the beginning of the movie fifteen year-old Howie stands on top a bridge over that expressway . A fine opening sequence in which we are not sure he will jump nor how the movie will break away from the tense opening. He returns to the bridge several times during the movie. The fifteen year-old has lost mother to the L.I.E. and has no substantive relationship with his father. He becomes friends with another boy who sells his body to men at a local rest stop. Together they rob houses and are caught in the act attempting to rob the home of a pederast called Big John. Howie narrowly escapes sans the left rear pocket of his jeans which Big John has torn from him in the chase. Later the pederast and Howie become friends. I don't want to give away too much of the plot but I found this movie a sensitive portrayal of a difficult subject to present objectively(especially in these times of the new conservatism) namely man-boy love. The film has a very erotic quality to it with some nice shots of the teen in underwear. The keen edge of the drama is mollified by fine sequences of comic relief involving the friends of the main character. Ironically the only explicit sex scene was a heterosexual one between Howie's father and his girlfriend. The sound track is very good I thought. I liked the bit where they played 'Hurdy-Gurdy Man' as Big John is cruising the junior high school. And they have a touching Handel aria near the end. I think the relationship between the boy and the older man was well done. The actor who played Big John was exceptional. Much light is thrown on his character in scenes having nothing to do with boys his birthday party, his drive home near the end. The only part I did not care for was the ending. It did not seem to fit at all. Roger Ebert felt the same way indicating that it seemed like an ending spliced on from another movie. I agree. I give two thumbs up to this movie one for the way they portrayed the subject matter and another for the fine acting.  "},{"Title":"A Film About Consequences","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a great little film about consequences. Howie is a typically confused but bright middle class kid with a one dimensional father and lug-nuts for friends. This film explores the soft underbelly of middle class Long Island, as well as the consequences that are borne as a result. Howie's explorations for attention lead him dangerously close to a pedophile who is more than willing to play dad to the affection starved teen. The low-budget aspects of this movie are not distracting, and though the subject matter is raw, the scenes are handled with taste. The film is kept honest through some thoughtful provocation, and the audience is kept honest as well. This film should be seen by parents of teens, and especially seen by anyone who is a father.  "}{"Title":"The ending was terrific","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I just want to comment about the ending, which many people ( Roger Ebert among them) didn't like.SPOILERS!!! First off, we must realize that Big John is not really a pedophile... that is a lover of boys. He is a lover of adolescents... the proper term would be Ephebophile. However, since common usage has taken over, I will use the term pedophile here although it is not correct.There are two things I thought were good about the ending. First, it reminds us of the negative possibilities to Big John's way of living his desire for young men - in that he leads young men on, but ultimately will ditch them when they become too old for him.It is interesting to note that the young man who kills him does so out of rage from jealousy. He LOVES Big John, and wants his attentions for himself.Now this is already a major point to drive home to the movie-going public. Generally, they have been brought up to think that these boys are VICTIMS... they forget that the boys sometimes are HAPPY to be in the relationship (as long as it is working). The fact that they might get ditched for someone else is NOT just a problem with pedophiles; it happens at some point in almost any love affair. People seem to forget that often what keeps these kids with the older man is love... plain and simple.Yes, Big John is exploiting the kid who kills him - but that's not why the kid does what he does.Second reason why I think the ending is good Most people generally think that the Big Johns in this world deserve to die. What they forget is the effect the imprisonment, or simply the end of the relationship might have on the kids in question. Here, Howie has just learned that his Dad is in jail. His mum is dead. The only person who seems to want to help him is Big John... in fact, the only STABILITY that Howie might just find in this world (now that his best friend has left him) is, once again, Big John. When Big John gets shot dead, my first reaction was Omigod, NOW what will happen to Howie? I think that this is an amazing ending, because despite all the negatives we might have about pedophiles in general, in THIS case we are suddenly forced to admit that Big John's death will be BAD for the kid, rather than good.I think that this is the first film that has ever managed to portray a pedophile in a fair light. It makes for reasoned thought as opposed to knee-jerk reactions. Bravo! "},{"Title":"Wonderful film","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS If you liked 'American Beauty', you'll love this. It's affectionate, philosophical, and real. The characters are portrayed with a fresh virtuosity and the plot flows nicely. My only complaint is it should have been longer.The film begins with Howie Blitzer, an intellectual 15-year-old who demonstrates an extensive knowledge of the arts (eg, he knows all about Chagall and can recite Whitman from memory), fluency in French, recalcitrance towards his father, and a unique deftness for writing poems. His mother was tragically killed on the L.I.E. (Long Island Expressway), an event which has had a huge impact on Howie.Howie hangs out with what society would label the wrong people (one hilarious character has unprotected incestuous sex with his little sister; and as disturbing as this sounds, the movie displays it with such wry humor that you'll find yourself laughing, not vomiting.) But the most intriguing of all of these wrong people is Gary, a promiscuous bisexual who steals, cusses, and adorns his body with tattoos and piercings. He invites Howie (who begins to start having homosexual feelings of his own toward Gary) to runaway to California with him. But Gary ends up stealing money from Howie and leaving for California alone.Howie, repudiated by his best friend and rumored gay lover, becomes ravenous for love. His clandestine hunger attracts a pedophile named Big John, who claims to be a long lost friend of Howie's late mother's. But because no sex takes place between them and because of the ingenious directing job, the prospect that Big John may not be exploiting Howie and may actually love him is almost believable. The directing job is so wonderful that it makes us ignore the fact that Big John says that he likes girls and that he has polaroid pictures of all the other young boys he has taken in (one of whom is none other than Gary.)The film beautifully illustrates the universal truth that the commonality that transcends the demarcations of human diversity is the interior need to be loved. No matter how contemptuous we act towards others, we crave the resplendance of Love. Although I do not approve of pedophilia, rape, incest, or any other sex that does not entail mutual concent and has dire psychological reprecussions, this movie opened my eyes and my heart to feel compassion for those who commit those acts because deep inside, they need love as much as I do. "},{"Title":" There are highways which lead to Hell.  This is a Short cut ","Date":"24 April 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Writer and Director of this incredible film Called  Long Island Expressway  is non other than Michael Cuesta. In this day and age, this type of film challenges not only social convention but moral platitudes as well. Indeed, any solid actor has to fear possible Ridicule and also the disdain from critics and small minded individuals as well. However the main cast which includes Brian Cox (Superb performance) as John Harrigan and Paul Dano as Howie Blitzer do such a brilliant job, they are sure to earn great praise, awards and high acclaim when accepting such hazardous roles. Their characters in this movie are sure to attract social venom, vile comment, and stern condemnation, but is doesn't alter the fact that stories such as these, need to be addressed, not shunned. The world is filled with such stories and burying ones' head in the sand will not dissipate their fear, nor make them go away. In essence, the film reveals the life of fifteen-year-old Howie Blitzer who's mother has died and who's' father is facing Federal incarceration. Further, his best friend is a house-robbing thief, male prostitute, who with his other friends are juvenile delinquents seeking kicks. Howie himself feels abandoned by his abusive and absent father and is easy prey for his close friend John. Sensing the lonely boy struggles with his anger, sorrow and personal demons, John offers understanding, shelter and companionship. However, John, a retired, ex-military man suffers from his own dark desires which includes rebellious teen-age run-aways. Together, the two are drawn towards dangerous goals which invite disaster. Adding to the danger of the two are their youthful friends. There is Howie's friend, Gary, an unstable teen kleptomaniac forever seeking the Big Score which will allow him to escape to California and John's envious teenage house guest who believes he's about to be replaced by a younger boy. The story is one of pain, sadness, redemption and hope, none of which come in abundance. However, the movie is unlike most and future audiences Will judge if the writer has created a monster or a Classic. Recommended to anyone with an open mind. **** "},{"Title":"Disturbing insight into the underbelly of society","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Big John is a 50 something ex US marine who lives with Scott, a youth of about 18 in a smart suburban villa somewhere in Oregon. He holds parties for middle aged folk at home and is nagged by his aged mum to look after his health. He was in love with girl when he was young but never married citing the reason that all women are 'maneaters'. Although Scott has his own room they sometimes sleep together and in his private moments Big John looks at internet pictures of young teen-aged boys.Big John isn't strictly a pedophile as no prepubescent children are involved in his life but he certainly appears to be a pederast. He cruises the local pick up zone where teen-aged male prostitutes ply their trade offering blow jobs behind a road sign for a few bucks. And there he meets 16 year old Gary, a good looking local tearaway and hustler who also burgles houses with his school mates for extra cash.Gary isn't necessarily gay but he uses his looks and charm to best advantage. Accordingly he is the object of adoration by 15 year old Howard, a gay school mate, who dreams of running off with Gary to a romantic life together in California.But their plans and dreams must change when they decide to rob Big John of his prized antique revolvers - and the ex marine quickly discovers their guilt.The subsequent drama is beautifully intense without being heavy. And most of all it raises essential questions about the true nature of pederasts and the boys they befriend. Who is exploiting who? Who is the real victim of this sadly common circumstance? Are pederasts always evil? What exactly are the real motives of Big John, Gary, Scott and Howard? And who is the villain? The film ends very suddenly with an emotional shock. And it is our personal feelings towards the characters after that shock which seems to be the whole point of the movie. Well recommended for all - and particularly for parents of teen-aged boys with crushes on other boys. "},{"Title":"Second time around","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It is a rare occurrence that I read a book or see a movie twice. When I first viewed L.I.E. I came away mildly impressed with the acting, writing and overall production. Considering the content man/boy sex &#x96; it was a fast-moving drama unthinkable ten years ago.However, the content is never fully explored -- only exploited. Obviously, vivid scenes of sexual encounters with an underage minor are (thankfully) against the law -- at least in the USA. Furthermore, such graphic depictions would have betrayed the coming-of-age thesis that is prevalent in most of the film.The director and writer, Michael Cuesta captured that theme confusion, frustration, anger, angst, etc., with a near-superb delicateness. However, the cliché-ridden, chicken-hawk characterization of Big John does not mesh realistically with young Howie, amongst other things.Howie Blitzer, age 15 (born July 8, 1986 -- interesting trivia introduced - well, see the film and you'll understand) is portrayed by Paul Dano. (Dano was closer to 17 when the film was made according to IMDb.) Basically, Howie is infatuated with street-wise, teen-boy prostitute, and part-time thief, Gary. The audience is left (or at least I was) not knowing Gary's age. At least 16, I suppose? Early on in the film the non-sexual relationship between the two burgeoning delinquents glimpses an intimacy that is nothing but deeply sensual and sexual. This was one of the numerous lost moments when two characters (both age-appropriate) could have cemented their angst with something simple like a kiss. Gary's character is aggressive and well-written, but departs much too soon. Not so for the protagonist Howie.Howie, underplayed by the teen-age Mr. Dano, or over-directed by writer/director/producer Michael Cuesta, Dano's Howie appears displaced as an upper-income, motherless teen. Howie has certainly annexed the ghetto dialect of the uglier inner-city street corners with ease; a perfect fit saddled with the necessary, never-ending profanities of a street-tough gangster peppered with fight scenes. This characterization is difficult to believe especially from a youth who resides in an Architectural Digest ready home in upscale Long Island suburbia. He speaks fluent French and nimbly quotes Walt Whitman in a peculiar mental-seduction scene with the chicken-hawk, Big John.Big John Harrigan is portrayed by Brian Cox. Lost moments are abundant. No doubt that Cox is believable in his attempt as the 'under-the-radar' pedophile. The simple flaw is Cox's Big John portrayal is overly ostentatious in speech and macho bravado. Big John would've absolutely raised eyebrows, if not direct questioning, by the police in the scene where he rescues his nephew Howie from a night in jail. Additionally, Big John's rejection when near-naked Howie (clad only in his jockey's) seeks physical (and emotional?) comfort in Big John's embrace. I imagine this is to show the love for the youngster knowing that sex is just a matter of time and some grooming.I remain supportive of the film simply because it tackles a taboo subject. Sometimes it tries too hard and bounces back to the viewer. In an unusual way we can easily empathize with the characters. But, not so fast. The script takes the easy way out &#x96; or does it? See the film and agree or not. "},{"Title":"A definite must see film","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have recently found this title, one of my favourite films now, as we go into the 2010 Edinburgh International Film Festival, this was a winner in 2003, I hope the new film by Dagur Kari, the director of Noi Albinoi, and the actors Paul Dano and Brian Cox will be as good. This film L.I.E, the best film I have seen since Just Another Love Story, and before that Let the Right one in. a definite must see, and if you like this one then try Mysterious Skin very similar but very different film. L.I.E a killer performance by Paul Dano, with this film you can see a brilliant actor who fits the role and accompanied by Brian Cox, the two of them bouncing off each other giving a real glow to the film, creating many memorable scenes. "},{"Title":"Powerful movie","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was a kind of random pick at the video store. I only read the back and figured it might be an OK movie. Having my mom's life cut short I though it might be a movie a can relate to. Wow is all I can say. Very powerful movie that has so much for anyone regardless of age. It touched on very relevant topics that kids and parents should be aware of. Having grown up in the burbs and having a father who to this day is very much like Howies father I relived many feeling I did when I was 15. The way that Howie misses his mom and the poems associated were so personal to me. The feelings of loss displayed in this movie are so close to the ones I still have today. This movie has made my top 10 list for sure. "},{"Title":"A minor modern classic","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 'I needed to make a movie that stayed with people emotionally and psychologically' says L.I.E. director Michael Cuesta. The result, his debut, bears all the hallmarks of a quietly assured, minor modern classic. As Brian Cox, who plays L.I.E's big-hearted pederast 'Big John' Harrigan, says, 'It's old-fashioned in many ways, a film that takes its time and doesn't suffer from MTV jump-cutting'. Such subtleties cut no slack with US censors, who saddled it with a damaging and unsuccessfully appealed NC-17 rating. A knee-jerk reaction, its distributors argued, 'to a small grab-bag of wholly misunderstood moments.infinitely less graphic and gratuitous than many dozens of other films given R ratings.' Despite its sole depiction of nudity being a three-second shot of a (rampantly heterosexual) male buttock, 17-year-old filmgoers were legally obliged to view this intricate study of suburban dislocation with their bemused guardians in tow - a dictate distributors optimistically steered to their advantage. L.I.E's searingly honest exploration of adolescence might now become 'a unique opportunity for a meaningful dialogue' between parents and teens. An unlikely occurrence in the main, given its fleeting, near-invisible cinematic outing.L.I.E stands for Long Island Expressway, a commuter-crowded freeway running like a knife slash through an affluent New York suburb; for Cuesta 'a metaphor for a kid who's about to be sent into the scary world of adulthood regardless of whether he's ready or not'. A hazardous route then which, we learn, has already killed 'Cat's in the Cradle' singer/songwriter Harry Chapin, All the President's Men director Alan J Pakula - and the mother of L.I.E.'s 15-year-old Howie (a remarkable performance of put-on adolescent toughness, vulnerability and knowing from Paul Franklin Dano). The 'lie' of the title symbolising the myth of cosy suburbia but more pertinently, the casual or far-reaching deceits L.I.E.'s guilt-edged cast of slack-jawed wide boys, footloose rent boys, corrupt white-collar contractors and 'always ashamed' Chicken Hawks will visit on themselves and one another, emotionally hobbled, or shot-through with grief, every one.If L.I.E initially drew comparisons with the work of Harmony Korine, Larry Clark - and Todd Solondz in particular, Cuesta's film contains a warmth and delicacy often lacking from these fellow chroniclers of suburban juvenile woe. The semi-autobiographical script, by Stephen M Ryder and Michael and Gerald Cuesta, is kinda different too - frank without being exploitative, and unexpectedly tender, with no pussyfooting at all. As Cox says, 'original, brave - kind of groundbreaking'. While that old stand-by of Indiedom, the roving hand-held is present and correct, if refreshingly unobtrusive, Romeo Tirone's exquisite cinematography further distinguishes L.I.E. from its sullen contemporaries, combining a stark, saturated quality (most effectively for the sterile look of soulless 1980s houses) with the smooth visual finish of a Michael Mann.Perhaps its nearest equivalent is David O Russell's taboo-fest from 1994, Spanking the Monkey, another portrait of inter-generational relationships (plain old incest in this case) played out against the backdrop of suburban blitz - long a fertile slouching ground for independent filmmakers. As former photographer Cuesta, a Long Island native, whose boyhood memories brought a lot to bear on the film's innate truthfulness, says 'Suburbs have their own cultures, rhythms, ethics, and morals.you have everyone from the Mafia to the artists to 9-5 commuters, and it's certainly true that there's a story behind every door and at the end of every driveway. A big part of making L.I.E. feel real had to do with the inherent realism that comes with shooting near a major highway. That constant hum of traffic permeates every neighbourhood - everyone deals with that sound.'We first encounter Howie teetering on the brink of a burgeoning, ambivalent sexuality. Literally teetering, as the opening shot describes, balanced precariously on the edge of a flyover. Abandoned by everyone - his father, friends, and schoolboy crush Gary (a shimmeringly anarchic Billy Kay) the sensitive Howie finds emotional rescue with the mysterious 'Big John' Harrigan. An exuberant bear of a man, a curious Harrigan attempts to bewitch an amusedly reticent Howie with allusions to a thrillingly glamorous past, man and boy engaged in teasing, fumbling power play - until an unlikely, neo-parental alliance is at first grudgingly, then preciously forged.'It was vital the audience could relate to Big John, even sympathize with him', says Cuesta. '(But) I tried very hard to make sure his intentions were constantly blurred'. For Cox, the role (one of his greatest performances) was 'potentially, a career-burying move. There were enormous dangers in it. But I weighed up the odds - and decided the whole point of not doing it were the very reasons to do it. I was really intrigued by how far one could take the character and make it work. The first trap an actor could fall into would be to play Big John as a man whose public façade disguised the fact he was a sexual predator. I took the opposite view that he was this wonderfully open character, and actually a very nice man - who happened to be a pederast. And the range became so much bigger. It's a story of redemption, and that's what finally came through for me. It's a very responsible film.' "},{"Title":"How to Get Off the Lanes Going Straight to Hell","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Fifteen-year-old Paul Franklin Dano (as Howard Howie Blitzer) lives in a cool suburban house, in a nice community near New York's L.I.E. (Long Island Expressway). He's recently lost his mother to an Expressway crash, and doesn't seem to be dealing with the loss well. Neither is distant father Bruce Altman (as Marty), in trouble with the law for white-collar crimes. Young Mr. Dano is attracted to sexy Billy Kay (as Gary Terrio), but Mr. Kay is reluctant to start a relationship with his inexperienced pal.Instead, Dano joins Kay in house burglaries, with incestuous James Costa (as Kevin Cole) and hetero stud Tony Michael Donnelly (as Brian). One of the homes they hit belongs to boy-trolling ex-Marine Brian Cox (as Big John Harrigan). Apparently, Mr. Cox is having trouble maintaining interest in aging boy-toy Walter Masterson (as Scotty). After Kay books for California alone, and Dano's father is arrested, he finds not only the sexual stimulation missing from Kay, but also a father figure, with the older Cox.Due to the subject matter, this was obviously a controversial film. It contains what they call strong language, but nothing offensive is explicitly shown. It's a tribute to director Michael Cuesta that such a fuss seems to have been made - at one point, the film was labeled NC-17 - because, Mr. Cuesta tells the story with implicit effectiveness. Editing and cross-cutting are used well. Cuesta and his cast deservedly won awards for their work. Still, nobody's perfect, and only an idiot would visibly trick behind that sign.Welcome to Long Island Dano begins the L.I.E. story by saying, You got the lanes going east, you got the lanes going west. You also got the lanes going straight to hell. The ending, with Mr. Masterson, is an old story, but unexpectedly uplifting in this context (only).******** L.I.E. (1/20/01) Michael Cuesta ~ Paul Dano, Brian Cox, Billy Kay, Walter Masterson "},{"Title":"Going east and west","Date":"20 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Howie is this troubled teen boy who breaks into houses with his friends. Howie seems to just go along with the other boys because Howie is a rich kid. So one day Howie breaks into the wrong house and steals some weapons. The house belongs to Big John and Big John is this pedophile who goes after boys. The thing is that Howie's mom is dead and his dad works too much and it isn't a joke. Howie has no one to turn to for guidance and support so he goes to Big John. Big John doesn't have his way with Howie but takes him under his wing and becomes a mentor/friend to him. Howie just needed someone older to help guide him along since no one else cared too much about him anyway. It's rather touching to watch the little friendship they have develop without the sex getting in the way. It was a movie where I thought stuff was going to happen but the stuff didn't happen at all. It was a cool male bonding movie. "}{"Title":"Good but disturbing look at pedophiles and predatory relationships","Date":"12 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was very well done but also quite disturbing. I don't know who wrote that this is a look typical suburban life but nothing could be further from the truth. This is the story of an alienated young boy who becomes the prey of the local pedophile. It realistically portrays both characters well, including the self-hate inherent in the pedophile's role as well as some of the emotional needs he fills for the alienated mother-less and essentially father-less boy. It is obviously disturbing by its very nature (unless watching a 15 year old boy getting blackmailed into having sex with a 60 year old man isn't disturbing to you) but very well done. The child actors are superb as is the actor playing the pedophile Big John. Its a thought-provoking but jarring look at an under-represented subject. "},{"Title":"Men from the Boys A Prelude","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Michael Cuesta's debut film, L.I.E. is impressive in many ways, none of them having anything to do with a cinematic value as much as the willingness to shock the audience with a story that seems lifted from the pages of a collection of gay erotica. (Not that this is a bad thing.) It tells the story of a teenager, Howie (Paul Dano), and his elliptical path which takes -- or lets say, wrenches -- him away from the pretend security of his own home after his father (Bruce Altman) is discovered to be involved in shady business and plants him squarely in the path of John Big John Harrigan (Brian Cox), an ex-marine who has a penchant for young boys and who holds a position of almost revered admiration from everyone in the Long Island town where he lives. The two of them have met before, several times as a matter of fact, the first time being in a less-than-welcome way Howie's blind attraction to a kid his own age, Gary (Billy Kay), who holds a dangerous reputation as being a little too solicitous with other men (indeed, early in the movie Howie's father lets him know he doesn't like Gary because he smiles too much) leads to an incident where Gary steals two of Big John's prized guns. Big John, wanting to recover the guns (and probably knowing Gary has them) puts Howie in the delicate position of having to retrieve them from Gary at the same time Gary, no one's friend, breaks into Howie's house and steals his father's stashed money. With Gary gone and his home in a moral shambles, Howie becomes the protégée of sorts to Big John who expresses an uneasy attraction not based in sex (while politely asking his latest boy-toy (Walter Masterson) to stay a couple of nights in the nearest motel -- what a nice guy!). Interesting to note that Howie is the one who tries on several occasions to seduce Big John, one time resolving to quote a passage from Walt Whitman. It's not a bad film -- Brian Cox does manage to give his character a belated sense of sympathy -- but somehow, the story feels too open-ended, much like the motif of the Long Island Expressway that goes from East to West and could land Howie anywhere within the state of New York. However, it is daring and filmed without an exploitative hand and because of this, L.I.E. is better than its material and the times we live in would ultimately let it be. "},{"Title":"View it without prejudice and be prepared to be disturbed, moved, shocked...etc.","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" L.I.E. (Long Island Expressway) is a realistic portrayal of wayward, disaffected youth on Long Island NY and the one boy in the midst of them that only needs a guiding influence in his life. Howie (Paul Franklin Dano) has lost his mother (offscreen). His Dad has already got a new bimbo in the house, and has questionable work ethics that have the FBI watching him like a hawk. Meanwhile, Howie goes neglected, so he has befriended several J.D.s in the neighborhood, including the tattooed young hustler Gary (Billy Kay). If you enjoyed (or even not so enjoyed but were impressed with) films like THIRTEEN, KIDS, and BULLY, you will find L.I.E. a riveting, compelling story of children who have fallen through the cracks. The Big John character (Brian Cox) is not meant to be viewed as a hero. He is a pedophile, simple and plain. He does one good deed, but if the story had ended differently, it would have remained to be seen whether Big John's actions were truly honorable. So he is no hero. Lots of bad people do good things every day. This isn't a movie that makes judgments and makes decisions for the viewer. "},{"Title":"A Taboo Transposed","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" L.I.E. is a daring, splendidly acted, masterpiece. Brian Cox is a genius. Cox boldly takes on the role of Big John, a retired Marine and Vietnam vet, who just happens to have a love for teenage boys. Before seeing this movie I expected Big Johns character to be nothing less than a monster. I was pleasantly surprised. Big John shows us just how human a monster can be. After hunting down unlikely thief Howie Blitzer to the tune of The Hurdy Gurdy Man, Big John takes the needy and curious teen under his wing. The unusual duo discover truths about themselves and each other that will alter the course of both their lives forever. A well-paced film, I was constantly eager to see what would happen next. Never crude or blatant for the sake of being shocking, L.I.E. creates a plausible story that doesn't need to rely on graphic material to get it's point across. L.I.E. definitely has a seat on my top ten list. This film tackles a subject seldom seen on the screen, and it pulls it off with class. Beautifully scripted, Big John is more than convincing as a retired Marine, caring father figure, and a human monster, who just happens to have a love for teenage boys. See it today. "},{"Title":"LIE down","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those films that must be hard to fund -- films like the Woodsman, The Magdalene Sisters, War Zone (by Tim Roth) or Monster -- but which, when made, distributed, and seen, recoups any expense and undresses any doubt. The problem with films like this is that they involve inappropriate undressing, be it by pedophiles, institutions, families, or serial killers. The appeal of the genre is in some ways the unthinkable, unacceptable, the distasteful and the unwatchable. It's that last part, the unwatchable, that creates tension, serving as a kind of off-screen reference that anchors the film's story and becomes its power for not being seen. (Herzog's Grizzly Man reveled in this, for it was a film about a guy who was eaten, along with his girlfriend, by the very Grizzlies he believed himself to be protecting, and everybody knew it. That was the whole catch to know something that is not going to be shown, to be compelled by it, and to rent and watch this film knowing that it's a long set up to a final act we will not be allowed to see. Can it be that a film such as that prepares us for something horrible? Do we become complicit with it then, as consumers of that preparation?)Complicitness. This film shows us what happens. It is simple in its presentation, and for that complicates its subject matter. Because it does not plant a stake in the ground and draw clear, distinct and straightforward lines between right and wrong. Those are the films that are hard to fund. But better to watch. For they complicate their concepts, distribute perspectives and motivations, and sometimes even put the viewer harm's way. "},{"Title":"An outstanding attempt while still conforming to societal norms","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I attended a panel on L.I.E. by its producers, LOT 47, about how to market an NC-17 film.  This was extremely interesting and motivated me to see the film. I was fully engaged in every moment of this movie.  The cinematography was gorgeous, the actors were engaging, and the script was excellent.  I really felt like I could connect with Howie.  The film portrayed the complex emotions he was experiencing brilliantly.  Confusing the lines of love and lust are all to common among teenagers. While just about everyone focused on the fact that this film explores a man-boy relationship, what was particularly unique was that it portrayed youthful, gay sexual feelings.  In today's media, if you are going to be gay you are an adult.  Teenagers are still assumed and expected to be heterosexual.  I'm not even saying that Howie is definitely gay, but the fact that he is confused and has conflicted feelings is so real and so important to be shown. In terms of Big John, it was definitely refreshing to see a boylover (pederast, whatever term you care for), portrayed as a HUMAN being and not this monster without any conflicting emotions himself.  I think they could've gone a lot further with his character; his one line about feeling ashamed was nice, but I think there are many complicated feelings that they could've explored. Like many others who have written, the ending disappointed me.  And I tell you, there is one reason and one reason alone Big John was shot.  Society. He is viewed by society as one that does not deserve to live so the film could not end with him being alive. Wait! Let me explain. In the 60's and 70's, homosexuality on film was a big taboo as pederasty is today.  Take a look at ANY and EVERY film in the 60's and 70's dealing with gay characters every gay character either gets killed by the movies' end, or is a murderer themselves.  Without exception.  The minute I saw the final scene that was the first thing that went through my mind.  He is a pederast, nonetheless one with human feelings and a complex personality, so he cannot make it to the end of the movie. Nonetheless, I thought this film was absolutely amazing.  Dano's performance was truly moving.  I felt like I was on the bridge with him. It left quite the impression on me.9.5/10.  "},{"Title":"Realistic and moving - may contain spoilers!!!!!!","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" My original intention to see this screenplay because it was about a boy my age in Suffolk County, NY, near where I live. After seeing L.I.E. for the first time, I had to see it again because I was amazed. Brian Cox, Paul Franklin Dano and Billy Kay produce incredible performances. I was simply amazed by the plot and themes in the film. The conclusion of the film was incredible and not predictable.This film is not a sappy teenage drama which I am tired of seeing. The themes of this film are original and thought provoking. The characters are real! Gary and Howie are not the best-looking boys out there, nor they have the material possessions that many Long Islanders have, nor a happy home. That's why they are realistic.Howie (Dano) does not have the best of situations. However, the most unfortunate events involves with what happened to his mother, his father, his best friend (and crush), and most importantly, himself. They seem to pile on top of each other and linger with him like a black cloud. However, this is not a woe is me film. Dano seems to rise against the obstacles and help himself with the assistance of Big John (Cox). Howie does not cry and shrivel up in the spotlight. This is one of the rites of passage that he undergoes.If you don't want to know the plot or the themes of the film already, DO NOT CONTINUE TO READ!!!!!I do admire the speculation of Howie's sexuality. This is about a 15 yo boy, so sexual tension and questioning definitely have to be a part of the film to be realistic. Most films stay away from this topic, but the screenplay is not afraid of the questions Howie raises, especially in the bedroom. The film is not afraid of Howie's true desires, especially after he observes in Big John's house.The subplot of Howie admiring Gary sexually is original in the sense that he likes Gary for physical reasons but because he is attracted to him because he is another male. Cuesta handles the situation perfectly especially after Gary leaves.The last quarter of the film raises a lot of questions, however within the context of the film, it does not leave the viewer confused. The scene where Howie and Big John are shaving, a rite of passage for Howie because this is a sign that he is changing from a boy to a young man.Because this rite of passage occurs, another one is speculated. Even though the film does not explicitly state it, the film implies that Big John does not molest Howie. The rite of passage here is that Big John does not take advantage of a young boy for the first time in his life. He is not the pedophile that the film sometimes speculates.The film can open speculation with what happens between the two because it is not direct and viewers want to say that Big John did molest Howie just for the sake of it. But, if the viewer reads the feelings the two have after the scene that some speculate did it, the viewer can see that sexual contact did not occur.Another theme is I-495. The highway is a metaphor of Howie's life. 1) It has two separate directions east and west, like the two possibilities of consequences that Howie can make. 2) The speed of the traffic is the speed that Howie grows up in the film into a young man. 3) The balancing act Howie performs on the overpass of I-495 is the delicate balance of life, one little thing can cause one to tumble. What happens to Big John during the finale is the tumble.Even though this film is not mainstream and does not have a $200 million mega-budget or all-star cast, it is much better than 90% of the films made in the last 4 years. Well done for all, especially Dano. Wish there were more films like this than the trash Hollywood gives its audience. "},{"Title":"Pedophiles aren't such bad joes!","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie isn't too bad.  It's one of those movies that tries to shock the average viewer with its casual approach towards taboo subjects (one of the characters is a kid who brags and jokes about actually having intercourse with his sister, which is so calculated to offend that it just seems dumb), kind of in the vein of Kids but a bit more plot-oriented.  What saves it from being just some annoying look-at-me-I'm-scary-and-gross independent film is Brian Cox as Big John, who elicits just about every emotion possible from the viewer.  I've said viewer twice already in this little write-up, and I'm very annoyed.  Viewer viewer viewer-riffic!  Viewer!  So Brian Cox is great; in an early scene with Howie, the protagonist, he confronts him in the front seat of a car, and it's beyond uncomfortable.  You have no idea what the guy is going to do, and that's a pretty rare attribute for most movie characters.  Overall the acting is good, quite good really.  The kids in it aren't annoying even when they're given potentially annoying things to say and do, and there's a lot of good little moments.  The ending is not the best, but not bad enough to ruin the entire movie.  I guess this was NC-17 just for the overall theme, because the language is pretty standard for your basic R-rated movie, and the pedophile stuff, apart from some graphic talk, isn't thrown in your face or anything.  Not bad. "},{"Title":"Coming of age against tall odds from a punk, Gay perspective","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very well done!  Dealing with Gay youth themes in a milieu of punk high schoolers all coming of age in the usual confusion, competition and camaraderie of teens.  Most of the kids come from bad homes of one sort or another.  The hero, Howie, overcomes the loss of his mother in an accident on the L.I.E., desertion by his (very bad influence) best friend, disillusion with his skirt-chasing, white collar criminal father, and attempted seduction (and also badly needed support) by an old pederast. Quite a lot to squeeze into the movie, let alone a few months of a Gay teenager's life!  But the director and actors carry it off with flair, eyes on both reality and idealism at the same time.   "},{"Title":"L.I.E tells the truth","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  L.I.E. is an audacious film that dares to complicate simplistic stereotypes about parenting, nurturance and desire. This first person retrospective narrative is told by a fifteen year old boy coming to terms with the death of his mother. L.I.E. is both Long Island Expressway (where traffic also consists of gay sex trafficking) as well as the lies that we are all fed by society about what constitutes &#145;normality.' The film then progresses as Howard, the teenage protagonist grapples with his grief, his adolescence and his loneliness sometimes through poetry and at others through petty crimes. The chief triumph of this film lies in its courage to probe the fundamental decency and humanity in characters like Big John who, in popular media, are often represented and dismissed as disgusting lechers. The relationship between Howie and Big John is complex as it alternates between playboy and parent; as erotic desire animates and creates a space of refuge and safety. In many ways the film resembles the wry cynicism and dark humor of American Beauty but where Kevin Spacey's character was endearing even as he leered at young teenage girls Brian Cox is less likely to find sympathy from his audiences. But this owes more to the fact that we live in a heterosexist, homophobic society, fed on LIES than to the failings of the actor.  "}{"Title":"Ragged around the edges, solid at the center.","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  L.I.E. has that low budget indie feel with some awful music,  mostly unfamiliar faces, plot holes, poor makeup,  etc. However, at the center is an almost realistic slice-of-15year old boy-life story with sterling performances by Cox and Dano. Disturbing in subject, earnest in purpose, and provocative in viewing, L.I.E. makes for a moderately intriguing watch for those with the stomach for an unhappy flick about an older man who covets a young boy. "},{"Title":"very creepy","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Howie Blitzer (Paul Dano) is haunted by the death of his mother. His father is a jerk with a trophy girlfriend and questionable contractor business under investigation for causing a fire. He hangs out with other juvenile delinquents doing break-and-enters. His friend Gary Terrio has a sexual attraction to him. He doesn't know that Gary prostitutes himself. They break into Big John Harrigan (Brian Cox)'s home and steal his guns. Pedophile Harrigan knows Gary very well. When Harrigan confronts Gary, Gary gives up Howie.This movie is extremely creepy. There is a predatory feel from Gary and especially Brian Cox. Paul Dano was so young back then. He has the look of a victim waiting for his attacker. This movie is deeply disturbing and uncomfortable to watch. "},{"Title":"Brian Cox - unmissable. The rest - bit of a curate's egg","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Quite a conventional film, this. It'll probably date quite quickly as screenplays move towards more culturally-mature discussions of sexual matters. I agree with the commentator who said We need more films like this, - in places the characterisation is very comic-book; the father, especially. Nevertheless, Brian Cox is superb, and is quite the most complex portrayal of that type of character.At several points, though, I have issues. The counsellor gets far too irritated far too easily. If you've a problem kid, you don't stop them doing what they need to do to distract themselves, you read their unspoken thoughts and give them time while you work out the right question. She should have known that scolding wouldn't work with this kid. If this was the point, they should have developed the character of the counsellor, and shown that she was a product of a system that couldn't do anything but fail Howie. Having said that, we don't condemn 'Dambusters' simply because the dog is called 'Nigger.' These are notes for a future film.The kid himself is still too passive, too unable to think for himself at relevant places. I have tutored kids in this age range, and they have the intelligence to put two and two together vis-a-vis their father being arrested. Not to mention the weak way in which Howie's father's assault is dealt with. It gives the idea that all homosexual teenagers are pacifists whose only response to parental violence is to feel victimised, curl up in a ball and cry. If the kid is breaking and entering, and his father assaults him, he's unlikely simply to dissolve into tears and then give his father a rather strange hug. Which might be a good point, but unless it's developed more than it is in this film, we'll never be able to tell it from directorial sloppiness. This is a shame, because here was a chance to really call time on casually-violent fathers. The characterisation of Howie's dad smacks of committee thinking, Well, is this kid's father gonna be an abuser or isn't he? and the scene where his dinner partner has a heart attack just... missed the boat completely.Furthermore, the film doesn't seem to know how it wants to end. The shock of Howie being about to kill himself is utterly dulled by over-repetition of the bridge scene, and that Big John is going to get killed by his partner is telegraphed and spun out way too long. And, not to sound too Kermodish about it, but Howie's poetry *isn't that good,* and his commentary right at the end seems ponderous and unsatisfactory.Having said that, this film is worth watching for Brian Cox alone. Plus the fact that it is experimental, and, as Dr Frankenstein found out, experiments are never perfect. I'd love to give this a 9, but it's like the first University essay - you haven't quite developed the knack, the style; you're tentative in places, irrelevant in others. On the other hand, I was going to give it an 8, but Brian Cox is simply not to be missed. So 9 it is. "},{"Title":"CHALLENGING RIGID NOTIONS OF MORAL RIGHT/WRONG","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This brutally frank expose of man/boy love is definitely not for the squeamish or morally indignant. If you insist that a sixtyish, ex-Marine Momma's Boy who thinks all women are ball-busters and masturbates to naked photos of pre-teen blond boys is incapable of altruistic acts of romantic love, skip this one. This movie proclaims that the greater evil is in the neglect of children by their narcissistic parents and the indifference of society when they get into trouble, not in their sexual exploitation by men like Big John. At the same time, it does not paint Big John as a hero. He's a deeply flawed man who casts off lovers at the first signs of losing the bloom of their youth. Don't look for heroes in this movie. There are only troubled and anguished angels fallen from grace for lack of unconditional love.  "},{"Title":"A Quiet Movie That Screams","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This will probably the most challenging review I've ever written.  I just saw the film last night and my head is still spinning with a trillion different feeling and conflicting emotions.  ***spoilers within*** The opening scene was gut-wrenching - I was immediately filled with a sick dread that this young boy would join the list of famous people, including his mother, who have died on the Long Island Expressway.  When the scene goes unresolved, balanced on a shaky rail as it was, the fear and dread of what will happen to Howie when the scene is inevitably revisited later in the film permeates every scene.  It is clear that he intends to make a descision, but unclear as to what that descision will be.  I had to have a drink before I could continue with the movie!The controversy with this film is that it portrays a pedophile not as a de-humanized monster, but a well-respected, generally nice guy who has a problem.  He is likeable, and the 'right kind' of boys seem drawn to him.  We never see him attempting to pick up anyone who isn't in some way 'looking for it' - such as the teen hustlers who populate the expressway rest stop.  When Howie enters the picture (a more conflicted and deep character I've never seen) he is drawn to Big John, not only because he is likeable and a potential friend, but also because he needs some guidance and love in his life.  Big John is needed to fill a void in his life - a void caused by the death of his mother, the incarceration of his father and the departure of his best friend.  He needs to feel loved (to feel love and to be loved back), and thinks he can find it in this most dubious and unlikely of characters.  And herein lies the controversy; if the boy in a relationship like this is a willing participant, and even in some ways a seducer (the way Howie glances back at Big John when he's urinating, sharing poetry and inner thoughts), then who exactly is the victim?  Roger Ebert was right in saying that a court case would see this subject matter in black and white, but the film itself occupies the darker shades of gray.The one thing that bothered me throughout the film (besides Howie's other waste-of-air friends, especially the sister banger) was the sudden departure of his best friend Gary.  Their relationship is close, intimate, but not sexual.  Howie is unaware of Gary's sexual practices until after he leaves, but he is alone in that category.  While it is clear that both boys are in love with each other (every scene when they are alone together has an implicit nature - long stares, play wrestling, flattering comments about the other's looks) nothing sexual ever happens, and it is with this regret that Howie enters Big John's life in search of the love and companionship that Gary took with him.  It bothers me that Gary left so abruptly and without saying goodbye - didn't the two of them want to go together? - but I figure this is what happened  Gary kept his two lives separate, Howie in one, Big John in the other.  When Howie tells Gary about meeting Big John and how he was set up to take the fall for the guns, Gary knew that he couldn't keep his two lives separate any more, and he liked Howie too much to get him involved in that.  I don't know, it's difficult to understand - I just really felt sorry for Howie being abandoned by absolutely everyone (the ending especially, which just didn't feel right).  But my fear and dread was relieved in the final scene, thank God, so at least there's that. An incredibly well made film, beautifully shot, endlessly challenging subject matter, but the ending and Gary's departure leaves me feeling unsatisfied - no happiness, seemingly too much for the protagonist to bear. "},{"Title":"A Quiet Film That Speaks Volumes","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Michael Cuesta (Homeland) started his professional journey in film with this film, and I must say that he started his career brilliantly. L.I.E. is not the kind of film that the big distributors would even want to be associated with. The film's contents were really jaw-dropping. Cuesta pulled punches by suggestive editing and composition. He really went to the edge, like the film's character, Howie did. As I watched it again, I felt that the movie had characters who all craved something, almost to an obsession. Howie, about his mother; his father's self-obsession; Gary's obsessions with the west coast; Big John, and his own inner demons; Scott's obsession with John, and so on. It deals with taboo themes that Cuesta somehow navigated through. Throughout all the main characters, Cuesta managed to unveil a sense of tragedy in each of them. And with every one seems to have a tough exterior that hides a vulnerable inner-child, with the exception of Howie. Paul Dano smartly plays a 15-year-old who seeks his own answers, feeling ignored and misunderstood by his father. He turns to his only friends who influence him as a follower. But he seeks his own voice while being bombarded and betrayed, taking a path of eventual confrontation.The story, editing, musical score and photography were smartly done. Two tender moments in the film are my favorite scenes, and neither one has a word spoken in it. It's not the kind of movie that James Bond fans might enjoy. It's a slow-paced film that ferments into a nicely chilled glass of poetic celluloid as the stories of the characters unfold. Warnings for sensitive people (some may consider these **spoilers** also) There are scenes of sexuality and suggestive themes of homosexuality and child molestation inside. Some have been repulsed at the film's subject matter, but try to understand. It concerns a knowledgeable virgin teenager who longs to feel human closeness and tenderness at a vulnerable time in his life. Howie lost his mom, dad, and close friend while gaining a potentially dangerous one -- John becomes the one person that Howie finds he can talk to, because he desperately needs someone to trust and communicate with. Do not let that stop you from watching this, I have to say and repeat. Let's just say that the movie didn't go overboard. It's hard to describe how I like the film, but it's a must- see. "},{"Title":"Powerful, Thought Provoking, And Real ~~~ A Must See!","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can only think of one word to describe this movie, Powerful.   When I finished watching the film I sat in a blank stare for at least 20 minutes. It was one of the most unique movies I have ever seen.  It was so real.  I don't know why it got the rating it did.  I mean it's people are afraid to have a little dose of reality smacked in their face, like they don't want to even think about facing the truth.  The script was excellent, but what impressed me most was the acting.  The performances of Paul Franklin Dano and Brian Cox took my breath away.  Some of Paul's best acting in the film was when he didn't speak.  By just looking into his eyes you could tell there was hurt and pain that he was very afraid to let out.  I  often forgot that I am watching a movie when I watched Paul.  I want to give him a pat on the back for choosing such a difficult, challenging and powerful role.  He did an absolutely breath-taking job!  Brian was very convincing in his role as Big John, he made scenes creepy when they weren't meant to be.  I enjoyed how this movie didn't sugar-coat anything, and gave you the honest truth. The only complaint I have about this film is the editing, it's very choppy. For example, you can tell they used 5 different takes to create scene. ( it's not choppy all the way through though ) This movie truly does take you straight into the mind of a teenager.  Your eyes will be glued to the screen from beginning to end.  There are a couple of uncomfortable scenes where you find your hand slowly rising, to cover your dropped jaw.  If you are a bit squeamish or are offended by a bit of cursing then this film isn't strongly recommended.  But over all I think it would a good film for teens my age and up to few, because most teen who do view this amazing film would probably feel as though they're watching themselves on screen.  This film is utterly moving and memorable.  All though it isn't necessarily a fell-good film, it will impress you beyond belief.  A Must See!!! "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Honest, L.I.E. shines as a Stunning, Important Film","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  `You should be ashamed of yourself,' one says to a pedophile named `Big John' Harrigan about his disgusting sexual activity.`I am.  Believe me I am,' he says in shame.One of the most brilliant things about Michael Cuesta's shocking and unrelentingly intense and sad debut, L.I.E. is how the character of `Big John' is presented.  They do not portray him as a sick monster, but as a sensitive, caring old man with an illness that causes him to do what he does.His prey is a troubled youth by the name of Howie Blitzer.  He is a lonely homosexual boy who is in dire need of a father figure, and a friend.  His father is too busy getting himself out of some trouble in his law firm to even know his own son, who is complex, talented and original.  But to hide his vulnerable side, Howie hangs out with a gang of troubled youth, who burglarize houses.  Before meeting John, Howie befriends the seductive, sneaky Gary.Howie has an attraction for Gary that leads him to trouble.  Gary was sexually associated with Big John, where he learned of a pair of Russian pistols worth $3,000.  After he brings Howie along to snatch them, John hunts him down, demanding them back.  Howie can only retrieve the one, and loses touch with Gary.  While `working' the last one off, he builds an odd, but deep relationship with John that is actually anything but sexual.There are great performances to be found everywhere, here.  Howie is played by who I hope is a rising star, Paul Franklin Dano.  He gives a sincere, arresting and brave performance of a lost soul.  Gary, by Billy Kay who is convincing and not over the top.  Most of all, by Brian Cox who creates the multilayered John Harrigan. Director Michael Cuesta tells his story with a brilliant originality.  The tale obviously has very dark undertones, but Cuesta adds a distinct beauty to the hero's odyssey that captures the moody emotions of the film.  He is a strong new director, who I can see a bright future of.This is a film of many great things, but most of all, awareness.  Sharing the age of the 15-year old main character, my eyes were opened and deeply disturbed me to a taboo culture that I had heard of, but never really understood.This one is extremely controversial and understandably so.  Its subject matter is of a frightening nature, but that is what makes L.I.E. such an important picture.  *It bravely exposes pedophilia, a mental illness that possesses and drives some.  It tackles the subject matter without being exploitive for `shock-that was a relief (that was the problem of Todd Solindz's sick film Happiness).I would not have never been able to see this in theaters, even if it were in my area, because of its NC-17 rating, which I think is appalling. I saw it because my brother got the DVD to help him get an understanding of how to portray certain themes such as the loss of a mother (and father for that matter), suicide and vulnerability for background to a story.  I read an essay on this film stating that, `I would never accompany my kid to this film, but I hope he sneaks in.'  It was a protest against the film's rating, because of how many issues this film conquers that teens must be exposed to. After viewing the film, I couldn't agree with this writer more.This is one of the most powerful films I've seen in my extremely short time critiquing movies.  I cried numerous times during this film and I have never truly cried at a movie before.L.I.E. is a sad, but undeniably true film told with sheer realism, so rare and unique that you are put alongside Howie Blitzer and it feels like you are observing his life.  This is one triumph in filmmaking.  "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Every once in a while a movie comes along where after it ends, I just sit in the theatre and watch the credits roll by.  Where a movie is so provocative that you can't leave after it's over; you want to sit through and sort out the characters, the plot.  Everything.  Needless to say, L.I.E. was this sort of film.  Provocative, intelligent and incredibly well done. Be warned, this review is rife with spoilers.L.I.E. is the tale of Howie, a skinny Long Island youth with hair that really turns people on.  After the Long Island Expressway (L.I.E.) takes the life of his mother, he must live with his father and his trophy girlfriend. Howie's motley crew of friends includes the cerebrally vacant Brian, Scott (Captain of the Titanic) and the ever enigmatic Gary.  Gary, the charismatic but troublesome leader of the group leads expeditions breaking into homes, and eventually wins Howie over to his cause.  Howie nearly gets nabbed stealing from Big John during his birthday party, but Gary manages to make off with a few antique pistols.  He decides to move out to California, and asks Howie to join him.Gary constantly vacillates between incredibly hostile and vaguely seductive, depending on the situation.  His character is perhaps one of theleast interesting in the film, but he plays an important role by helping reveal Howie's homosexual side.  Although he would never admit it, Howie fantasizes about Gary, which is referenced in one particularly poignant dream sequence.  Even as Howie verges on admitting his lust for Gary, his friend is quite simply bad news.  Big John finds him at the local rest stop (The Bathhouses of the 90s) and Gary turns on Howie.  Like a common prostitute, he uses his seductive power to take advantage of whatever he can.  After skipping town, he leaves Howie in a particularly bad spot.Once Big John locates the clueless Howie, he begins what is easily the most thought provoking relationship in the last ten years of cinema.  At first angry, Big John gets Howie to promise to make it up to him.  Big John implies that letting him blow the poor kid would be enough to make it up, but an impromptu call from Mom sets off his own power of seduction.  After Howie leaves, Big John's lover, a vacuous man in his early 20s asks him a daring question Don't you feel ashamed of yourself?, to which Big John replies I do.  Oh, I do.  I almost do.As their relationship develops, however, Big John (license plate BJ, hint hint) begins to discover how truly unique the boy is.  Howie speaks French, loves art, writes poetry, and speaks with a wit unusual for a boy his age.  Big John, in turn, perhaps begins to feel a twang of guilt and becomes more and more of a father figure for Howie, rather than trying to use him as an object.  In fact, he makes up the void left by Howie's father, who prefers wild sex with his trophy girlfriend to quality time with his son.  In fact, striking comparisons can be drawn between Big John and Howie's dad.  Both have partners who offer virtually nothing outside of sex, and both are well off and more or less respected in the community.  Once Howie's father is pinned with a scandal in his business, he ends up in federal prison, leaving Howie utterly clueless.  Once Howie ends up at Big John's place, giving the ultimate choice for Big John.  He clearly holds the sexual choice of his dreams at his fingertips, yet he does not act on this. One must wonder why this is, which is what makes the film so provocative. In my analysis, there are two probably reasons for this.  First, Big John could see what he has done to his present lover (whom he cultivated from boyhood), making him a complete idiot and devoid of any redeeming nonsexual qualities.  Since Howie is so astonishing, Big John would never want to do such a thing to him, so he leaves him alone.  Or, in another turn of events, he could realize his importance to Howie as a father figure, and back off from the sex in order to further this relationship.  Howie, on the otherhand, simply craves love in any form he can find it, platonic or not. Big John could do whatever he wants, yet restrains.  Or, in a final, yet conservative point of view, Big John could simply see the error in his ways and prefer not to involve Howie.  However Big John sees things, he evicts his moronic sex object (just for a few days) and lets Howie stay with him. They sleep in separate rooms, and Big John lives a fatherly role, teaching Howie how to shave and cooks breakfast for him.  Perhaps he is wistful, wishing he could have been a father, which is not an unlikely scenario.  He is a pillar of the community, and would have been a wonderful father, with exception to that whole pederasty thing.After one night, however, Howie leaves and Big John takes him to see his father in prison.  Howie responds as expected, not wanting to leave Big John but eventually going to see his dad.  Big John's reasoning for this is very interesting, however.  He does what would be considered the right thing from a puritanical perspective, returning the boy to his family regardless of the opportunities he can provide.  Even so, John is not a changed man and on his journey to the rest stop for sex, his ousted lover kills him.  Another conservative twist here, as Big John's lust leads to his demise in more ways than one.Howie, on the other hand, finishes the movie with a resolution to survive regardless.  This is the least satisfying part of the entire film, as a happy ending never leaves me satisfied.  I think a cliffhanger would have been more appropriate, or at least a respectable suicide.  Ah, but we can't get everything we want.Overall, the movie is exquisitely made.  Acting is superb on all counts, as is the writing.  Another strong point is the music, which really pulls the film together.  The original score plus small samplings of contemporary music leave the film's themes and character's emotions well represented.  The direction also helps raise this film to another level. While any movie with such complex characters would be difficult to escape excellence, Cuesta's direction ties together emotions in a wonderful swirl of the surreal and overreal.9/10.  Awesome. "},{"Title":"This is one of the most disturbing, brilliant, mesmerizing films I have seen in perhaps, a decade.","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most disturbing, brilliant, mesmerizing films I have seen in perhaps, a decade. Too bold? Well, it's week later and I am still running the characters through my head. Shocking, revealing, and the kind of film that you find your hand repeatedly uncontrollably moving itself up to cover your mouth to shadow your dropped jaw over and over again.L.I.E. is an intense, intelligent film that grabs you from the first frame and holds on till the last credit rolls by. Michael Cuesta who's written (along with Stephen M. Ryder) and directed L.I.E has created an eerie snapshot of a boy's life just as he's coming of age while his life is falling apart around him, yet he still manages to find himself all within the span of about a week.Howie Blitzer (a stellar performance by Paul Franklin Dano)is fifteen and lives in Long Island near the infamous Expressway. He knows many people hav e lost their lives there, famous, not so famous, most importantly, his mother Sylvia. Howie says at the top of the film On the Long Island Expressway there are lanes going east, lanes going west, and lanes going straight to hell. That's the film's prelude in a metaphoric tone for what's to come.After the loss of his mother, Howie is left with his self absorbed, shady father Marty (a man with a DNA drop of Bruce Willis, Bruce Altman ) who's in his own life altering stage at present and is nearly oblivious to Howie's life crisis'.As most teens do he simply dives into outside friendships to replace the losses...Howie hangs with the tougher boys in his neighborhood. They are that crass and baby faced breed of teens that are dangerous and cuddly as baby rattlers. The gang robs houses more for the hell of it then necessity without a thought for their actions.One of these fellows Gary (Billy Kay) asks Howie to go in on a little side break-in. Howie is semi-smitten in more ways than one with young stud in the making Gary and agrees to go along on the heist.Gary explains he knows a place where there's a treasure trove of stuff just waiting to be taken, easy as getting cigarettes from a convenient store clerk with your dad's I.D.. The two hit the house, sneaking in through the cellar, as the owners' party is in full swing above their derelict little heads.When Howie knocks over the fine china vase teetering on the edge of oblivion the two skadattle but not before the homes owner, Big John (Brian Cox) manages to rip a bit of the shirt off a boy...Big John's pretty upset. He sniffs the snippet of cloth from the shirt and begins the hunt. He heads right to Gary's stomping ground. Gary and he are old friends of sorts. When confronted, Gary immediately confesses how the other boy, Howie, set the whole thing up. Big John then goes after Howie. He gets him, and the games begin.Howie quickly discovers both his friend Gary and Big John have secret lives. Big John, BJ, is a pedophile that has paid Gary for sexual favors for quite some time. Howie is not shocked or even disgusted, surprisingly. He accepts it and, while disturbed about the events doesn't seem shocked. I found it very believable with all his age group knows and sees in their worlds today. It's an under society, their society; from guns at school to hard-core drugs, sexual encounters (hopefully with, at least the same age group) and they just live with it while trying to fit in, look cool and make it through puberty.Howie begins, at first, to toy with the immensely creepy pedophile Big John, and then even have an odd respect for him. He finds a nurturing friend, yech, a father figure in Big John. I know, I know, hard to fathom. I haven't lost my mind, it's the screenwriters who have managed to bewitch me and the whole audience. Big John's a scumpod with a heart of gold...no that's not right is it.That is what is so amazing about the film. This movie showed the depth of humans and their facades. Big John's a pedophile, and a predator, but even he has his boundaries. Howie and Big John meet when Howie is the most vulnerable. Howie's got no father figure in his life, he's having fantasies about boys, especially this Gary, and he has no idea what the future is expecting of him. People like Big John salivate at these kinds of opportunities, or do they?It's strong movie with many incredible performances. There will be a big controversy around L.I.E. because of its bluntness, honesty and willingness to show real life. The makers haven't prettied up one frame for the Disney audience. In fact the MPAA has given it a NC-17 rating- though I don't understand why- honestly.No, this is not a film for everyone. And certainly it will not be one for families to join and view over the Thanksgiving turkey, while grandpa reminisces about the time he experimented...but it is an important film about secret lives, multidimensional lives, and lies.Brian Cox, the actor who plays the repulsive Big John fellow gave an academy award winning performance. He was at once creepy, and charming, slimy and silly. His intenseness volleying with jovial pats on the back made him a particularly menacing villain. One you could actually like, if you were not so repulsed by what his extra curricular activities were. Brilliant.Young actor Paul Franklin Dano was amazing in his ability to make us feel his confusion and get under the skin of a teen that has no one to turn to. His character was intelligent and probably closer to what the teens of today are like. They know a hell of a lot and they are not so easily shocked. He's the anti-Haley Joel Osment.Billy Kay, the boy playing Gary, has an air about him. A strong young actor with the face of a cherub and the stance of a James Dean in the making.Be warned this movie does contain graphic discussion of gay and pedophiliac nature. There are no sexual acts (thank God).Snack Recommendation Nada, your stomach turns too often for food products. "}{"Title":"To Glorify A Predator","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Firstly, as much as this movie is being praised for the less simplistic portrayal of a relationship between an adult and a child than we usually get in the national discourse, there's a definitely creepy underlying message along the lines of the NAMBLA ideology that this pederasty as it's known is serving some sentimental need of both participants - the ending to the film leaves Howie essentially a 3-time orphan, and as such we are supposed to feel his relationship with Big John (eugh) was more one of support than of abuse.This idea is pushed upon us at other points, such as the man's rejection of the child on the bed, and a line about Howie needing a father figure (in case we couldn't read between the lines ourselves) but I just found the whole notion of Cuesta trying to make the audience question the self-righteousness of paedophile-bashing pretty nauseating - these 'relationships' are child abuse, and from initial blackmail to driving back to the rest stop at the film's (flimsy) ending this man is clearly not changed by the Walt Whitman-quoting benevolent influence of Howie as is suggested. Rather he corrupts the alienated suburban teen and his death leaves the poor kid with one more kick to the bracesThis weird moralising undercurrent basically ruined the second half of the film for me, as well as the occasional tasteless monster-clichés that I guess the director felt were necessary to balance the pro-paedophilia stance of the rest of the movie - one scene has the abuser explaining he's always ashamed but that's all that is verbalised and as such the sentimentality feels very phony.ANYWAY I wanted to add that the first half of the film actually really impressed me, the Larry Clark-style diner sequence and general hoodrat bravado, the boredom of a big empty house, slow scenes of his life being given the time to become realistic, it was all going so well but then the plot started to lose its way, and the whole stupid non-romance shifted into fast-forward and Brian Cox kept pulling this bemused face to show he had depth while Howie said something profound-but- essentially-out-of-character (flicking between bright-spark-with-love- of-poetry//confused-and-bewildered-victim).Although not a bad piece of film-making on the whole, this doesn't deserve a second viewing and I wouldn't go out of my way to recommend it, and I'm even thinking now that this is a film destined to preach to the ephebophile choir in the disturbing way the internet serves to already. Go watch Mysterious Skin instead "},{"Title":"great movie, Where's the Soundtrack?","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great movie. Delicately driven, lewd subject matter. Would recommend to others with same interest. Outstanding actor performances. Choice of music accommodates each scene very well. Please market the Soundtrack. "},{"Title":"A general impression of the impact of this film to it's audience.","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I drove 2 ½ hours to see this movie for the simple controversy surrounding the NC-17 Rating. I viewed the movie at an Art theater in Royal Oak Michigan. Before seeing the movie I asked one of the employees her opinion of the movie and her feeling on the rating of this movie. Sara had this to say, the content did not support the Rating of NC-17, and although the subject matter was Taboo the movie did not in anyway cross the line to deserve such a harsh rating.  The story line was strong but she did feel the movie dragged on at times.  I agree, by no means should this movie receive an NC-17 rating. The director did an excellent job of tackling very hard subject matters in a discrete way. The acting was excellent by the all characters, along with a very strong story line. Though at times I did have trouble sitting through some awkward scenes, the movie would not have been successful without them. This movie was excellent in telling a story dealing with lifestyles other than the excepted norm. Though I do not agree with this lifestyle, as an avid independent film watcher this movie was by far one of the best I have seen in a long time.   jk... "},{"Title":"lacking depth","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A 15-year-old boy, Howie, still mourning the death of his mother, hangs about with the wrong crowd at high school. Dad is too wrapped up in his crumbling business to take notice of his son's drift. School are over-worked and for them Howie will be one of many who slips through the safety net. As bad goes to worse, someone has to step into the void to be a crutch for Howie. This opens the door for Big John, a local made man and a predator on young boys. Like so many other kids, a lack of supervision exposes Howie to exploitation.That storyline never quite realises its potential in this bitty, at times infuriating story. Too many contradictions and narrative dead-ends present themselves. Howie's friend Gary is a very disturbed boy from the wrong side of the tracks. He envies Howie's middle class lifestyle, and Howie is too wrapped up in himself to see it. Except when push comes to shove, Howie finds it in himself to break into Gary's place and steal some guns. It makes for some nice visual inter-cutting (by virtue of the fact that Gary is simultaneously breaking into Howie's home), but in terms of character consistency makes no sense. Big John is a very sinister, very dangerous man, who preys on the young and vulnerable. And yet something about Howie ignites a noble streak in him, so that any sense of threat by Big John is quickly marked absent, and we are asked to believe that Howie's plight has brought out BJ's good side. Except that BJ is sick, and Howie is hardly credible as the cure.Howie is supposed to be confused and vulnerable, but quotes Walt Whitman in a confident and articulate style that belies his 15 years. At this point we see Paul Dano, trained actor, rather than the character he is playing.What was this film trying to say? That we are all shades of grey? Sh*t happens? Somewhere along the line, the thread of cause and effect got lost in this film. There are some nice moments - the Dad seeing his dead wife in every room - but none of it connects and the whole thing just does not hold together. Although the action being played out is believable, the psychology behind it is not, and any connection to other events and relationships in the film is tenuous. Something, many things, just seem missing here. "},{"Title":"Interesting handling of subject matter","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Every so often I am able to watch a movie that doe not fit the cookie cutter mold of how it should proceed. I happened to catch this on cable, and was surprised by the ending. It would have been so easy for the Big John character to be vilified like a John Gacy, but instead it showed him as caring. I would be sure the Moral Majority would be very upset with the treatment of the subject matter, but I was quite surprised. However, the accuracy of that outcome portrayed in the movie might not be believeable. The young man who played Howie did quite a good job as well. Especially interesting was Big John's characters remark to the young man living with him, that he was very ashamed of himself "},{"Title":"Unique and Powerful","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all, one must get past any vague summaries that make this film out to be just about a pedophile luring a young boy into his manipulative gameplan. That could not be any further from the truth. Stephen Ryder has proven to be both, a phenomenal screenwriter, and an innovative thinker. The plot sets a vulnerable teenager in the mix with a neighborhood pedophile. This much is true. What the story is actually showing, however, is human nature itself. A man, who our society would deem as a mentally-sick individual, is challenged by the responsibility of being an honorable elder. He has the opportunity to show that he is still a human being, and can still behave like any normal person. He does not have to be portrayed as a predator all the time. The film does not justify his past behavior. It does not try to make a political statement about what is right or wrong. It shows you someone who is very rarely portrayed in film, but should be, since these people do exist. The child owns so much of your sympathy, that its story engulfs you in his feelings and decisions. Give the movie a chance. Try to get beyond the disturbing subject matter, and ridiculously unjustified NC-17 rating. There are no visuals that will disgust anyone. The film is very innocent compared to a lot of garbage out there, and the story is extremely moving. The acting is superb, Dano, Kay and Cox are flawless. Cuesta is great, displaying his skills as a visual director, using filters and color saturation to show his work of art. And if all that doesn't convince you to give it a viewing, it's your loss. "},{"Title":"One of the best American film ever","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  L.I.E. is one of the best American film I've ever seen. It is so good that it's hard to believe is an American film. The script is excellent and the characters are very real and humane, especially, Big John character. The most wonderful thing about this film is that it approaches to a controversial topic with sensibility and without any sensationalism.L.I.E. tells the story of a 15 year old adolescent named Howie whose mother was killed in an accident on Long Island Expressway (L.I.E.).To make things worth, his father doesn't give him proper attention. Instead, he spend time screwing his new girlfriend. Howie spends his time hanging with some friends. One day he gets to know Big John, an ex-marine who has a special taste for younger boys. I won't tell more in case someone hasn't seen it yet.One of the most brilliant thing about about the movie is how the character of Big John is depicted. He is a common person who lives his life the best he can and whose only crime is been attracted to younger boys. He is not depicted as a predator or as a menace to the society and, most importantly, the film does not judge him for his behavior.The film is not perfect, though. The relationship between Howie and Big John could has been developed a little bit more. Also the relationship between Howie and his best friend who has been engaged with Big John before is not very well developed. As a matter of fact, this character disappears at one point of the film and we don't know more about him. The ending is very disappointing. Nevertheless, this film is one of the most honest and brilliant films made in USA. Highly recommended.       "},{"Title":"through the muck and tawdry mire, we still yearn for our humanity","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  L.I.E. starts out and shows us a troubled teen and late-middle-aged man who wants to have sex with him.  Oh, oh, we say to ourselves.  I suppose I'm going to have to suffer through a couple of hours of tawdry cinema.  But, no... from the grizzled pupae of the beginning of this masterpiece emerges a lovely butterfly of hope.It's New Jersey.  Our hero, a young teen boy, wanders aimlessly through suburban East Coast life, doing petite thefts and hanging out with losers. His best friend is a budding piece of rough trade who sells his body on the turnpike for a few bucks.  Our hero has a dad who's a crooked contractor.  His mother is dead.  He lives in an expensive, expansive house with no heart or soul (metaphor America?).  And as things get worse for our hero and his father, a middle-aged retired Marine appears and tries to insinuate himself into the boy's life.  He drives a cool muscle car that appeals to young boys.  He offers food and a warm home.  And our hero needs some warmth.  But we sit and cringe, wondering if the pedophile will drive our boy even further into disillusionment and hopeless through meaningless sex acts.But no, this film does not go there.  I won't ruin it, but I can tell you that whoever wrote this sees in humankind, always, the potential for caring and kindness... that things can mutate toward the good rather than always sink into the tawdry and banal.  I was pleasantly surprised.  And the man who plays the pedophile, our Marine, was up for an Academy Award.  He well deserved that nomination, for he had to play a character complex enough to feel and pursue his desires while at the same time having a conscience and heart that finally win out in the end.Super movie.  Hang in there for the payoff.  "},{"Title":"Looking for Daddy Dearest...","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes I just wonder. This is another one of those over-hyped films that leaves you slightly impressed, but cursing under your breath later about how much better it could have been. This one's got a great premise, of course, and a great location (suburban NYC), and great acting throughout by Cox and newcomer Dano. I was so hyped to see this project, but ultimately felt cheated. It's not that I just wanted to see a dirty movie, or that I wanted to see a hot little expose on some forbidden taboo. From the reviews that I had read, I had thought that they had taken a rich but often-ignored subject and ran with it. And they didn't. And they could have. Who knows what really goes on in these kinds of relationships? Who is the predator and who is the prey? Is the victim sometimes the seducer? Is it a homosexual relationship 100% of the time? Or is it a twisted father-and-son one? If the film had explored or answered even one of these questions, I would have felt satisfied. As it is, the best thing was Cox. Oh yeah, and Hurdy Gurdy Man.  "},{"Title":"F.A.N.T.A.S.T.I.C","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This simply complex film goes beyond L.I.E and has its strength in the peripheral connection with its characters, narrative and storytelling. Its strength is all things tangential -- the glue through which the story dances and yet, does not get stuck.  There are more things here than Howie with a revelation somehow in F.A.N.T.A.S.T.I.C.I must work on that expansion. "}{"Title":"saw the movie","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie is incredible, in the way it was written, acted and directed, ive never seen a movie i so closely related to, i applaud the cast and crew for making a movie of this kind despite the uproar and contreversy it may have caused. "},{"Title":"Good film with some flaws","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film could've been a lot more.It was stamped with the NC-17 rating, the same curse that was bestowed upon such classics as Bad Lieutenant, Henry and June and others.Watching this film, I was anything but shocked. To be honest, Dylan Baker's character in Happiness was a lot more shocking, and made you squirm in your seat a lot more.The difference is that this movie teases you, thinking that there are more provactive and dirty scenes to come, but there aren't. Brian Cox's character of Big John is portrayed as a regular human being with a strong weakness, and that's most likely why the film was given the dreaded rating, not to mention the prudish nature of most American audiences.The scenes between Big John and Howie are great; Paul Franklin Dano is an incredible actor, especially when you consider his young age. Forget the Haley Joel Osment's and all of those Hollywood pipsqueaks. This kid really is something else.The scene set to Donovan's Hurdy Gurdy Man with Big John sniffing the torn trouser is great, but most of the movie fell short of my expectations.The problem I had is that the movie takes a lot of roads to nowhere. The ending is pointless. I don't want to spoil it for anyone who hasn't seen the movie, but it took the respect I had for the movie at the point and completely drained it.This movie is worth seeing for the lead performances of Brian Cox and Paul Dano, but otherwise I felt is was disappointingly mediocre. "},{"Title":"Brilliant...","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was truly a work of art. It handled an extremely difficult and disturbing issue in a beautiful and tasteful way. The actors were superb, the editing was perfect and the story was poignant. The soundtrack also added a lot. Brian Cox played his role so perfectly that he managed to balance on a razor thin wire between deplorable and amiable. Paul Franklin Dano was perfectly cast and has a promising career as a dramatic actor. Billy Kay was also amazing. The combination of those three actors combined with the script and editing, brought together a provocative and moving film about the human condition. I really did not expect to like this movie as much as I did. It had the grittiness of Kids without the crassness. Brilliant.  "},{"Title":"Exploration of Socially Marginalized Personalities","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Recent movies such as American Beauty and The War Zone have made new inroads into the possibilities for filmmaking to explore the psychology of social and sexual politics.Michael Cuesta's L.I.E. continues in this vein, and is successful in doing so.The viewer will find herself or himself alternately entertained, confused, and (quite possibly) horrified by Cuesta's vision;   A world where a socially marginalized character - a pedophile - can assist a young man in discovering his self-worth.It is a story about isolation and prejudice transfigured by desperation, faith and the limitations of the human condition.Michael Cuesta has produced a brutally honest film, excellently thought out and well delivered.  It crosses the line drawn by those who refuse to consider all points of view as part of the collective subconscious, and should be avoided by those who are uncomfortable in doing so. "},{"Title":"A Clockwork Lolita","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Three fantastic performances (Howie, Gary, & Big John) help overcome some of the minor narrative short-comings of Cuesta's L.I.E.  While I did enjoy the film quite a bit (8 out of 10), it was hard for me to accept that much of the young-boy imagery was not directed squarely at the 'Big Johns' out in the audience.  Does L.I.E. exploit its two young male stars?  Yes.  Then again, what film doesn't exploit its actors!? Regardless, L.I.E. has great humor, scenes of shocking violence, unique moral commentary regarding pedophilia, wonderful performances, and moments of truly inspired film-making.  I would recommend this film, but only to those individuals that I know for a fact are open to films dealing with touchy subjects (a terrible pun!).  It may seem trite, but if you liked KIDS or Happiness, you'll find much to like about L.I.E.Here's to the lanes going straight to hell...  "},{"Title":"Provocative and fascinating without descending to vulgarity","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  L.I.E. is a thought provoking, some would say disturbing, movie about Howie, a 15-year-old boy in Long Island. His mother has died in a traffic accident on the L.I.E. and his father is unable to provide the support that the kid needs. He becomes involved in a housebreaking ring with his ultra seductive schoolmate, Gary. After involving him in more serious trouble Gary abandons him and Howie becomes involved with a much older man, Big John. Big John is obviously a lecher and pederast but he is curiously restrained around Howie and the audience must ponder whether this is simple benevolence or the opening moves in a seduction. The portrayals are honest and the movie is provocative without pandering to prurient interests. I am a bit troubled by the ending but to say more would be telling...  "},{"Title":"Do It Better Next Time","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The boy, Billy Kay who played bad-boy Gary in the film in a 2001 interview said, no kid comes of age without meeting someone like Big John.  Big John Harrigan is the boy-lover character played with great depth by Brian Cox.  Cox once played a true Hannibal Lector in the 1986 movie `Manhunter'. I want to say thank you to writer Stephen Ryder for bringing us this coming of age film even with a boy in it who charges for others to watch him making love to his sister.  How much like my own experiences growing up in a small town in 1950's Oklahoma.  I would encourage Ryder to approach these subjects again this time pointing out how the politically correct are encouraging the murder and imprisonment of men like Big John Harrigan and the shaming and confusing of boys by way of their racist-like bigotry.  The words Salem and Witches and Communist and phrases like &#145;Burning at the stake' come to mind.  Ryder, you need to take out the word `ashamed'.Stephen Ryder you might become our new Arthur Miller.  You have got much work to do.I recommend to you dear reader a thoughtful viewing and purchase of this movie, L.I.E.   "},{"Title":"Four hundred blows, all right","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  An oddity a movie undone by its own unconscious. The director, Michael Cuesta (who implausibly cowrote the screenplay with two other people--and the picture still feels amateurishly underwritten) is reported to be married with kids. I wonder what the wife and kids made of the scene in which the teen-boy hero accompanies his pretty-boy friend on a break-and-enter spree, and the pretty boy, entranced by his stolen swag, puts on a string of pearls and a fur coat, sexily putting a Shhh! finger to his lips. (Lot 49 Films, the movie's distributor, knew well enough to make this image the cornerstone of their trailer--which is in every sense smarter than the movie.) Or how about the ostensibly straight boy hero's pining for his mom--which expresses itself in his putting on lipstick? (He even knows enough to make a lip-smacking Mwwaah! to stick it on correctly.) Or what about the wrestling tussle that turns into a near-love scene? Cuesta seems clueless about what he's making, and the tone he's setting. I suspect he genuinely thinks this is a gritty after-school special. Instead, it comes across as un-self-aware Larry Clark.The rave reviews--indeed, the theatrical release--of this movie are a mystery; the movie is so ineptly written and directed there seems to be nothing in it of interest, except for pederasts. And the British actor Brian Cox, who won performance-of-a-lifetime raves in Deborah Warner's production of TITUS ANDRONICUS, doesn't do himself any favors as the kindly, fatherly paedophile Big John. Implausible as an American and as a Marine, Cox is so creepy from the get-go that part of the movie's point--the ability of predators like Big John to fit in--gets lost. And the putative subject of the movie, the oddly chaste and tender friendship that develops between Big John and the hero, takes up about five minutes of screen time--less than is given over to the movie's vealcake shots.Much of the movie is bafflingly bush-league. The hero's dad (Bruce Altman) gets hauled away by the Feds, but no one bothers to look in on his kid; he just gets to hang out on his own, unsupervised. And the ending plays like a term paper whose author gave up, exhausted, ten pages from the finish line. So what accounts for the packed house I saw this movie with late on a Sunday night? "},{"Title":"Not the L.I.E. I know, but hardly a lie either.","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  (possible spoilers below)As both a gay man and a Long Islander, this film unsettled me in a number of ways.First, I have to give the filmmakers credit for pursuing a topic, pedophilia, that you just don't see addressed. However, since there are those who victimize children out there, it is healthy to see the theme explored rather than pretend it doesn't exist.As a film, the good news is that the performances are generally excellent. There are some cartoonish characters (such as the boy's father and the friend who thinks it's fine to sleep with his sister), but the leads are uniformly excellent.In particular, Brian Cox as Big John, Paul Dano as Howie and Billy Kat as Gary bring believability and a multitude of dimensions to their roles.Some of the direction tended to be a bit choppy and, some of the minor situations seemed rather implausible. For example, the L.I.E., which is often so congested it resembles a parking lot, always looked like a highway where cars cruised at 70 mph. My friends and I had an ongoing chuckle over that. Additionally, all the house break-ins during broad daylight would surely have resulted in quicker arrests. Heck, the boys don't even leave when the alarm starts to go off. Did the screenwriter think there was no police presence in Suffolk County?Also, while the rest stop in question has a reputation for being a cruising spot for adults, there is never the type of underage overt presence that this film would lead you to believe. And some of the pedophile's connections with the police and business owners really do border on the incredible.While I realize that there are obviously well-connected pedophiles, some of that story line defied believability.Also, on Long Island, it would hardly be treated as acceptable if a boy bragged about having sex with his sister. My biggest problem with the movie, without giving too much away, was the ending. It was the type of moralistic ending that Hollywood would demand for tackling the subject. An earlier documentary, The Celluloid Closet, pointed out that just being gay in a movie was to guarantee a tragic end. While the resolution of this movie ties up things in a neat little package and gives the moralists their time in the sun, it wasn't especially realistic. Leaving the film open-ended would have been more honest and more troubling.Having said that, L.I.E. is well worth a viewing. It may make you feel a bit creepy, but good movies should challenge our comfort zones and address reality, shouldn't they?I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Acting--Weak Story","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Somewhat overrated indie film that features a great performance by Cox, strong cinematography & music, and a couple of brilliant, subtle moments (including young Howie balancing on a bridge spanning the L.I.E. as commuters speed underneath.) However, the story is shapeless and meandering, and there is a poorly written, awkwardly acted subplot featuring Howie and his crook dad that detracts substantially from the film. Apart from the two leads and another character who strangely disappears from the story at the half-way point, the supporting actors are mediocre at best. I would recommend Kids or Happiness for a more effective and cohesive viewing experience. 5/10. "}{"Title":"Complex Portrait of a Suburban Pedophile and the Kid He Targets","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't think you'll hear Donovan's Hurdy Gurdy Man quite the same after seeing the previews or the full film of L.I.E. as it's used as the theme song of a complex portrait of a suburban pedophile and the kid he targets. Forget the violent maniacs who lead to Megan's Law or the Polly Klass murder. Here's the good ole predator next door, ex-Marine, thoughtful son, and insidious friend to cop and kid alike. The opening of the movie is like Kids, made vivid because the excellent young actors are age-appropriate, a frank portrayal of young teen boys experimenting with sexual discovery and confusion, hormones and way too much parental neglect. While this is the most sympathetic portrayal of a pedophile since Michael Dorris's Yellow Raft on Blue Water, L.I.E. also carefully shows how the young victims are needy and clear-eyed manipulative at the same time, as they seek out affection, attention, and guidance --and only sometimes money--that they badly need wherever they can get it. The disturbing subject matter earned the film an NC-17, though it's all talk and very fraught visual implications, though like the similarly rated Requiem for a Dream it's more cautionary than inflammatory. (originally written 9/9/2001) "},{"Title":"Remarkable performance by Brian Cox","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bravo to Brian Cox for taking a daring role in a dark, disturbing--but, I think, brilliant--evocation of the Dark Side of Long Island suburban life. This Indie film took Cox, the actor, into the mainstream of Hollywood character actors--Rookie, Troy, X-Men-- and gave us a new actor to watch for burn-down-the-scenery roles like his romp in Troy!!! New York City and its Metropolitan environs are slated to once again become the film capital of the world for its 'noir' feel, like LIE, and for its wonderful band of actors, both stage and screen, many with mixed backgrounds in both Broadway Theatre and film/television. I only hope that the good offices of the Mayor's Office on Television and Film will act as wary watchdogs over the treatment of the 'little people', that is, background actors who bring some much reality and dimension to their work in the New York City Metropolitan Area. "},{"Title":"Staggering Film Packs A Wallop   SPOILER!!!","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  LIE is an absorbing, gut-wrenching film that follows the shallow, delinquent lives of four teen buddies. Alas, the reason that these kids do whatever they please is because their parents are completely blind (Not MY child!) Howie Blitzer (Paul Franklin Dano, who is amazing) has had a hard time dealing with the death of his mother, who was killed in a car wreck on the Long Island Expressway. (Howie says that he hopes that the LIE doesn't take him. As Howie puts it, LIE..Long Island Expressway..you got your lanes going west, you got your lanes going north, and you got your lanes going straight to hell.) Howie's dad is a total prick. He's a construction worker who is in big trouble because buildings that he supervised have burned down; turns out that Howie's dad used cheap aluminum wire to save costs. To escape from his crazy dad, Howie finds comfort in his best friend, Gary, (Billy Kay.) Howie has always been unsure of his sexuality, and he has always had a crush on Gary, who is a blue-eyed, blonde-haired charmer. Howie, however, does not know that Gary is a male prostitute. Gary suggests to Howie that they break into a luxurious house and steal all the valuables. Howie and Gary bust out a basement window, and grab some guns, while the owner of the house, child molester Big John, runs to the basement and leaps at Howie, only managing to rip off a piece of Howie's back pocket. The plot thickens when we learn that Gary has been having sex with Big John for years. Seems Gary has run home with both of the guns, and calls a cab to drive him to California. Gary;s got both guns. Howie is nervous when he tells Big John that he doesn't have either of the guns. Howie's dad is in prison and will be there for a while. Will Big John become a father figure for little Howie Blitzer? At the end of the film, Howie goes to visit his dad in prison - BRIEFLY and RELUCTANTLY. Howie's last word to his dad - I love you,dad. But don't ever f***ing hit me again. In the final scene, pedophile Big John is brutally murdered to death by an ex-teen lover. THESE ARE OUR KIDS AND PARENTS!  "},{"Title":"Excellent directorial debut","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is gonna sound weird, but for some reason when I first saw this film, I thought Brian Cox was Marlon Brando. I kept thinking, Gee, he looks good considering the weight he's put on in recent years. It wasn't until the end credits that I realized my horrendously bad error in judgment. Man, what was I thinking? Besides that bit of confusion on my part, I was terribly impressed by the bravura performances I witnessed in this bold, daring film by first time director Michael Cuesta. Brian Cox was INCREDIBLE as lonely pedophile Big John Harrigan, and Paul Dano was equally impressive as Howie Blitzer, an impressionable 15-year-old who catches the eye of Big John. After Howie's mother dies in a fatal car accident on the Long Island Expressway (L.I.E), Howie finds solace in his friend Gary (Billy Kay), a deceitful troublemaker who convinces Howie to steal guns from the neighbor's basement. When Howie is finally caught by the owner, John Big John Harrigan, he agrees to return the guns. But a miscommunication between he and Gary leaves some guns missing, and Big John decides to put Howie to work in other ways. Despite the film's NC-17 rating, L.I.E. is one of the better films intended for mature audiences. A truly profound and disturbing piece of work, this film examines how sexual maturity can develop under traumatic experiences, such as the death of a parent, and how subsequent damage confuses the vulnerable mind. This film is also an examination of sexual discovery and confrontation. It is a film about recognizing who we are, what we want, and how moral, ethical, and social boundaries are trespassed in the process of obtaining our needs. A must-see film for serious movie viewers.  "},{"Title":"The Amazing Dano","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Amazing job by Paul Dano. He doesn't even seem to be acting in this movie. Every expression, every reaction is genuine. The script has its awkward moments, and one actor in particular is less than believable, but Paul anchors this film. He plays the beleaguered Howie Blitzer, a sensitive boy who has lost his mother and is feeling abandoned by everyone, but who hides his pain behind teenage bravado.Paul did receive some accolades from the independent film community, but I don't know why he didn't get more attention for this role. Perhaps critics were turned off by the sordid aspects of the film, or maybe Paul's natural acting style just didn't call attention to itself. To truly appreciate what Paul accomplishes in this movie, it helps to see him in his supporting role in The Emperors Club. In that film, he plays a timid, upper crust, private school boy. You'd never believe it was the same actor who plays the scrappy, Long Island-accented Howie. Paul just disappears into both roles.This film may not be for everyone, but anyone who appreciates subtle, realistic acting will not be disappointed by Paul Dano in L.I.E.  "},{"Title":"Brave story telling","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is something about good independent filmmaking which I love - the films are quiet.  They are quiet visually, they are quiet audibly, and they are quiet in their approach.  What this leaves you with is the story.  The focus shifts from special effects, sweeping orchestral movements, breath taking cinematography, and leaves the audience to focus on what any film's main objective is, or at least should be - storytelling.L.I.E. is one such film.  It quietly presents its characters and gives you an insiders view into their world.  But that's all it is -  a view.  And there lies in the bravery of this film.  It gives you the information but prepares no case, no moral argument, and no judgement.  It just points out what is.When taking a breath and pulling back into the objective, rather than remaining subjectively argumentative, we discover that there are no good characters in this film.  They all have behaviours or commit actions which can be found by some to be morally reprehensible.  There is the best friend who is a conscious-free thief, a liar, and a hustler.  There is the school mate who commits incest with his younger sister on a regular basis.  There is the father who has quickly substituted lust for love, beats up on his child, and is potentially a white-collar crook.  Even the main character Howie, the hub of this story's wheel, is a part time crook and uses his naivety to his own advantage.And of course, Big John.  The easy target as the antagonist.  He is an ex-marine who has an incurable attraction to young teenage boys, and who will act out his fantasies with them.If all the characters have their weaknesses which can be used on the attack, who then becomes the protagonist?Each character has their flaws, great and small. But each character also has their strengths, both great and small - even Big John - which are worth noting.  But nowhere in this film (except the second to last shot), does the filmmaker lay down his own judgement on the events.  It would sell the film short.  It would leave it hollow like so many of its big budget counterparts.  The judgement is left to the audience.  If it provokes, in what ever way, that provocation is the sign of its own accomplishment.Don't be fooled by the complexity of this film by remaining on the exterior. On the exterior, this film is simply about paedophilia, teenage coming of age, teenage angst, homosexuality, sexuality in general, peer pressure, etcetera and forever so-on.   But that is common place and certainly doesn't do this justice.  Allow yourself to be pulled in and there you will find the complexity of the characters and the situations they find themselves in. Far more interesting than newspaper headline, trite and tedious characterisations.Roger Ebert of the Suntimes said in his review The ending is a cheap shot. The movie and the ending have so little in common that it's as if the last scene is spliced in from a different film.  In hindsight, I can't help but agree.  It was the big film corporate  response to the independent story telling artist  we have a problem that needs resolving, thus remove the problem (rather than solve it), and thus the film can conclude.  With a film that is as well thought out as this one, a conclusion isn't necessary and isn't wanted.  Trust the audience to draw their own conclusions - they'll prove right most of the time.  "},{"Title":"Not what you would expect","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rather than a lurid tale of degradation (i.e, Hardcore), or a villain pervert (i.e., The Silence of The Lambs), the film showed remarkable restraint, perhaps a restraint enforced by political correctness.  Whatever the reason, the product was a film where the bad guy was not totally one-dimensional.   The sympathy and the caring qualities were unfortunately the bait he used.  And the character, as portrayed by Brian Cox, did not seem to be using those qualities in a calculated, manipulative manner.  The story was more tragedy than horror show.A film is not required to supply all the answers and tie up everything neatly at the end.  I thought the film (up until the abrupt ending) was an excellent set up for a situation that would make a fascinating story.  "},{"Title":"Misunderstood and overlooked","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Because of the narrow minds of people in our society another excellent film is pushed away. The film is not about paedophilia, I always saw their relationship as more paternal then sexual. But because of our rigid classifications no one got to see this movie--a real shame. It is an insult that Brian Cox did not get an Oscar nomination for this film, his performance was THAT good. Thats just my opinion, I could be wrong. "},{"Title":"great movie with a broader message","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie because I noticed it mentioned on Gay-dot-com, I have to go there to find out about gay & lesbian movies because I can't really find out anywhere else. Being gay and living in rural Missouri you don't get much of your culture given to you very easily. And so far most of the g/l movies I've sought out ended up being mediocre or thinly disguised porn. It's great when you find something like this that actually pushes boundaries with great acting and great direction, and without copping out and becoming porn or giving some obvious gay-rights message. I wasn't going to review this until I read Sean Richard McCarthy's review below. I wish I could go on ranting about that, but as this is a review of the movie and not small mindedness. I will just say that I hope with more great gay & lesbian movies like this, and with more boundaries pushed, people will open their minds a little, and make my life a hell of a lot easier. "},{"Title":"The truth about L.I.E.","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I disagree with the preceeding review. The movie has a lot going for it, not the least of which is superbly persuasive acting.  Its shortcoming if anything is the improbability of one or two subplots--the boy's father suddenly departs in a way that could not happen in real life--combined with an excessively predictable outcome.Must this type of bad guy always get punished that way?But the best of the movie is its equivocality about where the real evil lies. It is not in the sexual predator-turned-victim, nor the uncaring corrupt father, nor the trashy selfish whore of a best friend.  The evil is all around the movie, it makes possible the dramatic tension, but it is not on the screen.The distributers rant about the excessive rating given this film. Certainly nothing depicted warrants a market-killing R. But in our society this topic alone, without actually showing anything trully objectionable, gets a censorious rating.  What in other cultures is an unremarkable, sometimes traditional, and often constructive relationship (think classical Sparta; think modern Holland) is here considered an angst-ridden nail-biting personality-damaging sin, so horrible it is takes fortitude even to talk about it, let alone make a movie.Which tells you where to find the real evil.          "}{"Title":"Rich and deep, a brilliant piece of filmmaking!","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  As an author, I was drawn in by the title of this excellent film, L.I.E. While using the Long Island Expressway as a metaphor, L.I.E. also symbolizes the way in which everyday people hide the truth from those closest to them, and the lies we deceive ourselves with. Without beating the viewer over the head with morality, director Michael Cuesta aims his cameras unflinchingly at the characters, never shying away from Truth or brutal reality. Howie is a sensitive fifteen year old, prone to poetry and schoolboy crushes, like the one he has on his friend, a morally bankrupt thug named Gary.  Because of his unrequited feelings, Howie is drawn into a life of petty crime...anything to be near Gary.  When a particular burglary turns sour and Howie is eventually tracked down by the homes' owner, a pedophile played with excellent depth by the former Hannibal Lecter (in Manhunter), Brian Cox, the film begins its downward spiral into emotional territory rarely experienced on film.  With brilliant clarity, Cuesta has filmed one of the most richly told tales I've ever had the pleasure to view. Not for the squeamish, if sexuality is a trigger for you, L.I.E. is brutally honest filmmaking, and highly recommended!  "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was haunting in some ways and simply poetic in others. First of all, Howie Blitzer's (played flawlessly by Paul Franklin Dano) mother died in a car wreck on the Long Island Expressway (hence the title of the movie)...coping with that is never easy for anyone, much less a 15 year old boy. But he also has to cope with a father who pays him no attention (and who is sleeping with a much younger woman in his dead mother's bed). Further, poor Howie has been hanging with the wrong crowd who are influencing him to make some pretty poor decisions. To top it off, he is questioning his sexuality. He uses lipstick and has masturbatory fantasies about his friend Gary and Big John, the pedophile who has paid Gary to have sex with him. Gary runs away which makes Howie even worse for wear. Then Howie's father gets arrested. Everyone in Howie's life has abandon him except for Big John who puts aside his lustful feelings for Howie in favor of being a friend to the boy. Moral of the story Sometimes zebras can change their stripes. I highly recommend this movie. The DVD is great with director Michael Cuesta's commentary. "},{"Title":"See it!!","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A remarkable movie. L.I.E. centers on Howie, a 15-year-old boy whose mother recently died in a car accident. Neglected by his father, an unscrupulous contractor who's constantly having sex with his new girlfriend, Howie falls in with a group of boys who break into houses for kicks. After one break-in Howie is caught by Big John (Brian Cox, the original Hannibal Lecter from Manhunter), a former Marine with a taste for young boys. But the relationship that develops between Howie and Big John surprises them both. L.I.E. captures male adolescence more genuinely than any other film in recent memory; the realism of the relationships, particularly between Howie and his father, is completely compelling. The movie affects all the senses; you can practically feel the texture of Howie's blue flannel sheets, smell the greenery that grows along the Long Island Expressway. Amazing performances, vivid direction, smartly written--superb all around. "},{"Title":"Disturbing insight","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This disturbing film depicts how fathers screw up their kids regardless of wealth or social status. And so the cycle begins. The film offers the viewer an understanding of why kids seek father figures that offer them the attention and normalcy they desire.   "},{"Title":"See it, no LIE! Should be rated G(reat)!","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  One has to wonder why the MPAA decided that a movie with no nudity, no overt sex and no carnage should carry the kiss of death NC-17 rating.Boyish teen Howie is a smitten by his knowlingly seductive buddy Gary to the point that he will follow him anywhere, even when he burgles homes of neighbors on Long Island. With his mother gone (claimed by an accident at the Dix Hills exit on the Long Island Expressway) and his father negligent and self-destructive, Gary is as close to family as Howie has, until he meets ex-Marine and chicken-hawk Big John, with his orange muscle-car Olds 442, who has already had Gary and most of the teenage boys at the local pickup spot.  But BJ (the vanity plate on his Olds) does not know quite what to make of Howie, who is both seductive and vulnerable -- and smart.The emotions are complicated in this film.  Is Howie infatuated with Gary or with wanting to BE Gary. Why does jean-sniffing Big John mother this motherless boy rather molest him? Can Big John be both a pillar of his community and a predator of its youths?L.I.E. is not a perfect film, but a good one. Worth seeing twice for the details you miss the first time.   "},{"Title":"An intense compendium of the ways fathers can fail their sons","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Michael Cuesta's film was pretty hard to take and I felt spent after seeing it.  Picturesque areas of Long Island that I'm familiar with have never seemed so barren.  Brian Cox, as just one of the inept/venal father figures in this movie, gives an uncompromising portrayal in a role that most actors wouldn't be caught alive in.  As the principal youth in the film, Paul Franklin Dano is innocent, curious, knowing, seductive and lost.  I found this film upsetting on many levels, none of which merited its being saddled with an NC 17 rating from the MPAA.  Jack Valenti, give to me a break! "},{"Title":"Sequel `Howie Blitzer's First Kiss, Not on the L.I.E.'","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just got back from the theater in New York... I must first say that I do not think the ending was all too unpredictable.  The performances are outstanding.  Young Paul Franklin Dano is a up and comer and I think we will see a lot more of him...  Brian Cox was great!!  The film was done in the only way it could be with out it having to be a underground production... The sub plots are deep and suggestive...  Sequel to this film could be `Howie Blitzer's First Kiss, Not on the L.I.E.'  "},{"Title":"Honest, Complex Film Doesn't Take the Easy Cliche","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best films I've seen in a long time.  It's amazingly honest, allowing its characters a complexity and depth they would never have in a mainstream film.  It's so refreshing to see a film not take the easy way, not fall back on the simple cliche or the cardboard character.The performances are outstanding, especially the young cast and Big John. "},{"Title":"And if I was a spy, what would you think of me then?","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I went into this film with some rather high expectations. I hate doing that with cinema, but when you find a film with as much praise as this film garnered, you do have a moment of anticipation as you begin your newfound movie adventure. I expected to see a riveting story, powerful climactic acting, and social challenges coupled with iconic symbolism. I expected this with L.I.E. because of the swooning nature of the entertainment critics. Instead, what was handed to me was a choppy film with superb acting, but filled with a plethora of open ended questions that director Michael Cuesta obviously had no intention of answering. With interchangeable characters, intermittent sub-stories, and humor that seemed more glamorized for pre-teens than the mature audience watching this film, L.I.E. came in as nothing more than a major disappointment. I will sit on my comforting chair and applaud the acting that surrounded this film (ie Brian Cox and Paul Dano's chemistry was better than most Hollywood pre-pairings), but I cannot say the same for the story or overall theme of this film. L.I.E. could have been a power film about family dystopia, about the impressions of youth due to family trauma, and the power of sex in a teenage life, but instead this film transformed into nothing more than simple shock-o-rama with some hidden gems wedged nearly out of the eyes view.I think what disgruntled me the most about this film was the jagged storyline that Cuesta submerged his characters into. Here are a couple of examples that strained both my mind as well as my cinematic taste the unbinding relationship between Gary and Howie, the puzzling scene between Howie's dad and his lawyer (can anyone say AWKWARD), the sporadic bits of humor spliced within Howie's thieve circle (random friend sleeping with sister), as well as the struggling man-boy living with Big John that obviously needed no introduction or story. It was these small loose ends that I felt Cuesta just couldn't focus on, thus ultimately destroying this film. What irked me further was that there was much potential in Cuesta's story that if these loose ends would have been taken out this would have been a very moving and influential film. This movie is the perfect example of what happens when directors attempt to bring too much into the story thinking that it will add either 1) shock value (who wouldn't want the next Kids film on their hands!) or 2) completely destroy the character giving us a hopeless victim that we need to instantly feel sympathy towards. As I watched L.I.E., I found myself enjoying the connections that Cuesta was developing between parenthood and relationships. What could have been viewed as a film concerning pedophilia instead moved to a movie about a lost boy searching for any form of guidance, acceptance, and involvement. I thought Cuesta hit this primary target straight forward, but with his annoying random intermittent sub-stories he could not keep my attention from beginning to end. He was a tease. He would grab me emotionally, and then obtrusively forcing me to go with scenes like Howie's father running through his yard evading the F.B.I. How embarrassing for a film of this nature as well as for Michael Cuesta.Again, what saved this film from utter mediocrity was the power of Brian Cox. Rumors have spread that he was advised not to take this role by business associates and friends, but he pushed forward giving us a new face and personality to pedophilia. What made him so incredible in this film was his attention to detail, his level of humanity, and the sincerity of his actions. Sure, what he did behind closed doors is considered evil in our society, but he took his character away from that society cliché. He transformed this vile character into that of family. For most actors, that would be very difficult to do, but for Cox it seemed to come with complete and utter ease. The scene that stands out the most in my mind was when his man-boy made the comment to him about being ashamed, Cox responded with I feel shame every day. The humility of his character was ingenious. He wasn't this monster (though he had the characteristics of one), but instead a troubled man that was looking &#150; much like Howie &#150; for companionship. Also, Cox's character wouldn't have worked if it weren't for Paul Dano. He was so young in this role, yet he seemed to give us more connectiveness to his character than most other films. We found ourselves rooting for him, and at the same time feeling pity for him. He portrayed the tag-along with ease and stability. Dano and Cox were the staples to this film, and I must credit Cuesta for bringing these two together &#150; even though he couldn't bring the entirety of the film together.Overall, I thought this was nothing more than a mediocre film with above averaging acting coming from Brian Cox and Paul Dano. Cuesta had a sincere film in his hands, but the placement of incoherent sub-stories dismantled the overall tone/story right before our eyes. The youthful jokes between friends, the zigzag nature of Gary's actions, the insincerity of Howie's badly acted father, and the poorly illustrated man-boy at Big John's house could have been strong building blocks to this film, but instead because of the candid nature of it completely destroyed L.I.E. I could find myself suggest this film to friends just one due to the interest twist that Cuesta used to compare the family dynamic to pedophilia, but that would be it. One viewing only and I must pull off the Long Island Expressway to find a less bumpy route! Grade *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Considering the number of awards that this movie was nominated for and received at film festivals around the world, and the comments about how the director was admirable in choosing to present a difficult subject, I looked forward to seeing L.I.E.As much as I wanted to like this movie, I didn't. The movie seems to feel that mature teenagers are able to make choices regarding their sexual experiences and I had no problems with that. The problem with this movie for me, is that the characters weren't well developed and their relationship with each other wasn't developed either. Unlike those who made other comments, I didn't like the character of Big John. I agree that the director was courageous in tackling so controversial a topic. I only wish the result was a better movie. "}{"Title":"Good performances in a Good drama","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wanted to see this due to the film having the dreaded NC-17 rating so I bought the uncut version. Due to the rating I expected alot more violence, sex etc but this was not present so it made me wonder why it got the NC-17 rating. Nevertheless I enjoyed the film and the performance of Paul Dano was very good giving me the impression he will star in alot of films in the future. The ever realible Brian Cox was great as always. Good independent film but not the best I have seen. 3 out of 5 "},{"Title":"truth","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  wowa great movie!sensitive, unpredictable, honest and compelling...a work of true understanding and non-sensationalismjust when you think it's going one way, the expressway leads you to another...offramps of sensuality and compassion for its characters, never giving in to our desires or fears, rather tarring the way for beauty and intelligence...who's to say who's to love?only by convention do we judge and condemna work of art and brilliantly acted by all, let l.i.e lead you in all the right directionsi did it my way!!! "},{"Title":"Bad.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just ridiculously bad, unfortunately. Most of the film I was unconsciously making these gnarled faces in horror and disgust at what I was seeing; not because of the controversial plot, but just because I saw what they were trying to do (I think) and it just didn't work. The funny thing was, I looked over at my friend beside me and he was making the same faces.  "},{"Title":"30,000 Blows to the head in 10 seconds.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Brutal , Shocking and Artistic.Very few films go under this description, Requiem for a dream isa prime example.I have nothing to say about this film, just make sure you watch this. "},{"Title":"Difficult art.","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Making art is difficult. Making art about tangible reality is difficult art. I congratulate the makers of this movie. They tackled a story about very real characters in suburbia, where the existence of such characters is generally denied. The unfortunate focus on the pederast subplot in the movie has obscured the value of the film as a broader study about boys and men in current suburban America. Brian Cox was outstanding as the complex Big John. I have had the dubious pleasure of knowing two shadowy men like John, and I found his portrayal consistent with my experience. Billy Kay was outstanding in the character of Gary. I was saddened to see his limited acting history on this site. I guess there aren't too many substantial roles for adolescent boys. I hope to see him grow into an accomplished actor. I think Paul Dano was over his head in his role and, while carrying the wise-guy aspect of the character, seemed to founder in scenes where he had to play out the real desperation and sadness of his situation. I recommend this movie strongly, especially for young adolescent boys. So, I recommend that parents really invested in useful education for their sons try to get them in to see it.     "},{"Title":"stops short","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Interpretation, spoilersAt first, Big John is portrayed as a creepy old pervert. He goes out of his way to meet Howie, he tries to seduce Howie with a porn video and stories of his own oral sex prowess, and he sleeps with a young man living at his house. Soon, however, we learn that he is not such a predator after all. Both when Gary leaves and Howie's father is arrested, Big John is there to support Howie. Like a father, he even teaches Howie to shave. When John kicks out his previous youth lover, the audience gets the feeling that Howie is the new replacement and that now that the two are alone, the expected sex scene will occur. Instead, we learn that John is a true gentleman when he pushes away Howie's come-ons. Thus, we have two mutually exclusive pictures of John. The first that stalks little boys and takes semi-nude pictures of them. This is the John that nearly defiled Howie before the propitious telephone call. Later, the second John emerges and when he and Howie are alone again, John inexplicably is no longer a boy-hungry pedophile. The second John is still on the mind of the audience when he is shot, so we are supposed to feel sorry for him. `Aww, pedophiles are not so bad' we are supposed to think, when in actuality the writer had attempted to play us for a bunch of fools by putting two Johns into one body. From what the audience sees, the second John is not a pedophile, and hence, the theme of the movie is ruined. This movie was supposed to be one that shocked us out of our beliefs about `the last taboo,' as the preview so confidently proclaimed. In actuality, this movie stops short of the desired goal. The movie should have attempted to make the audience feel for John at the same time that they are aware he is having sex with children. A sex scene with Howie is the only logical conclusion. Instead, we get the current anticlimactic end. As is, the first half of the movie is about pedophilism and the second is not; I doubt this is what the makers were going for. In the first half, John is disliked; in the second half, he is liked because dislike of pedophiles reigns supreme before and after the movie. With an idea like this, the movie creators should go all the way or not at all.  "},{"Title":"L.I.E.  why?","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There are some things I like about this movie, but I dislike more things.The cinematography, score, and style is beautiful. It was shot using some sort of high-saturation film, that really produces a unique and stylish effect. I also would agree with most people on here that the acting in this movie is spot-on, mostly on Cox's part.But, then again, I could go on forever with all of the things about this movie that are unpleasant. It seems like this movie was made simply to push the limits. The story is pretty weak, and at some parts repulsive, even to me, and I consider myself very open-minded. The message is completely lost in the subject matter, and in the end, you don't really know what you should feel. Most of the characters, other than the leads, are paper-thin, seemingly there just to add comedic relief - that isn't funny.Overall, this movie starts off with some great potential, a good foundation, but it just kind of falls apart. I certainly wasn't touched by it, as I found the lead characters rather hard to connect with. In the end, this movie just disappoints. "},{"Title":"This is a good review","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just watched L.I.E and I was amazed at the honesty of the film.  I love how the director looked past stereotypes such as Big John as the pedophile and made his character feel.  The acting was wonderful and I felt there was an especially good job done by Billy Kay as Gary (the best friend that you have deeper feelings for) This movie was stupidly rated NC-17 so sadly, many teens who would have benefitted from this film didn't get to see it in theaters, but now that it has been rated R you can rent it!!!! I encourage parents and their children to watch this film together and just see some things that are influenced in life by the Long Island Expressway. "},{"Title":"Hey I Loved Your Movie","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" L.I.E THE BEST MOVIE EVER. Hey I'm Joel from Toronto Ontario Canada I'm 18 and i was whouldring if any one know's Howie's E-mail because i want to Congratulat him on a really good movie it really reached me he is just like me and one day hopefully i can get a hold of him i seen the movie in 2001 and now it's 2007 it's really been a long time but the movie is still in my mind so if any one can help me out and get my e-mail to Howie that would be greatly aperhated THANK U SO MUCH CAN'T WAIT TO TALK TO HIM ABOUT THE Movie MY E-MAIL IS jdmotorcross15@hotmail.com plz send me back a messege thank u so much thanks agine bye for now. "},{"Title":"massive teenage problems","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Removing the periods from the title gives the word lie, maybe too obvious a metaphor for this film about kids growing up in well-heeled suburbia. Behind the outer trapping of beautiful homes set amid spacious green lawns there is lots of trouble for the people living there. Howie (Paul Franklin Dano), grieving over the death of his mother, lives with his father who is preoccupied with new women in his life. He is a hard-fisted operator of a construction business looking only for money and cutting corners on building contracts. Howie and his best friend, Gary (Billy Kay), are somewhat involved with a local teenage gang who break into homes and steal just for the excitement of it. Eventually Howie is befriended by an older man, Big John (Brian Cox) an ex-Marine and a pederast,who at first sees troubled Howie as a desirable target for his affections but later develops real bonds of sympathy for the boy as his troubles at home and school become more and more overwhelming. The performances of Dano and Cox are fine and make L.I.E. a compelling film to watch. (Note to the makeup supervisor why did the black eye Howie got from his father move from left to right in various scenes?) H "}{"Title":"A movie you won't soon forget","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Big John is a retired marine homosexual pedophile whose Long Island doorbell plays From the Halls of Montezuma... when rung. He is a guy who has lived a James Bond kind of life who likes to... Well, I can't say, but it should be obvious what he likes to do.Howie is a 15-year-old boy who has lost his beloved mother and has a father who is too busy for him and hasn't a clue about what is going on in his son's life. Howie and his friends are into breaking into the mini-mansions on Long Island for fun and profit. One night they break into the cellar of Big John's house and steal his prized set of handguns. Big John goes looking for the perps and what he finds is true paternal love.What makes this an outstanding movie is director Michael Cuesta's relentless and uncompromisingly realistic treatment of what is essentially a taboo coming of age story. I can tell you that if the theme appeals to you, you will be completely captivated by this movie. And even if such a tale is not your cup of tea, you might want to see this anyway because it is so very, very well done without a hint of contrivance or pandering. It is beautifully acted (Paul Dano playing Howie is outstanding, as is Brian Cox as Big John) and beautifully directed and cut. The script by Stephen M. Ryder, Michael Cuesta and Gerald Cuesta is replete with precise and totally authentic dialogue. The characters are nuanced and faithfully realized. The theme of love over predatory sexuality is convincing and worthy. Furthermore, the sexuality depicted is just vivid enough to make sure we understand what is going on without resorting to anything graphic.(I saw the R-rated version, but I think it is the same as this one, which Amazon says is unrated. I understand there is an NC-17, but I don't think it matters. For those who are going to be offended, I think a PG-13 version of this movie--were it possible--would offend them.) I think the resolution of the film, both in terms of what happens to Big John and to Howie was exactly right, but some may find it a little too neat. Certainly the ending as done does not leave any ambiguities lying around, although I suspect there is a scene where Howie's dad accuses him of stealing his hundred dollar bills somewhere on the cutting room floor, and really that's okay, since it wasn't needed. Or maybe I missed it.Bottom line something close to a small masterpiece the kind of movie that tells us some truths about life that cannot be expressed in so many words--in other words, a work of art.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Long Island Expressway","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" L.I.E., is about a teenage boy named Howie Blitzer, who lives with his single father Marty Blitzer. We soon find out that Howie's mother was killed in an accident. Howie, hangs out with a group of kids who frankly talk about sex and break into people's houses and steal things. Marty's best friend is named Gary, and tells Howie, that he plans to leave town and go to California, and that he wants Howie, to go with him. One night Gary, and Howie break into a man's home who catches them just before they get away. The man is named Big John Harrigan, and he soon confronts Howie, about the robbery and Howie admits it. Soon after Gary leaves town without telling anyone and Howie feels alone and starts to see more of John, and soon finds things out about him and also notices how many different things are coming down the road for him. Winner of The Jury Award for Best Feature at The Barcelona International Gay And Lesbian Film Festival, The BSFC Award for Best Actor (Brian Cox, who plays John) and Best New Filmmaker at The Boston Society Of Film Critics Awards, The Jury Prize for Best Feature Film at The Copenhagen Gay And Lesbian Film Festival, The Jury Special Prize for director Michael Cuesta at The Deauville Film Festival, The New Director's Award at The Edinburgh International Film Festival, The Director's Week Award for Best Actor (Paul Dano, who plays Howie), Best Director and Best Film at The Fantasporto Awards, The Golden Satellite Award for Best Performance By An Actor In A Motion Picture Drama (Brian Cox) at The Golden Satellite Awards, The Independent Spirit Award for Best Debut Performance (Paul Dano) and The Producers Award at The Independent Spirit Awards, The Grand Jury Award for Outstanding Actor In A Feature Film (Paul Dano) and Outstanding American Narrative Feature at The L.A. Outfest, The Festival Prize for Best Feature Film 35mm at The Long Island International Film Expo, The Best Actor Award (for Paul Dano) and Best Directorial Debut at The Stockholm Film Festival and The Special Jury Prize for Best Feature Film at The Torino International Gay And Lesbian Film Festival. L.I.E., has good direction, a good script, good performances from everybody involved and good cinematography. L.I.E., is powerful, smart, compelling, thought provoking, bold, insightful, provocative and overall a very powerful film that will stay in your mind for quite awhile. The film is an accurate depiction of youth and at the same time is unsettling and is all the more powerful for being that way just because of how truthful it is. The film may offend some but for others it is definitely worth seeing. A great film. "},{"Title":"Whats the right age to see L.I.E.?","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I want to see L.I.E. very bad. I am only 15 but, I have and still am struggling with my own sexuality. I have been in a similar situation as Howie is in and I feel that I could relate to L.I.E. The only problem is that its NC-17 and my parents wont let me see NC-17. As I have read it was wrongly given the NC-17 label. What can I tell my parents that will let them be okay with me seeing the movie? Is the movie mostly NC-17 because of the idea of the movie? Or is there actually a lot of sexual content. I heard that there was a conversation between BJ and Howie about Howies penis size and that there was also the same convorsation between Howie and Gary. Are those the only bad parts? Or is the whole movie just have a bunch of dirty convorsations and sex scenes? Thanks. "},{"Title":"Social Horror Film","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very interesting experience of a movie.  Horrific and realistic story about a 15 year old boy coming of age in comfortable suburban settings. The major departure is the central character is falling love with another boy.  On the fringes is a well-known, well-liked ex-marine who enjoys the company of the younger set (boys, of course).  To watch this guy work his trade brings home the fact that child molesters wear many masks.Everything is tastefully done - no raw sex scenes, thankfully. Lags in certain areas, but overcomes the dolldrums with it's breaking story line.  But, you will not want to watch it twice.   "},{"Title":"A Subject I Am Glad To See Finally Being Confronted In America","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked the critique on this movie made by  The Unemployed Critic  on 22 September 2001.I had heard a lot of the controversy over the film and didn't finally get around to watching it until this morning. I rented the video at a video store last night.L.I.E, an acronym for the Long Island Expressway in Long Island, New York, U.S.A., is the site for many a scene in this movie. Howie Blitzer (Paul Franklin Dano) and his friends live nearby and are getting into a lot of trouble as the movie progresses.Howie's path eventually crosses with Big John Harrigan (Brian Cox), a man who apparently likes both women and teenaged boys. You can't really call him a pedophile since that would suggest liking children 12 and under.The movie pretty much has the same subject matter of Lolita, but involving a boy instead of a girl.Judging by the comments that IDC made below, he claims that There are scenes in this film you just won't want to watch, scenes you'd love to take your eyes off but you just can't.I believe that films similar to L.I.E. are wanting to change these very attitudes that people have about people being involved with younger age groups (below the legal Age Of Consent). It was not that big of a deal, say, 100 years ago before the legal age of consent was raised higher and higher. Personally, I think it shouldn't be that big of a deal today.Kudos to Michael Cuesta for being brave enough to make a film that deals with this very subject and I hope that people will take it to heart and realize that people aren't perfect but most people aren't total monsters either. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but....","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In most cases, when I encounter a movie of this nature, I hit Stop, Rewind and the Eject!  However, I found this movie to be entertaining. What is special about it is that everything is not what you expect (especially the ending).What I don't like is that it is mainly about homosexuality, and it seems to express that it is ok.  In fact, it in many situations, it seems to me that it encourages this behavior.  However, the end makes it all clear! "},{"Title":"W.O.W. (ok, ok, cheesy title.  I loved it)","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was an excellent movie and a huge surprise.  I hadn't really heard of it before I saw it.  The young stars were amazing - especially Gary.  The shot of him leading his pack of hood friends down the highway in a fur coat and pearls (over his Long Island tough-boy clothes and tattoos) after robbing a suburban home is amazing.  Protagonist Howie can't keep his eyes off him and neither can we.  Where did they FIND these kids?  And Dr. Guggenheim from Rushmore?!?!  Rock!It dealt with the coming of age of a thoughtful boy grappling with his sexuality so well - the characters were so sympathetic and well developed. S*#! went DOWN with these people, yet they never became self-pitying and the film always kept a healthy sense of humor.  I came out of the movie wishing I were a gay 15-year-old boy with a 50-year-old pedophile for a best friend. Um, I'm a 26-year-old straight woman.  How does that happen?See it.   "},{"Title":"Complex Charm, Callow Commitment","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Instead of unleashing a newly free flood of interesting cinema, Sundance has created limitations of its own on so-called independents, limits which are as pandering and restrictive as anything from the larger establishment. Here is a prime example. The Sundance ethic is that a film be done well, meaning that the execution be adequate for the material. In a Sundance winner, there needs to be a `theme,' and that theme needs to be easy to read in a Time magazine sense pseudocontroversial. It needs, of course, to have good acting. This must be straightahead acting without irony or distance or self-awareness.In short, we have a mechanism for supporting a cinematic community theater that explores no new ground, invents no new cinema and cuts no flesh of the viewer's body. We get stuff that one can walk through without being changed.`Gummo' and `Bully' have serious problems, but I recommend them over this competent, small stuff as explorations of adolescent sexual ennui.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Did we watch the same movie?","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is a mystery to me why L.I.E. has received so many favourable reviews. The film attempts to tackle sensitive issues but fails on every count. The directing is poor, the characters are underdeveloped (particularly the protagonist's dad who is little more than a cartoon), the acting is mostly horrible and the plot and script are bad. The director tries very hard to make it appear realistic and gritty but barely a single scene looks natural or believable.I can understand why this movie would hold some appeal for a homosexual audience -few films tackle gay issues in a serious way- but L.I.E. is just a bad film.3/10 "},{"Title":"Critics Fawn...Audiences Spew","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The perfect complement to the current news stories about pedophile priests -Brian Cox as the sympathetic pederast!! Apparently, writer/director Michael Cuesta checked his moral compass at the bath house door.  This story of a sexually confused youth, a cartoonishly awful father and assorted teenage dregs neither entertains or enlightens.  Of course the cosmopolitan critics loved it!  It's not provocative or challenging, just nauseating. "}{"Title":"Very Touching","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'd Have to say this movie is absolutely wonderful, I love it so much, it has become my favorite move (Next to Elephant)This movie shows how bad a 16 year old boy's life can be without anyone noticing or being there to help him. That is until This boy (Name Howie Blitzer) Befriends a pedophile (Chris Cox) who can't seem to make a move on this boy. Howie Blitzer Goes into a downward spiral and can't get up. A very very touching movie, Recommended for everyone like at least 15 and up. This movie will blow your mind, It will definitely make you think different about your life. You know what they say  On the long island expressway you've got the lanes going east, The lanes going west, then you've got the lanes going straight to hell. "},{"Title":"* * * * out of 4. My pick for #1 film of 2001!","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Haunting, thought provoking, and poetic film with exceptional performances from the entire cast especially Brian Cox, stylish direction and a terrific script that makes the material seem fresh and brand new. The film is about a 15 year old boy whose father has just been arrested, his mother just killed herself, and has had his only friend run away to California becoming involved with a much older man, Big John (Brian Cox), whose feelings for the boy are slowly turning to maternal. Very well made on a very low budget!Rated NC-17; Mild Violence, A Sexual Situation, Some Profanity, and Strong Adult Themes. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made about american suburb's lives","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has been compared to American Beauty and Happiness. But there's an important difference between L.I.E. and the other two movies. Besides the fact that L.I.E. is a lot better, Michael Cuesta's first movie is incredibly real and honest.It's unbelievable how human and real the characters are, even the weirdest ones. The theme may frighten parents and the conservative ones, but it receives an open and fearless treatment and that's why it should be seen by both teenagers and parents. Paul Franklin Dano as Howie and Brian Cox as Big John should have been at least academy award nominated, because their performances are really extraordinary. We'll surely hear a lot from Paul Dano in the future. Never seen an actor at his age like him before! He makes Haley Joel Osment look like a drama school pupil in his first year. Of course Dano is older; the comparison was made to give an idea of what I was talking about. It's an excellent movie, the most honest and realistic film I've seen in my life and it should be seen and discussed afterwards. Oh, and forget about the rating. It wasn't not even a bit fair to rate this film NC-17. "},{"Title":"confusing at times, but well made & acted","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"    I agree with most of the posts on this film.  It sure did not deserve the NC-17 rating,  This story of man/boy-(no sex scenes) is very well made. This is the first film for the director & I will be interested in seeing his next film, The same goes  for the acting which ranges from excellent (Brian Cox  & Paul Franklin Dano) to over done by most of the rest of  cast, For a non typical Hollywood film the ending is pure Hollywood & did hurt my appreciation for the film. Some of the dialogue was hard to understand as the actors were mumbling.Over all I felt I saw a good film but not a great one to be seen againrating  **1/2     78/100 points   IMDb rating 6 "},{"Title":"Trite & Scattershot Screenplay Ruins This Film","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a bummer, especially after reading somewhat good reviews. This film dragged on and on, with four or five potentially interesting stories scattered all over the place. The main focus of the film, a teen called Howie Blitzer, solicits no sympathy from the audience. He is a wishy-washy protagonist who serves no real purpose. There are no real captivating characters in this film until the end, when Big John and his lover are introduced. Characters are not tied together well. Plot and sub-plots do not dovetail. And the ridiculous Hollywood ending with a murder by a gun--wow, what a different approach--turns the whole film into watery mashed potatoes. A great disappointment and a waste of your valuable viewing time. Avoid this bore.   "},{"Title":"Unsettling, disturbing","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  16-year-old Howie (Paul Franklin Dano) and his friend Gary (Billy Kay), living on Long Island, fall in trouble with Big John (Brian Cox) a pedophile.  Also Howie's father is in serious financial trouble, his mother is dead and he's breaking and entering houses with Gary.  Well-made with fantastic performances all around but it's slow, disturbing, very depressing and I fely queasy more than once (in the scenes with Cox).  And what's the point?  I felt dirty after seeing this movie.  It doesn't deserve the NC-17 rating it has (it got it for subject matter alone which is ridiculous), but I can't recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Film by Michael Cuesta","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  L.I.E. tells of a 15 year old named Howie (Dano) who is a confused and sometimes pretty angry teen who is left behind when his (closet gay) best friend runs away to California without him.  Meanwhile, an old, ex-marine who is gay and may be even more than that (there was heavy innuendo of peta-file like stuff going on from Brian Cox) actually befriends the boy after he steals his guns.  Sometimes taboo, complex, yet totally compelling, terrific in acting and style, plus an ending that was sad and satisfying.  A richly layered & crafted drama, which is surprising considering the NC-17 rating might scare people off (the only reason it seems the film got the rating was for dialogue and innuendo, which in my mind isn't grounds for NC-17 trash dismissal).  Only flaw is that it's sometimes off-putting and unbearable, although that's the film's intention so I also give props for having the guts to do that.  Filmed on location in Long Island.  Grade A "},{"Title":"sickening movie","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Movies like this should be outlawed, or at least come with a warning.  I have never left a movie before, but this was too much.  I was dry-heaving after the movie was over, and thought i was going to throw up.  Not only was the theme of the story grotesque and repulsive, but there was absolutely no plot.  I was going to ask for a refund after seeing this vile work, but it's not the theater's fault for letting trash like this into society. "},{"Title":"It may be art--but that doesn't make it good...","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was the worst independent film I've seen since Clerks. That's pretty bad film-making. It was a waste of celluloid and the filmmakers should have burned the negative and collected the insurance--because it doesn't even belong on the American market.Have you ever seen those crappy European movies about lifestyles that you know for a fact doesn't exist in this part of the world? It's kind of like that--but on a larger scale. The content revolves around homosexual behavior among children and old guys--not to mention a boy who screws his sister just about every single day. This was obviously the director's personal wet-dream--turned real.I give this piece of junk a solid two thumbs down. And if I could I'd give the director a big kick to the head. "}]