[{"Title":"It's fun to get away from the camp, even if it's just for an hour.","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"42 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The strangest point in this film is a point, about a half hour through, when all of the seemingly normal camp counselors go out in to the city.  In a montage shot, they slowly go from reading books at the library, to smoking cigarettes, to smoking joints, to buying cocaine from a guy on the street, to becoming prostitutes, then becoming strung out heroin-addicts at the local crack house.  This is not your parent's parody movie.From this point on, the film is never the same.  Seemingly normal character development goes out the window, and characters jump from one complete different personality to another within seconds.  We get brilliant lines of dialogue that could only be brought from members of The State, like Hey, there's a problem.  I've got something I need to tell you. Oh no!  You have crabs.  No.  Well, yeah, but that's not the problem.  Oh good.Pure genius!!!  Why don't more comedies have lines of dialogue like this?Some other great points There is a way we could save everyone's lives.  Well, no that couldn't work.  In order for it to work, we would need to have a device that could randomly generate numbers between 1 and 20. That's impossible.  That would take some sort of highly advanced supercomputer to work.  Not necessarily.  No dungeon master goes anywhere without his...20 sided die.I sort of wish I had known what films were being parodied in this movie.  I saw strands that sort of matched what I had seen from old Summer Camp movies I had seen back in high school during the wee hours in the morning during comedy central.  But, there were many things here that seemed like they must be references to other films.   Oh well.  It's just all crazy.Anyway, I guess I should say that this isn't a really good...movie, per se, but...well, I have no excuses for it.  Wet Hot American Summer rules!  Dolphins suck it!!! "},{"Title":"Genius","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"23 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie made me so happy.  The performers are so gifted.  The details in the art direction and characterizations were pretty spot-on too.  Amy Poehler in particular delighted me.  That girl rocks my world.  Everyone has their moment though.  In this time when parodies are almost more common than original ideas, this movie stands out as one of the best. "},{"Title":"What am I missing?","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"27 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK, I am pretty forgiving and can enjoy a lot of stupid movies. But I REALLY don't get what it is people like about this movie! I like a lot of the actors, but the jokes were NOT funny. I mean maybe 5% of the jokes worked. It was like a long bad SNL skit or something. I just really rally don't get it. I would rather watch Weekend at Bernie's 2 three times in a row than see this again. This movie was flat, unfunny, and just a complete waste of time. I am sorry, I really wanted it to be good, but I think I laughed once the entire time. Molly Shannon was good, but still not that funny. I imagine when reading the script it may have seemed funnier than it was. Someone said it was going to be a classic and be quoted form like Caddyshack! PLEASE!!Skip it. "},{"Title":"Like nothing you've seen before","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"38 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wet Hot American Summer is without question, the funniest movie to come out in years, and certainly among the funniest I've ever seen. The reason you might not have heard of it is because it isn't as advertised as other movies, because it doesn't have the type of budget to advertise itself. It breaks my heart that horribly made, unfunny, unoriginal movies, such as American Pie 2, were in more theaters and are more available to rent or buy.The humor in WHAS is not comparable to humor in any other movie that comes to mind. The humor is a lot like the what you would see on The State (because it was written/directed by State cast members). Many scenes are just so ridiculous that you have to laugh, and if you don't, its because you are taking the movie too seriously.The day this movie came out on video, my friends and I watched it as many times as we could manage to, in one day. Every time we watched, we noticed something new, and still laughed hysterically at the stuff we noticed the first time. It has the type of replay value that should make you go out and buy it, rather than rent it.  "},{"Title":"A Cult Classic of Epic Proportions","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"51 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wet Hot American Summer is an overlooked comic gem and an absurdest spoof of those god-awful summer camp movies from the 1980's. If you enjoy Monty Python style sketch humor or were a fan of The State (many of the players are employed here) or Kids in the Hall, then this is the ticket for you. People who enjoy humor more in line with the Farelly Brothers or the American Pie films probably just won't get this. It's all a matter of taste and your sense of humor. But seriously, how can you go wrong with a movie that has a pep talk from a talking can of vegetables or an overly dramatic chase scene where the person doing the chasing is thwarted by a single barrel of hay in the middle of a wide open road? My personal favorite is when the guy is driving the van singing along to Danny's Song and then out of nowhere screams bloody murder as he slams into a tree. Oh, and who can forget the hilariously rapid decent into the underworld of drugs and despair by the kids spending an hour away from camp in town? This is also a must see for people who appreciate Janeane Garafalo's comic timing and Molly Shannon's bizarre brand of humor. This film was grossly overlooked when it hit theaters, but I think there is a cult following waiting for this movie. I hope these people are allowed to collaborate on another comedy. If they are, then we may have a new dawn of Monty Python style humor infecting the barbarian hordes. "},{"Title":"Idiotic and self-indulgent pointless waste of time","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"27 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are so many struggling film makers with good ideas, who would love to have David Hyde-Pierce or Jeanine Garafolo help get their films made. Good original films. Bit, no! They star in this tripe. Why this was made, I don't know. Writer/producer/director David wain obviously has unresolved issues about being a nerd at summer camp, but this unfunny movie ought to have stayed private between him and his therapist. Porky's and American Pie , though gross, each have something to say about youth and sex. This movie says nothing. Even Meatballs is better. And of course, Woody Allen does the alienated Jewish intelligentsia experience definitively. Wet Hot American Summer is not even good enough to be so bad its funny.Avoid this movie. Run screaming. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"28 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wet Hot American Summer is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time. It has an excellent cast, including Janeane Garofalo, David Hyde Pierce, Michael Showalter, Paul Rudd, Chris Melloni, Amy Poehler and Michael Ian Black. This spoof of summer camp movies from the 70's and 80's does a great job of recreating the implausible and predictable plots of the movies of the ear while still staying incredibly funny and fresh. WHAS touches on all the old themes, such as the nice guy trying to get the hot girl, the director awkwardly trying to find love, and the outcast who saves the day. Some of the funniest scenes in the movie are the ones that are so random and unexpected-Andy and the kids in the van, the trip into town, etc.-that you just have to laugh. I have no idea why it didn't receive more attention. It's a shame that a movie this good hasn't received the attention that it deserves.  "},{"Title":"Lots of stars, few laughs","Date":"24 August 2011","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I checked this movie out based on the recommendation of a local movie critic. He mentioned all of the young actors (mostly unknown at the time) and how the movie was underrated. Well he was dead wrong! There are a couple of good laughs involving Paul Rudd, but mostly this movie is just terrible! There's a reason most people have never heard of this film. Halfway through this film I kept checking the clock, thinking is this over yet!? The only redeeming feature of this movie is to play name that star. Some are young enough that they are hardly recognizable (i.e. Bradley Cooper). Save yourself the wasted time and go rent Meatballs, an actual fun and funny camp movie. "},{"Title":"A mixed bag of a summer camp film","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie defintely has its high and low points, the plot concerns the last day of camp in 1981 at a small Jewish summer camp in Maine.  It's meant as a parody of all those late 70s, early 80s teen sex romps like Porky's and Meatballs, and while some of the parodies are dead on, others fall rather flat.  Perhaps the funniest moment concerns some of the counselors hour-long trip into town which starts out innocently but then degrades into a drugged-out parody where the kids start out smoking cigarettes and quickly go to robbing old ladies to feed their newfound cocaine and heroin addictions.  Other high points include the Vietnam veteran cook, the loony arts & crafts instructor, and even the children deciding not to play baseball against the anonymously evil-rival camp because they just don't feel like it.  A lot of the movie seems more like a bunch of strung together sketches, which adds to its weakness.  However, it is fun to see the return of the bad haircuts, too-short shorts, and high socks that made up that era, along with some great early 80s rock hits.   "},{"Title":"Hilarious parody of the dreckiest film genre","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"26 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  They don't get any worse than summer camp movies, but nothing is funnier than this satire aimed at that very genre.  People who came of age in the early eighties ( like me ) may get more of the jokes, but the movie is great all the way through.  The cast is impeccable, the writing is spot on, and a much neglected era is brought to life convincingly.  Many jokes start out as the same old predictable stuff but get turned on their heads.  Watch until the very end of the credits for one of the funniest jokes I have ever seen on film; it's worth the price of admission for that alone.  Fans of the State, the most brilliant sketch comedy show of the past 187 years, will go absolutely crazy over this.  A must see film that puts to shame many a period piece. "}{"Title":"A Dry Cold American Mess","Date":"9 September 2011","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've been wanting to see this movie ever since I read an article in Entertainment Weekly about how funny it was and included many comedians, that were unknown in 2001, that are well known now. I was completely set to see a movie about camping in the early 80s and when I saw it on Netflix I knew it was time. Then splat, I couldn't believe the garbage I was seeing. Yeah it was cool to see some of my favorite comedians and actors in one of their earlier films, like Paul Rudd, but I didn't laugh once. I saw it as a dramedy trying too hard to have some comedic value but failed miserably. Maybe it was my expectations or maybe you had to have experienced camps similar to this to understand it. Whatever the reason I can safely say that I am glad I never watched this film when it came out or I might not have risked seeing some of the actors' later films.A lot of people seemed to like it though so despite the fact that I didn't I wouldn't say don't waste your time. Watch it yourself and make up your own minds about it, but I will say this lower your expectations, you just might enjoy it because of that. "},{"Title":"why the term instant classic was invented","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"48 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not funny.  It's Friggin' HILARIOUS.  The first time I watched it was during the winter and I laughed a few times, but remembering the motorcycle chase scene, I gave it another run and was blown away.  I haven't laughed so hard since the second time I saw The Big Lebowski and I ended up buying my own copy.  What is it about Summer Camp movies?  Is it nostalgia or what?  I'm really not sure. I've always had a weakness for them, but this tops all.  Ironically, it's a parody of nearly every Summer Camp movie out there and it covers many, MANY other topics that I'm just too lazy to ruin for you. It's also better than just about any other Summer Camp movie out there, and despite all the absurdity going on, it actually does a good job of catching that feeling of being at camp.  There's not much more I can say about this one without ruining most of the jokes, but I can say that if you want a comedy that's actually funny, then don't rent this.  BUY IT.  Watch it at least once a month for the rest of your life (once a week during the Summer) and encourage your friends to do the same.  This is why the term instant classic was invented.     "},{"Title":"Fake Reviews?","Date":"25 April 2015","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can only assume the high ratings and stellar reviews for this film were bought and paid for. I registered for an account for the sole purpose to warn others what a complete waste of time this movie was. I tuned in because the cast contained so many actors and actresses I have enjoyed in other roles and expected at least a modicum humor.Ugh... no. I'm sure someone wrote a script for this film. I think it was flushed out on piece of bathroom tissue that was then heavily used. Some of the performances seemed strained in a how-did-I-get-myself-into-this manner. The multiple sub-plots were weak and the idea that this movie was a spoof of past camp films, like Meatballs et. al. is laughable. About the only laugh I got out of the film.I tried to like it, but it as the credits started rolling I realized no amount of replay was going to uncover a missed gem of hilarity. Please stay away. "},{"Title":"The Worst","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There's not one funny scene in this entire movie. It's only value may be in defining what the very worst kind of movie is. Next time they should start by actually writing a script. Maybe then they could create even one memorable scene.Don't waste 90 minutes of your life on this one. I rented it to have a few laughs but it honestly was completely unfunny. Trust me it's beyond awful!How hard could it have been to make a funny movie about summer camp?Better things to do with your 90 minutes balance your checkbook, alphabetize your spice rack, look for loose change in your sofa cushions. JUST DON'T WATCH THIS AWFUL MOVIE. "},{"Title":"worst movie ever???","Date":"12 June 2014","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I guess a lot of the reviewers are less that 14 years old and think that jokes about lice are just the funniest thing in the universe or maybe they just have the IQ of a rock. This movie was so BADLY over acted and TERRIBLY directed and the script so CHILDISHLY written that the mere watching of it was worse than train wreck status. The budget is listed here at approximately 5 million Cheap enough by 21st century standards. Opening week it brought in $17,481 and did a gross business of $292,102! That pretty much sums up what the theater goers thought of this dreck. They hated it!!! No word of mouth here! So about 48 thousand people actually paid to see this and it died on the vine virtually overnight. There are over 5,000 theaters with over 39,000 screens in the USA. If it had a general release at just 100 screens, with 3 showings a day, the average audience for the weekend was about 50 people per show. That translates to about 20 viewers per showing on Sunday. The producers, investors, and even theater owners lost pot fulls of money on this dog. "},{"Title":"Very strange but still funny in parts","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Set in the summer of 1981 this film follows the fortunes of campers and camp supervisors on the last day of camp at Camp Firewood.Some of the dialog truly is laugh out loud funny, yet some parts - like talking vegetable cans and NASA equipment falling from space is just plain weird.There is also a rather disturbing edge to this film too - like a rather out of context gay sex scene, a child drowning while two camp supervisors get it on, heavy drug use in one particular scene and a rather suggestive element of supervisor/camper relations....Its certainly unique and will probably leave you scratching your head afterwards asking yourself what the ****???? "},{"Title":"Was hoping for a wet hot discovering summer","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wet Hot American Summer is the kind of movie where you either get it or you don't. If you do, you're good. If you don't, you are the red-headed step child among your friends and are subject to ridicule because you didn't laugh all that much. I have to say I'm in that category, but I appreciated what the film was doing. It was trying to be a different movie for a certain crowd. It succeeds in being different, but not much else.I think that this film is appreciated by people who also worship The Big Lebowski and the new comedy Our Idiot Brother, also starring Paul Rudd. They have a certain quotable reputation and are filled with so many random and oddball scenes that they soon get the cult classic status. I did like The Big Lebowski, but didn't see much hope in a rewatch because of the humor only being truly hilarious one time around. Some have said that Wet Hot American Summer gets better with repeated viewings. I don't think I'll stick around to find out.The story is just thrown together with odds, ends, and characters. Everything is thrown against the wall and the characters wander aimlessly throughout the camp hoping to be hit on the end with some comical elements. We're at Camp Firewood, a Jewish summer camp, and this is the last day of the summer. Everyone is scrambling to find someone of the opposite sex, or same sex, to be with so they can share a kiss at the end of the summer talent show.The characters are has shallow as the no diving end at a pool. We have Beth (Garofalo), the camp director. Henry (Pierce), an astrophysicist. Coop (Showalter) who has a crush on Katie (Moreau), but unfortunately for him, Katie's boyfriend is the ungrateful, incompetent, ignoramus Andy (Rudd). Gene (Meloni), the Vietnam vet. And way more.Director David Wain is known for his odd style as he's written and directed Cartoon Network shows like Children's Hospital and Tim and Eric Awesome Show Great Job. So he does tackle a semi-original idea here. Too bad it's gone to waste. There's one scene where two boys discover their best friend is gay, and rather than taking it in a mature manner, writer Michael Showalter seems to be laughing while writing making the scene unnecessary and tasteless.For some reason, I've never liked the idea of a summer camp setting in a comedy. It's rarely taken in a fresh manner, and it always results in the same jokes again and again. Some horror movies, like Friday the 13th work because they are in a camp, at night, giving a creepy vibe to an already uneasy setting. In comedies that use the setting, it seems that every film is just random antics, with no rhyme or reason, filled with incompetent camp counselors and teenagers fueled by raging hormones and immaturity.The characters are drawn and made to be likable, but they are nothing but walking mannequins motivated by personal satisfaction, lust, ego, and hormones. Many of us are, but it rarely do these things make a good, likable film. If the film had been more about finding your inner self and more a coming of age story rather than just be a comedy run by the characters' ridiculous antics it probably could've been more inspiring and more entertaining.The acting and directing doesn't kill the film has much as the events and characters do. Wet Hot American Summer isn't horrible, but it's repetitive and predictable. What I found wrong may be what someone else finds perfectly fine. The legion of fans will have to accept my review and move on. For every one person who doesn't like this there are half a dozen more who do.Starring Janeane Garofalo, David Hyde Pierce, Molly Shannon, Paul Rudd, Christopher Meloni, Michael Showalter. Directed by David Wain. "},{"Title":"Waiting to forget...","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Camp? Parody?? Cult classic??? Get out of here! What a drag to sit out this movie. Almost all the scenes are very short, but not short enough, because with the start of each fresh scene I was already waiting for the next, fruitlessly hoping on any thing funny to happen. No way. My irritation soon reached boiling point and not before was I so happy with the closing credits.Any one who finds this movie funny should go see a shrink or take up a hobby. The creators of this movie should be banned to an island where it always rains. That'll teach 'em.Zero points. "},{"Title":"This is a wonderful, funny, funny movie!","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"18 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hilarious. A goofy, nostalgic spoof of the early 80's. I loved this  movie in all its crudeness and sincerity. See it, these people deserve to make more films. Comedies have become so gross and so ironic, that it's nice to see something that is just plain smart, honest and entertaining. This film doesn't want to do anything but make you laugh and it succeeds. "},{"Title":"Hit and Miss, Mostly Miss...","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was dying to see this once I saw the ridiculous MEATBALLS poster and  divined that it had to be the best satire ever. What a brilliant idea for a satire--the genre is rife. Unfortunately, the finished product (as I think all involved probably realize) is a catalogue of missed opportunities, not-quite-there performances and (thankfully!) a few extremely hilarious, inspired bits. Janeane Garafolo, who is very striking, looks really bad here, probably because she is uncomfortably struggling to make her flat role funny. David Hyde Pierce is just sad to watch, trying to hard to be funny and looking like a Castro nerd. Molly Shannon is so funny just SEEING her makes you laugh, but somehow her segment fails to snowball into something hysterical. Paul Rudd had great teen mannerisms and was sexy as hell, the other guys are also really funny (the nerdier ones). I think the problem is the director just doesn't move things along at the right pace. He starts out very deadpan, and that sets the monotone. But when he lets things get really outrageous (the drug sequence is the second funniest moment I've had all year in movies, the first also coming in a lame movie Andrea Martin in ALL OVER THE GUY complaining about the movie IN & OUT), it's just plain funny. I wanted this movie to work so badly, but it just didn't. The clothes and styling for 1981 are 99.9% PERFECT, and the very few songs used are also perfect. This ends up as a medium-bad MAD TV episode, complete with frustratingly overlong sketches. "}{"Title":"Smells like teen spirit&#x85; or is that the refried beans?","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Not ANOTHER 'Another Teen Movie,' is the accompanying groan to most introductions to Wet Hot American Summer. How could a title and premise that simultaneously stupid and generic be anything more than the sum of its exorbitantly familiar parts? It doesn't help that every plot summary reads roughly exactly how you'd expect it to; even stray quotations out of context play like recycled outtakes from American Pie. If anything, it seems amazing how barefaced the film is about its complete unoriginality. So do yourself a favour &#x96; stop reading plot summaries, perusing online quotes, and just go see the film instead. Don't watch the trailer. Even stop reading this review. Stop it. Please stop.What are you doing still reading? I asked you nicely and everything! &#x85;I have failed at my objective.The inevitable twist, of course all of the above claims are actually true. And yet, somehow, Wet Hot American Summer remains an almost uncomfortably enjoyable watch. This is a film that gleefully tries to hide how far-removed from the film you think it's going to be, patiently wearing the mask of a normal 'Murrcan teenage coming-of-age camp drama, filled with first kisses, first times, illicit substances, and plenty of second-hand embarrassment. Don't get me wrong those things are all still there. But the schmaltz of the standard framework has been jettisoned for something altogether livelier, funnier, and even more honest. 'Parody' is the term used to encompass the film's approach to genre, but it may as well function as a parody of expectations of normal narrative beats and cohesion. It's almost as if writer/director David Wain and writer/star Michael Showalter have tossed a pinch of magic (or at least 'special sauce') into the pressure cooker of rote garbage and let it rip with no lid, exploding everywhere in a mess too delicious to be turned down (or something&#x85; I think that metaphor got away from me). The best joke of all? It works. Weirdly well. No, this is a film whose heart and inspiration lies somewhere between the SNL-spin off insanity of Meatballs and National Lampoon, blended with a healthy helping of the surrealistic insanity of Monty Python, and culminating in just enough heartfelt personal experience to feel strangely honest, in spite of the trappings. Narratively, it plays like a collection of improv sketches with only a rough template to eventually veer back to &#x96; an Anchorman before Anchorman, if you will. Wain and Showalter take as much pleasure in making you fall in love with their earnest, archetypal characters, as they do pulling the rug out from what you would traditionally expect or even want to happen to them. Zaniness abounds, but somehow, by pushing the tropes to hyperbolic, with a side helping of irreverent and insane, ye olde teenage love subplot clichés feel far more heartfelt and credible than they would in the far flashier and stupider films that birthed them. Like any good comedy, this is a film that establishes its own internal world of conventions and possibilities. Yes, this is a world where Paul Rudd, upon finding out that, due to his negligence as a lifeguard, one of his campers has drowned, responds by offhandedly disposing of the witness&#x85; and we're expected to laugh. And if laugh you do, the film's got another one for ya. Some of the bits are shrewder satirical genius (the into town sequence hysterically lampoons every parent's stern lectures about the escalation of substance use), but the film steadily gives in to being willfully deranged, building to a finale so ridiculous it feels like the apex of a drug trip&#x85;and, thus, entirely appropriate. In many ways, the film's biggest gag is its oddly prophetic assembly of actors who would go on to become comedic superstars, and an extra level of hilarity is derived from watching them irreverently having a blast here. Rudd steals the show, exquisitely uncompromising as the camp's resident pretty-boy-dirtbag, but Amy Poehler is a close second, perfecting her routine personas as both earnestly inspirational and ferocious control freak. Bradley 'blink-and-you- might-recognize-him' Cooper, of all people, ends up headlining a romantic subplot that leads to the most unexpectedly tender moments of the film, while Christopher Meloni unabashedly steals every scene he appears in, a comedic triumph as the camp's shellshocked cook. Janeanne Garofalo and David Hyde-Pierce are both brilliantly in their element, blending sardonic barbs and rambling sweetness, as the camp's director and resident astrophysicist respectively, while Showalter himself is adorably fumbling as the lovestruck nerd (alongside a surprise cameo appearance) and Marguerite Moreau delivers some of the film's most incredibly acerbic dialogue while impressively never dropping her beaming smile. Molly Shannon uncorks a hysterically belligerent meltdown like none other, and Elizabeth Banks is hilariously dopey as one of the camp's seemingly endless slew of nymphomaniacs (go figure). Comedy this bonkers is certainly not for all tastes, but it's worth at least conceding which tastes the film should appeal to, which the film's latent cult success should attest to. Ultimately, in Wet Hot American Summer, coherence doesn't really matter like an appropriately wild party, by the end of the film, it's hard to remember who was involved in which subplot, and who's kissed who, until you realize it hardly matters, and to just go along with the ride, and leave with Jefferson Starship's Jane still pounding in your head. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go hump the refrigerator. -8/10 "},{"Title":"Too many comics in the kitchen.","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When you have an all comic cast, no story, no drive, or ending, you get this film. It is as if each comic thought he or she would be the focus of the movie and they all forgot about the rest of the cast. It ended up being choppy, poorly placed, stupid, and unfunny. I wanted to laugh. Unfortunately, a lack of focus on character or a plot makes this film unwatchable.There were scenes where you can tell the actors had a lot of fun performing. Unfortunately, they have more fun that the audience. I don't know where the positive reviews get their opinions. Perhaps it's just the glamor of seeing good comics in a terrible film. "},{"Title":"If By Hilarious You Mean...","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yeow this movie was not good! It's a shame because there are some extremely funny talent here Paul Rudd, Amy Poehler, Bradley Cooper, etc. There were literally one or two funny moments but the longer I watched it, the more I believed it was an accident. What was up with that scene and the hay bale? At least connect the dots or the stupidity!It seems the movie tried to capture the ironic humor that Napoleon Dynamite captured, only didn't. I could only bare to watch the last half an hour because I was multitasking. This is a classic example of when you should consider box office results in your decision to watch. Surely the reporter from The New Yorker who claimed Hilarious on the movie cover is no longer in his profession! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Horrible!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I like stupid comedies as much as the next person and based on the great reviews and cast could not wait to see this.  About six of us had a movie night and watched it together.  I think I was almost lynched at the end of the evening!  NOBODY LAUGHED ONCE!  I completely get the concept (and it is a good idea) the problem is, every 80's summer movie it lampoons is actually at least a LITTLE funny.  This movie has at most two half smiles. It is awful.  There is no continuity, bad tech. srtuff all around.   There are some very funny people in this film - but they must have owed money to somebody, because there is absolutely no excuse for this crap! "},{"Title":"I registered to say how bad this movie is","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"21 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The flattest comedy I have seen in some time, I chuckled once.If I wasn't paralyzed with the agony of watching it, after 15 minutes I would have run from the theatre and jumped in front of a tram. Afterwards my girlfriend looked me in the eye and said let us never speak of this again. We're trying to move on with our lives but its so difficult with this kind of experience. "},{"Title":"Overall, pretty terrible, but gets a couple chuckles from sheer weirdness","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't fully know how I feel about this movie. It's incredibly bizarre and strange, but it balances the normal scenes and the bizarre and weird scenes pretty terribly. For maybe the first half of the movie it feels like a normal, silly R-rated comedy (for the most part). Then, kind of out of nowhere, it slams all the weirdness and utterly ridiculous stuff into your face. It's rather jarring and really confusing. That being said, some scenes were just so strange that I couldn't help but laugh at them. So, we have this movie that is overall fairly bad, but it does make you laugh on occasion. I can't really call it a great movie, as I feel like every laugh the movie gets was gotten by the filmmakers just throwing silly stuff on the screen. That's not the hardest thing to do. But it it most certainly is a watchable film. It gets a few laughs. Maybe, possibly worth a watch, but you can probably do much better. "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS movie, but if you're not a random type, I wouldn't recommend it...","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie and personally find that it gets funnier every time! The whole movie is very stupid (in a good way; stupid as in funny), so if you're looking for a deep and moving experience that actually makes sense, look elsewhere. It's about the last day of summer camp in August 1981 and the events that occur between various campers and counselors. From saving the camp from a piece of Skylab, putting together a crazy talent show, and a cook and counselor learning how to show their true colors, it's a wacky film you won't soon forget.If you're not a fan of Jack Handy or the show Family Guy, then you probably won't find this very entertaining. It's very random and idiotic, but that's what makes it so hilarious IMO. It's somewhat like Napoleon Dynamite, only...funnier.My cousin introduced the film to my sister and I, saying it was her favorite. My cousin is very funny, so I figured the film would be. She told us it gets funnier every time you see it and I just thought, Okay... As I watched it, I was sitting on the couch the whole time thinking, What the ****?, because I didn't understand it AT ALL. There was no plot to the movie, and I was so confused. It was then that I realized the point of the film was that there was no point. I don't know how I saw it again (because I really didn't like it that much) but I was watching it and thought This is actually kind of funny. I ended up laughing my @$$ off, unlike I had during my previous experience. I rented it again and found it even funnier.So, my point is, if you like Family Guy and the comic genius that is Jack Handy, you'll probably like this. If not, hey give it a try! You may end up liking it after all. "},{"Title":"witty, crazy, random and most importantly a friggin riot","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  if you don't think the undynamic duo of Janeane Garofalo and David Hyde Pierce can carry a movie you are most likely correct.  throw in paul rudd molly shannon and that funny guy from the state and still not impressed? me either.  but do not let that jerrick deter you from seeing this film.  it has some of the wittiest dialogue and funniest most random scenes i've EVER seen.  witness the virgin camp counselor who drives 2 hours to a river for a rafting trip with the campers, run home in time-bending fashion whilst being chased by a friend on a motorcycle and making a chariots of firesque slow motion leap over a barrel of hay just to see his girlfriend.  also watch for michael ian black(the state guy) in the ending of the capture the flag sequence.....his running form should be legendary.  funnier than lloyd christmas' technique at the end of dumb and dumber.  the atmosphere is great(80's style clothes and hair), campers perish and counselors couldn't care less, and if you want to learn how to make out with a girl paul rudd will teach you.  pay attention, movies like this come around maybe once or twice a decade.  if you liked the sarcasm in heathers, you'll love this. if you don't know what heathers is you are a moron and should redeem yourself by going out right now and renting it along with this movie for the greatest double feature of your life.in conclusion  the end.  "},{"Title":"Best Comedy of 2001","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is packed with innovative comedy writing that paradoxically manages to be ironic and over the top at the same time, without pandering.  And it's got a great ensemble cast Yeah, it's clearly a low-budget film, but the lack of over-indulgent effects-based gags forces Wain & Showalter to keep the focus on performance.  The cast delivers again and again.  The background in sketch comedy is evident...but that's a good thing!Like when the kids are in the raft about to go over the scary rapids, but they don't even look scared!   SO funny!It's like nothing else you'll see this year.  Or most years.  And it brings back such fond memories of summers past! "},{"Title":"An eye-opener...","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...that shows me that most comedies really don't get it.If there's anything wrong with WHAS, it's that it doesn't pander, which is why it can never achieve mainstream success.  Comedy of this quality is rare, and thanks to the dimness of the masses, it will likely remain that way.The humor and fun of this movie is almost entirely implicit because it spends time in the beginning to give the characters ground.  They become believable and realistic characters, and that's not what people expect from a spoof.  Then it plays with the characters in parodic sketches.  The writing is absolutely brilliant to be able to make you laugh without any harm to the integrity of the characters, and it works even under the most extreme situations.  The characters also become real with excellent, believable comedic acting and an impeccable cast.Too many people are going to take it seriously, and they won't even know it's a joke.  It might actually require unlearning what other comedies have taught you to really get this one.  Even I was confused at the beginning of my first viewing.  It just isn't what one expects from this industry. Even The State's comedy was less latent when they were on MTV (while still far from the extent of pandering).This movie has heart.  The creators are giving us material they can actually care for instead of the lame drivel that would drive box office sales.  In refusing to spoon-feed its audience, it alienates the unweaned masses.  If you can accept a different approach, I urge you to give this movie a try. "}{"Title":"The last day of camp is ALWAYS the most important...","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This one-day movie begins (oddly enough) early in the morning,  as both campers and counselors alike prepare for their final day at Camp Firewood in the all too memorable year of 1981.   Harmlessly enough, the film opens with a wonderful look at Janeane Garofalo's dry wit, and after the first half hour, degenerates into a series of  roll-on-the-floor-and-vomit-a-lot-because-it's-so-damn-funny vignettes which will make you ask for more.  If you take yourself or comedy too seriously this movie is definitely not for you.  If you're extremely concerned with continuity errors, poor cuts, and mismatched eye-lines then don't waste your time because all you'll do is complain.  But then again, you probably don't laugh and smile as much as the rest of us wonderful wonderful people.  Reminiscent of their earlier work on MTV's The State (1994), Wet Hot American Summer is a gem of the sketch comedy feature genre.  As in their earlier work, Director/Writer David Wain and Writer Michael Showalter capture the bland repetition of reality and scrunch it together with the wonderful absurdity and punctured silliness that made Monty Python my hero's for life.  Finally Life of Brian and Holy Grail have a new companion on my shelf of weekly-watched comedy... Wet Hot American Summer rules! "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Definitely not for everyone.  This brand of humor- this quirky, subtle, non-sequitir, bizarro, brand of humor, will not appeal to everyone.   But for me, and my old college-chums, this is EXACTLY the kind of humor that makes me laugh hardest.Your enjoyment of the old MTV Sketch-Comedy series The State should have good predictive value with regards to Wet Hot American Summer.  If you loved the state, you'll love this movie. (and vice-versa) Same goes for the short-lived Comedy-Central series Upright Citizens Brigrade.   That show didn't even come close to conventional humor.Some may watch this movie with a blank stare or confused groan.  I can't blame them.  You either get it or you don't.-b "},{"Title":"Camp...  What more does anyone want?","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie a few months ago during its limited release in the only theater playing it in the entire Washington DC area.  I can't wait to own it.This movie was absolutely hilarious.  If you enjoyed the comedy stylings of the State, then you will <<repeat>> you will find this funny. However, there are other reasons to see this movie.  Garofalo, Shannon, and Hyde Pierce are professional comic actors who help to anchor the unbridled sketch and improv based humor of former State members and Amy Poehler (who is from UCB - my only friend is Chaos, as well), and they all form it into one cohesive, exremely funny, 90 minute movie.But this is the part that I like  Yes, as many other of the astute observers who have posted comments here have noted - There's a lot of Meatballs (and various other less popular 80's era camp movies) in this movie.  But Meatballs was a little bit more optimistic about the eternal adolescent quest for nookie.  American Summer kind of showed the awkward lack of self confidence involved with the different types of Characters (marino, showalter, garofalo, etc).But If you are going make a film and your goal is to parody or (and I quote) to deliberately exaggerate clichéd conventions of a dramatic form like comedy to the point of ridiculousness why not make it about summer CAMP. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie in a Long Time","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wet Hot American Summer is in simple terms a great, hysterical, smartly written comedy that is a satire on the 80's Summer Camp phenomena. Although it is a parody of sorts, it isn't done to a ridiculous extent like some films these days and you can tell that every joke was carefully thought about. Even the random humor is hilarious if you can appreciate it. While it is beneficial to be a fan of The State, it certainly is not necessary and there's plenty of humor for everyone. Hell, this movie even makes Molly Shannon and Janeane Garafalo funny. All I can say in conclusion is where else can you see a man hump a fridge so well? Nowhere. "},{"Title":"If you like cheese...","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...you'll love this movie.  It's just a silly romp that's impossible to judge on anything but its intentions, which are to lampoon the teen flicks of the early 80s.  Appropriate that it should be made by USA films, as it resembles so many excruciating late-night expurgated sex comedies on that network.I want to see it again already! "},{"Title":"One of the best genre spoofs ever!","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just came back from seeing Wet Hot American Summer in David Wain and Molly Shannon's hometown of Shaker Heights, Ohio, and here is my story.For the first time in many years, I was initially drawn to this film based on the movie poster alone. Easily the best film poster of the new millenium, it recaptures the zany cartoon-style montage virtually unused since the 70's and 80's.This is one of the best genre spoofs ever. It looks AND (more importantly) feels like a late 70's/early 80's picture. This is a rare achievement, as most genre comedies (e.g., The Wedding Singer), are much too glossy and forced to create this effect. The only films in recent years that have come close are Dazed and Confused and Jackie Brown. From the hair styles (e.g., white male afro, middle parts, feathered hair), to the clothes (e.g., ragged jeans shorts with white pocket liners hanging out), to even the calculators (those that made that annoying clicking noise each time a button was pushed), every detail was impressively accurate. In addition, perhaps due to its low budget (an estimated $1 million) or perhaps the result of the director's sharp attention to detail, the soundtrack contains rarely heard 80's gems (and newly recorded music that sound straight out of the 80's) and is filmed in a way that creates an aged, authentic look. To further generate the spirit of the camp comedy genre (or again the result of a low budget), the stars were even asked to sleep in cabins during the shoot.The film's gags are rapid-fire. The biggest laughs (spoiler alert) were drawn from the office rampage and the wedding gift. Wet Hot.. also contains the best use of hair gel since There's Something About Mary and has the most canned laughter since Three's Company. For those who have seen the picture, you know precisely what I'm referring to. For the head-scratching majority, I compel you to find out.However, what makes this film even more authentically funny is its subtle 80's humor. True to form with many of the comedies it parodies, some jokes fall completely flat and various plot lines seem out of place and disjointed. Too bad most critics are not able to dig beyond the obvious, in your face jokes to realize that the unfunny and confusing moments were planted as a throwback to the 70's/80's comedy style.Well done, David Wain! Can't wait for the loaded special edition DVD...and your next picture. "},{"Title":"really f-ing funny....","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I recently went to NYC to watch WHAS, bringing along my cousin. We settle in, even though it's a 315 show, the theatre is full. Within ten minutes of the movie, i'm already laughing...Janeane Garafalo and David Hyde Pierce's relationship is so outlandishly nerdy and funny...Michael Showalter's Coop reminds me of one of my friends. The D&D geek with the 12 sided die was the best. The scene when they go into town is my favorite-I think the funniest scene in the movie. All in all , my cousin loved it and so did I. I haven't seen such a funny movie in a long time.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films ever made.","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is in my personal list of the most hilarious films of all time, along with movies like Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Pee-Wee's Big Adventure, and The Jerk. It is an absolute breath of fresh air the first time through, and every subsequent viewing is just as good as the last; many jokes get funnier, and there are side-splitting subtleties that only become apparent with time. The type of humour is varied but uniformly brilliant, from the camp counselors' hour-long descent into and return from a hellish nightmare of addiction and misery, to a character who is no longer necessary to the scene getting up and walking straight off the end of a pier, to a steamy love scene between two men being superimposed on the conversation two other characters are simultaneously having about setting one of the participants up with various girls named Debbie.Performances in the film are uniformly brilliant. Janeane Garafalo particularly stands out with a performance that is oftentimes so perfectly and purposefully bad that it's incredibly good. Her stilted delivery of old romantic clichés, her occasional hilariously mistimed line of dialogue, and her obvious ad-libbing of a list of ridiculously Jewish-sounding campers are all brilliantly played. David Hyde Pierce is wonderful as a mild-mannered, somewhat high-strung astrophysicist whose occasional unexpected single-line outbursts (I said NO! F*ck my c*ck!) are some of the funniest moments of the movie. Paul Rudd is utterly hilarious in the role of Andy, a shallow, studly sociopath who allows multiple campers to drown while busy cheating on his girlfriend. He nails every scene he is in in any capacity. His dialogue while disposing of the drowning witnesses is both shocking and hysterical, his tantrum scene in the mess hall is cramp-inducingly funny, and he consistently delivers on his more subtle moments, such as playing the air guitar during the climactic talent show scene. Michael Showalter is another standout, both for his writing and his hilarious dual portrayal of both Coop and Alan Shemper, and Chris Meloni is both unbelievably and unexpectedly funny; he'll certainly surprise people who know him from his work on shows like Law & Order SVU. But really, there is not a bad performance in this film.Certainly this film is not for everyone. The closest comedic comparisons I can draw would be to the films Pee Wee's Big Adventure and Jesus Christ Vampire Hunter, but really all three movies are in classes by themselves. If you don't understand the humour of classic Python, especially Flying Circus, don't even bother. In any case, I can't guarantee that you'll enjoy this film, but the good news is that if you get it, you REALLY get it, and you'll be able to enjoy it for a very long time. "},{"Title":"talking cans, fridge humping- this film as it all","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When you flick channels to find a can telling Elliott Stabler I can suck my own dick, and I do it a lot-you know you've found something of quality. Wet Hot American Summer is a unique send-up of the American summer camp movies (eg. meatballs) tracing the lives of several troubled characters having to come to terms with issues of romance and sexuality. The film has never had an Australian release but some of us could experience it via satellite. David Hyde-Pierce's delightful cameo is a personal favourite feature and the sheer oddity of the film, as a whole, is evocative of David Zucker, and my lords Trey Parker & Matt Stone. If Baseketball makes your life complete, you must be living a dream without Wet Hot American Summer. "},{"Title":"Absurdity At Its Best","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although spoofs are quite common, Wet Hot American Summer has managed to cross the line in an enjoyable way. The comedy of Michael Showalter and David Wain is refreshing, especially since most comedies are mainly the same plots being recycled. Even for those who despised this movie, they could not stop talking about it because it stands out, and I know because I was one of them. At first I didn't accept WHAS, but I couldn't resist and I eventually bought the DVD. It's a wonderful movie to watch as many times as possible because the creators have added such absurd, meticulous details to the film that cannot be picked up in just one viewing. I suggest WHAS for anyone with an open mind looking for an original comedy.  "}{"Title":"The highly clever and highly inane blend beautifully in this farce","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This comedic take on the last day of summer camp as previously recounted through films like Meatballs is taken to the next level of funny camp movies. The well- developed sense of humor that former state members David Wain and Michael Showalter have developed through the years shine brilliantly along with the ensemble cast performances. Wain and Showalter's perfect blend of the absurd with keenly satiric mark this films as one of the great film comedies of all times, equal to any of the Monty Python boys' ventures into film. Dealing with all of the classic camp situations from counselor relationships, the big talent show, the outcasts, the big game, capture the flag, overnight trips, redemption, reality and a talking can of vegetables, Wet Hot American Summer takes it all to a new, better level of comedy that will not soon be forgotten. Give it a chance and you will inevitably be absorbed into the brilliantly comedic world that is Camp Firewood on the last day of summer camp, 1981.  "},{"Title":"I feel old.","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I always feel like an old man when I watch modern comedies. I tend to look in vain for dated, old-fashioned, superannuated little things like a proper plot, sympathetic characters, and - dare I admit this? - a dash of sentiment. And I'm always disappointed. So I feel old, like, you know, someone who'd rather be watching a black-and-white comedy such as Horse Feathers for the hundredth time.Unfortunately, the whole point of most modern comedies is that they don't have any sentiment. Or plots. Or characters. Basically, people in movies like Wet Hot American Summer meander around embarrassing themselves in ways that are, I suppose, hilarious. As you might expect, there are plenty of references to bodily functions, STDs, and substance abuse, and of course there's heaps of juvenile sexual innuendo. (But, alas, no actual hot sex. The title's just a tease, ain't it?) I'll give you an example of what's supposed to be hilarious here. One of the kids at the camp plays Dungeons and Dragons, and so - get this - he walks around in a cape! And, of course, he makes references to things like a level five charm spell in the middle of casual conversations. I'm telling you, this is a comedy masterclass...You might say that I'm defending D&D guys because I'm a geek myself. But no, I'm just pointing out a joke that doesn't work. I think it would've been funnier if the D&D guy was portrayed realistically. Role-players don't really wear capes, for goodness' sake, but hey - they do tend to have B.O. Why not mine that rich vein of humor potential, rather than go for a lazy sight gag/stereotype? I feel strange, trying to analyze this stuff. I chuckled a few times, I gotta admit, but mostly I sat in silence, feeling sort of bad for the characters, the actors (some of whom deserve better), and also for myself. "},{"Title":"i hate myself for watching it","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this had to be one of the worst movies ever made....WHAT WERE THEY THINKING?????????? there was no redeeming value whatsoever in this movie, tell your worst enemy to watch it. I'm sure that will be vengeance enough for whatever they have done to you. I need therapy now. "},{"Title":"Where funny goes to die!!!","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What planet are you people from?! That anyone could find this movie even remotely funny is proof positive that there is no God. Watching this was like being trapped in a room with a bunch of potheads who think that they're being way funnier than they in fact are. And the fact that some people on this site described the humor in this abomination as subtle is probably funnier than anything in the movie itself. Would someone please explain to me how a man humping a refrigerator or a girl saying that she needs some spermicide, You know, for my pu**y, is subtle. This is the movie that you'd expect a bunch of twelve year old boys with a movie camera and too much time on their hands to make. This  movie was actually painful to watch. It was like watching the very concept of funny sicken, die and rot before my very eyes. Not for the squeamish. Biohazard alert definitely warranted. "},{"Title":"simple minds are simply amused","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is just plain slapstick awful. I've only walked out on 2 movies in my 30 years of movie-watching....So I Married An Axe murderer...and this piece of crap. Actually, I watched most of this one in my living room with out-of-town family who bought this and wanted to watch it. Yeah, I still had to leave the room. If you enjoy wasting hours of your life, you'll love this film. No, seriously, it's pure crap. Right now, I'm finding it difficult to write 10 lines of text to even waste explaining how awful this movie is. I'm trying to save you, the reader, from this very unfunny movie that, by the way, has very little to do with 1981. This movie is more 1975 or 1976 with some mid-80's crap thrown in. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is quite possibly one of the funniest I have ever seen. Plain and simple. It rips on all the nostalgic 70-80's summer camp movies that we are all guilty of having seen at least once. This plus the fact that it is packed with a great cast of comedic actors who really shine here. David Hyde Pierce and Jenine Garafallo are hysterical. Paul Rudd gives one of his classic performances and Chris Meloni steals every scene he's in. So, This summer grab your bottle of dick cream, get some sweaters to fondle,smear some mud on your ass, and cuddle up with a household appliance to hump.... and enjoy this classic summer movie. "},{"Title":"Not funny, for serious.","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have read all of the on-line reviews of this movie and I don't understand what all the fuss is about. I mean, I'm from Philadelphia, and Wet Hot American Summer was just about the worst movie I've seen all year. If this is supposed to be satire, it falls flat. If this is supposed to be absurdity, it's pretty banal. Looking at this movie from 1000 different angles, I see 1000 bad movies, and I don't want to hear you just don't get it. That is a lazy defense of a comedy. Try giving reasons, evidence, support for your claims. You know, the essence of an argument. I don't know, I don't really care anyways. Just forget it.  "},{"Title":"An excuse for legalizing marijuana?","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the kind of movie where, about 30 minutes in, you wish you were really stoned, because you get the feeling the writers were really stoned when they wrote it, and being in the same state might actually make it funny as they seem to think it was.Well, maybe the director was stoned, because about half of the jokes in the film that fail do so merely because of poor timing and inept handling.  Maybe it was actually a good script, but the ham-handed directing ruined it.Only the filmmakers will really know exactly how this film went wrong, the audience just knows where, and that's on screen.I'm a fan of the genre, enjoy good parodies and satires, and felt completely let down by this film.  The only state the writers of this film were in was one of catatonia. "},{"Title":"Gotta disagree with the consensus here","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I saw that this movie was being shown on TV, I was really looking forward to it. I grew up in the 1980's and like everyone else who has grown up in that era, have seen every 80's teen and summer camp movie out there. So I couldn't wait to see this movie that totally spoofs that film genre. What a disappointment!! The movie was nothing but a bunch of really bad jokes and gags over and over, with hardly any plot and no substance. And the filmmakers attempts at dark humor totally failed-some of these so-called jokes didn't come across as anything but downright cruel and offensive. The only good things about this film were the wardrobe, music, and acting. It was nice to go on a nostalgia trip and see all of the summer clothing styles from the 80's, and the same goes for the music. And the acting was top-notch throughout almost all of Hollywood's best comedians were present. Too bad they didn't have better material to work with. "},{"Title":"Absolutely no redeeming features","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What an awful movie. Okay, I understand that maybe I am not the target demographic for this film. And, while absurdity humor may not be my cup of tea, I can and do appreciate it when it is done well. Here, it was not. At all. This is just bad. I am surprised at all the raves I saw in the comments section. All right, everyone doesn't have to agree with me. I respect the opinions of others. But in my opinion, this movie sucks. Actually, I had never heard of it, and only taped it because I saw that Janeane Garofalo was top-billed. I remember thinking that she was so cute when she was on The Larry Sanders Show. Even though I know she is kind of loony, politically, I thought I would watch this film. Imagine my chagrin when, on top of a really bad movie, Miss Garofalo wasn't even very pretty anymore! My recommendation Avoid at all costs Grade F "}{"Title":"terrible","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  the internet movie database lists this movie under the genre of comedy and i think they should review their choice and possible invent a new genre called worthless. Jeneanne Garofolo an intelligent comedian picks another unintelligent movie to star in. this film even with a ton of attractive ladies in it manages to avoid anything that might be considered a redeeming quality. The movies like Meatballs and Porky's that this movie aspires to at least never insulted their audience. This movie never gives you a chance. The characters are played so absolutely paper thing that 2x4s could aptly fill the acting spots. Whatever deeply troubled soul is responsible for this movie should probably spend the rest of their life in prison in order to give them time to think about what they want to say in apology on the day they meet their maker. I would recommend this only on the basis of showing someone that ANYONE IN THE WORLD can write a better and funnier movie than this. "},{"Title":"What were you thinking, Garafalo?","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I understand the parody aspect of this film, but Wet, Hot American Summer makes Meatballs look like Shakespeare.  I'm not saying that the film doesn't have its moments, but they are far too few and far between for me to give anything other than my lowest rating.  I think it's worth noting that the movie gets it's highest marks from IMDB users who are males under the age of 18.  Perhaps I simply saw the movie twenty five years too late. "},{"Title":"Maybe the worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What was the point for this movie? Where was the plot? Really lame. I advice to skip this movie, it's not worth watching at all and definitely not worth spending time at. How is it possible to produce this kind of movie in professional purposes? Maybe the worst movie I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"A piece of crap","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Talk about absurdist humor all you like, this movie is a misfire from the start. It's clear the writers and actors thought it would be funny from the total oddball point of view, but it stinks on ice. Neither I nor my two sons thought it was worth a lot. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie in a long long time","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am actually shocked that this film has received anything even remotely respectable as a score (currently 6.2). I was looking forward to reading other people slate this movie as the badly written, badly acted, incredibly badly edited, badly directed black hole of a movie with literally no engaging character development whatsoever.A friend bought this DVD in a shop called poundland in the UK. it is where everything is, you guessed it, £1. I watched this film and immediately told him that he had been ripped off. I have never stopped watching a film (i came close with scary movie 3) once i have started, and i so wanted there to be some sort of redeeming feature somewhere so that i could say that this wasn't all that bad but i didn't find one...The closest that i came finding something good was that i thought that the end credits were good, well done and in keeping with what this film was meant to be... shame that the film, didn't turn out to be what it wanted to be...Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"HAha (sarcastic laugh)","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What a huge load of crap that was!!!!So i came and red some reviews , most were good and also rating is good.The one negative review i red said what am i missing and i thought if i like it i would say to that that guy you miss the sense of humor...So at my surprise i found my self agreeing with that guy.. I watched liked 53 minutes and turn it off, besides american horror stories I've never turned off a movie playing. People say everyone has a different sense of humor so thats why this isn't funny for some but i cant really believe that i am in the minority!!So most people laughed at this??They had fun??its funny??Sharktopus is more funny than this and its not even a comedy!!So for the actual review ,besides the great casting of actors there is literally NOTHING to see/laugh in this movie. There are no jokes or comical situations that are slightly funny. I didn't even jiggle once. stay away! "},{"Title":"It Gets Funnier Every Time I Watch...","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" All right, so I'm getting the impression that writer/director David Wain is an acquired taste. I've had a rocky past with his movies; I thought ROLE MODELS was surprisingly fun but WANDERLUST was a major disappointment. I don't remember what it was that made me seek out his feature film debut but, after finally watching WET HOT American SUMMER, I've got a slightly better understanding of his style. The man thrives in absurdity and when it works, it works well. When it doesn't, it's almost frustrating (see WANDERLUST). I was honestly surprised at how much fun I had with WET HOT American SUMMER. It's so incredibly stupid, but it's giddy, fun stupid. More importantly, as opposed to his 2012 hippie flop, everyone in this movie seems to be having just as much fun with the material as (hopefully) the audience. I'd seen reference to the movie before but never looked into it, assuming it was some low-key '80s screwball comedy that never got as much attention as the more popular movies of the time like MEATBALLS. I was more than a little surprised to find out this came out in 2001 and featured a cast including Paul Rudd, Bradley Cooper, David Hyde Pierce, Janeane Garofalo, Amy Poehler, Christopher Meloni, etc. So, Wain or no Wain, I figured I should at least give it a watch. It's set in 1981 on the last day of camp for Camp Firewood and everyone is rushing around tying up loose ends, sparking last minute summer romances, and planning for utter devastation in the form of a plummeting chunk of SkyLab.WET HOT American SUMMER is the very definition of a movie that requires you disengage your brain to enjoy. It's yet another movie that must've been written with the screenwriters, in this case David Wain and Michael Showalter, sitting in front of the page with a general idea of plot and plenty of Wouldn't it be hilarious if&#x85; conversations. It's a parody of the usual summer camp hijinks film that finds the humor in recurring clichés and runs with it as far as it can go. There's the requisite summer love in Coop (Showalter) as he pines over the beautiful Katie (Marguerite Moreau) despite her too-cool-for-camp, serial cheating boyfriend Andy (Rudd) and in camp director Beth (Garofalo) when she falls for the neighboring associate professor Newman (Pierce). Victor (Ken Marino) plays the part of the dude desperate to get laid, forced to traverse through hell and back to accomplish his goal when he thinks he's got a chance. And it wouldn't be a summer camp comedy without the big talent show being produced by the tyrannical Sara (Poehler) and her soft-spoken lackey Ben (Cooper). That's assuming everyone survives, seeing as how Professor Newman and the nerdy kids have made a startling discovery that could lead to a disaster of Hindenberg level proportions. You know, everything you would normally expect from a quirky tale of summer adventure. Maybe. Those were never my sort of movies.Humor is subjective so what works for me may or may not work for you. I can think of many people who wouldn't get ten minutes into WET HOT American SUMMER before turning it off in disgust, either from the occasional darker humor or the frequent absurd nonsense. All I can say is, it worked for me. I laughed more than I expected and I was left with a better understanding of what Wain might've been trying to accomplish with WANDERLUST. Both movies are nothing more than a series of gags and characters that may as well be two-dimensional cartoons but, where WANDERLUST failed because it felt mean-spirited and populated with unlikeable characters, this movie is the polar opposite and succeeds in my book. And because the movie is full of non sequitur humor and bizarre absurdity, it's actually pretty re-watchable because you'll usually find some joke or visual gag you might've missed on previous viewings. I wish I could come up with a viable movie comparison to give you some idea what to expect and help you decide whether it's worth your time, but I'm coming up blank. Give it a go. If you hate it, you're probably not alone. If you like it, well, welcome to Camp Firewood. Some personal highlights to close this out Christopher Meloni's performance as the camp's cook, Vietnam vet Gene, provides some of the funniest moments in the film and just about any scene with David Hyde Pierce explaining science (especially in the final act). "},{"Title":"A fragmented and piecemeal film that I struggle to find funny","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film tells the story of a group of adults and children during the last day of a summer camp, where everyone is desperate to get some love and attention.Honestly, I don't really get the jokes in Wet Hot American Summer. I find the story too fragmented and piecemeal, because of the vast number of characters in the film. There is little continuity and causal relationships between the events portrayed, making the film more like a collage of scenes rather than a whole finished film. The story is silly and at times even bizarre, which can be interpreted as funny but I seem to be in the wrong state of mind to appreciate it.The only thing I enjoy is the presence of Bradley Cooper, Elizabeth Banks and Amy Poehler, I guess they have yet to make it famous, hence their names are not even on the poster. "},{"Title":"Unexpected comic rise in an expected storyline","Date":"5 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 1st of all, i feel love watching comedy movies i.e., more often a high school, scout guides and camp comedies. This movie is well written in its own satirical way, making parody with exhibiting an inner story of depicting topics like teenage sexualities, fun at an age, expressing love. Watching every next moment of the film gets me high with its mocking irony towards each other & at the same making low with its sometimes lame expected lines. last day of summer camp makes you feel sad, but last day of the summer camp gives you the joy of the whole camp. Hilarious at yet underrated and yet a best summer camp movie after all these years .... Watch it for getting through your idiotic memories....... "},{"Title":"Is this even a comedy?","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There was actually a few funny jokes around the beginning, but movies that AREN'T comedies still have jokes sometimes funnier than those.But after a while, the jokes are, well, what? They aren't jokes. Just so-called funny overacting and flipping out. Not even funny.Pros- Some funny jokesCons- Mostly unfunny- Overacting is not even good; it's just bad and not funny at allRating 3 - I wouldn't even call this a comedy. The jokes are so bad. There's nothing funny about someone crying because of not having crayons. "}{"Title":"Wet, hot, and really fun!","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" To be honest, I didn't think I'd care much for this movie going in and was pleasantly surprised. Wet Hot American Summer is about the last day of camp for a group of counselors and what they want to do before it's time to go. I've personally never been to camp but if it resembles this film in any way, I would be glad to spend my summer there. This is humor at it's finest. The jokes are stupid and come out of nowhere that it's almost impossible not to laugh. Sometimes you'll be cracking up and other times you'll just be confused. Literally, everything is a joke in this film. From the acting to the script to even little things going on in the foreground.As someone who watches lots of films, it's hard for me to not think of what goes behind the scenes. This is a great film for anyone who shares that mindset. You can tell just by watching it that everyone who was involved had a great time making Wet Hot. 8/10 - I can easily recommend this movie to anyone who likes purposely stupid yet heart felt movies. Even though, some jokes just don't work well it's worth it to see the ones that do. "},{"Title":"scattered parody","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's the last day of Camp Firewood 1981 in Maine. Camp director Beth (Janeane Garofalo) is interested in physics professor Henry Newman (David Hyde Pierce) who lives nearby. Gene (Christopher Meloni) is the volatile Vietnam vet cook. Susie (Amy Poehler) and Ben (Bradley Cooper) intends to put on a show. Andy (Paul Rudd) is the bad boy making out with Katie (Marguerite Moreau). Gail von Kleinenstein (Molly Shannon) is the art teacher struggling with her divorce. Victor (Ken Marino) is a bumbling womanizer wannabe. McKinley (Michael Ian Black) is in a secret relationship with Ben. None of the camp counselors are terribly concerned about the kids' safety as craziness runs rampant.This is a scattered parody filled with random crazy characters and ridiculous situations. I first saw this a couple of years ago. The cast is a who's who of today's hottest stars. They seem to be having crazy fun doing silly skits. It's definitely a hit and miss proposition. It misses more than it hits but it misses with a charming stupidity. "},{"Title":"Pretty funny and over the top.","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A common mistake people make with this movie is they go into it expecting a realistic comedy. Not the case. This movie is pretty stupid. But in the good way. The humor is raunchy, crude, and over the top. I think people misinterpret it before they go into it but just expect stupidity on all levels. The cast is on point and it was funny to see all the big stars today (For example Bradley Cooper, Amy Poehler and Paul Rudd) super young. But this movie isn't totally perfect. It grew kind of droll at times, and it was like the writers hit us with a hilarious scene or line and then it was kind of boring for the next fifteen minutes. The funny scenes are definitely worth it however, I don't know if it's because I'm young and amused by the stupid but this is one comedy you shouldn't miss. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie has gotten a lot of praise and I'm not saying that it's undeserved. But it certainly wasn't my type of movie. I wasn't expecting a lot from the movie even though I knew it's considered a cult classic. I did expect a few laughs though, but my expectations were not met. The plot was promising at first, but it quickly turned really dull. The characters were shallow and the acting was mostly sub-par. And the jokes... There were a lot of jokes. Unfortunately none of them were to my liking. There were a few jokes that had the potential to be really funny, but they weren't played out well in my opinion.If you enjoyed the jokes from the trailer, you're probably going to think this is a great movie. But if you didn't, don't bother. "},{"Title":"This movie is awesome!","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I wasn't even alive in the 80's but i can totally relate to this movie because I've been to summer camp. I had never heard of this movie until recently when i saw it on Netflix. At first, i was hesitant to watch it because it had a mediocre rating and i just assumed if I hadn't heard of it, how good could it be? It was amazing! There are so many stars in this movie, i lost track. Every other scene i recognized one of the actors/actresses (Paul Rudd, Bradley Cooper, Amy Poehler, Elizabeth Banks, Molly Shannon, Janeane Garofalo just to name a few). It is based at a summer camp in Maine. This movie just brought back memories for me of my summer camp days. Things such as swimming in the lake, rafting down the river, chasing after girls, playing capture the flag. The only downside to this movie is there are so many different characters that its hard to keep track of them at times.8.5/10 The movie was great because it was funny, it was well-made, there were lots of great acting and stars, and it made me remember good childhood memories of camp days. I have yet to see the re-make/new version but i look forward to it! "},{"Title":"Wet Hot Quirky Mess","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hey, let's all promise that in ten years from today, we'll meet again, and we'll see what kind of people we've blossomed into.Its been almost 15 years since David Wain's Wet Hot American Summer was released and I honestly had never heard of it. This was Wain's first feature film but it bombed at the box office and wasn't warmly received by critics either. Somehow over time it has become a cult teen comedy thanks to its wonderful cast, and now Netflix is about to release a comedy series with the same cast in the form of a prequel. The series will revolve around the first day of Summer camp in Camp Firewood in 1981, while this film focuses on the last day. The comedy plays out as a satire of camp films from the 80's and it honestly feels like a movie made in that period. The actors wear tight shirts, colorful short shorts, and long white tube socks with eighties hair styles. The look and style of the film itself is worth a couple of laughs and Wain's love and homage for these campy films transcends the screen. Unfortunately I didn't find much else worth recommending other than a couple of hilarious scenes, but as a whole I found the absurdist humor a bit lame. This is a very different comedy than what we are used to seeing and it's hard to point out any other film that has a similar style. That is why I believe it has become such a beloved cult comedy. Wet Hot American Summer is a parody in which you have no idea what direction the story is going to go and it constantly shifts its tone and introduces plenty of twists. Even though this film is basically a satire of camp films it doesn't miss the opportunity at gleefully playing with familiar genre conventions such as teen rom-coms and sport clichés. These individual scenes work extremely well but they don't make up a whole movie. That is why despite not being a fan of this film, I'm looking forward to the Netflix series because in shorter segments this could work well and the characters are worth revisiting.On the final day of Summer Camp there is still so much things to look forward to such as the camp director, Beth (Janeane Garofalo), falling for an astrophysics professor played by David Hyde Pierce. There is also a romantic triangle formed between camp counselors Coop (Michael Showalter), Katie (Marguerite Moreau), and Andy (Paul Rudd). Katie is worried about Coop not having hooked up with anyone during the Summer and she promises to help him find someone special for him before the end of the day. What she doesn't know is that Coop is in love with her, but she is currently dating Andy. Andy however doesn't seem to care too much for her since he cheats on her with Lindsay (Elizabeth Banks). Susie (Amy Poehler) and Ben (Bradley Cooper) are focused on directing a musical for the talent show later that night, while Gail (Molly Shannon) is struggling to teach her arts and crafts class because her husband has recently left her. Victor (Ken Marino) and Neil (Joe Lo Truglio) are in charge of taking another group of kids water rafting, but Victor is eager to get back to camp so he can make out with Abby (Marisa Ryan). This is just a small sample of the many activities that are taking place on this final day with plenty of surprises and twists along the way, including an innocent escape into the city by a group of counselors that degenerates into something crazy and unexpected.David Wain's most successful film to date is probably Role Models, but Wet Hot American Summer has been growing on people ever since. Paul Rudd has collaborated with Wain in all his films and here he plays a cocky and egocentric character to perfection. There isn't one main character, although if I was forced to pick one I'd say it is Michael Showalter's Coop which isn't really a surprise considering Michael co-wrote the screenplay with Wain. There are also some funny scenes involving the chef played by Christopher Meloni who is still suffering post traumatic stress disorder from the Vietnam War. The cast is fantastic here but there are so many characters that they don't actually get much screen time. Bradley Cooper is now an Oscar nominated actor, but this was his first film so he doesn't get much screen time. Marguerite Moreau was fantastic as well and it's a shame she hasn't really had much success after this. I recognized her from The Mighty Ducks franchise and it was fun to see her in a different role like this. The performances from this recognizable cast is probably the highlight of the film, but there are also several individual scenes that stand out such as the trip to the city and a hilarious motorcycle chase sequence. http//estebueno10.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Funny and Entertaining, that's all it needs to be,","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wet Hot American Summer is a great movie with a very well written storyline and a fantastic comedic cast. It's a really fun movie as we follow a dozen different characters on their last day of summer camp, hoping to achieve all the goals they hadn't done the entire time they were there, it's very funny, with so many jokes that you would have to watch it again to hear the ones that you missed previously. I felt like the film was missing a lead role, something every movie should have, it's weird to see a movie where every character is likable and there isn't any sort of villain role either, this is certainly a problem as it dosen't have a character the holds the movie, but it isn't a huge concern. The entire cast is terrific, they all seemed very dedicated and interested in their characters, they were all clearly having a ton of fun making this, which will come as no surprise, and the chemistry is superb. Simple, mindless fun, Wet Hot American Summer isn't for everyone, but the people that enjoy this sense of humour will definitely like it, and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good comedy. A group of camp counselors and camp attendants try to complete all their unfinished goals as they begin their final day of summer camp. Best Performance David Hyde Pierce Worst Performance Judah Friedlander If you have any recommendations on films/TV series I should watch or review,or any questions to ask me,just tweet me @DillonTheHarris "},{"Title":"I would know if you worked here.....","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Camp Firewood, 1981, and It's the last day before everyone goes back to the real world, but there's still a summer's worth of unfinished business to resolve. At the centre of the narrative is camp director Beth, who struggles to keep order while she falls in love with the local astrophysics professor. He is busy trying to save the camp from a piece of NASA's Skylab which is hurtling toward earth. And adding to the 'hilarity' we have, a dangerous waterfall rescue, love triangles, misfits, cool kids, and talking vegetable cans, and of course, the big talent show at the end of the day......I really cannot understand all the love that this film has. Yes, it has a lot of now famous faces in the movie, but honestly, the majority of the humour, nay, all of the humour falls flatter than an old man on an icy path.It tries to hark back to those saucy comedies from the eighties like Fraternity Vacation, and anything with the words Summer, Camp, and school, but this seems like it's trying way too hard to be bad, and the thing that made those movies so watchable, was that they were unintentionally bad, and hilarious for that reason.If anything, it is worth watching for just how many famous faces there are in the movie, and just how successful they have become. But all in all, it's an unfunny mess of a movie, trying to be too meta, too left-field, and too clever for its own good.ButPaul Rudd is funny, doing his best impression of Kevin the Teenager. "},{"Title":"Just like every other teen flick","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It is apparent how much cheesy lovemaking that other characters are having but the true love is within the young man named coop and the young girl named Katie. After meeting her wants to make his move and ask her out but is bothered by Her boyfriend somewhat fake kissing styles. He finally asks her to go with him and they spend an afternoon together in a goat barn of all places. They spend some time kissing and exchanging sweaters and then later in the movie he tries to say he loves her and she declines and he runs away and cries under a tree which is where the chef hangs out when he isn't working. He teaches him how he can win her over from her pothetic boyfriend and he wanders into the talent show with workout clothes on and gives her a box which I did not think he could fit a sweater into and says hes leaving forever and as he wanders off broken hearted she runs out and says she loves him but and they kiss. The next morning he has plans for her and him to go out on a date and she says she wants to stay with her lame boyfriend and drives off without him...why does love have to be this hard to watch "},{"Title":"Take A Second Look, It Is Not That Good","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I didn't like, nor did I dislike this movie. I heard about it through several of my friends, all of whom really enjoyed it, but I just don't see it.The plot could have been a lot better. This is a movie where they tried to have a plot where nothing happens, yet everything happens, but I think that the execution came off as cluttered and jumbled. I was not interested in any of the characters and just found myself to be losing interest in the overall film.The humor all fell flat as well. I don't think I laughed one time. Going into the film I knew the line You taste like a burger was coming because my friends used to joke about it. I knew it was coming and was all ready to laugh, however when it did I just thought it did not come off as well as it could have. I hate Janeane Garofalo and I don't think she could ever seem funny to me. Furthermore, she's a terrible actress. As much as there is wrong in this movie, I guess it is not terrible. It's an okay watch, but I would never recommend it. "}{"Title":"Klingon - Enterprise, version 1.01","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I first purchased this I found it fascinating, if fantasy, if occasionally a lot too vomit-y. This is not for those with a love of good clean family movies about kids on their summer holidays. There are stories suitable for those, just not this particular one. To talk about reality some would need to be rather unreal. Background notes talk of experiences that the key storytelling team had at Jewish summer camps and I also interpret that as being about spiritual aspects of the day to day not as being as clear and simple as some education schemes used to say. My biggest problem now is with Steve, the outcast guy, the one who does the weird last act in the show. This is so much how outcast leper types are understood. I doubt that many outcasts follow the path that Steve is scripted to follow, voodoo warrior. I have seen some social lepers put a piece of jewellery on their right eyebrow as a label that they have this leper disorder, I seriously doubt that most would wear a warrior badge. I now find it way too easy to read this feature as supporting the 'lepers are Klingon warriors' view, which is a downer. My experience is of Enterprise Culture being more on this path, though in hassle that I have had from Klingon's I accept that some are as bad as Enterprise types. So, this story also talks of a Vietnam veteran, of a wannabe DJ, of geek love and more. I can still watch this trash and like lots of it. So this feature is a collection of understandings that have been around, a playing games with those understandings. Whatever, I find the feature difficult now, but only because the social leper was portrayed as actually having the qualities that non-lepers often consider us to have, fuel for Enterprise Klingon wars. * Surprisingly, the actor who stood out the most for me when I really liked this story was the bunk counsellor girl, Katie, who I experienced as charismatic. Now I feel drawn to the geek team instead. I have only seen Moreau in one other feature so far, the first Peewee ice hockey story, and she has the same qualities and is also one of a large team, just she does not rise to the surface as often, she is scripted to show qualities that are more pretty girl than 'meaning of the universe' type charismatic. "},{"Title":"I don't care if you're bilingual.","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The funniest movie you will ever watch. I have watched it countless times and it is still funny. There are things new jokes and countless random incidents to pick up every time you watch it. Acting is good, especially Paul Rudd, he's a stud. After watching this movie, it has prompted me to try and live like Andy, the hard ass. Katie, my new celebrity crush, is awesome. I didn't think it got much better after watching her in D3, but after seeing this, well hot damn. The casting for this movie was perfect, every actor portrayed their role like nobody's business. Plus the music is pretty good too. Some Loverboy, Foreigner, and a couple of original scores that hit the spot. Don't waste your money renting this movie, buy it. It will quickly pay for itself. "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie of all time!!!","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had to of seen this movie over 10 times and not once did the plot get boring, not once did the comedy fail to produce the same amount of laughter as the last. I don't hate the people that don't like this movie, I feel bad for them, Mainly because they don't feel as if this is a very good summer day with seperate plots going on at the same time and returning to them in this summer camp. My favorite scene of all time was when Victor jumped to save the kids from going over Devils Rapids since he was the only one one new how to navigate them and instead of focusing on Victor it focused on Neil. Who ever thought of that was so creative, its good to see a movie with someone that doesn't make fun of presidents, jewish people, and have farts every five seconds. So go laugh at your Austin Powers movies, leave this comment page to people who find movies good not only because of special effects.   "},{"Title":"wicked awesome to the max XTREME","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My friend told me about this movie for about 5 months and how it featured members from the State (an excellent show which the jerks at MTV cancelled). So I finally watched it, and well its excellent. The pathos that they use in this film was exactly what they did in their show which made the movie that much funnier. I'm not going to recommend this film to everyone, because the humor is way out there and is completely nonsensical. However if way over the top stupidity is your type of thing, watch this movie "},{"Title":"Funny, funny, funny movie!","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, what can i say about a movie that kept me laughing all the way through it. It was a good funny movie! For anybody that has gone to camp would laugh at the crazyness of this flick. For some reason there was alot of gay undertones in the film but I guess that's what made it so damn funny. I also thought the soundtrack went well with the movie, alot of offbeat sounds. If you want a funny movie to watch, rent this one. "},{"Title":"funny sketch comedy troop, funny yet sketchy movie","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  No there's no plot and that's why i can't give it a 10, but I did laugh throughout and because it's a spoof it almost doesn't need a plot... almost.  A MUST SEE for all 'The State' fans, and highly recommended for people who like laughing. "},{"Title":"you needn't know camp to get it","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Having never been to summer camp, I once thought all the classic camp movies (Meatballs, Little Darlings, Meatballs 2) were basically pure fiction, bordering on  fantasy.  Since then I've learned a couple things that make Wet Hot American Summer one of my favorite recent movies 1) Jewish summer camps are alive and well, 2) the State are some of the funniest young comics out there.  If you  don't get the jokes, you probably don't know about either of these cultural phenomena.  But get out and get around, and you'll have another great movie to  enjoy.  Showalter and Co. have been sorely missed since MTV cancelled The State and it's good to see that some other talented actors like Garofalo and  Hyde-Pierce are willing to support their comedic style.  "},{"Title":"The Quintessential Summer Camp Movie Parody","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For anyone who was a fan of the early 80's Summer Camp movies, or loves a good Parody this is the movie for you. The absurdity of this movie will keep your eyebrows raised and have you rolling on the floor laughing the entire movie. It is so absurd and plays off of so many cliches, and brings to light so many subtle cliches (such as the macho virgin, and the goody-goody homo). I couldn't find one problem with this movie. The only thing that it doesn't play off of is the gratuitous breast shots of naked women running around. There is one love scene, but it takes place with two men (which can appeal to some, and less to others). SCENES OF NOTE (that make the movie worth watching) The Trip to Town, The Search for missing Victor, and just all the random interaction between various characters is worth sitting down to watch. I HIGHLY Recommend this movie for anyone who enjoys the obvious, overplayed, and absurd. I Loved it. "},{"Title":"Yes!!","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Non-drug-users, squares, and homophobes should not see Wet Hot American Summer. But if you like the State and aren't looking for any redeeming qualities in your movies other than laughing your ass off then see this flick at all costs. You'll walk away with at least twenty one-liners to use at dinner parties and social functions, and twenty more the next time you watch it. The East Coast-style humor can be a little heavy, and Dazed and Confused is a better movie for the genre. But Wet Hot American Summer will not let you down.  "},{"Title":"I'm not sure why","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie, but I do! I had been wanting to see this for a long time because Janeane Garofalo is in it and I'll watch anything she does. I finally caught it on cable tonight and I'm glad I did. I found myself laughing out loud at this movie than I do for a lot of so called comedies these days. It's a great spoof of summer camp movies. Are there enough of those to be called a genre? The one drawback was the drug sequence in the middle. I'm no prude, but I didn't think it fit with the rest of the movie. "}{"Title":"For fans of 'The State'","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie last night, and i haven't laughed like that in a long time. This wasn't so much a movie about summer camp, like 'Meatballs'. This was more of a showcase of connected skits from the talented people that brought you 'The State' and 'The Upright Citizens Brigade' (i believe thats the name). Anyone familiar with these groups will appreciate their brand of humor. Since 'The State' was canceled back in the 90's, it's been a long time since I've seen that type of comedy. I was so pleased to see it again in this movie. It did have it's continuity and editing errors, but that may have been on purpose, and only added to the humor. It's a very goofy movie, yet it doesn't stoop to simple 'gross-out' gags that have plauged the film industry lately. This movie, as with 'The State', takes comedy to a much different level, and, sadly, will probably be under-appreciated. But, for those of you that would 'get it', this movie should not be missed! O)  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved the State. I love Upright Citizen's Brigade. I've loved Janeane since The Ben Stiller Show. Molly Shannon and the Writer/director, David Wain are from my hometown. I grew up in the period the movie is set in. All reasons to love this movie. The truth is, though, that even without all those factors the movie itself is so wonderfully funny and it's characters are drawn from a place of obvious affection and nostalgia that I just loved it for itself. The cast is comic perfection. The writing (although peppered with a couple of clunker moments) contains more funny things than any recent comedy I can remember seeing. Some people claimed that if you never went to summercamp you wouldn't like the movie. I never did and yet I found it side-splitting and even just a little bit touching. It's a snapshot of a time that will never come again but one which shaped me forever. I'm thankful that someone bothered to make this movie. I'm especially thankful that in doing so they made it a classic of it's genre. "},{"Title":"Good to see some of the best sketch comedy teams ever back in action","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Seeing as how most people don't understand bizarre and unconventional humor, I'm not surprised that a lot of people hated this film. But for those seemingly few of you who revel in the stranger dimensions of twisted humor, then this movie could quite possibly be part of the lamentably small collection you'd watch over and over again. I'm going to level with you here, I was seriously p***ed off when The State was cancelled. Same with the Upright Citizens Brigade, the Kids in the Hall, and the end of Mr. Show. It was humor on a grand scale, the most random and hilarious stuff ever to come out of left field and leave you wondering (for a couple of seconds, until the next scene) just where the hell that came from. Wet Hot American Summer, being the child of State alumni, carries the torch beautifully, compromising none of the weirdness that endeared those classic shows to me. But I suppose it really all comes down to what you're expecting when you watch this movie. If you're looking for slapstick, or the typical summer camp sex romp, you're going to hate the film. If you want twisted conversations with a can of mixed vegetables, a couple of cover ups, and wholesome drug binge outings, among other things, then chances are you'll laugh your ass off. Though on a personal note, I think you'd have to be officially brain-dead not to, anyway. "},{"Title":"Reunion of MTV's The State","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you liked the old MTV show The State, you'll probably like this movie. After all, Michael Ian Black, Michael Showalter, Joe Truglio, and Ken Marino are all in it.  Also, I noticed Kerry Kenney in the credits somewhere. This movie is basically another spoof of all sorts of other different camper movies.  It's amusing in parts, stupid in others, but I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"For 80s survivors only","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wet Hot American Summer is the kind of movie that's best viewed by those who lived through the films of the eighties. If you did then you will definitely appreciate how it uncannily spoofs the teen sex/non-horror summer camp films many of which were unintentionally funny in the first place. No, it's not perfect, but then most films that touch emotions nostalgic are made for those who would appreciate its satiric, ironic content (American Graffiti and Dazed and Confused are notable exceptions though they too greatly depend on nostalgia themselves). I got into it. I enjoyed how well it arced and riffed on those 80s films. If you were there and got into these kinds of films, you'll like what this film does. A-  "},{"Title":"You have to watch more than 15 minutes of this movie","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I actually really liked this movie, but the first 15 minutes of it are deceiving.   I almost turned it off, but there was a good review of it in the New Yorker so I stuck with it.   It starts off as a very bad 'Meatballs' genre summer camp movie, but it takes an extremely dark turn and because a great parody of every bad coming of age movie we've seen.   I have to disagree, this isn't for airheads and I give it an A+ "},{"Title":"Refreshingly silly fun.","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is rare these days to see a comedy that makes me laugh as hard as I did with Wet Hot American Summer.  It has such an absurd nature, but still grounds itself.  It's one of those movies that you have fun watching because you can tell they had fun making it. It has also made me a fan of Michael Showalter, whom I had never seen before this.  I could watch this movie over and over and still laugh...as I said - rare quality these days.  Oh, and weird...Cure Girl looks just like my wife did when she was in high school...we have nicknamed Cure Girl 'lil Kim. "},{"Title":"more goofs","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When Beth runs to Nancy to ask about astrology, her yarn that she is knitting is very small, when Henry asks Nancy a second later, it seems like she spent hours on it. Andy throws his plate on the floor and Beth asks him to pick it up. His cup and napkin(i think) are on the table, when they shoot the table again, the cup and napkin are gone. Victor saves the kids in the river and yet doesn't get wet...and his apparently a lot cleaner from the last shot. When Beth and Henry are talking at the end, Henry places his trophy on the side, where did it go? Maybe thats a goof that was supposed to be made. *At one point in the movie Gail is in the arts and crafts room and is wearing multicolored shorts rather than the plan color shorts wore a minute ago. *not sure about goof. "},{"Title":"My new favorite movie","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's kind of frustrating to see so many people seem to really hate this film. It's just as frustrating for me to try to explain why I love it so much. Maybe because a lot of the humor of this movie is derived from a certain time period and well, you just had to be there. I think that's all it comes down to is that this movie is a big in-joke for early 30-somethings or at least people who've clocked a certain number of hours watching bad 80s movies. The BADNESS is part of WHY it is funny. Watch The Last American Virgin or Hard Bodies, Revenge of the Nerds or of course Meatballs and understand that it's funny to be reminded of the kinds of things we laughed at in the early 80s. I think the movie also appealed to me for the amount of detail they went into for capturing the look and feel of the time-- and they did it without being overly blatant like That 80s Show or Wedding Singer. The low budget of this film seemed to add to its feel of authenticity as well.I love this movie because it's the best 80s comedy I've seen since the 80s.So why is it funny to see a bunch of adults pretending to be teenagers rocking out to Jane? Or to see males wearing short shorts and striped tube sox? Or Sergio Valenti jeans with a colorful comb sticking out of the back pocket? Or polaroid cameras? Or betamax video? Well, you just had to be there.  "},{"Title":"Outrageous but very funny","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had read and heard a lot about this movie so I finally got around to watching it. A lot of it was pretty outrageous, but my husband and I both found parts of it hysterical, simply because they were so outrageous. If you want some mindless fun (and some that when you think about is really funny!) this would be a great pick. "}{"Title":"This was a Awesome Movie","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I hate it when people dont realize a great movie when they see it.I loved this movie if you dident like it then the humor was way over you head. My personal favorite character in this movie was Coop played by Michael Showalter i was cracking at the i want you inside line. I just have to say give this movie a chance. If you dont like it then you probably get the humor. "},{"Title":"The New Way!!","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie contains the most off the wall humor and probably won't be liked by main stream America, but none the less if you like Monty Python, you'll like this movie.  Gene is easily the best character in the movie, next to the can of beans of course. After seeing this movie, I am ready for Gene to teach me the New Way!! Now, I am gonna go hump the fridge. "},{"Title":"Silly fun","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have a tendency to watch movie just based on the people in them...so i rented Wet Hot American Summer because of Christopher Meloni, my boyfriend and I were pleasently suprised at how silly and funny the movie was.  It didn't take itself too seriously and it poked fun at lots of things.  We laughed all the way through and enjoyed everyone in it.  It is the type of movie my friends and I would make in the backyard, but it was so fun to watch...So, I think if your in the mood for a good, silly time, you should rent this movie.   "},{"Title":"I've seen it three times this week and I'm still obsessed...","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has been playing on my college movie station for a week and I keep watching it.  I don't know why, but it is just incredibly entertaining. Granted, this is finals week and it might just be the lack of thinking involved in watching the film, but I would definitely take time out to watch it otherwise.First of all, I knew it would be good when I saw Janeane Garofalo.  She can make dirt funny.  It was also weird to see her as the adult influence on the younger counselors, because she doesn't usually play characters who are in charge.  Nevertheless, she did an awesome job.There were some scenes in this movie that I thought were just comedically brilliant.  I am not a comedy snob.  Although I can appreciate subtle humour, spoofing and slapstick actually make me laugh.  The scene where one counselor is running and is so confused by the prospect of a small bale of hay in his path that he just stops made me laugh for like 10 minutes.  He doesn't go around it, or jump over it which would have been very simple, he completely freaks out.  The scene during the trip into town where Garofalo's character, Beth and J.J. knock over an old lady and grab her purse was just hilarious, and in that same sequence, I loved when all the counselors, Garofalo included,cheer when one of the counselors gets away with buying alcohol.  The ridiculous irony is that Garofalo plays a 30-something woman who could definitely buy it herself anyway, but she's jumping in the air and rejoicing with the rest of them.But the best is when two of the counselors, after learning that two of their male coworkers are gay lovers, barge into the dining hall during dinner. They silence the room, point to the couple, and say We have something for you! in a menacing tone.  They promptly come back with a huge box, saying It's a chaise lounge, we weren't sure if you had one, you can return it if you don't like it... etc. which is followed by hugs and thank-you's all around.  I thought it was great that instead of the fight scene that was expected, there was a wedding present instead.  It was hilarious, but it didn't put down gays or go into any tired gay stereotypes.Definitely see this movie.  It's funny if you just relax and laugh along with it.  Don't get frustrated when it stops making sense, just let it go. I didn't understand the drug sequence, but I didn't have to understand it to enjoy its comedy.  My advice is to rent this movie, find some friends to watch it with, and listen for the wacky, so-unfunny-it's-funny dialogue, such as when the art teacher Gail announces her wedding to one of her 8-year old campers, saying that there will be shrimp at the reception, and Garofalo replies, Okay, as long as it isn't jumbo shrimp... I'm allergic to oxymorons.  "},{"Title":"Satire...or is it?","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps it was because I was watching this movie at 2 am, but this movie is very subtle in its satire and then gets progressively blatant with the humor. There are scenes that progress from something that you would expect to see in any typical camp movie to something completely absurd and dirty (i.e. the drug scene). It falls into the genre of movies embodied by Better Off Dead, Revenge of the Nerds, and so on. However, it surpasses them by leaving the audience wondering at the end of it all, where did the reality stop and the spoofing begin? The Jewish humor and other bizarre interludes provide for amusement with a slightly less than perfect technical side of the movie. The sound quality, film quality and cinematography leave something to be desired, but generally do not detract from the film itself. A funny way to pass an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"It doesn't have a plot, it doesn't have a point... It doesn't matter","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Pointless jokes that don't make sense and don't need to make sense because they are just hysterical. If you've seen The State it is pretty much one long skit. If Arty would take a shower, Alan Shemper would tell a good joke, the rain would stop going and coming, if Neil could just have caught up to Victor, if Andy didn't let 2 kids drown, and if Gene wasn't in the Vietnam War than this movie would have sucked... but it didn't. He was... he was raised in a barn. "},{"Title":"Not even Janeane Garafolo and David Hyde Pierce could save this turkey","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I never could understand the direct-to-video concept, but after suffering through this 90-minute piece of flotsam, I realized that direct-to-video is a good thing. If I had paid seven bucks to see this film, I'd have burned down the theatre.The only reason I rented this flick in the first place is because one of my long-lost buddies is in it. I went to Coconut Creek High School with Joe Lo Truglio who, when he's not starring in bad movies, is a truly nice guy (You can't give away stock!). He and I starred in most of the blockbuster theatrical events produced by the illustrious Dramatic Arts department at good-ol' CCHS (right), as well as several District competitions and even one State competition. I also enjoyed his work quite a bit on The State, what little I saw of it, and was very proud when our local boy made good. Joe is a genuinely talented performer and always came away from our dramatic competitions with the lion's share of the Superiors.As for this film Ecch. The film has no plot. None. Zero. I surmise it's one huge 'State' episode that takes place in a summer camp. It's only redeeming factor, for me, was seeing Lo Truglio struggle with a motorcycle that was clearly twice as big as he and watching him nearly dump it during the chase scene (he very well might have--the editing suggested no feasible way to keep the bike standing up after the particularly quick stop in front of the hay bail).Joe, if you read this, I'm envious. We all miss you--Russell, Larry, Keener-Joe, Marty, Eric, Tina, Shannon, Jodi, and myself--and wish you nothing but the best of luck in your career. But please, for the love of God, don't star in another movie that's this terrible. Even if it does go direct-to-video. "},{"Title":"A Few Amazingly Funny Segments in a Basically Lousy Film...","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...but see it anyway for those segments.It looks like a first film for EVERYONE involved in the making of this movie. For example, the crosscutting between people in the same scene where one person is standing in the sun and the other is getting rained on is hilarious! An homage to Ed Wood, perhaps?However, there are a few scenes that are explosively funny. I don't want to give them away by describing them, but I promise it is worth your while to sit through the rest of the dreck to get the good stuff.If these guys ever figure out how to write a proper script they are going to make a classic. Hang in there! "},{"Title":"funny funny funny!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie restored my faith in spoofs about jewish summer camps.  Because, really, since Yentl ... The acting in this film is great.  The actors all seem to really get it especially when they go on the romp to town.  Anyone who's worked or been to summer camp remembers those glory-trips to civilization (Wal-Mart).  I totally relived that feeling with this movie. There is soooo much about this film that is hilarious.  Oh, I want to see it again right now.  But I think my absolute favorite parts are the apathetic (baseball?) game, the kids laughing at the talent show mc (shows the mental derangement camp incurs), and the girls primping in the mirror while the guys don't shower (so true!) My only qualm is that the geeky group of kids didn't quite hit the mark.  but i liked it when david h.p goes, where are the unatheletic kids? or whatever... hahaha I hope these people put out another movie soon.  "},{"Title":"Inspired silliness","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For those of you who remember with affection the 1979 comedy about summer camp Meatballs, you will love this film. This movie recreates most of the elements of that film in a tongue in cheek sort of way..kind of like The Brady Bunch Movie did a few years ago.  I loved this movie for the nostalgic feeling it brought back, but also because it's pretty hilarious! Janeane Garofalo's dead pan delivery is just perfect here and the rest of the cast also shine.  My favorite moments include Molly Shannon getting relationship advice from an 8 year old, the kid who wouldn't take a shower, and the wrecking of the infirmary.  I hope to see a lot more from the creators of this film in the future  "}{"Title":"Very, very funny!","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am a huge fan of The State and WHAS did not disappoint.  I had tears streaming down my face because I was laughing so hard at some of the scenes.  All of the performances were excellent!  Especially Christopher Meloni and David Hyde Pierce.  The scene where Janeane Garofalo and Joe Lo Truglio wreck the nurse's office had my friends and I laughing for days after we watched the movie!  It is the perfect mix of very smart jokes and bathroom humor.  Wet Hot American Summer is hands down one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time.  If you are sick of all of the stupid and humorless films that have come out over the past few years that claim to be comedies then watch WHAS. "},{"Title":"A somewhat tame, rarely funny parody of summer camp movies","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A somewhat tame, rarely funny parody of summer camp movies.  I smiled a couple of times at the mildly amusing references that I recognized from either my own camp experiences of what I recognized from other movies. And the budget certainly didn't break anyone's wallet.But what I really want to point out is that just about every user comment that has come before mine looks like it was written by a cast or crew member or one of their friends, friend's friend, etc.  Notice the similarities in all the comments and don't be misled.  There's a simple reason the movie was in theatres for only one week...It's not really funny! "},{"Title":"A super un-slick and sometimes screamingly funny send-up","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film gave me the BIGGEST laughs of the summer and so it was worth it for me, even though much of the film only pointed at what was supposed to be funny.  And the CAST! -- comedy all-stars, without the usual hype.  Hey, the movie doesn't work, but it has moments that are as funny as any ever filmed.  Kudos to all and be sure to catch it on video, since the gigantoplex theatre where I saw it (in NYC) didn't even list it on the marquee! "},{"Title":"Damn Funny.","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I caught this flick on the first night it opened in NYC, and it was one of the funniest things I've seen in years. The cast is great, the writing tight, and literally only two bits didn't work for me. If you either remember the bleed over of the 70's into the 80's and want to see something actually funny ( hard to imagine considering most of the so called comedies that have been spewed forth lately), see this. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie of the Summer","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As an avid fan of the state, when I heard Wain and Showalter had written a movie that was coming out I immeadiately kept a close eye on the project. When I heard it was playing at two theatres in NYC one weekend, I hauled ass out there. From the opening credits straight to the end, it's a nonstop voyage of laughter. Rudds character Andy definitally borrows some traits from The States famed Doug. The ensemble cast makes the movie a must see. Notable scenes are the motorcycle chase, the trip into town and anything with Christopher Meloni in it. I give it 10 stars out of a possible 9. "},{"Title":"amy poehler rules","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  amy poehler delivers a stunning performance as she has in every ucb episode that has been broadcasted. she was also the saving grace of deuce bigalow. there is a powerhouse of talent in this film and i cannot wait to get a home copy of this.  "},{"Title":"This is with out a doubt so far the year's funniest movie...","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just caught a screening last night  of what may just be the funniest film so far this year, WET HOT AMERICAN SUMMER. The movie is a comic tribute to the 1970's and 80's summer Camp films and the teen genre, and is directed and co-written by the comedy Troupe the State's David Wain (co-written by Mike Showalter). The screening was held in New York City, attending were many of The State alumni (who were in the movie) as well as stars Janenane Garofalo and Christopher Meloni.I'm keeping this review spoiler free, seeing I hate spoiling movies. Being a fan of The State I went into the movie with high hopes but had some doubts on how well Wain and Showalter's humor would translate into 90min. After Wain and Showalter gave a quick but amusing introduction the lights went down and the fun began. From the get go WET HOT AMERICAN SUMMER plays out like an homage to the 1980's camp flicks, you have you chuckles here and there over  the decade's sounds, styles and attitudes but nothing too wacky happens right away. I kept thinking this is The State, hmm when's it going to get nutty, but my worries were laid to rest once the film was done introducing all the screw ball characters (Meloni of Law and Order fame is great as a Vietnam Vet Camp cook). Wain and Showalter knew what they were doing, first they would make the audience think the film is a typical camp comedy but then all hell breaks lose and it keeps going full speed ahead with out ever stopping. From one scene after another I found my self almost rolling out of my seat in pure joy, this movie is funny. Besides the State's Michael Showalter (Doug!), my two favorites in the film are Ken Marino and Joe Lo Truglio (both State members), the two steal the film in one of the funniest chase scenes ever. Look for the camp councilors going to town scene, it has to be with out a doubt one of the greatest comic surprises in a long time. I promise you if this film isn't a big hit it will be a cult classic for years to come. Enough said, I don't want to ruin the funniest movie of the year for anyone so I'll leave it at that. > "},{"Title":"KILL LIE AND CHEAT TO SEE IT!","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to The Cleveland International Film Festival this weekend and was lucky enough to not only see Wet Hot American Summer, but to also meet Co-Writer/Director David Wain and Co-Writer Michael Showalter. This movie is just about one of the funniest damn things that I've ever seen. Not for the meek, this film takes Summer Camp on all fronts, and will leave you wishing it hadn't ended. The only reason I was grateful to see the credits rolling was to catch my breath and make sure I hadn't pee'd myself. These guys are the real deal and are destined for success. The cast is incredible, the music is perfect(way to go Craig!), and the film makes you long for the days when all comedies left you with the feeling that you've gotten your money's worth. Bottom line, pray for wide distribution so you can see this film. "},{"Title":"end of camp","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has all the main points of a classic comedy, it has heart, acting, scripts and of course endless comedy. the child actors in this movie really attribute to the more funny parts. Avi Setton who plays marty is the best person who played a marty since Earnest Borgnine won himself his only oscar.  Even the director jumps in as paco. this movie is hilarious go see it. "},{"Title":"The End of summer camp in 1981","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mediocare but very funny Good job avi!!!!! Jeneane Garafolo is very good in this masterpiece of art. I think the young stars really make this movie wonderful.  Avi Setton who plays Marty Has a heartrenching roll in this movie and pulls it off wonderfully. "}{"Title":"Awesome - not just for fans of The State!","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw a rough cut of Hot Wet American Summer at NYU and was subsequently bowled over. This movie is hilarious - maybe not four-star art a la Herzog or Tartovsky, but it's damn funny. Fans of The State will not be disappointed at all, seeing as how the entire movie resembles more or less one giant State skit.The chase scene on the motorcycle is worth the price of admission alone, although I also award bonus points for Jake Fogelnest's innovative and deeply touching cameo towards the end... "},{"Title":"I should have loved this","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am a child of the 80s, turning 13 in 1980 and my whole teenage years through them. This film was made for me. I saw the stars and couldn't wait to see it. Was I disappointed. It was beyond bad. I don't want to come off as a movie snob but this had no humor whatsoever. I enjoy intelligent and horribly childish movies. I can watch crude humor and not roll my eyes as long as it's done right. This movie is a snooze fest and horrible but not in a good way. For the votes that say it's an instant classic I can only surmise they are afraid they will be out of some sort of cult loop so they lie and say how much they enjoyed this. To say this was one of the worst movies I have ever seen isn't an exaggeration it's the truth. "},{"Title":"Cult Classic! One of my Favorite Comedies of all time!","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've watched this movie a couple of times already, and it never grows old. The continuous stream of jokes, with the subtle insert of wackiness and just the right amount of randomness, this movie is great for people who have fallen in love with the Monty Pythonesque style of comedy. One of my favorite parts is seeing all these A-List actors and actresses in this movie over 15 years ago! If you are wondering whether to watch this and the TV show that recently came out, you should watch this first. It will give you a treat once you watch Wet Hot American Summer First Day of Camp, due to the subtle references to the movie. If you are into a unique comedy style, this movie is for you! "},{"Title":"2015 and just saw it...I have not laughed as hard in probably 10 years","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Listen, I read one positive external review that was spot on, and the reviewer suggested to watch it with an open heart. I saw this blind without any info on it and peed my pants laughing. This is amazing dry humor and I was not at all expecting to be hysterical as many times as I did. My sister and I watched it and felt like we were kids again watching Airplane for the first time. We are counting the hours until the Netflix series tomorrow night! We kept asking ourselves why we hadn't heard of it? We are in our early 40s and grew up going to these kinds of camps, so we both agreed you have to let this over the top genius of a spoof take you back to a crazy and happy time. If you were a teen or kid in '81, you'll probably be blown away with how accurate the costuming was. Shark bracelets, shell necklaces, rainbow sheets as a cape, and the list goes on. 10+++ "},{"Title":"Pretty Funny Summer Camp Satire","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The setting is Camp Firewood, the year 1981. It is the last day before everyone goes back to the real world, but there is still a summer's worth of unfinished business to resolve.What a great cast Bradley Cooper, Amy Poehler, Molly Shannon, Elizabeth Banks, Paul Rudd and others. Some of them young and just on the verge of starting their careers (this was Cooper's first film). Others , like David Hyde Pierce, were stepping outside the box people had come to expect from them.I do love that it is a mixture of The State (greatest sketch comedy show ever) and Saturday Night Live. I love that it features my favorite Loverboy song (Turn Me Loose) and I especially love all the pointless Wilhelm Screams.No thorough review is necessary. This film already has enough fans. While I think it may be slightly overrated, and not as good as They Came Together, the love is understandable. Especially for Chef Gene, who is really the glue holding this picture together. "},{"Title":"Best *prohibited word* movie ever","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you don't like this movie, then you must be the most suffocatingly boring person ever. You must suck so bad that your mom punches herself in the face every day to atone for giving birth to you. People who don't like this movie likely get a huge stiffy thinking about tax season and professional golf. I hope all you haters severely burn the roofs of your mouths.Everyone should watch this movie. Period. Awesome throwback flick with a great cast. Crass, goofy, slapstick, you name it, this flick has it. I need to keep typing to meet the crappy minimum review length. Have you ever seen the Blair Witch Project? I saw it when I was like 12, and I loved it. I'm afraid to watch it again in case it actually sucks as bad as everyone says it does. "},{"Title":"Wet Hot American Summer (2001)","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The whole summer camp culture is lost on this Brit. Therefore, I feel as though much of the humor flew right past me. Luckily, the film is full of talent that, now at least, is recognized everywhere. The large ensemble and skittish nature of the film allow it to hit a few number of highs and completely bounce over any lows. It's obvious to see how such a film could reach cult status. We are treated to a number of setups that are probably funnier for the audience when recollecting the events. Some of the actors even attempt braver roles, such as Bradley Cooper. Certainly worth a watch, even if just to see these huge talents excel years before their collective dominance. "},{"Title":"A great 80's comedy made about 20 years later than expected, but worth it.","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It was the summer of '81. I was stuck in small town Alaska, Mtv just came on the air (actually playing music), and this group was having a great Wet Hot American Summer. Sure the movie was actually made 20 years later, but I remember those summers and going to camp every year (after my stint up north), and this movie captured the feel of life back then and the style of the teen sex comedies of the age (only with the off center comedy of The State thrown in the mix).The characters are all genre stereotypes (often exaggerated) but they feel real enough to hold the crisscrossing story lines together, allowing them to all come to actual conclusions without feeling forced or sudden. It's hard to believe that a movie with this much slapstick, potty humor, sight gags, and even some very well thought out jokes actually has this well constructed of a story format. Set aside the continuity issues (mostly caused by the horrible rains they had while trying to film this sunny summer movie) and this low budget comedy actually very well put together. Put all that technical crap side now and just let me talk about how much fun the movie is.I laughed a lot, and not just at the low-brow stuff. They really put a lot of layers into the humor and pulled out all the stops (when most movies would chicken out). It may help that I grew up in the age this was set in and with all the movies it is based around (Meatballs, Breakfast Club, and the rest), but I still think it works for anyone who likes the style of humor found in groups like The State (who were heavily involved in this) and the Upright Citizens Brigade. Not a perfect movie, but more than enough fun to make up for the low budget and technical flaws found in it.Plus, the DVD includes lot of great extras that are often more amusing than the movie itself. These include interviews, deleted scenes (with commentary), music montages, full Commentary Track, and even a low-brow track that adds extra fart noises for fun. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies, scratch that, MOVIES ever made.","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Scarcely has a movie shot up my favourite films list so fast.I'm a gigantic fan of the comedy group Stella(Michael Ian Black, Michael Showalter, and David Wain), so when I found out they teamed up with some of the best comedians in the biz(David Hyde Pierce, Janeane Garofalo, Amy Poehler, and Molly Shannon, to name a few) to do a movie, I couldn't resist. The first time I saw it I thought it was hilarious. Then I got it for Christmas and watched it again. And again. And again. And again, this time with commentary. And again. Over the course of a week. And during this time I realized it was so much more than just a hilarious comedy. It's a movie that's scarily true-to-life, in so many ways.I'm truly, madly, deeply, literally in love with this film.Please, see it for yourself. You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"love it","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love this movie! I think this is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a really long time. I loved all the random story lines, and the quirkyness of this movie. The ensemble cast is amazing. Every character is funny. I have always thought summer camp is a great premise for movies, and this one really hit the nail on the head. It reminded me of my own experience at camp. It really captured the feeling you get during camp, which is that everything is a very big deal! I was happy that they had the gay scene because it was a bit shocking, but the best was the friends positive reaction. I think the chase seen in the beginning and the town scene are two of the funniest scenes in the movie. Overall this movie was great!!! Watch it you will not be disappointed! "}{"Title":"Funniest Comedy I've Ever Seen","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This absurd comic spoof of summer camp movies is always good for laugh until I cry moments. In the vein of other absurd comic masterpieces, Pandemonium and Drop Dead Gorgeous, there are none funnier in my view. Based on the comments, I understand that this type of entertainment is an acquired taste; and if you're not in or of the right frame of mind, the movie might just seem dumb. However, the performances of Chris Meloni, Amy Poehler, Michael Ian Black, Janeane Garofalo, Molly Shannon, Paul Rudd, and Elizabeth Banks were hilarious, mixing a dark and twisted sense humor and nostalgia for the early Eighties I remember with non sequitur and implausible twists that make me laugh just thinking about them a hilariously inappropriate musical performance, the talking can of vegetables, the secret pizza parties--the laughs just don't stop. It's worth owning the DVD for the deleted scenes which are also hysterical or viewing the film with the 'extra fart' track, which I initially thought was too base to be funny, but watching the film with the added sound effects can really push it over the top. I wish there were more funny gems like this one! "},{"Title":"one of the funniest films ever made","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Once in a great, great while, a film comes along that hits you directly in the funny bone so hard that the reverberations cause you to giggle for the rest of your life. This is such a film. It is not for everybody, that's for sure. The humor of Wain, Showalter, etc., is sort of a you love it or hate it thing. I happen to love it. This film perfectly parodies the summer camp movies of the early 80s, a solid two or so years before the 80s revival. There is so much humor crammed into this film that every time you watch you can catch something new to laugh at. My roommates and I rented this video and kept it out for two months. It has the most replay value of basically any movie I have ever seen. This film is a masterpiece. Recommended to all fans of The State and Stella. "},{"Title":"Have a sense of humor for their stupidity","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is cheesy, with no point. High school kids that are stoned, making out all time and laughing at the bad acts in the talent show.They're at summer camp, it's the last day- nerds still trying to get the pretty girls in the bag. The last few lines of the movie are pretty mush as followed Your a nice guy but he is so gorgeous and right now all I want is sex, but when I'm ready to get married I'd want somebody like you. Nobody in this movie wants anything but a cute guy or gal to kiss when they want. There's no real point to this movie, no meaningful conversations between others, no laugh-out-loud funny jokes. But the real thing about this movie that I love is that it has no point! It's just funny because it is so cheesy. Sure I'm still young and of course many things will make me laugh but don't bag on this movie.You don't have be baked like the people in this movie to think it's good. Just have a sense of humor for their stupidity. "},{"Title":"It's funny--esp. that montage of their day in town!","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Just that whole montage--arguably the most hysterically funny one in cinematic history--where everyone is shown in varying stages of cutting loose on their day in town away from camp. That montage alone is worth the watching the whole movie through, which actually works great as a twisted kind of parody of the whole summer camp movie genre. This movie really is at a couple of different levels and I just thought it was very funny. Jeanine Garofalo was very good in this and she and David Hyde Pierce had a good comic energy. I suspect the mediocre ratings for this in IMDb is because of the ridiculously low ratings given by people who don't recognize parody. Maybe it helps if you went to summer camp. I just found it to be very funny with some real quirkiness and some twisted humor that might not be for everyone. But if you like that sort of stuff, it was great. "},{"Title":"Uneven, but not without its moments","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm still not sure what to make of this one. Wet Hot American Summer chronicles the final day of summer camp in 1981. Knowing that premise, and knowing that it was a quasi-reunion of the comedy troupe from The State (which aired on MTV a decade ago, and once on CBS), I was expecting a Dazed and Confused spoof of the '80s Meatballs-type camp flicks. Instead of spoofing those films, it's like one of them &#150; the fact that it takes place in '81 is only incidental.The cast is broad, diverse and they have incredible chemistry. I feel the need to say this because without all of the big and small-screen players, the script would not have worked at all. Some of the scenes and characters are consistently funny. Paul Rudd, for example, gives one of his funniest performances ever as a horny counselor who's too busy playing tongue-tag with beautiful girls to care about the safety of the campers (and what he does to two campers who know too much is absolutely riotous!). Other characters get off to a good start, then collapse under silliness. Ken Marino as the smooth-talking stud who's really a virgin, chews the scenery at first &#150; but his storyline ultimately fades to utter stupidity (and he's noticeably absent for a good chunk of the film). And then there's Chris Meloni as the Vietnam vet turned camp cook, and Molly Shannon as the whiny divorcée art director. Both actors have a few funny lines (though Meloni's funniest scenes, where he berates a camper about corn, were cut out) but there's a lot of total stupidity to their parts.Despite the film's shortcomings, I was completely with it for the first hour. There were a few times when I thought, this is inane, but something funny was waiting in the next scene. In the last half hour though, it loses all point and direction, collapsing under the weight of a lot of overlong, unfunny skits, beginning when camp counselor Janeane Garofolo pointlessly destroys the nurse's office. From there on in it's all downhill until we reach the final scene &#150; a scene that's so anti-Hollywood that it's fantastic.A good time-waster for a dull TV night, but really nothing more. "},{"Title":"Possibly one of the funniest movies ever.","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yeah, it's true. Come on, are people really that stupid that they don't get the humor in this movie? Showalter and Wain are comic geniuses, and the performances are brilliant. The best tidbits of comedy are the moments that you usually don't catch the first around. The best part that comes to mind is the secret handshake scene. Watch how secretive and original their handshake is. And then there are the great moments by Joe Lo Truglio, Ken Marino, and Chris Merloni. This movie is just ridiculously hilarious. The amount of absurd humor in this movie should make any interesting, smart, humorous person revel in glee. I could go on and on about this movie, and really what I should be talking about is, how does one NOT like the movie, think it is stupid, and not get it? I've seen a lot of bad comments about this movie, and granted, Showalter and Wain are a few steps above the normal mainstream type of humor seen nowadays. They take it to that level of redundancy and absurdity that most cannot do. The typical gay joke gag in a movie like American Pie 2 is taken that much further to an explicit themed gay sex scene in Wet Hot. At first seeing this scene kind of weirded me out, but by the 3rd time seeing it I realized how funny it was because of how unnecessary and outrageous they go. Just watch this movie, it's a great time. "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I saw Mullholland Drive, I thought it was the one of the weirdest, most random movies ever.  Then I saw Wet Hot American Summer.  The difference between the two is that Mullholland Drive sucked, and Wet Hot American Summer was very entertaining.  This movie is bad, it makes no sense, has almost no plot, and is generally ridiculous.  It seems like it was bad on purpose, which I suppose is fine, as it's still funny.  In my opinion though, bad movies are more enjoyable when the filmmakers aren't in on the joke.  The bottom line is,  Wet Hot American Summer will make you laugh, and unless you are extremely critical and hate most of the movies you see, you will enjoy it.  I give it a big recommendation. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i think this movie was great.  sure, there was no plot, but it was a blatant attack on a summer at a jew camp or other such event.  as someone that has been to such things it was hilarious.  if you are looking for a movie that is completely mindless, this is it.  ESPECIALLY if you are jewish and has spent a summer at a NFTY camp. "},{"Title":"a question of sense of humor","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is damn near perfect.With this opinion in mind, I have a questionHow good is your sense of humor? Honestly. Please answer now.If you are a normal, average joe, you are probably saying, Hey, my sense of humor is a-OK.With this in mind, I ask you if you liked this movie. If you say, F--- yeah, it rules, you are on the right track, my son.If you say, F-- yeah and here's why... and then explain your true realization of its comedic genius, then you are on the right track to personal comedic genius.If you hate or even moderately dislike this film, you have a ways to go.Here's the facts, and f--- anybody who says different, because they are just another sheep. Or a hippie.This film's beautiful meshing of wit and randomness are what funny is and will always be about.If you don't get it, be patient, my son. Maybe someday you will.Until then, check out 50 First Dates. It's Sandler-riffic!--mmart5000 "},{"Title":"One of the best jokes ever pulled on movie goers","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a little hard to get, I will admit it, but it is also very good and very funny.  Every little gag is there on purpose, little things to make you giggle.  I see other reviews by other users saying how much they hate this film, to those people I say 'I am sorry that you don't get the joke.' I recommend checking out the Stella Shorts after veiwing this movie, and then veiwing this movie again, i promise you'll laugh your pants off! "}{"Title":"The funniest movie ever","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, maybe I exaggerate, but this movie comes close. Bizarre sense of humor, which is right up my alley. Some movies may try to push the envelope, but this one shreds it, with waaaayy over-the-top scenes (like the hour spent in town that starts out innocently enough with a little weed and eventually descends to twitching on the floor in a corner of a shabby room with a needle hanging out of your arm). The actors deliver it dead-pan but don't take a second of it seriously. No one will ever duplicate this quirky gem. Can't recommend it highly enough. (However, if you're a homophobe, there is one shockingly explicit scene that may have you wanting to go scrub your eyeballs. I am not, but was still rather stunned by its explicitness.) "},{"Title":"A different view","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reading the review that is currently posted and finding it harsh to say the least, I offer a different view. I would have to say this is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. Taking the well-worn genre of summer camp film and placing it in the warped reality of sketch comedians from The State, the result is often hilarious, just not in your standard way.  If you thought The Animal or any other recent SNL knockoff was funny, you won't like this.  But if you are a fan of the Kids in the Hall's Brain Candy, this one is one you'll treasure. The actors' hairstyles change from cut-to-cut.  In the requisite camp talent show Horrible jokes are delivered horribly and the film's audience loves it, while talented campers are booed off stage.  And the Nam vet cook humps a fridge after encouragement from a can of vegetables.  Not for everyone, but certainly not prison-worthy.  For myself, that prize goes to the writer of Joe Dirt.   "},{"Title":"This is a hilarious movie.","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a hilarious movie.  Anyone who was a fan of MTV's The State sketch show will love this, seeing how it is made up of mainly cast members of said show.  The gags and laughs in this movie are nonstop.  If you have a sense of humor you will enjoy this movie.  It has such a ridiculous plot you'd have to have down syndrome not to enjoy it. If your a fan of such shows as Family Guy, Sealab 2021, or Aqua Teen Hunger Force, then this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"what can i say about this movie?","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is just indescribable. It's everything a comedic spoof should be and more. This film deserves A LOT more credit than it has received. I'm totally suprised that not a lot of people haven't discovered this hilarious film. I dont really want to get into explaining this movie because it is better for anyone to go out and get it (I recommend buying the dvd). For all of you out there that has seen this film and loved it, get the word around! Tell all your friends to go see this movie. I guarantee, if your not a piece of wood, that you will laugh your brains out with this one. "},{"Title":"FUNNIEST MOVIE OF ALL TIME","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Do not believe any of the negative posts about this movie. It is absolutely hilarious, made by the same guys who brought you The State on MTV and the sketch comedy team Stella. The humor is offbeat and quirky, yes, but it is NOT stupid. In fact, I'd go as far as to say this movie is brilliant. It not only spoofs all those 80s movies like Meatballs, Karate Kid, etc., but it also creates a genuinely nostalgic feeling for that era. Plus, it stars such comic geniuses as Jeanine Garofalo, Paul Rudd, Michael Showalter, Michael Ian Black, Amy Poehler, Molly Shannon, the guy from Frasier and the other guy from Oz and more. There are so many classic scenes and bits of dialogue, you need to give this one a real chance. See it at least three times and then try to say it isn't funny. You'll see, it grows on you! See, now I've shown you the new way... "},{"Title":"I THRIVE on this movie","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen a LOT of movies, a LOT, and this one is one of the funniest ever.  My friends and I have seen it probably fifteen times.  The humor in it, for the most part, isn't right in your face, which insults your intelligence... but it is more subtle, like plays on words (I hope you're not having jumbo shrimp, because I'm allergic to oxymorons!) and things that are easy to overlook (But Henry... Please, call me Henry.  Okay, Henry it is.).  There are so many good quotes (Now we have to make eight gallons of bug juice by snack hour, do you know where the powder packets are? Yeah, in the pantry above the sink, right next to my bottle of dick cream... wait... ignore that last comment...I said stick team, you know, stick ball... forget about it and leave me alone) and the humor never gets old. I would highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"if you don't get it...TOO BAD!","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What else can I say that isn't on here...  For you fans of Office Space, The Simpsons, The State, The Kids In The Hall and GOOD sketch comedy, watch this movie.  If you can't understand a lot of the jokes on The Simpsons due to your lack of pop culture knowledge, stay away and don't discourage others from seeing this great movie.  This is not a movie for everyone, just as The State and Viva Variety were not for everyone, which is why MTV and Comedy Central pulled the plug on them for the mindless crap they put out there now.  For those of you who enjoy a slapstick movie with some slick references to other kitschy 80s movies, rent this or better yet, buy it now. The extras are great, the fart track is a little over the top, but hilarious to some.  If comedy to you is the latest episode of Friends and then an Adam Sandler movie, stay away and don't watch it.  You won't get it. Leave it to those of us that do. "},{"Title":"AMAZING!","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is hysterical.  It is funnier than any other film I have seen in a long time.  Every other comedy is just a rehash of the same stupid sex jokes, but WHAS is just completely insane.  It's a breath of fresh air. And it drives me nuts when people on this board give it horrible reviews and say things like Why did they need a supercomputer to generate random numbers between 1 and 20? Can't they do it themselves?  and Who did David Hyde Pierce hand that trophy to?  You've completely missed the point! That is the joke!  The movie is SUPPOSED to be completely outrageous and out-there, kind of like AIRPLANE!  But it you didn't get it, I guess you're a lost cause. "},{"Title":"Thank God for this movie!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is seriously one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. It totally lampoons everything about those stupid 80's camp movies, and the actors in it have never been funnier. I hope to God these guys make another movie soon. "},{"Title":"Has it's moments... but not much more...","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ok, I watched The State during their run on MTV back in the early/mid 90's. I remember them in the same way I remember most sketch comedy teams of the last ten years... (Mr. Show, Upright Citizens, SNL, Mad TV, Kids in the Hall, etc.) A couple of winning ideas surrounded by a bunch of overindulgence. Sketch comedy is a difficult thing to translate into a movie. With sketch comedy, you do your five minute sketch, if it works great... if not, you only wasted five minutes. In moviemaking, you have to have an idea of what works well and what doesn't work well. Then you have to balance it all into a storyline that somehow ties together. That's the problem with Wet Hot American Summer. It has some great lines, some memorable characters and some truly funny moments but these are momentary spikes. The movie itself slowly and continually sinks into near randomness.If you know the background of the film makers, this shouldn't really bother you too much and you'll be quick to praise this movie. You are used to seeing The State as a sketch comedy group that never has to carry a bit for more than a few moments until it's onto the next one. Unfortunately, that's not how you make a good movie. What sinks WHAS is it's near total lack of cohesiveness. The editing is bad and the direction is worse. Scenes and ideas seemingly start and stop out of nowhere. Subplots are introduced and cast aside with equal measure.Granted, that might have been the intention. The members of The State clearly aren't taking this seriously when in front of the camera, their tongues planted fimrly in cheek. It's almost jarring when the scenes shift back to Garofalo or Hyde Pierce, as they at least appear to be buying into their characters some of the time. The lack of direction here is obvious, as neither of these seasoned actors seem to know when to play it straight or when to go over the top like everyone else. If you want to make a spoof, then do it! If you want to make a comedy about summer camp, then do it! Don't go back and forth between the two and expect anything but a jumbled mess in the end!I didn't hate this movie... I definately laughed and enjoyed myself for the most part. Still, I get the feeling they had 6 or 8 solid sketch ideas and instead of concentrating on their strengths, tried to tie them all together. That's where it fell apart. These people seem good at coming up with a handful of funny ideas, they are just not very good at making a movie. If the members of The State ever want to make another movie, here's some advice from an average movie fan.... Come up with the funny parts, then hire a professional screenwriter and director to tie everything together.5/10 on it's own merits7/10 if you like The State (come on State fanboys, the material here isn't THAT great even compared to their MTV show...) "}{"Title":"A shame it is overlooked.","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie from start to finish. The acting is great, and the movie pokes fun at many different sources (movies, television shows, cliches, and genres of movies). The characters are excellent and easy to like. The performances of Paul Rudd (Andy), Zak Oarth (J.J.) and Michael Showalter (as Coop, but moreso as Alan Shemper) are the highlights. I also enjoyed the whole crew of misfits who hang out with David Hyde Pierce (Henry). Madeline Blue (Cure Girl), although she has few lines, has great facial expressions, body language and delivery to standout from the group of indoor kids. "},{"Title":"One of the FUNNIEST films I've seen in a LONG time.","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Aside from being a fan of Upright Citizen's Brigade and The State...this film was downright HILARIOUS.  It spoofed almost every genre of cheesy films in the late 70's-early 80's (sans DISCO).  Overall, I own the movie and think it is one of the few movies that you can watch sober or under the influence and either way it's funny.  By the way, it's a bit funnier when your drunk...but I also thought Bringing out the Dead was hilarious then too. "},{"Title":"Contrived","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't looking for high art when I tried to watch this thing but I truly hoped there would have been something to redeem it.  I am no movie snob and it did nothing for me.  IT ran like an in between SNL skit that ran too long.  The director should have tried to pull something out of the material to make up for the fact that this has all been done before in a much more lucid and entertaining fashion. "},{"Title":"Brilliant if you went to summer camp, stupid if you didn't.","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are in fact two types of people in the world people who went to summer camp and people who didn't. If you spent your summers at an overnight camp then you will recognize this movie as brilliant, much better than any other on-screen depiction of camp (yes even much better than salute your shorts) that will probably make you break out the old camp yearbooks. If you didn't then this is a waste of 2 hours. I should also mention that it features The State, who are either hilarious or idiotic depending on your sense of humor. From the other comments its obvious that people either get the movie or they don't. If you don't thats fine but if you do...oh man.9/10 "},{"Title":"Anyone Ever Hear of Absurdism?","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Those who insist that this movie is unfunny, disappointing, and filled with stupid humor have missed the point.  Maybe I should make this easy for you -- there's a style of comedy called absurdist humor.  What's funny about absurdist humor is not the actual content of the joke itself, but the concept of the fact that the content exists within the universe.  Read some Christopher Durang and maybe you'll understand . . . then again, maybe not. "},{"Title":"Hidden gem among the great comedies!","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Another reviewer said that some of the scenes in this comedy were too ofensive for this R-rated kiddie flick. I've never heard of a kiddie flick with an R rating. All the scenes are much called for and are ingenious. Some of the most clever little bits of humor and sarcasism, that rank up there with Caddyshack, Kingpin, and Dumber & Dumber. I've always loved The State, from MTV and realized that the writers from that show also wrote this. This film does for the early eighties what Dazed And Confused did for the late seventies. Sure to be a classic! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever made!!!!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Being a huge fan of The State,  I had high hopes for this film, written, directed, and starring many of the original cast members.  I am happy to say that I was more than satisfied.  Not only does this movie contain some of the most irreverantly funny scenes and plot lines (Now I'm going to go fondle my sweaters) but it also does a decent job at parodying summer camp movies.  All in all this a great film and if you don't find this very funny, there is something very wrong with you. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I have ever seen","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved the episodes that I saw of The State and I also enjoyed Upright Citizens Brigade on Comedy central, and when my friend told me about the movie that had actors from both of those shows in it, I had to go see it. If you get offended easily, don't watch this movie. Otherwise, it is great fun. I have seen it several times, and it makes me laugh every time. Also, if you get the DVD, it has an optional Fart Track which makes the movie infinitely funnier, if despite finishing middle school many years ago, you still think farting is funny. I really enjoyed this movie a lot. There are a few places that are so over the top that even I fast forwarded through them, but overall, it is a hilarious movie.  "},{"Title":"It's from another world","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Apparently this movie was written by someone from another world. I think I understood about 5%. I think I understood the speech made by the crazy chef near the end of the movie. One clue to what world the author is from is that in their world it requires a super-computer to generate random numbers but in our world the best random numbers are not generated by a computer.  "},{"Title":"Satire that is slightly off target.","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is perfect for fans of the comedy troupe, The State, whose members with some additional actors have decided to lampoon the summer camp genre of the late '70s early '80s like Meatballs, GORP, Little Darlings and Friday the 13th even.  The film is even set in 1981 with hippy, Earth mother Jeaneane Garofolo as the head counselor.  The film recreates the atmosphere of summer camp and even that era with the soundtrack and has a couple of funny subplots such as a counselor trying to get out of a canoe trip to score with the easy girl's camp counselor and David Hyde Pierce teaming up with the nerdy campers to save the camp from the falling Skylab (I didn't watch this film for historical accuracy since Skylab would predate this by a good few years).  But sometimes the film takes a few, inexplicable wacky steps into left field, losing its pace and comic timing like the scene where Jeanine Garafolo and a panicky counselor tear apart the first aid clinic or a foray into town ends up with the counselors getting high on crack and heroin.Overall I liked the way the film recreated the atmosphere of those films but it has too many moments of meandering and misfired gags that keep it from being as entertaining as the films it sets out to lampoon.  "}{"Title":"A comedy so unfunny... its funny!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Unintentionally funny, as they say.  A movie so bad, its good, as they say. Forget about plot.  Forget about continuity.  Throw the plausibility meter out the window. A real clinic on how NOT to make a film.  My favorite bit is where David Hyde Pierce and Janeane Garofalo are standing alone in a field. David is holding a large trophy, moves to embrace Janeane, and hands to trophy to someone offscreen.  I'm surprised we didn't see any boom mikes or other crew onscreen.  Hysterical.All this movie is, is a bunch of very short sketches, having the same actors and locations and general theme in common.  If you find anything more holding them together, its a bonus.It is obvious that this film sat on the shelf for ten years.  Its also obvious why it did.  What is not obvious is how it ever made it to theaters or video or your tv.  I bet that story is more interesting than the film. Can't wait for the featurette, Hearts of darkness in Pennsylvania the making of WHAS.  In the same vein, I recommend Ebert's review of this movie, which is also funnier than the movie (although that's not saying much). "},{"Title":"damn good","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wet Hot American Summer was nothing short of spectacular. Simply put, it was pure comic genius.  People who fail to realize this are obviously taking the movie and themselves just a bit too seriously.  The movie is not intended to be moving or to be an Oscar contender.  Its sole purpose is to be absolutely hysterical, and it does this in every sense of the word.  "},{"Title":"Comedy that falls flat","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am a fan of good comedy, and I am not a fan of this movie. I guess it was supposed to be a send-up of 80's teen comedies, unfortunately the jokes were lame enough that they might only have worked in the (early) 80's. Quite an amateurish effort. Attempts at forced humour abound. None of the characters is endearing either. The guy from Frasier was particularly poorly cast. The extra bits on the DVD were more interesting than the movie itself. "},{"Title":"BAD NEWS FOR THE MOST PART","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For anyone raised on films like MEATBALLS and PORKY'S, this film will hold some appeal. But it is not up to either of those classics, unfortunately, and many sequences are so amateurish as to make one cringe at the talent wasted. Janeane Garafalo, the only reason to see the movie, clearly spent a lot of time improvising just to get through some of her scenes. This would probably have been more acceptable if it had been called MEATBALLS 4. Then we would have clearly known what we were in for. That series sank big-time after the first movie, which itself relied too heavily on Bill Murray's appeal. Best thing about this movie the accurate clothing and hairstyles (the film takes place in 1981). Worst thing a graphic homosexual encounter, which had no place in an R-rated kiddie-oriented comedy. "},{"Title":"You could make a better movie than this","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Apparently, if you're a fan of MTV's the State, your sheer delight at seeing it's alumni on screen is all you require to get you giddy.  But then, some people get excited when they see themselves on department store security monitors. And monkeys probably get jumpy when they see themselves in the mirror.  So let's qualify these amazing - even if you're not a fan of The State! comments.  Let's add, maybe, ...and you enjoy fairly insipid low-budget movie making that seems to think putting a bunch of grown ups in '80's-esque t-shirts and shorts more or less covers it's obligation to entertain.  Borrow a video camera, film some friends doing some generic little skits on 'summer camp' life and you'll almost certainly have a better movie, especially if a big criteria for your entertainment dollar is seeing people on screen you know and like.  Wet Hot Blah is barely a movie... and certainly not worth the 'must see' reviews that the State faithful have peppered the net with. But then, just a picture of a cast member taped to a tv screen would seem to be 'must see' material in those easily-amused circles.   "},{"Title":"Pointless, but fun","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I got bored of studying Julius Caesar so I watched this. I wouldn't say much, except that I found the movie to be incredibly pointless, but entertaining. I liked that guy with the floppy hair who lusted after Katie (I think that's her name?). He is a total loser, but he's really kind of sweet, kind of cute, so...And I have always appreciated Janeane Garofalo's sarcasm. I loved her in Clay Pigeons (though no one can detract my attention from the lovely Joaquin Phoenix), and wanted her to smash Uma Thurman's face with a big cake in The Truth About Cats and Dogs. I think she was the best in this film, right next to Chris Meloni, who was hilarious. I'm not sure if this movie had a actual plot. Its characters and their motives are completely unclear (example the Katie-Andy-Guy-with-floppy-hair thing), and I found myself going, What in the world? at the TV set many a times. But I did enjoy watching it. It was stupid, and Chris Meloni was hilarious. I don't really care about anything else.  "},{"Title":"Inconsistencies in tone","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can't recommend this movie because of its inconsistent approach.  The first part of the movie is mostly down to earth comedy about a summer camp. Once you start to care about the characters, continuity is thrown out the window and nothing can be taken seriously at all.Those who compare this to true classics such as Airplane, Blazing Saddles, etc. miss this point.  Those movies were great, but whatever tone they had they kept all the way through.  The Blazing Saddles characters break out into the real world at the end of the picture, but they remain in character.  This movie couldn't be bothered to do that, and I find that difficult to forgive.  "},{"Title":"Tongue in someone else's cheek...spot on parody","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First off, in order to fully enjoy this film it is simply necessary to have been old enough to have memories of the terrible films of the 80's (especially the summer camp flicks).  Staying up late at night and channel flipping between late night R rated 'teen' movies.  Sneaking around watching HBO on the only TV in the house that had cable, which happened to be 5 feet from your sleeping parents who would most certainly object to your 10 year old self stealing a peek at bare breasts and the naughty shenanigans of mischievous teens. Anywho, this film hits the spot in such a way that you feel you are watching an actual terrible 80's flick, only with the underlying premise that the whole time they are lovingly poking non-stop fun at the genre.  Some of the best parts are the scenes which involve a lack of continuity, such as knitting a small amount of yarn and after cutting away and back it has become a huge blanket.  There is so much to keep your eye open for in this film.  I certainly don't feel that this film is overly accessible to current teens and people over 35ish (which is fine by me).  To me, it just feels like you need to have been between 10 and 20 in the early 80's in order to have the capacity to fully enjoy this film and it's approach to parodizing the genre. hell, in summation...give it a shot...or wait...should i say something like... If you loved The Deer Hunter you will die for Wet Hot American Summer "},{"Title":"A mixed bag...","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie suffers from an uneven use of humor.  At times (particularly in the first half) it just recreates the summer camp movies of the early 80s, without really inserting many jokes, and expects it to be funny as is, because it is showing you how stupid these movies were.  Unfortunately, by hardly twisting the genre, it just winds up as another stupid summer camp movie.  About half-way through it changes - somewhat.  First, it starts introducing unexpected bizarre scenes (e.g. the trip to the city).  Secondly, it at last starts making fun of the conventions of those films (e.g. the only sex scene is a gay sex scene; the slutty advisor goes way overboard with who she picks as her partner-of-the-moment; the kids unexpectedly boo a horrible talent show piece in which the participants had made a great effort; nobody wants to play the great underdog sports event; and the ending perfectly skewers the nice geeky guy wins the girl of his dreams back from her jerk boyfriend ending).  But a lot of the jokes fail or come off as too weak.  And many storylines are brought back only for the reason that they are threads left hanging around, and not because the writers had anything inspiring to do with them.  The movie doesn't really end - it just pretty much stops.  Then again, it doesn't have a real beginning of a story (something which disorients you at first).The best that can be said is that the actors involved did their best effort.  However, the writing and directing were not up to par.  Don't believe the hype of this being a hidden gem.  It's more of a nice-looking cheap rock, and the only discovery that you will make will be when you find it to be a decent time killer when you run into it on cable one afternoon and have nothing else to watch. "},{"Title":"Silly.","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Silly for sure, an attribute which is either positive or negative depending on your mood. There are some darn funny jokes floating around this movie. It is more of a satire than an parody of camp movies in the style of Meatballs, and when it works you laugh out loud. When it doesn't you groan out load. Good for the times you want a silly comedy and not much else. "}{"Title":"Immoral crap","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After reading some of the comments, I figured that this could be a pretty good movie.  I could not have been more wrong.  To think that this is a funny movie or great movie states that either/or you have low or no morals and have no sense of what talent is.  Paul Rudd, who grew up not to far from me, should be absolutely ashamed of himself.  David Hyde Pierce has sunk so low.  Niles Crane would have had a heyday with this movie.  I did not laugh once.  I usually laugh at least once at any comedy, but not once. Biggest disappointment of 2001. "},{"Title":"What a mess!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Would anyone other than the guys who made this film find it even remotely funny?  I was led to this film by what must have been the only positive review it received.  God only knows what kind of film the filmmakers thought they were making. Parts of it looks like they were aiming for an over-the-top farce jokefest like Airplane, at others a knowing spoof of a revered institution a la Caddyshack. Whatever, they failed miserably.  This isn't even so-bad-it's-good unfunny -- it's just a mess. The worst part is that it tragically wastes the talents of some very good actors, particularly Jeannine Garafaolo, who desperately needs a new agent. "},{"Title":"brilliantly cracked comedy","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sitting down to watch an evening's-worth of light fluffy films, my Jedi Fiancee and I were soon drawn into this bizarre portrait of life in a summer camp in 1981. I thought it was going to be a repeat of Meatballs (sans Bill Murray) with lots of teenage sex humour. A coule chuckles here and there. Instead we were rewarded with this brilliantly funny farce of a film!Now... admittedly this film is NOT for everyone (read spidud's review below for the homophobic Fast & the Furious fans' view of this film)... least of all kids... but seeing how I went to just about every kind of camp during the very era depicted in this film I was amazed at how close to the truth it was... even as a spoof!This is a dear sweet film with a healthy dark streak... at times the plot goes off on strange tangents. With campers who are more mature than the psychotic sex-crazed drug-addled counselors... if you think summer camp WASN'T like this then you stayed in your bunk the whole time! "},{"Title":"Inconsistent, but down right hilarious!","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I first heard about this movie when Janeane Garofalo went on Late Night with Conan O'Brien to promote it.  When I heard that it starred her and David Hyde Pierce, I knew this was going to be good!  They said that it opened the next day, and I checked my local paper, only to find that it didn't open in my area.  I guess it must have been only in select cities at the time.  A friend of mine later saw it at a film festival and highly recommended it.Needless to say, when I found it in a video store, I snatched it up as soon as I could.  I didn't know what to expect, other than some stellar performances from Garofalo and Pierce.  What I saw both entertained and disappointed me.The movie starts out as a down to earth comedy.  The story of camp councillors on the last day of summer camp, some looking for love, others simply looking for sex.  There's a very well written scene between my two favorite actors of the movie (if you can't figure out who they are by this point, you haven't been reading closely enough) where they perfectly demonstrate the kind of awkward conversation that occurs between two people who obviously like each other, but are too scared to admit it.The first half of the movie seems to be on the same level  down to earth and somewhat realistic.  There are many absurd jokes throughout the first half, such as the two boys that drown because one of the councillors is making out with a girl instead of keeping an eye on the water, or the scene in which the camp councilors go into town and end up doing every drug imaginable and then beating up an old lady to steal her purse.  My personal favorite was the parody of movies such as the Mighty Ducks where one councillor gives a big motivational speech about how they're going to come from behind and, with some sort of miracle, win the intercamp softball championships.  The campers point out that this is a rather trite story line, so the councillor cancels the game without much hesitation.  Scenes like these, however, don't seem to dominate the movie.  Serious plot lines of people's romantic interests dominate, leading one to believe that this is a well thought out, romantic comedy.The second half of the film, however, goes in a completely different direction.  In the second half, the film looses all connection to reality, and becomes an all-out spoof of popular movies.  The far-fetched scenes that were sprinkled throughout the first half now become the emphasis of the film, rather than mere comic relief.  There were scenes where I kept expecting somebody to wake up from a dream.  These scenes seem awkward after having seen the first half of the movie, but they are still very well done. It's rare, these days, that a movie will make me actually laugh out loud, but this one sure as hell did.  The second half of the film just became utterly ridiculous, but down right funny.The movie is very muddled.  It seems almost as if the screenwriter decided half way through that he wanted to write a different movie, but then didn't go back to change the first half.  One would think that such big name actors would have objected to such a script, but perhaps they saw, as I did, that the movie is so funny that it's good despite its major shortcomings.  So, basically, if you want to laugh, rent this movie.  If you want a plot that makes sense, this is not for you. "},{"Title":"pleasant surprise","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I only rented this flick because David Hyde Pierce is in it. But, what's this? We're laughing! Its style of humor harkens back to Animal House, Airplane and Caddy Shack. In other words, really wacky, non-sensical stuff.And far funnier than American Pie. "},{"Title":"I'm so mad right now","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I watched it due to a friends high praises... wtc!? It was fairly horrible. It started out to be pretty exciting given that I kept seeing big star after big star (I'm sure they were basically unknowns at the time it came out). I thought, hey, I get to see all these guys when they were building up their skill sets. There were a few funny moments in the beginning, but it quickly went down hill and right off into the canyon.Sigh..... I was really trying to get into it. It was such a hodge podge of random styles that didn't even remotely work together. I quit.I usually say to watch it for yourself and make your own opinion..... I wouldn't take the risk. "},{"Title":"Honestly The Best Movie Ever","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie about 50 times, and i never get sick of it. If you have remotely any good sense of humor, you will love this movie. It's an example and a movie that the more you watch it, the better it gets. And whoever claims that this movie is bad and compares it to Adam scandal movies has no sense of humor!! Honestly, if that's what you find funny, you are boring and stereotypical. So Unorginial. This movie is hilarious!! It's absolutely ridiculous and Genius. I like a lot of movies and this is my all time favorite...I don't think I will ever see a movie that will top this one. Watch it again and again, it continues to get better! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"You either get it or you don't.","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie IS an 80's Summer Camp Movie... that was made in 2001. The point of this film hits a smaller demographic than some parodies do, but if you loved Summer Camp movies then this will be great for you. The humor is really subtle and the dialogue is unbelievable. The cast alone makes this movie gold. Characters from memorable sketch comedy troupes - Michael Ian Black (The State), Molly Shannon (SNL) - and more mainstream comedians - David Hyde Pierce (Fraiser), Janeane Garofalo (Truth About Cats & Dogs) - are just the beginning of a great list.I could try to analyze exactly why this movie is funny so the rest of the population has some insight... but really, you either get it or you don't. "},{"Title":"this movie rocks","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wet Hot American Summer is a hilarious parody of all camp movies everywhere.If you've seen such movies, or just been to a bunch of different camps (as a child or as a counselor) you should find this movie extraordinarily amusing. I highly recommend it. The movie takes place during the last day of camp, on which everything important happens (of course). There's the Geek Crowd, the Dork Who Wants The Girl, and so many other stereotypes, all done in very funny fashions. Also, if you get the DVD you can listen to the Extra Farts soundtrack. It's only really funny for about 10 minutes, but the movie WITH EXTRA FARTS. Come on, that's hilarious!  "},{"Title":"You'll know whether you'll like it pretty quickly.","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunetly, I was one of the ones who just didn't get it. I didn't know this movie had such a strong following till I read it here. I can actually understand that because there is some funny jokes in the movie and the characters are instantly relateable. But that being  said, I just couldn't force myself to like this. It has been compared to Meatballs which I also saw many years ago but I didn't like that either. The humor in this IS similiar-this is just not really my type of thing. Although, as mentioned there are some funny parts and I did laugh out loud several times, the humer is at times very vulger and crude and in your face. I was very bored actually in many places I should have been entertained.I won't attack the movie, it had some funny lines. But for me, it was instantly forgettable. I say it's just not for everyone. 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"uh... no.","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I hated watching the Weird Al Yankovic classic UHF the night before I saw this, it was because I thought the jokes were dumb; I knew what the jokes were, and I understood what was supposed to be funny about them, I just didn't find them funny myself.  With this film, however, I am at a loss to pinpoint exactly where most of the jokes were.I am confident that the filmmakers were making a comedy, and not a `very special' Afterschool Special about the cruelty of the teenage years.  I was vaguely amused by some bits of the film, and the concepts of a few of the characters were amusing (the cook, the choreographer, etc), but the film seemed to have no idea how to complete the characters and do anything with them, plot-wise.  The skylab debris subplot seems dropped in from another movie entirely.Some of the defenders of the fill on IMDB.COM explain the film as a sort of meta spoof &#150; it's a spoof of spoofs. In that case, MAYBE the point of the semi-graphic gay sex scene was `Look!  We'll put a sex scene into the movie, but it will be a GAY sex scene! That's funny!'  Ha ha.  And defenders, I think very few people would accuse me of not having a sense of humor.  "},{"Title":"Not about summer camp. Better than you think. You may be lost.","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies. The comedy is very specific and if you don't get it, then you will think it is the most inane movie ever.  It is NOT about summer camp, it is set at a summer camp.  It might help to know that there is a fervent fan base for the movie.  They hold midnight screenings in New York.  I went to one as Associate Professor Newman.  My roomates won second place as McKinley and Ben.The other comedy of the cast is also fantastic.  This comes from a strong history starting with The State (MTV, mid 90's), and a bunch of shows in between.  You have to check out Michael Showalter, David Wain, and Michael Ian Black's comedy group Stella.  If you knew how huge they were in New York you might understand.   "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There isn't much to say. This movie ruled, good and simple. and I cannot understand why they didn't put the deleted scenes in the actual film, it was funnier then the next. I check back on IMDB constantly, wishfully thinking that maybe there will one day be a WET HOT AMERICAN SUMMER 2. Who knows? maybe they will be able to do that one day. The best scene by far is the CORN scene that was delted. 9 10 "},{"Title":"Hello Muddah, Hello Fadda","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Either the funniest movie I didn't get, or the worse movie I didn't get cause I am not sure what there was to get..if anything.All the cliches and stereotypes are intact.  The clothes are ugly enough to be from the 70s.  The hair is too big. You are not assaulted with reminders that this is a period piece, although I did notice some of the dialogue seemed out of place - there should be some references to that time in which the movie takes place, like for example the expressions and slang that were popular at the time, but a lot of what the characters say sounds contemporary.  Not a big deal, but if the writers had rented teen/kids movies from the time - Smile, The Bad News Bears and Little Darlings come to mind - or watched tv shows from that period, perhaps the movie would have felt more authentic.I laughed a couple of times but never got that feeling where the movie was good enough to just settle in and watch and know you are in capable hands.  During something like this, I am sometimes unrelaxed, hoping for something great to happen to bring me over that hump that presents itself when the going gets rough, and the going was rough during 80% of this, for me. I just didn't think it was funny and by the end, it seemed like everyone just gave up and went for broke. Molly Shannon is an unfulfilled Arts-N-Craft teacher who is being coached by a male student, who she ends up with at the end. How that kid will ever top that in his career remains to be seen, and he's funny to start with, but it gets to be too much of what wasn't that great to begin with.  David Hyde Pierce, Paul Rudd and Christopher Meloni all waste their vast talent here.  There is no nostalgic soundtrack, and I could have gotten a lot of enjoyment out of hearing something like No Matter What by Badfinger.As I said, maybe I just didn't 'get it' so that doesn't make it a bad movie.  I think I know what they were going for. However, doesn't mean I have to like it, either.  4/10.  "},{"Title":"O.K. for a $1.00 rental","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Where this film really suffers is in the wasted talents of the two stars. Both Garafolo and Pierce are excellent comedy actors. Pierce in particular is just outstanding with farce and physical humour. Both are cast against type and the result is not successful. The movie does capture the mood and feel of the films it sets out to portray, but instead of a parody it comes across as a second or third rate imitation of the style. Best viewed late at night when your brain isn't to discerning. "},{"Title":"The Cast is Top Notch, BUT...","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was probably the most poorly directed comedy I have ever seen. The movie's pacing was awful, the techniques used to interweave the numerous story lines ranged from amateurish to random, and unless you are in tune with a certain below-the-radar subversive sense of humor many of the jokes tend to fall flat. Granted, there were some very funny one-liners and throwaway bits provided by the cast, which includes Janeane Garofalo, David Hyde Pierce, Molly Shannon, and members of the comedy troupe The State. If anyone else had played these roles, this film would have been a complete disaster. If you are looking for something more than some random laughs, though, you won't find anything here. As it is, this movie stands mostly as a big wasted opportunity to use some very funny people in what could have been something much better. Solely because of the strength of the comedic talent, I give the film a 3. "},{"Title":"A messy Satire","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had to laugh at some of these comments because you can tell that some folks didn't realize that this movie is ABSOLUTELY SPOOFING the early 1980's weirdo genre of teen summer camp sex comedies - many were made, most were lame and this movie attempts to SPOOF them. Okay? Spoof. Not try and make a teen summer camp comedy but SPOOF them. That's like someone claiming that Austin Powers seemed too silly to be a real spy. Right! Okay - now onto the movie and it's satire. The movie is basically a mess - there are so many scenes that lay eggs and fall flat on their faces BUT the scenes that do work and the moments they capture and satirize are so DEAD ON and HYSTERICAL they make up for it. David Hyde Pierce is great and throws away everything (as he should). As I said, the film is a real hit and miss but I certainly laughed at alot of it.  "},{"Title":"I guess I don't really get it","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This has cult classic written all over it. WET HOT American SUMMER, directed by David Wain of THE STATE and STELLA, is a comedy, spoof, romance, satire about a summer camp that no child should be sent to. The film takes place on the last day of the camp where all the adults are in love with each other and crazy stuff ensues. There are a lot of different romances in the film and they all have something interesting involved in each of them. While all that is happening there are also numerous side stories, particularly one about a cafeteria cook who has Vietnam war flashbacks and, at one point, talks to a can. That is the funniest part of the whole movie. You have to see it to really believe it. There is actually a lot of very funny material here. However, there is also a lot of very unfunny material. Kids end up disappearing and the people in charge try to cover it all up by dumping the witnesses on the side of the road. A few of the characters are extremely obnoxious. Then there are scenes that are just plain weird. There is a very sexually graphic and very random gay sex scene that occurs about halfway through the film between Michael Ian Black and Bradly Cooper. It literally comes out of nowhere and seems intended not to shock but to add some sort ironic underling that the happiest and most pure and loving couple in the entire film is a gay couple. The film, in it's own weird way, seems to be suggesting that homosexuality is better than heterosexuality. Why? What the heck is the purpose of this?! What's it doing in a film like this? So overall, the film is pretty weird. I don't really know what else to say about it. I didn't particularly like it or dislike it. To me, it was just okay. I laughed at several parts, but then there were just as many parts that I groaned at and just as many parts where I asked myself, What the heck am I watching? So do I recommend it? Well, why bother? It's a VERY popular cult classic film. It's like the next ROCKY HORROR SHOW! I see why I should recommend or not recommend it since you are probably going to see it anyway.PROS -There's some very funny material herein. The camp cook character made me laugh so hard that I almost peed my pants. -The concept is original.-The acting isn't bad.-The fast pace will make the film seem pretty quick.CONS -Occasionally more cruel than it needs to be. Children go missing at random points in the film and the witnesses are thrown out of van on the side of a road.-The look of the film is rather ugly, muddy, grainy, and unappealing.-Some scenes are just plain weird. The erotic graphic gay sex scene feels completely out of place and is depicted as being more pure and innocent than the straight sex. "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'd like to consider myself to be an atheist with morals but after watching this film, the only thing I can get out of this film is the people who made it not only attacked morality, they flat out attacked Christianity. Why does this happen in many films? Let me try to get this straight. Are the film makers trying to say that all atheists hate Christians? Because this is not true. I have met MANY very nice Christian people and they do not judge me by my beliefs. This film has many funny parts but the parts that were highly immoral were very disturbing. I would never recommend anyone to see this film and I feel sorry for all the children that starred in this. I hope they turn out to be decent people in life. Whether they believe in a God or not. This film would've been perfectly fine. Too bad the director didn't have the guts to draw a line. What exactly is the director trying to do? Make the entire world mad at the USA? For all those that are from other countries that may read this, USA was NOTHING like this in the 80's. I speak from experience... Don't let this film brainwash you... "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time.","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was drawn in by the opening credits, which had a great song. That was the highlight of this movie. The entire flick was so disjointed, the slapstick was far from funny, and the humor on the whole was severely lacking. It would be one thing if they tried to parody a few of the old summer camp movies, but this one tries to do every single one at the expense of the plot. Simultaneously.The more serious sub-plots suffer from being placed in-between slap-stick sequences so horrible that they're nearly forgotten. When you're trying to follow eight story lines at once, you're not going to have an easy time. Save yourself the trouble and just change the channel if this comes on. It's not funny, and you won't even find yourself chuckling under your breath. "}{"Title":"Starts off dorky, spins out into completely boring dialogue and unfunny jokes.","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" THere are teeny moments in this movie where you will want to root for this movie but the majority of this is extremely lame and annoying. The dungeonmaster trying to get a date was rather funny. Most of this is the annoying dorky character of Janeane Garofalo- wow- she's playing a dorky woman, that's such a stretch for her- I've never seen her do that bit before. Barf.I think if you get really wasted you can sit through this garbage until a funny scene comes up for 4 seconds 20 minutes later.... that's what you will need pretty much because the laughs in the movie are SCANT, the plot is tiresome and retarded. A few moments are unique with 80s humor- that's pretty cool- but really- the majority of this is SO unwatchable it's insurmountably painful to the gonads in a sharp piercing manner to try and sit through this idiotic attempt at a comedy. I wish the writers were forced to hold their breath underwater in between funny scenes- they all would have died. "},{"Title":"..............overrated,","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was told by numerous friends that this film is worth buying, even if you haven't seen the film, as I was being persuade to do not to long ago. I'm glad I go for my gut feeling 80% of the times I make a decision about a film. The epic is told through a 24 hour period of the last day of an off the wall summer camp ground. There's not really a lead actor, but several smaller characters all having to deal with a certain dilemma on the last day of summer camp. The overly exaggerated characters seem to be trying to poke fun at 80's television after school special and exposing the ridiculous mannerisms that we all endure. The only climatic part of the story was towards the end when a threat to the camp is due to the fact that an enormous satellite is aimed for the camp ground and the indoor kids use their nerdy powers, and the help of Henry (David Hyde Pierce)to prevent in harm to the camp ground. Some of the bits are funny only because they catch you off guard. Other bits go to the extreme and cross the line for the ultimate shock comedy technique. Cheap and childish, per say. It entertained me for the 1 and 37 minutes that I was willing to sacrifice. "},{"Title":"Janeane Garafolo at Her Most Disgusting!","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've never cared much for Janeane Garafolo, her stand-up comedy or her movies. I especially don't understand why she appeared in an interview on CNN as if she had anything to say about politics and the current war in Iraq! So I was a little hesitant to check this video out of the library, and now I'm sorry that I did. After watching it, I've promised myself never to wittingly watch anything starring Janeane Garafolo again!At first glance, this video appeared to be a video for a heterosexual, fun-loving guy like me. It seemed to promise lots of wet, hot, American girls in summer attire, which is something heterosexual guys like me would certainly want to see!Well, to this movie's credit, it did feature beautiful, bikini-clad girls who at least spoke English with an American accent, whether they are actually native to the U.S. or not. (I realize that Canadians and Latin Americans are Americans, too, but any of you who can read English can also understand what I mean!)The first thing I noticed about this movie, which I didn't like, however, was that it seemed too didactic for what I expected to be much more light-hearted fare.Then I noticed gross scenes which were among those in the poorest taste I've ever seen in any movie!For example, one scene featured two men having anal intercourse. Another scene featured Janeane's character sanctifying their union as if in a wedding she had the authority to perform by virtue of being the summer camp director. Yet another scene featured a man humping on a refrigerator - and not in private/secret, but in front of a theater full of children! Two scenes showed the bodies of children being tossed from a vehicle along side a road after they drowned while the lifeguard was making out with a girl in a bikini instead of keeping an eye on them! Another sequence featured Janeane's character mugging someone, then using the money to buy drugs and do them with other people from her camp in what appeared to be a crack house! Molly Shannon's character became romantically involved with a child who massaged her as if almost to orgasm! Not to mention the camp slut making out with yet another little boy for no apparent reason other than that she was a slut and he was available!The lessons to be learned in this movie seem to beIt's OK to be gay.It's OK to share carnal knowledge with children.It's OK to use the most vulgar language and gestures in front of children.It's OK to be perverse, as long as you're proud of it and let everyone you can, including children, know about it.Children's lives are less important than an adult's sexual gratification.The gratification derived from drug abuse surmounts the immorality of robbing someone to get money to pay for it.Women will go for the good looking bad boy who couldn't care less about her no matter how well the unattractive man treats her, or how nice, kind, honest or smart he is.After seeing this movie, I could never recommend anything featuring Janeane Garafolo in good faith! "},{"Title":"The movie was horrible","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Before I completely criticize this movie I want to make it clear that some of the parts were funny.  Some of the parts were clever, but overall, the movie was horrible.  They took a good idea and completely destroyed what could've been a good movie.  I laughed at maybe 1 part, and that was it, and that's why I rated it a 2.  Jason X made me laugh more then that.  Now I was fair, and gave the movie a chance.  I couldn't stand 30 minutes of it.  I watched it anyway in hope that it might get better.  No such luck.  The lines were bad, it was directed poorly, and the acting was pretty dam bad.  "},{"Title":"FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, see this one.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Drop-dead hilarious.  I really liked The State -- granted, it had its ups and downs, but when they were on, they were *on*.  And this movie is funny as all get-go pretty much from beginning to end... The studio did a terrible job marketing it, and I think the title might have been partly to blame for the poor reception this movie got in theaters... but if all goes well, i'm hoping word-of-mouth makes it a cult classic, which it ought to be. Only The State folks would include an alternate audio track on the DVD which includes Extra farts and more!... ah, the joys of well-done low-brow humor.  This is a just-right parody... it pokes fun at the last-day-of-camp genre while showing a genuine fondness for it as well.  Oh, hell, just rent the video.  You'll laugh your butt off. "},{"Title":"What a piece of ...","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" How can this many famous people be in here but it still sucks so bad. Not funny. One of the worst movies I have ever seen and would be a '1' if not for the ridiculous amount of star power. Bradley Cooper, Garofalo, Lo Truglia, Merloni, Paul Rudd, E. Banks, and the list goes on and on. Maybe this was funnier humor in 2001, but in 2011 it is terrible all the way around. Now I know why it is currently playing on Netflix online which happens to be home to great documentaries and indie movies and then a whole library of truly terrible other movies. Throw in one scene in a shed that is just way too graphic and you have a big steaming pile of ... "},{"Title":"Boring !!!","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" IT IS A PIECE OF CRAP! not funny at all. during the whole movie nothing ever happens. i almost fell asleep, which in my case happens only if a movie is rally bad. (that is why it didn't get 1 (awful) out of 10 but 2).don't be fooled, like i was, by first review. a waste of money and your time! spend it on other stuff. at this point i'm finished with my review but i have to fill in at least ten lines of text so i will go on.... (ctrl+c, ctrl+v) ))) IT IS A PIECE OF CRAP! not funny at all. during the whole movie nothing ever happens. i almost fell asleep, which in my case happens only if a movie is rally bad. (that is why it didn't get 1 (awful) out of 10 but 2).don't be fooled, like i was, by first review. a waste of money and your time! spend it on other stuff. IT IS A PIECE OF CRAP! not funny at all. during the whole movie nothing ever happens. i almost fell asleep, which in my case happens only if a movie is rally bad. (that is why it didn't get 1 (awful) out of 10 but 2).don't be fooled, like i was, by first review. a waste of money and your time! spend it on other stuff. "},{"Title":"Dreck","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Summer camp rehash is just plain dreck. I looked the word dreck up in an on-line dictionary and it played the trailer for Wet Hot American Summer. Cheap, stupid, vulgar, un-involving, to say it is a lousy rip-off of Meatballs would just be too damn unfair to Meatballs. Follow me on this for a second - even if you're doing a supposed satire on a movie genre, you still have to be funny in your own right. And just because nobody's ever done something as dumb or disgusting as you doesn't necessarily mean it's humor when you go ahead and do it. Anyone who actually liked this movie must have been born on a different planet than me. "},{"Title":"What the hell?","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I know people liked this movie, but I can't understand why.  The story was drab and the acting (with the exception of David Hyde Pierce) was horrible. The jokes fell flat.  I know there is going to be people who will rip on this opinion because they don't believe that anyone should be allowed to disagree with them. "},{"Title":"Shocked to find people think this is funny!","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe people think this movie is funny. What a piece of crap. Such a shame too, because some talented actors are wasted in it. David Hyde Pierce and Janeane Garofalo are funny, this movie is not. It is so unfunny it is actually quite difficult to watch. I finished the movie, because I like to be fair when rating them, but it was difficult. This thing just outright stank. If you're wondering if you might like it, I think the comment by another viewer who talked about the DVD having an optional fart track pretty much sums it up. If you think that is funny or a good idea, maybe this movie is for you. I have no idea what the makers of this movie were thinking. I can't believe when filming some of these scenes they actually thought there was something funny. This is one of the worst movies I've seen in a long time, and I just finished watching a bunch of other crap.  "}{"Title":"overrated","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I could not believe my eye that anybody would gave this movie 10/10. come on this movie have nothing the joke is not  funny at all.This movie apart from using famous actors and actress is not worth watching at all. I would rate this movie maximum 2/10. "},{"Title":"REPULSIVE!!","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was not funny in any form or fashion. All the actors who participated in this farce of a film should be but on acting suspension for stooping so low. The story was rubbish, the acting was terrible, and the sensationalization of homosexually was downright immoral. "},{"Title":"Give it a chance, it'll grow","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While I haven't looked over many of the comments here, I've noticed that the rating for this film seems fairly low.  I would expect a 7 to 8 rating. The first time I saw this, I really didn't know what to think.  I understood that there were jokes, but I just didn't seem to think it was all that funny.  Certain sequences worked well, but overall, there seemed to be something wrong. There really isn't.  The movie is absolutely great, but it requires about two or three watches before getting into it.  Once it reaches that point, this is about as good as camp movies get (my personal exception being Poison Ivy).  The humor in this movie is unusual.  It's both subtle and overstated, and as a result, it alienates a lot of people until they get used to placing jokes in their proper place. If you watch it a few more times - preferably with some friends, when you're all in a good mood - then you'll probably grow quite a bit more fond of the film. "},{"Title":"This is one of the worst movies ever, stopped the movie 1/2 way","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies ever, stopped the movie 1/2 way. Would not recommend anyone renting this movie let alone buying it.  I think the director was trying to go along the lines of dazed and confused mixed with porky's, but failed miserably. "},{"Title":"Silly yet amusing.","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you've got the right sense of humor and of the absurd, then this movie will be right up your alley. If you don't, you will utterly despise this film. Wet Hot American Summer is a spoof of 80's camping films, and even a spoof of spoofs...if that's possible. Filled with ridiculous situations and off-the-wall absurdity, one never knows which direction the film will take itself next. Far from serious or even sane, those who don't like stupid movies will probably not find anything special here. However, if you do, then you'll find this ridiculously hilarious.This had to have been a joy to make. Talking soup cans, fridge-humping chefs, hardcore drug binges, and interesting student/teacher relationships give it more than enough material to crack a few smiles from the makers during filming. It's so random and aware of it's jokes and what it is that it's hard for me not to like. It never takes itself seriously and the viewer shouldn't either. It's a perfectly absurd party movie....and shouldn't be taken as anything else. If you do, then that's your problem and fault for not being able to enjoy this film. That's a sad thing too, because it's definitely one of the most ridiculous movies I have ever seen, which is a good thing.If you like silly films, then you'll love this. I thought it was absolutely hilarious. Excellent comedy. "},{"Title":"Freddy Got Fingered - With Missing Bits Of The Plot...","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This.... is by far the WORST film I've seen since Ghosts Of Mars.It's not Funny... The Acting is FAR from the worst standards.. BUT!!............ It's long! -/When I saw this film.. I kept thinking.. I have to warn other people of this film..-Rating 0.5/10Yes... It's that bad-Enyeez  "},{"Title":"God Damn!  I love this movie!!!","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Within a week after my first viewing of WET HOT AMERICAN SUMMER, I've seen it at least five more times... and, it hasn't left my DVD player since.If you've ever seen the MTV series The State, then you know just how brilliant David Wain and Michael Showalter are.  As for the rest of the cast, well, I was extremely pleased to see Ken Marino, Joe Lo Truglio and Michael Ian Black (all from The State, as well), adding to the fun.Yes, you've got your headliners, Janeane Garofalo, David Hyde Pierce and Molly Shannon, who all do a fantastic job, but the real stars are the supporting cast, Paul Rudd (who I just have to mention, starred in the underrated gem, OVERNIGHT DELIVERY), Marguerite Moreau, Zak Orth, A.D. Miles, Amy Poehler, Bradley Cooper, Marisa Ryan and Elizabeth Banks are also terrific.  And, let's not forget the great Christopher Meloni.  He's definitely a new fave of mine.  Good, good stuff.  I can't praise it enough.All I can say is this, most folks won't dig it, that's because they are idiots and have no true appreciation for comedy.  As for all of us, we get the joke... and, that's a special, warm, gooey feeling between the toes... a feeling no one else can take away from us.Well, now it's time for me to go. I've got to spread some mud on my ass.Seriously, kids... It's time for a sequel. "},{"Title":"The Cult Classic","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wet Hot American Summer may well be the greatest comedy cult classic ever made and upon viewing, I can see why. This film is hilarious, though obviously people will have mixed feelings about it. The comedy is great if you get it, bland if you don't. Sometimes it's slow and boring, but most of the time fun and entertaining. Great fun for most people. Probably the most weirdly paced film I have ever seen. In fact it may be the strangest way to make comedy, but hell is it effective. Wet Hot American Summer proves that it can stand up against the greats of all time, and with its prequel TV show out, hopefully the following can grow in magnitude and make a staple for the form of comedy. "},{"Title":"Wet and Hot!","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wet Hot American Summer is known as today to be a cult classic, and I can agree with that statement, because the film has the characteristics as a cult classic. It's a little-known film at the time of its release, and it stars a pretty big cast. I was surprised this film was made in 2001, because this has a definite 80's feeling. The film mostly works thanks to the factor of nostalgia and a great cast. The film is not perfect though. It tries to hard and as a result, we get some jokes that are pretty bad. Luckily, the satire was good enough to erase the memories of those jokes.David Wain's film takes place on the last day of summer camp in 1981 at Camp Firewood. There is unfinished business to be done, mostly in the form of finding love before the big talent show that evening.Speaking of big cast, this film has a good one. They all do a respectable job, and I think this movie brought them all on the map. I don't particularly have any favorites, but I liked Janeane Garofalo as the camp's boss, Paul Rudd as Andy, Bradley Cooper as Ben, and Amy Poehler as Susie.Overall, Wet Hot American Summer is a decent, nostalgia-filled film. It's not great and I feel the status of cult classic is questionable, but there is no denying that it can be an amusing film. The satire is spot-on, but some of the jokes fall up lame. The film is well-acted, which is great on a script that was mostly improvised. A good film, but hardly a classic.My Grade C+/B- "},{"Title":"Classic Summer Camp Comedy","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wet Hot American Summer is a classic summer camp movie with some really funny comedy that anybody who has ever in their life gone to a summer camp will really enjoy. I thought the cast was made up of some really funny characters. I have always been a big fan of Janeane Garofalo (hope I spelled that right) and she is really funny in this, I think everything she says is funny-- it's just the way that she says things! The guy who played Niles is also in this and he is good in his role too. I wouldn't say it's a great movie but it is a really fun way to have a laugh with some friends and watch some summer camp madness that might remind you of past days. "}{"Title":"What you might expect","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Storyline is pretty lame of course, there's not a very good photography nor artistic breakthroughs throughout the film. Anyway, there's some pretty good acting, a little bit over the top of course but very well suited for the tone of it all. At first it's a little bit slow but it starts to catch up pretty soon. If you're into artistic, intellectual or beautiful movies, this is not one of them. This movie has some funny really?! moments, and I tell ya' it's pretty hard to make me laugh. It's like a nasty vulgar kinda humor but if you're into just laying back and have a laugh, this might be the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Sketch Comics Unleashed, For Better or For Worse","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This may have been the single dumbest movie I've seen since the Zuckers were in their prime, but it kept me laughing even as I told myself the jokes were too stupid to be enjoying so much. Featuring a crazy cast of alumnus from no less than four different sketch comedy shows (including about 75% of MTV's aging cult classic The State), it's overloaded with sight gags, rudimentary puns nestled behind every corner. Over two dozen primary characters compete for the chance to shout out the next punchline, none of which have the depth of a kiddie pool, while the story is merrily thrown into the brush and abandoned at several points. It's the kind of film you'd have made with the crazy guys who lived down the hallway in college if you'd had the time or the money. "},{"Title":"Scattershot but enjoyable","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wet Hot American Summer is a comedy about summer camp, a spoof of movies about summer camp, a grab bag of random absurdity and a collection filmmakers and actors hamming it up as hard as they can. There are moments of laugh-out-loud hilarity, but just as many moments where you're left staring at the screen wondering How was that supposed to be funny?'It's the last day at Camp Firewood in the summer of 1981 and pretty much every stock summer camp storyline is trotted out for derision and mockery in this film. There's the love triangle between the geek camp counselor, the hot girl who treats him like her pet and the teen rebel she's really hot for. There's the desperate virgin counselor trying to make it with the camp slut. There's the lonely, divorced arts-and-crafts teacher, the weird camp cook, the kids stuck on a raft approaching the raging rapids, the big talent show, the big game against the kids from the evil camp and the outcast kids who come together to save the day. There's also a talking can of vegetables that boasts of his sexual prowess, a gay subplot that seems to have wandered in from another movie, the old space station Skylab, the worst motorcycle chase in film history, some generic 80s allusions and the charm of a bunch of people who clearly had a great time making this thing.Filmmakers David Wain and Michael Showalter take a scattershot approach in Wet Hot American Summer, throwing jokes against the wall to see if they stick. On one hand, they'll do a running gag about the kid at camp who never takes a shower all summer, which could come from any number of traditional comedies about this subject. On the other hand, they'll do a lot of parodies of summer camp movies, like having a kid actually drown while two 30something teenage counselors french kiss with abandon. On the gripping hand, they'll just just chuck something odd on screen like a visual gag about Kenyan marathoners. Some of it works, some of it doesn't, but the movie moves along quickly enough that when a joke bombs, the smell doesn't linger.As far as the acting goes, well, Marguerite Moreau as the camp hottie is the only one in the whole cast doing any real acting. Everyone else, including David Hyde Pierce as a college professor and Janeane Garofolo as the camp director, are just mugging for the camera. Again, that results in some moments that are funny as hell, like Paul Rudd's portrayal of slothful adolescent defiance. But there are also moments that not just fall flat but fail to make any sense, like Garafolo riffing on Jewish surnames.Wet Hot American Summer is a bit like an entire episode of Saturday Night Live if every sketch were about summer camp. I don't mean a best of compilation. I mean a normal SNL episode where some of the sketches are good, some aren't and some leave you wondering what their point was.I must point out the DVD has a commentary track featuring Garafolo, Wain and Showalter that is much more consistently funny than the film itself. If you find the movie at all amusing, you'll love the commentary, and watching both makes Wet Hot American Summer worth renting. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, sometimes self-conscious parody of summer camp films","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You either love or find this film goofy. I don't think there's room for too many other opinions. Some people, like many fans of Monty Python, swear by this film, while others, also like many people regarding Monty Python, just regard it as bizarre.Personally I found it very entertaining. There are lots of fantastic comic performances here, from Janeane Garofalo to Molly Shannon, from Paul Rudd to David Hyde Pierce, and from Christopher Meloni as you've never seen him, to Michael Showalter. Garofalo, for my money, deserves the greatest props. Her depiction of geeky camp director Beth is excellent and captures the disinterestedness, passion, yearning, and tenderness which her character, who falls for a nerdy and slightly maladjusted astro-physicist named Henry Newman, played with such comic agility by David Hyde Pierce, suggests. Christopher Meloni as a Vietnam vet named Gene serving as camp cook steals every scene with his fixation on his wartime experiences. Michael Showalter is great as a nice, nerdy boy who doesn't appreciate just how much his niceness is limiting him from attracting girls. His scenes with Meloni are hilarious. Paul Rudd is great as Andy, a good looking, shallow guy who is focused on one thing and one thing only and is a complete azz. Kate (Marguerite Moreau) is his female counterpart, a sixteen-year-old girl who knows that she's being shallow but really doesn't care and just wants to get laid. Molly Shannon is quite funny as a woman who has recently broken up with her ex and is trying to resist the urge to abase herself and crawl back to him. She is helped hilariously by some of her camping wards.There are lots of funny scenes here. If you enjoyed The State-well, you've probably seen it because this film came out nine years ago and The State was on TV around that time-but if you somehow missed it in '01, you'd probably enjoy it. The humor is somewhat nerdy-this is humor for nerds who like humor-and I say that with no shame, but it is what it is. The film takes on stereotypes from '80s camping films (the ditzy easy girl, the buff brain-dead boy, the nerdy camp director, all the now goofy-looking fashion, the casual drug use, and the campers' ability to solve pressing problems with great ease) and wildly mocks them. Most I found quite funny, as a humor nerd myself, although a couple (the drug use parody just didn't strike me as funny and Gene's attempt to face who he was also didn't particularly tickle me) I thought came up short.That said, this is an awful lot of fun. The ensemble cast is very talented, it's obvious that the cast is not in this film for the paycheck, and they have a lot of fun mocking the old summer camp chestnuts. "},{"Title":"A No-Holds-Barred Cult Classic.","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A gay marriage in the woods, the confessions of canned vegetables, a drug-induced day-trip to a local town, multiple children drowning and a talent show are just some of the events that make up the day-in-the-life of 2001's Wet Hot American Summer. Written and directed by alumni of MTV's mid-90's sketch comedy show The State, the film is host to one of the best ensemble casts a comedy has seen in at least a decade and an off-beat sense of humor that has solidified its status as a cult classic.The film takes place at a fictional summer camp in Maine in 1981. It's the last day of camp, and everyone is scrambling to find love and lust. Throughout the film, we follow an array of wacky and zany characters, brought to life by such talent as David Hyde Pierce, Christopher Meloni, Janeane Garofalo, Bradley Cooper, Molly Shannon, Paul Rudd, Elizabeth Banks, Michael Ian Black and Marguerite Moreau. Meloni plays against his Law & Order type and gets some of the biggest laughs of the show, but Rudd isn't far behind with his apathetic and child-like performance. The writing is as off-the-wall as expected, with the plot taking left-turns at unexpected points, giving way to gigantic laughs from bizarre situations and ridiculous sight-gags.The film wasn't very successful upon its release, and most critics hated it, but over time, it has earned its spot as one of best comedies of the decade and is a testament to the power of comedy when it is without restraint or reservation. In short, it's a coming of age movie that can double as a stoner flick. Watch it without any pretensions and just enjoy the wild day that you'll want to re-live again and again. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I always check spoiler, just in case I slip up on the info.This movie KILLS!!!! I went to camp for 9 yrs. as a kid....and then....yes, I was on staff. Not just a counselor...but staff member. Oh, and I was a camper in the 70's and on staff in the mid 80's. While we didn't have men or boys at camp, we did have weird, freaky, and hilarious times at camp. I loved this movie...although parts weren't as good as others. I have either worked, dated, hired, fired or known people like most of the characters in this movie, as most of have.Paul Rudd's character, IS FANTASTIC. When he throws his plate off the table after he finishes eating and J.G. tells him to clean it up and go to the meeting. How he acts is hilarious!!!!!!!!!!! Some of his scenes in this movie and his dance scene from I Could Never Be Your Woman are tops.Oh, and the soundtrack????? Fantastic!!!!!! KISS, Journey, Loverboy....great soundtrack. hahah Hope you enjoy this movie as much as I did. And, those old summer romances, camp times, tan and silly days. "},{"Title":"Strange but fun comedy","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This takes place on the last day of a summer camp in August 1981. Camp leader Beth (Janeane Garofalo) has fallen for a man living next door (David Hyde Pierce) but doesn't know how to approach him. Coop (Michael Showalter) is a shy camp counselor in love with beautiful Katie (Marguerite Moreau)--but she's dating sex-obsessed jerk Andy (Paul Rudd). There are other subplots involving Christopher Meloni (almost unrecognizable), Molly Shannon and Amy Poehler.DEFINITE SPOILERS! This could have been another T&A comedy--but it isn't. In fact there's only flashes of nudity and the one hot sex scene is between two guys--McKinley (Michael Ian Black) and Ben (an unknown Bradley Cooper). In a refreshing twist the scene is very erotic and they're not made the butts of a joke. Heck, they get married later on!Sex aside, the humor in this is almost surreal. There's lots of visual gags coming fast and furious. They come out of nowhere--but they're often so funny you don't care. You see characters drugged out in one scene--in the very next they're fine. Also characters manage to show up at two different places at the same time! It's off putting at first but you get used to it. Some gags fall flat but when they hit they're hysterical. The cast is on full tilt and the movie rarely stops to take a break. This is a very strange movie but uproarious when it works. Recommended.Best line I hope it's not jumbo shrimp because I'm allergic to oxymorons. "},{"Title":"Very Strange Parody","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is a bad parody of bad camp movies. It is surprising the number of A List actors and how horrible their performance is. There are moments of great comedy mixed in but all in all it is like watching one bad joke stretched out over 90 mins.There is a bit of 80's nostalgia that helps out. Blinking light visors, dungeons and dragons, and polos over izods among others. And I do have to admit that it makes me think back on my days of watching camp movies and if you liked Meatballs 2 you probably won't mind the bad humor.Anyway, if you don't mind poor acting and tired jokes, and you don't take it too seriously you could have a good time. "},{"Title":"Gut-busting Oddball Parody Comedy","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I decided to rent Wet Hot American Summer after reading a short diatribe on Collider stating that if you've been wondering just what David Wain's been doing since he wrote and directed the funniest movie of 2001, Wet Hot American Summer, then you're a real a**hole. 'Damn, I better rent me this movie' I thought. I mean, look at the poster for it. It screams National Lampoon yet it stars David Hyde Pierce. I thought it seemed out of place yet he did play Emperor Zombie in the funniest cartoon I've seen in a long time, The Amazing Screw-On Head.So what's it all about? Well, as you can tell from the poster, it's a comedy set in a summer camp. Actors too old to play late teens compete with each other to get laid, barely look after the kids they're responsible for and the camp director tries to hold everything together whilst romantically involving herself with a local astro-physics professor.Thus the stage is set for for an oddball parody comedy that is half styled towards obvious gross-out and half subtly placed laughs. Janeane Garafalo's comic timing is cause for convulsive laughter and there is a hilarious continuous scene in an arts and crafts hall where the children console and build up the character of a crushed divorcée. Everywhere else is chaos with camp leaders having their own dilemma with each other and getting into and out of trouble as the last day of camp forces them into action.I can see why some people wouldn't get this kind of humour which is a shame and while some of the humour is hit-and-miss the laughs have a great batting average and when something is funny it's always gut-busting laughter that is forced out of your lungs.I would certainly recommend this for a group watch with some friends to perk up the evening. "},{"Title":"Insanely stupid fun!","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's a train wreck-- You can't take your eyes off it! The jokes, characters, plot holes, acting are all ridiculous. But as a whole, it achieves its purpose-- low-budget satire. Ultimately the payoff is there. A happy ending, just desserts, nostalgic fun. So what if some of the set pieces are painfully stupid? They are supposed to be! Just relax and laugh at the craziness of it all, and see if you don't see some of your own camp memories in here! There are many fave actors in here. Janeane Garofolo (playing a straight gal), David Hyde-Pierce (playing a straight guy, lol), Paul Rudd, Christopher Meloni (you'll never look at Law & Order the same), Michael Ian Black, Amy Poehler, and Molly Shannon. Oh, yeah, and someone I always have the hots for, Elizabeth Banks (I'm crazy about you, Elizabeth, lol). "}{"Title":"May go over your head the first time... so see it again!","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I remember laughing at movie spoofs such as Scary Movie and Not Another Teen Movie the first time I watched them, but lately repeat viewings have annoyed me more and more. I can see the jokes coming a mile away and, in all honesty, could see them coming the first time I saw them and laughed confidently, proud of myself for predicting the direction of the humor. These days, I don't feel so special for predicting the obvious. The makers of Wet Hot American Summer probably felt the same way and crafted a brilliant movie (with an obviously limited budget) as a result. This movie takes you on a roller coaster ride, most often going the complete opposite direction of your expectations. With each setup, you never know if the punchline you are about to see is a play on cliché 80s teen comedy characters, an example of perfectly executed (read smart) bathroom humor, an excuse to make a can talk, or what. Like many movies in the age of DVD I consider to be underrated and brilliant films (Fight Club, The Big Lebowski, Shaolin Soccer, etc.), Wet Hot American Summer may require repeat viewings to catch much of the subtly crafted spoof humor. Especially careful eyes should watch the performances of Garafolo, Hyde Pierce, and Showalter; every inch of every move and delivered line they make is knitted in golden self-aware comedy fabric. With two of the cast members (one of them a co-writer) and the director (the other co-writer) of this film appearing in their own Comedy Central show Stella soon, there's no better time to watch Wet Hot American Summer than the summer of '05. Also watch Paul Rudd perform smart stupid comedy three years (!) before he was Brian Fantana. This movie is like a hip inside joke you just gotta be in on. "},{"Title":"Weird, funny - obscenely and side-splittingly so.","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Satire of most forms is totally absent from this comedy.  Usually this totally dooms its chances of apealing to my pretentious, monty python loving side, but this movie ran the perfect fine line between irreverence and stupidity.  It ran the tight rope all the way across to the finish and i was laughing almost entirely throughout.  The absurdity of its gags was presented in such a way that it just breeds laughter like rabbits.  Maybe it's just me, but when a can encourages a man to be unashamed of his sexuality by admitting that it can suck its own dick and likes to do it... a lot... I cannot contain my laughter in the least.  I encourage anyone to see this movie.  Either it will disgust you and make you feel more justified and comfortable in your judgmental arrogance, or it will be good for one of the better, more relaxing laughs you've had in recent memory. "},{"Title":"Right on the money.","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a classic satire that receives my highest marks. It is an incredibly intelligent film and a powerful parody. Well worth seeing. Anyone who enjoys the ridicule of 80's camp movies, and any 80's movie for that matter, will enjoy this film. Absolutely hysterical.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious subversive comedy spoof","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wet Hot American Summer is one of those films that the distributor obviously didn't know what to do with, so it was dumped in theaters without fanfare, performed trifling business and then just as quickly ended up on home video.  Therefore, I never even gave a thought to renting it, since the cast is made up of a group of talented, yet secondary comedy actors who, with the exception of Janeane Garofalo and David Hyde Pierce, have never even registered a blip on my comedy radar.  Then, during a bout of insomnia, I turned on pay cable and caught the last half and found myself laughing hysterically throughout, enough so that I bought it the next day and watched it all the way through and laughed more than I have ever laughed while watching a comedy feature, with the possible exception of Blazing Saddles.A rather subversive spoof of 1970's camp comedies like Meatballs and Little Darlings, as well as early '80's gross-out farces like Gorp and H.O.T.S, Wet Hot American Summer notches up the sexual innuendo, spits good taste into the wind, worries about offending nobody and ends up absolutely hilarious, and ten times better than any of the movies it is sending up.  It is the last day of summer camp at Camp Firewood, circa 1981. In the first scene, we pan a row of bunks in which couples are paired up, dry humping each other under the covers.  Counselors, you suppose?  Try pre-teen campers, at least that's what we find out when one boy throws off the covers and yells, We got to get back to our cabins!  As dozens of young boys run back to their cabins, the camp director (Garofalo) watches from the porch of her cabin and says rather unenthusiastically, You're not supposed to be out of your bunks, but she might as well be chastising them for not eating all of their vegetables.  The humor is all uphill (or downhill, whichever you prefer) from there as we meet the rest of the campers and counselors, all of whom are so oversexed that you wonder if they have anything else whatsoever on their minds.  And that's to say nothing of Garofalo, who when she isn't ignoring campers she's putting the moves on the scientist next door (David Hyde Pierce) or officiating at gay weddings.My favorite bits?  How about the insane camp cook, a Vietnam War veteran who is so nuts he is given to making love to a refrigerator in front of the entire camp?  (Don't ask.)  Or the incredibly oversexed counselor who reveals himself to be a virgin to an incredulous friend, then proceeds to wreck the camp van (He crashes into a tree for no reason whatsoever.) while racing back to camp to jump a female counselor's bones.  And how about the incredibly oversexed (get the trend?) lifeguard (Paul Rudd) who is so busy making out with a nymphet counselor that he ignores a drowning boy's cries for help until it's too late?  (Don't even get me started about what he does with the body.)  Or a ridiculous motorcycle chase where the driver is too stupid to know to drive around a bale of hay laying in the middle of the road?  Or the two incredibly oversexed counselor nerds who are so intent on getting their supposedly virginal friend laid that they don't even catch his oh-so-obvious homoerotic signals?  And then there's a hilarious scene with SNL's Molly Shannon as a severely depressed counselor whose husband has dumped her.  What's a girl to do?  She finds solace and romance in the arms of a wise-beyond-his-years 12-year-old, of course.  (Shannon to Garofalo Be sure and come to our wedding next week! to which Garofalo conveys her delight.)  Like I said, good taste is not a priority here.  But my absolute favorite bit has to be the counselors' trip to town, which goes so out of hand Garofalo literally mugs a little old lady for drug money.I could go on-and-on but won't.  Let's just say Garofalo and Pierce are as funny as always, the supporting cast (including co-writer Michael Showalter as the requisite nerdy virgin counselor in love with the unattainable camp babe) is terrific, the direction by David Wain inspired though visually ragged at times (but then so were it's predecessors) and the script by Wain and Showalter shameful, irresponsible, politically incorrect, disgusting and absolutely hilarious from start to finish.  Too bad Meatballs and the rest of its ilk were not even remotely as successful as Wet Hot American Summer.As a bonus, the DVD has a terrific deleted scenes section with director/cowriter commentary in which Wain and Showalter actually explain why certain scenes were left out (besides the obvious NC-17 rating it would have garnered were they included) and an alternative soundtrack (which I have yet to sample) that promises extra farts and more!  Wet Hot American Summer is a deserved candidate for future cult film status.  ***1/2 (out of *****) "},{"Title":"DUDE THIS MOVIE RULES WHY DOES EVERYONE HERE HATE IT YOU LOSERS","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  UM why does everyone hate this movie it is amazing funny i can't believe you people did you actually watch WHAS or Scary Movie 2? because you don't get the joke and question who the hell didn't go to summer camp? everything about this film ya not a movie a film is great give it chance you will be better for it TRUST ME  "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie ranks up there with Airplane as one of the best comic gems of our time!!  David Wain and Michael Showalter do a fantastic job spoofing the summer camp genre without falling into the usual tired cliches.  This movie takes a joke farther than you'd ever expect it to go, and will leave you laughing long after the movie is over. "},{"Title":"to George Parker et al, this movie is pretty darn funny...","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  like I said, this movie is quite funny...if you aren't a cinematic snob and can laugh at silly humour, rent it and don't look back, goofball humour at its finest.  the can nodding his 'you're welcome' to gene or the chez lounge for ben and mckinley are the best parts... "},{"Title":"The State?","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you remember The State from MTV several years back, and you thought it was funny, you will love this movie.  Many of the actors are the same, and Paul Rudd is simply hilarious.  Those that can appreciate good senseless fun will enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"go to summer camp","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  if you have ever been to summer camp you will understand how ridiculously funny this movie actually is.  If you have never been to summer camp either as a counselor or camper... well you are missing out on life and you should rectify this so you can finally understand this movie.  Hilarious but not for the old or serious among us. Camp humor, literally "},{"Title":"Good movie-- however, appeals to a certain audience","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great!  I have never watched a movie so many times, nor have I laughed any harder.  Wain and Showalter the writers have a very unique sense of satirical humor.  However, if you are offended easily or did not like MTV's The State, you might not enjoy this movie as much.  For everyone else, I highly recommend watching it. "}{"Title":"The State strikes back!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow, if I had known this was a movie featuring the core cast of MTV's The State I would have watched it a lot sooner. This movie is hilarious, but you need to invest some time in it. It starts off a little slow, but gets progressively more bizarre and funny as it goes. It seems to be a parody of early 80's summer camp movies, which I'm sure is what the movie studio wanted. As the film progresses, however, it throws more curveballs and twisted lines than you can handle! Janeane Garafalo and David Hyde Pierce play the straights of the movie, with Mike Showalter (I'm outta' heeeeeere), Michael Ian Black (Johnny Blue Jeans), Ken Marino (I'm gonna' dip my balls in it) and Joe LoTruglio whipping out the great State humor. It's directed by State founder David Wain. Even Kerri Kenney (the former Mrs. Laupin) makes a cameo in the deleted scenes. The rest of the cast also helps to build this film to a comic frenzy, especially Chris Meloni's with his portrayal of crazed Viet Nam vet/camp cook Gene. If you do rent this, just give it a fair chance, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"head ache film","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just rented WHAS, and all I can say is WHY?  I am a local comic, and a huge fan of both Garafalo, and Peirce, and am quite sad that they agreed to do this film.  I hope the pay check was the reason, and not the script.  I have read all of the reviews of this film, and I don't believe that I didn't get it or don't have a sense of humor it is just very, very, very childish humor.  I believe that there is something to be said for stupid humor, but this movie even strikes that argument out.  It was so painful to watch this film, and besides the two main actors playing roles that they both are far too talented to play, it is disappointing because there are so many hard working , creative, and starving indie film makers out there, who deserve to make their film, and have this kind of budget to do so, but don't have the chance. This film not only failed to make me laugh at ALL, but it actually frightened me. I am actually scared that even independent films are turning trite, and unappealing, but hopefully, it is just a fluke deal.  And as for Janeane and David, I will continue to support them in all their future endevours, (hopefully, this will be the only one I ever question.) "},{"Title":"Some Just Don't It (but all the characters do - hey, it's an 80's teen movie)","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was aware of this movie, but passed up on it since it looked dreadful. But a friend, (Hi, Andy Cliver) recommended it and his judgement on movies is A+ so I checked it out. It's great fun.Jeez Louise, some the comments posted here about this movie amaze me. These folks fully failed to grasp the blatantly obvious clues that it's all meant to be silly. The movie is not mean to make much sense, and that's all part of the fun. When David Hyde Peirce's character hands off the trophy to someone seen off-screen, that was meant to be funny. Obviously a science prize wouldn't be a giant softball-like trophy and he wouldn't receive it overnight. Vince not getting wet is all part of the joke. The raft wasn't even moving. Vince saving the kid is defintely one of the funniest bits of the movie.Anyway everything takes place in one day and time is fully elastic. Much of it is ad-libbed and all of it is just silly. But it's great fun. The scene where they go to town is priceless. There are a lot of bits that twist in ways you don't see coming, but I won't spoil any of that.It's not the Sixth Sense, but it's not trying to be. It does succeed at being extremely funny and a worthwhile 90 minutes.   "},{"Title":"Entertaining. Silly. Revolutionary. Ridiculous. Risqué. Thought-provoking (well, sort of). And most of all fun.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My initial tendency upon seeing a good film is to emulate its tone. Walking home with a friend after watching Wet Hot American Summer on Sunday evening, I found myself being a silly, loud, obnoxious prankster making a ruckus on the streets of my city. Looking back, I must have seemed a fool; for those of you living in actual cities like Boston, Chicago, New York, and even Los Angeles, acting like a nut on the streets probably means little. However, in the small New England city of Providence, even if it is an artsy college town (for those of you out of the loop, yes it has become that within the last few years, contrary to its former days of a dying industrial mill city), it may have been a little unnecessary. My shouts and laughs echoed off the small buildings and bounced through the dark, empty streets.But what can I say. I was inspired. I was amused. I was touched. And most of all, I was high.No, no - I wasn't, really. But instead of being like an old-school Quentin Tarantino film, I am going to start at the beginning. A friend of mine and I wanted to go see a movie. We looked online at the listings of some local indie houses, and I nearly croaked when I saw that Wet Hot American Summer - which I had been following since pre-production - was playing at the Avon Repertory Cinema on the East Side. Good lord! I cried. Am I really seeing this? Is that listing an illusion?In fact, my dear, it was not. It was playing. When? In a half an hour, of course!Could we make it? With no car and a wretched public transportation system?On a bike, we sure could!So we shot over there, making it just in time&#133; in record time, I do believe.We then proceeded to watch the previews (I gushed over the one for Brazil they play random classic trailers when they run out of new ones), and continued on to the film, Wet Hot American Summer.Wet Hot American Summer is your classic story of the last day of summer camp in Maine in the third week of August in 1981. The main theme is what of course is on everyone's mind during such a time (or any other time for that matter) love (or any variation thereof - specifically sex).You have your camp director (Janeane Garofalo) with her crush on the local, non-camp-affiliated astrophysics professor (David Hyde Pierce); you have your resident dork (Michael Showalter, also co-filmmaker) who's been in love with the camp beauty queen (Marguerite Moreau) for about six years; you have your wannabe stud (Ken Marino) trying desperately to score with the camp slut (Marisa Ryan); you have your gay couple, one of whom's (Michael Ian Black) friends keep trying to get him laid; you have your neurotic arts-and-crafts instructor (Molly Shannon), just getting used to having an ex-husband (and not dealing too well with it).You also have your non-love scenarios the delusional (or is he?) ex-Vietnam vet turned chef (Christopher Meloni), the anally retentive talent show director (Amy Poehler), and the science nerds trying to save the world (or at least the camp) are just a few highlights. In toto, all these subplots made this film absolutely confusing and marvelously entertaining.Filmed at a real-life camp, this movie whisks you away through a time machine back to the happier (or at least more trivial) times of childhood and those marvelous eight weeks of no school and no parents. It's all there late night camp-fires, making out in the woods, bunk-raiding, cat fights, plenty of gum, mess hall, unenthusiastic sports playing, unsupervised boating, rafting down waterfalls, swimming (and drowning), and so much more.Now I am quite biased, because I always appreciated a movie that makes me go What the f**k every three seconds, but I thought that Wet Hot American Summer was phenomenal. The direction of the filmmakers, Showalter and David Wain, was clever and surprisingly original. The acting was amazing and believable on all accounts, and jokes were pulled off superbly - from one-liners to drawn out gags and parodies - from both seasoned comedians as well as newcomers.But the cast. C'mon now. Toss together members of The State and Upright Citizens Brigade together, add Garofalo and Pierce. Stir. It may sound scary (and a bit unappetizing), but it was absolutely brilliant casting. I always particularly notice how well certain members of any cast play off one another, and in this film there were many great moments. Two in particular are how Garofalo plays well individually with both Pierce and UCB's Poehler (the latter of whom and she do great improv together, let me tell ya). In the larger picture, all cast members complimented each other nearly perfectly, giving off a wonderfully neurotic and completely unbelievable take on the film's subject matter (unbelievable being, of course, a compliment).Although the film wasn't perfect - my friend commented on how there were a lot of cheap laughs, and not many that built up to anything withstandingly funny, and I did agree with her - overall it was a great couple of hours of entertainment. Perhaps, though, for only certain senses of humor - as much as I enjoyed it, I am certainly not a mainstream comedy appreciator. I think it's worth a viewing, at least, for anyone, because it's revolutionary in some respects - it goes places comedically I've never seen in a feature film before (only in small Manhattan theatres, actually).And so there you have it. My review of Showalter's and Wain's Wet Hot American Summer. Entertaining. Silly. Revolutionary. Ridiculous. Risqué. Thought-provoking (well, sort of). And most of all fun. "},{"Title":"Hot Fun In The Summer!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Finally, a comedy  that's original and funny.  I haven't seen a moviethis good in a long time.  Why wasn't it released nationally across theU.S.?  That's the studios poor decision.  Christopher Meloni as thecrazed Vietnam Vet cook is not to be missed.  Great one liners that arevery quotable.  If you have the means of renting a copy I highlyrecommend it. 9 stars out  "},{"Title":"Just more proof that MTV was stupid for ending The State.","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is hillarious and any fan of The State will love it.  Most of the cast is there, and the non-castmembers like David Hyde Pierce and Janeane offer up top notch performances.  Even Molly Shannon was pretty funny in this and I can't stand her or anything else she has ever done.  It just angers me that a great comedy like this didn't get any attention or nation wide releases, but any stupid teen comedy featuring an American Pie cast member and a nifty pop punk filled soundtrack can get into every theater in America. "},{"Title":"If You're Looking for a Comedy, Look Elsewhere","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Call me old fashioned, but if you are going to spoof a movie, or a hundred, you'd best be sure your audience gets it.That is your job as a writer.There are some funny bits, and a couple of funny lines. But WAY too much of the movie is like an inside joke that only the writers and the cast know. And that does not work for the audience.If you are going to spoof The Godfather, your audience will get it. If you spoof an entire genre, like Horror Movies Where The Slasher Is In The Next Room, the audience gets it. But spoofing movies that no one has seen? That's a recipe for disaster.Which must be why this movie just leaves a bad taste in my mouth. "},{"Title":"Beyond stupid","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If this was even on the level of being corny, it would be OK. but this is a total waste of time for the actors in it, and a larger waste of time to watch. Its truly garbage, i don't know where or what else to say, but don't waste your time. Just total utter nonsense of a cinema, it wasn't funny, it was sad, I actually cried after wasting my time viewing it. So I repeat. If this was even on the level of being corny, it would be OK. but this is a total waste of time for the actors in it, and a larger waste of time to watch. Its truly garbage, i don't know where or what else to say, but don't waste your time. Just total utter nonsense of a cinema, it wasn't funny, it was sad, I actually cried after wasting my time viewing it. "},{"Title":"Almost Unwatchable","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I would HIGHLY recommend watching the making of this movie Hurricane of Fun, before actually watching this movie.I am not an SNL fan. I simply don't get their jokes. The actors in this movie are incredibly talented, but the writing is... simply... awful. I don't think I laughed out loud once.It's just corny and crude humor. Just not my style. Perhaps to others.However, due to the fact that I watched Hurricane of fun (the making of) before watching this, I was able to see scenes they were talking about in a different light.If this is supposed to be a current day Meatballs or Caddyshack, they highly missed the mark. "},{"Title":"The Summer of '81","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the best movie Michael Showalter or David Wain ever wrote, together or apart. This movie has got great actors and actresses, great music, great time setting, funny and wacky stories and its lots of fun! Janeane Garafolo and David Hyde Pierce were great together. They should have there own movie together. I like Coop. His story was the most interesting with Katie was interesting. Steve, played by Kevin Sussman was one of the underrated characters. I liked him during the talent show with the wind and everyones flying around. That was silly. My least favorite character was Susie. I've never really like Amy Poehler. One minor thing I noticed was an extremely small role played by Greg Korin at the end. he was driving a car. I like movies that take place in the seventies or eighties or even the early nineties. Maybe in 2011 we'll meet this goofy bunch again in Wet Hot American Summer 2 The Summer of '91. "}{"Title":"Need more movies like this one","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is a breath of fresh air. It can make you laugh harder then just about any movie I can think of without using stupid sex or drug jokes. I had not even heard of it until a few of my friends and I were out renting flicks. My buddy had not seen it and wanted to. I had never heard of it so I was a little bit hesitant towards it. From Beginning to end.. I was laughing SO HARD. Its just one great scene after another. One of my fav scenes is when they go to Waterville.. Being from waterville its nice to see it get a little bit of a mention even though it does not really look like waterville... it was close enough. All and All.. I give this film a 9 out of 10 and wish there were more films like it. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen, although slightly disturbing at times. It is rather weird, but that's what makes it so funny. The first time I saw it, I laughed, but I has gotten a little stuck on how completely random everything was. The second time I saw it though, I (and the the people I was watching with) all were laughing nonstop through the whole movie. This stuff is great, really. My favorite scenes are the ones with all the science geeks. I love them. ) I also really like the plot with Molly Shannon. It's great. So, if you do happen to watch this movie in the future, don't let yourself get stuck on the weirdness of the plot. Just be ready to laugh your head off. So, I would highly recommend this movie, especially if you happen to find really random stuff to be funny. "},{"Title":"Great directing of a nostalgic camp movie","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Dvaid Wain knows his comedy. He was known as the director of this movie as well as a bit actor in shows like the 90's great MTV show The State and as a correspondent on Comedy Central's The Daily Show. This creation was his view of old 80's camp movies, but it was filmed in 2001. Fans of The State will recognize old favorite actors like Michael Ian Black, Kerri Kenney (also from Reno 911), Joe Lo Truglio, Ken Marino, Michael Showalter, and a short cameo from the director himself.Janeane Garofalo plays the type-casted role of woman-without-love, but of course, she's funny as hell as a camp director and hot in that comedian who-doesn't-give-a-crap kind of way. (I've got a thing for her) She's always pretty sweet to watch, and I loved how her character included all the kids. David Hyde Pierce from Frasier is here, playing the love interest of Garofalo's and a scientist who teaches the camp-goers about science stuff. I love his scene with the kids when he tells them that he's not really a professor and they have a good cry.The great thing about this movie is that it focuses on the camp counselors and director instead of the kids. It wasn't like that Nickelodeon show Salute Your Shorts or anything. It basically took classic shots (like back in 80's films) and put the scenes into a hilarious sequence that became the movie. Great and funny all the way through. "},{"Title":"Absurd comedy near its best","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Stella (the creators of MTV's The State) is at the forefront of absurd experimental comedy, and this movie shows that. It's not for people who don't like absurd comedy, that's for sure, but if you dig absurd comedy, this movie is very much for you. At first it seems like a cheesy spoof of camp movies, which in one sense it is. But then you begin to notice how it's structured as a series of sketches that aren't 100% tied to each other, and would be funny on their own.About a third way into the movie it takes a very absurd turn and it only gets better from there, and if you liked it, then it'll only get funnier. Sometimes the jokes seem a bit stupid, but you can forgive them for it. They earned a few bad jokes.It's a very different sense of humor, but it's a very different movie. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Film","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wet Hot American Summer is by far one of the funniest films I have ever seen. The comedy of David Wain and Michael Showalter is uncanny. Agreed, it does take a certain type of sense of humor to enjoy this film. It's just plain old silly. It's obserd. It's just what I would expect from these brilliant writers. Come on, what's not funny about Michael Ian Black having graphic anal sex with the other male counsler in the old shed out back? Genius!!! Also, check out Stella. It's stand up comedy with Wain, Showalter, and Black. The funniest stand up comedy I have ever seen. These men are brilliant because they understand the fact that farting is funny. "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie!!","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was one of the most hilarious movies I have ever seen, and I think that everyone should watch it. Definitely a good movie for people who liked Dazed and Confused and movies similar to that. It's entertaining til the very end of the movie. The story line is about a summer camp in the 80s. The whole movie takes place in one day, but somehow a bunch of crazy stuff seems to happen. For example, the counselors go in town for an hour or two, and somehow manage to get drunk, do drugs, and make it back to camp perfectly fine. I can't even begin to choose my favorite part, so many specific parts of the movie come to mind. I only wish that it would have come out in more theaters so that more people knew about it. Everyone I highly recommend watching this movie. It'll make you laugh so hard that you'll cry. "},{"Title":"come again? but anyway, glowing recommendation for those who enjoy humor","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I find myself hoping the comment below is tongue-in-cheek. That's really all I have to say about that. Homophobia (to the point of missing the joke) is so ten years ago. Wet Hot American Summer is one fun flick. Just when you think there's nothing else that can be thrown at you, they push the envelope just a little bit more. I especially enjoyed the climatic scene at the end of the talent show involving Steve the loser calling down some sort of supernatural fury on the audience... very excellent. ***/****, simply because the only thing it didn't make me do was think. Special bonus props to casting Marguerite Moreau in her ultra-cute role as the rips-the-nice-guy's-heart-out ubër-villain; she pulls it off very well, some of the best acting in the movie. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a must see. If you ever watched The State or like that kind of humor, this is the golden child of the cast. It stars many State cast members. This movie is nothing but funny because it's absolutely absurd yet true at the same time. There are even some unexpected stars like Christopher Melonie from Law and Order SVU. He plays Gene, and you would never guess it's him, he does a wonderful performance (as does his buddy the can). And if you grew up in the 80's you can catch some of your favorite chachkis-- like the braided bracelets, music and clothing. All in all, this movie is freaking hilarious.... it's a bad idea to leave this earth without seeing it.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've ever seen","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie gives campy a new meaning! As a video clerk, I am privy to some of the weirdest, cultiest, and just plain amazing films out there. This is definitely one of the best comedies ever made, but only if you're willing to suspend reality and accept truly ridiculous actions and characters. I completely recommend it, both for the continuous laughs as well as the great list of actors, including some SNL alums. There are many negative comments on this site about this movie, but everyone I work with, and most of the customers here LOVE this movie. It is always playing and has been rented hundreds of times at this location alone.Please do yourself a favor and rent or buy this one today! 10 out of 10  "},{"Title":"A mess and a waste of time","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'Wet Hot American Summer' wants to be a wacky and goofy send-up of 'Meatballs' and other early-'80s summer camp movies. Welcome to the last day at Maine's Camp Firewood in 1981, when all the counselors try getting sex while the campers are left unsupervised Janeane Garofalo plays the camp director who has her eyes set on a nerdy astrophysicist (David Hyde Pierce), and Christopher Meloni stars as a Vietnam vet whose mentor is a can of veggies. Yes, the comedy cast cannot get any better, but this is technically inept and flat, and goes against a cardinal comedy rule by being sparse on laughs and wasting talent. * (out of ****) "}{"Title":"It's funny but not Hot","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  (I guess some of these could be SPOILERS but I think you would like to know before watching it) It's funny!! hell it's real funny BUT it's NOT HOT I read all these reviews saying that it was smutty like 70's films blah blah.. the only thing that was halfway smutty was some long gay scene that is just not what 90% of the people wanna find in a funny film, but for the rest I'd say there was some funny as hell acting, NO PLOT just funny sketchy bits, and a lot of black humor (i don't even know what the 80's where about and it cracked me up) anyway I thought it was better than your average stupid Adam Sandler flick, and if u can get the funny stuff and overlook the lame You'll have a ball ;)  "},{"Title":"An underrated classic","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For any fan of the short lived television show The State or off beat comedies than this movie is for you.  Set on the final day of a summer camp, the Wet hot takes a look at the doings of the camp counselors (all in their 20's and 30's and playing 17) and puts them into crazy scenes. Featuring some outrageous scenes and an off kilter, sly sense of humor the cast really comes through here.  This is not a standard by the book comedy. If you're not a fan of sketch comedy and sly sense of humor than you are not going to be a huge fan of this classic.  But if you grew up on movies like meatballs and you find the The State even semi funny than this is right up your alley. The cast is quite good.  Paul Rudd as dim, stud is a revelation in this comedic role. Even Janeane Garofalo is funny in this in the lead role as the love sick and uncool camp director who falls in love with geeky, nerdy David Hyde Pierce.     "},{"Title":"Great Movie fun for the whole family (possible spoilers).","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the reasons why I still hold out hope for the comedy genre.  In a time when we get things like Dude Where's my Car, it's good to know that there are still people out there who know how to make a comedy movie and not have it suck.  The characters are funny, yet belivible, the jokes are hilarious (my personal favorite being the breaking glass sound effect) and the story is pretty well thought out.  I wish this movie had found a bigger audience when it was out in theaters, but it didn't.  In fact I don't remember it ever coming to my home town at all; I didn't know about it until I saw it on Starz a few months ago (since then I have bought the movie on DVD).  Anyway, I say congrats to everyone involved with WHAS because you have made a wonderful, funny, thought provoking movie that will be remembered for years to come. "},{"Title":"Meatballs Part II(1984) was better...and that's not saying much.","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not only that, even if Meatballs II didn't have Kim Richards, it'd still be better than this movie. Few of the jokes make any sense, and every other scene is unnecessarily climactic. How pathetic. The psycho Vietnam Vet routine was old even at the time this movie was supposed to take place. I don't get the idea of humping a refrigerator as something to be proud of. I don't remember people being that tolerant towards homosexuals(especially homosexual weddings) in 1981. I *do* remember people being scared that pieces of Skylab were still falling to earth ready to crash on any unsuspecting earthling and claiming the government was covering it up, despite the fact that it crashed in 1979. A few people looked like they were authentically from the late-70's or early-80's, but not that many.This could've been a loving tribute to late-1970's summer camp teen-exploitation movies, as it was clearly meant to be. But instead it was a disjointed, disorganized waste of film. Even the extended version of the reunion scene at the end was far too short. Truly this was a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Satire","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a 90 minute summertime boner beneath nylon shorts. Which means it's stupid, irreverent, illogical and friggin Hilarious!The film attacks a myriad of movie stereotypes like a rag tag team of misfits possibly winning a baseball championship, a hardened camp cook who is misunderstood, and several sets of ridiculous montage scenes all set in a 1981 summer camp. This very campy, Very 80's, and sometimes illogical story line spoofs films like Meatballs and Poison Ivy in an edgy and brilliant manner. If you are fans of TV show's like Comedy Centrals Viva Variety and MTV's The State, then this movie is right up your alley.Much more like the State then VV, the movie seldom takes itself too seriously and it would be advised that's the best attitude to have when watching it. Non secretor plot changes and a mix of horny idiotic teenagers makes this movie one to see.  "},{"Title":"Funny, worth the rent","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For anyone that grew up in the eighties, you can appreciate this movie far more than the younger generation.  Over the top humor keeps you laughing and the full genius of the movie is only realized after watching it more than once.  I'd never heard of this movie and took a chance and rented it, I was most pleasantly surprised.  Funny movie, definetly worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Hands down, one of the funniest films I've ever seen.","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this film, and though I recommend it to everyone I meet (who enjoys a good  laugh), some people just don't get it. It's the kind of ridiculous humor I haven't seen in  any other film. That's why I say that hands down, one of the funniest films I've ever seen.  Period. "},{"Title":"Dont listen to the other summaries, you either get it or dont.","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  (Mild Spoiler) This movie is not only hilarious but also brilliant. I think the reason that people dont like this movie is because they really dont get it. Some people think this is a spoof on 80's summer camp movies. Really its almost a spoof of a spoof. The main cast is from Mtv's groundbreaking The State and its not your basic garbage comedy with cliche jokes or gags that anyone with a brain could see coming from a mile away. Thats what i think most people wanted or thought this movie was going to have, like some episode of a mindless sitcom. Heres an example of the genius of this film, and a scene a lot of posters complain about When McKinley  and the other guy (sorry) go into a shed and have sweaty bare back sex. This is funny because its so unexpected and so graphic that its just absurd. Thats what other posters dont get, this isnt your typical cookie cutter comedy. Or when Andy lets a kid drown in the lake on his watch because he was making out with a girl, and the kids swimming buddy tells him hes going to be in trouble, it cuts to a scene with Andy and the kid in a van driving fast down a winding road, and Andy tells the kid they are going to a super secret pizza party, he then pushes the kid out of the van while its moving. I really do a disservice to how funny the scene is. The point is dont listen to the others, this movie is hilarious.and if you want something that is truly funny and really showcases fresh new comedy see this movie. "},{"Title":"michael showalter and david wain are amazing!","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  despite what other reviews on this site may say, this movie is amazingly funny.  it is written by michael showalter and david wain, of the state and the comedy troupe stella.  featuring many of the comedians from the state, this movie has a great cast who do a hilarious job of mocking 80s camp movies.  each of the characters are memorable and hysterical.  plus, the dvd features are really great.  i cant wait for michael showalter and david wain to collaborate on another project (other than stella of course, which rocks!) "},{"Title":"The Essence of Camp","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Every summer camp flick, film school freshman project, or otherwise cheap and amateurish feature is represented in Wet Hot American Summer.  It's a great parody of all the nonsense plots ever used to drive films of nothing but over the top sex and low budget action.  The highly talented cast spews bad lines, ad-libs, and sometimes takes a break from talking for a quick, sloppy make out scene (or sweaty gay love scene).  Even the extras get panned as they wander randomly from place to place and find odd ways to exit the scene after delivering their lines.  And of course, it's all draped in the funny-in-and-of-itself fashion of the 80's.If you've seen all the bad, old camp films this movie mocks, or even if you've just seen enough bad films in general, WHAS will give you tons of good laughs. "}{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've ever seen","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Absolutely hysterical, one of the best surreal comedies to come out in years. I love it when things are funny and you're not quite sure why, and this movie fits the bill. It looks thrown together in a good way. I only wish it had made more money, so the same people could have made more films like this. The whole cast is great, but Paul Rudd and especially Christophe Meloni really stand out. Meloni is a genius in this. On the DVD, make sure you watch the outtakes -- the hothouse corn sequence didn't make the cut, but it's even funnier than what made it into the final product, as is Meloni's ad-lib. "},{"Title":"This is the new way.","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The middlebrow Maltin wannabes of the world (you know, thepeople who give the movie a star rating in their user comments)are gonna hate me for saying this, but  Wet Hot AmericanSummer takes the Spoof genre to an entirely new level, andfeatures some of THE best acting I have ever seen in a comedylike this.  What the State folks have done here, is not so muchparody, but re-create the early 80's summer camp flick (althoughthey also throw in a bit of their own humor as well) with all thecliches intact.  Every member of the cast  seems keeps a straightface throughout and the script is refreshingly aware that, with 80'ssummer camp movies, most of the jokes write themselves.  I canimagine that anyone not a fan of the genre (nb you people clearlyhave no SOULS!) would find this pretty bad, and anyone looking fora Naked Gun style spoof might be a little disappointed, but thosewith a fondness for the genre (you know, the one I mentioned twicebefore) should appreciate the sheer accuracy of the portrayal.            "},{"Title":"There's no accounting for humor.","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  And Wet Hot American Summer has precious little humor to account for.  Wasted talent diva Garofalo heads up  this vacuous and inane parody about the last day of summer camp which makes Terror Firmer look like Oscar material. Most likely to be appreciated by airheads. Not for mature audiences. (D+) "},{"Title":"great stuf","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this was one of the funniest movies i've seen in a while. It is a comedy troupe film, but it succeeds in not just playing off of in jokes that only fans of the original show would get. the acting and jokes are very funny and Christopher Meloni's Vietnam-Vet character Gene is worth it alone. Please make another film, please!!! "},{"Title":"Even Molly Shannon's presence couldn't ruin this film.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ok if you aren't a fan of MTV's The State or sketch comedy in general stop reading this and go back to playing with the bright shiny objects that keep your attention. This movie was great, don't listen to the other reviews.  It was a great mix of sketch comedy, movie comedy and serious acting to make a winning film.  I saw it as less of a parody and more of a homage towards those classic summer camp movies.  It was a perfect vehicle for Showalter and Wain's brand of comedy.  Best of all they stayed away from making tired out time period jokes which ruin anything (anyone ever see that 80's Show?).I was a little worried when I saw Shannon's and Garofolo's name in the credits.  Usually they can kill anything.  Especially Shannon.  Garofolo was amazingly good for having to do so many different kinds of comedy. Shannon of course was playing the same tired out character that she always does on anything she is in, but was saved by the young Gideon Jacobs.  That kid was great.Everyone else was of course great.  It's great to see the State guys back together.  Amy Poehler is hillarious and one of the few truly funny women out there today.The fact that this movie was never a huge hit just affirms my suspicion that Americans today are retarded.  We will continue to see stupid movies like 40 days and 40 nights and the American Pies while good writers, actors and movies get ignored. "},{"Title":"Good clean raunchy fun for everyone...and lots of swimming!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Not since Psycho Beach Party was I so pleasantly surprised by a film that was capable of parodying a genre in such a smart way. While Wet Hot American Summer has fun with all the clichés of those drive-in R-rated Meatballs ripoffs, it does something I haven't seen before it allows EVERYONE to enjoy the show whether male or female, gay or straight. Those other films were mostly aimed at guys so they could have an excuse to see a bunch of naked gals in the guise of a legitimate film. Instead of doing that, Wet Hot American Summer has fun with all the intentions and absurd situations without resorting to throwing in naked girls every ten minutes-- simply making this a breast fest would have been too easy. There isn't one bit of nudity in WHAS. You want nudity? Then watch the outtakes on the DVD and you'll see some funny male nudity for a change. This film relies on its creativity for laughs and that counts for a lot. There's a lot of talk about sex and lots of frenching, but it never needs to go all the way which is why I think films like Fast Times At Ridgemont High weren't as fulfilling.Given, the language is heavy (even in many scenes where little kids are present), but it adds to the warped world that this camp is a part of. Even the over-the-top trip to town drug binge montage was so exaggerated that it may not have actually happened because later one camp counselor says they went into town and had ice cream and hot dogs! It's true, this film has everything...as director David Swain says It has lots of swimming, bikinis, gay sex, explosions, some nerds, and something for everybody. It also takes a bold direction in the fact that while including homosexuality in the humor, it doesn't aim for cheap shots. Plus, it's about time gay males were portrayed more positively like in this story and more mainstream films should get away from the increasingly tired gratuitous lesbian love scenes.I'm partial to this film too because I am the age the camp counselors would be now (the film is set in 1981), and it takes me back to a time when kids were just wilder in different ways before home computers and MTV messed up teens even more. This is a film that gives us folk over the age of 30 something to enjoy; I know I'm quite OVER the gross-out humor of most films aimed at the Girls Gone Wild demographic. Even the DVD's alternate soundtrack with extra farts was just so bizarre of an idea that it doesn't come off as completely juvenile.Granted, this film isn't for all tastes. You don't have to be a fan of the comedy group The State (of which this stems from to an extent), but to appreciate it it does take a fondness for the time it pays homage to and the somewhat contextual sense of humor it conveys. No doubt some viewers (particularly the young'ns) will be scratching their heads at some references but I found myself at least smiling in fond recognition when I wasn't laughing. Once you get settled in to the absurdity, the film starts to rapidly get more and more outrageous.The attention to period detail is fun -- from the clothes and hair to the music and cars. Even the film's cover art is a tribute to those kind that looked like a Mad or Cracked Magazine cover drawing, giving it an added feel that this film could have actually come from 20 years ago. The cast is extremely fun. Janeane Garofalo is always fine as usual, Molly Shannon shines when getting marital advice from pre-teens, and -- Wow! -- you will not recognize Christopher Meloni with that beard! Or, it's because you'll be distracted by his exposed tummy from wearing a half-shirt through most of the film! The whole subplot of his own sexual identity discovery is played out in the most unusual way I've ever seen in any type of film for sure. Michael Showalter has the art of geekiness down pact, and I always love to see Amy Poehler improvising. David Hyde Pierce is always likable (he should keep the moustache too!), and the kids are all great and in some cases much more mature emotionally than the camp counselors! Paul Rudd....hmmm, you just want to smack his character but he's still so cool you laugh at his antics.It's a BIG shame that so many processed comedies like Slackers get all the promotion and screen time while genuine finds like Wet Hot American Summer have to find their audience in a harder way. This is a long span of time from Meatballs or even Little Darlings, but it is sure nice to revisit that era with this genuine surprise of a comedy. I took a chance on buying this without having seen it before, and it sure brightened my day. I haven't had an outrageous comedy give me such a satisfying smile since Overnight Delivery (another Paul Rudd comedy that deserved recognition). Thanks to David Wain and Michael Showalter for sharing this experience with us! "},{"Title":"Filmed At Camp Towanda. Home of The White Rock.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A great movie filmed at a great location. Camp Towanda is the the real camp firewood. Camp firewood has few rules and few motivated staff. A weak story line but a great acting cast and directing. This movie gets a full 4 stars in my book. "},{"Title":"Watch this movie","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Paul Rudd's temper tantrum is reason enough to watch this hilarious movie. This is a spoof of summer camp movies, and it did exactly what it was supposed to do. It made me laugh out loud. Funniest moments1. The temper tantrum. Hi-larious2. Meet me at the picnic table in 10 seconds.3. The trip to town--I think this may have been the moment I realized this was not your ordinary summer camp film.4. Every scene with Chris Meloni. 5. Andy's problems with kids and water.Relax, have a beer, and watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Wet Hot American Summer, is what every counselor in a summer camp wants their camp to be like. It's the fun and excitement  in two days.","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I myself am a summer camp counselor, and when i saw this movie it reminds me of all the awesome stuff you get to do as a counselor. Despite of out of whack it seems, it's a little close in some actuality. It's an hour and half of fun! It just gives you a chance to laugh, and have a good time. Great movie if you want to laugh, and be reminded of every great summer you've had! Despite the sick humor, and the swears, it's pretty much just a good time. There's one gay love scene but it's 20 seconds long and nothing graphic, and it just adds more to the story. then there are so many jokes taken from old school 80's summer camp movies. There are drug references, and sexual references but all of those can be over looked. The cast is superb some of the best names in comedy coming together to create something hysterical! Highly Recommended! "},{"Title":"A 70's Summer Camp Movie Spoof...sort of...","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a 26 year-old teacher and a big movie buff.  My criteria for a good comedy is simple make me genuinely laugh and don't insult my intelligence. It's also crucial to understand in what manner the film makers are intending to tickle the proverbial funny bone; is the humor sly, irreverent, cynical, slapstick, absurd, satiric, quirky, silly, observational, dark, sassy, etc.?It's very difficult to classify Wet Hot American Summer.  It took the film about 20 minutes to start hitting an unbelievable level of joke execution. I wont give away any details, but there are some tear-inducing, laugh riot moments in this picture.  It's densely packed with comedy of every variety - scenes that take a joke farther than you would imagine.  Wet Hot American Summer has humor that ranges literally from subtle, hinting jokes to broad slapstick, subversive humor, perverse and shocking moments, and mocking sarcasm (even at its own expense).I could say so much more, how I laughed myself to tears watching this picture, but I will keep it short.  If you appreciate The Simpsons, some of the Farelly Bros. stuff, Mel Brooks, Monty Python, Zuckers movies (Airplane, Top Secret, The Naked Gun), and even the camp movies Wet Hot American Summer spoofs, you will like this film.   "}{"Title":"Not funny","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie just failed.  At first it seemed like it was supposed to be a straight spoof, then at times an over-the-top spoof (like Airplane), and sometimes like comedy in its own right.  The thing that tied all the aspects together was that it was just not funny.  The jokes were all very flat. The jokes that weren't predictable were contrived, especially the ending which was a long tedious attempt to get a string of jokes in.  The only joke is on the person watching. "},{"Title":"Finally! My dream comedy!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just read several reviews of this movie, and I can't believe I saw  the same one.  This is brilliant!  Funny, out-there, smart, and obviously too subtle for some people.  I love those silly summer camp romps, so this was a dream to watch.  A smart dissection of what was really going on in those guilty pleasures, while being laugh-out-loud funny throughout.  All of the actors are great, totally committed, perfectly cast.  Paul Rudd was especially startling and right on.  Janeane is a goddess.  And who is this kid in the arts and crafts class?  Awesome!  See it!  See it!  I'm gonna go buy it now.  Later. "},{"Title":"an ingenious parody of cheesy 1980's summer camp movies in the spirit of Porky's","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the feel-good hit of the summer of 1981. Members of the incredibly funny comedy troupe, The State, do a parody film of hits like Porky's and Meatballs by over-cliché-ifying (yes, I made up that word) situations such as the nerdy-guy-gets-the-girl (sort of), and a-camp-counselor-saves-the day. Anyone who watches this movie, hopefully, will understand that it's entirely tongue-in-cheek, but perhaps, some other people's senses of humor are not that well refined. The gags in this movie are taken to the utmost extreme of corniness for the sake of, somehow, coming out that much smarter. The dry wit and morbidity of Michael Showalter and Michael Ian Black shines stunningly. SO GET OVER YOURSELF and watch this movie with an open mind (BECAUSE PORKY'S REALLY SUCKED!!!) "},{"Title":"The Weirdest Thing I've Ever Seen","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay so this movie starts off all normal. It's a nice little story about the kids and counselors at a summer camp. Everything seems normal enough. One of the counselors turns out to be gay, one of the kids has a chance to lose his virginity, the nerd guy likes the hot girl with the jerk boyfriend.Basic movie elements. However, in one trip to town, this entire movie gets turned around. The trip to town is a truly bizarre scene. It starts off kinda normal with the counselors drinking and smoking cigarettes. Then smoking pot. Then all of a sudden they attack an old woman, steal her money, and use it to buy cocaine and heroin. From that point on, the movie makes no sense. But I think the randomness is pretty funny. I genuinely enjoyed this movie and actually almost bought it the other day at the store.But don't watch it if you're in the mood for something not weird cuz baby, this is one weirdass movie.  "},{"Title":"BAH!!!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The people who actually LIKE this movie and find it FUNNY must have an IQ of around 10, or suffer from a serious brain damage. Is it really that bad? I can't stress this enough..... YES IT IS! This is a perfect example of the s*** that they make today. The acting is bad. The scences thats supposed to be funny, makes you sick (I remembered I wanted to throw up). FOR THE LOVE OF GOD.....DO NOT WATCH THIS FLICK!I wouldn't trust people who like this movie to sit the right way on a toilet seat. Grow up! "},{"Title":"It's a rubbernecking train wreck of a movie.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The film is an obvious attempt to parody the summer camp movie genre which was painfully popular over twenty years ago. It's a bunch of loose-fitting comedic sketches. It probably was really funny on paper, but lost a lot in the production. The pace of the show seems similar to Love American Style, Fantasy Island or Love Boat, and not in a good way (if that's even possible). The film Meatballs did far better satire to this genre back in 1979, and since Meatballs was a screwball comedy satire of summer camps, this movie is a satire of a satire which is a bit over the top. Wet Hot American Summer didn't even need to be written, much less committed to celluloid. Janeane Garofalo is no Ruth Buzzi, but she's not Garofalo at her best here, either. I can't believe a woman of her comedic talent can't get a better script than this. Just once I'd like to see a director who doesn't fear her tattoos. Her agent should keep her away from any script that would require her hair to get moosed; no matter how funny she thinks it's going to be.The film is supposed to be bad though. It's making fun of trite plot devices, corny coincidences, flat characterization based on stereotypes and a convolution of too many things happening in a film at the same time and nothing ever actually going anywhere but somehow vaguely attempting to make sense at the end. Oh. And late 70s music. So if that's all they were trying to do, they succeeded. However, where I think one was supposed to be laughing, I just found myself wincing at the screen. This film is a bitter disappointment.  "},{"Title":"I Give Up. 80's movies can't be spoofed","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I thought I had hit cinema bedrock when I watched Not Another Teen Movie and found it to be a thuddingly unfunny, mutton - headed stab at poking fun at 80's teen comedies. Why I didn't stop while I was ahead makes me feel I deserve everything I got from Wet Hot American Summer, hereafter referred to as, That piece of Crap. This looks like one of those movies that was shelved but somehow creeped out into release. Being fully aware of the parody targets and open to outrageousness, I was merely bowled over by how BAD the film was and everybody in it! It goes absolutely nowhere and is so shapeless that 10 people could reassemble the footage in 10 different ways and not one thing about it would change. It would make as much sense as the film I saw. It's so much less a film than an assemblage of poorly conceived and performed skits that it borders on the absurd that the DVD contains deleted scenes. HA! That makes it sound like the director actually exercised some judgment and discernment in picking certain scenes over others. Was it to help the pacing? To develop character? To make plot points more cohesive? NO! What's clear is that the deleted scenes are unfunny and poorly done...and so are the ones in the final cut! I sense the film was edited in a Salad Shooter and the deleted ones were merely those that fell on the floor.The filmmaker has no sense of rhythm or timing, shots are held too long or setups are so sloppy that there is no visual payoff to some of the jokes. Actors who are normally funny seem to be asea with no direction or guide. Words fail me in detailing how much That piece of Crapstinks! There is, however, one single bit of inspired wry humor that works and is a clever and much needed shock effect for many of the moron contingent the film seems to be targeting. In a film spoofing a genre built on sex scenes and breast baring babes, I think it is nothing short of comedy anarchy to feature as the film's single sex scene, a homosexual coupling! It's simply brilliant and is the kind of outrageous daring that comedy is about.One can imagine the psychological fuses that were blown in some of the the tiny minds that were hoping for a Good Old Beer and Boobs Comedy fest.However, this bit of sly, subversive wit doesn't make up for nor justifies the ass-aching ineptitude of the rest of This piece of Crap. "},{"Title":"My kind of film","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wet Hot American Summer is one of those rare films in a person's life that is exactly the kind of film you would make if you had the opportunity to create one. Every silly gag to it's one of a kind brand of random irrelevant comedy. The film features the Stella comedy group Michael Ian Black, Michael Showalter, and director David Wain. The rest of the cast is peppered by actors and actresses that would go on to become A list Hollywood actors. People like Paul Rudd, Bradley Cooper, and Amy Poehler.This movie still makes me laugh after years of routine viewings with friends. From listen to me Mr. Kickass to a van brutally hitting a tree while being serenaded to the tune of Danny's song. This is absolutely the kind of film that you and your friends will insist on new friends to see, in order to get your kind of humor. I can't recommend this movie enough. Hopefully we will someday get the long rumored prequel from director David Wain. "},{"Title":"There are two types of people ones that went to overnight camp, and ones who did not","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" To not like Wet Hot American Summer is to never have gone to summer overnight camp. If you've had an authentic summer overnight camp experience, then something(s) in David Wain's film will resonate with you, with those somethings multiplying for every summer you've spent at camp.Admittedly, Wet Hot (and especially its characters) represents an absurd exaggeration of overnight camp, but overnight camp is one of few assured places and times when life feels exaggerated. Anything Wain and co-writer/star Michael Showalter write into the film can totally fly, and most of it is downright hilarious.Wet Hot takes place in the last 24 hours at Camp Firewood somewhere in Maine. Everyone from the campers to the counselors to the director (Janeane Garafolo) is looking for that eleventh hour romance/hook-up, and Gerald Coop Cooperberg (Showalter) in particular finds himself unable to resist Katie (Marguerite Moreau), who considers him just a friend and has been hooking up with the obnoxious slacker Andy (Paul Rudd) all summer. Several other camp-themed subplots ensue from a rafting trip gone wrong to arts and crafts becomings a support group to preparations for the big end-of-camp talent show.A stellar supporting cast of future stars is testament to the kind of movie this is. Rudd, Amy Poehler, Ken Marino, Joe Lo Truglio, Bradley Cooper, Elizabeth Banks and Michael Ian Black make up this colorful ensemble of incredible improvisers, none of whom had yet to make it big. Garofolo, Molly Shannon and David Hyde Pierce were the veterans of this group when this movie was made.It often involves excessive swearing, but these actors handle the over-the-top humor expertly, and they even give some dimension to their caricatures. They represent everything you remember about camp counselors and camp staff, completely discarding the whole responsibility element of overnight camp. The campers are merely a collection of odd-looking kids who make faces in the background as their counselors make out with each other, but their casting is spot on.Wet Hot is a classic in so far as how it parodies overnight camp, but as an '80s camp movie spoof, it can definitely be considered average. The movie, at times, gets so ridiculous (e.g. an hour in the local town turns into binge drug use, a talking can of vegetables) that it loses its grip on what it does so well from time to time. Wain and Showalter at times seem interested in making a clever comedy that's sharp on all sides, but so often they seem content with shenanigans. It creates an inconsistent brand of comedy, but one that casts a wider net in terms of different audiences having different humor preferences.Occasionally, the outrageous and the clever intersect and those are the moments when Wet Hot American Summer hits the mark. Katie's speech to Coop at the end of the film is nothing short of gospel to the hopeless romantic in all of us. Discovering life lessons plays a big part in what camp's all about, and inside every outrageous caricature and scene lies a little nugget of truth that anyone who's had that camp experience understands.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"A brilliant film with one VERY serious problem","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of the most hilarious movies I've seen in my life. It also has an edited-for-TV version that literally *destroys* the film.I thought I'd point this out because I've noticed a few of the reviewers who gave this movie a low score mentioned catching it on TV. That's rather heartbreaking, considering how smart, subversive, original, and wildly funny 'Wet Hot' is in its intended form.Granted, a certain amount of editing would have been necessary in any case -- the film is definitely on the profane side. Still, it's never lazy; offensive content is not used as a stand in for funny material, but rather to intensify some really brilliantly surprising, devastatingly hilarious moments.What's tragic is that the television version apparently cannot even tell where the jokes are in the original version. The original film's greatest strength, perhaps, is lulling you into a false sense of security with intentional cheesiness and 'soft' jokes before throwing its hardball material at you. Alas, the television version seems to feel it's necessary to keep the all setup material while editing out all the actual punchlines.That aside, if we're talking about the proper version which is available on DVD, this film is recommend for anyone who enjoys intelligent, subversive, absurd, and aggressively funny comedy in the vein of Stella, The State, Strangers with Candy and Adult Swim on a good day. "}{"Title":"Very funny movie, but only to those with a sense of humor","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was a very refreshing comedy.  The twisted sense of humor that Michael Showalter and David Wain both possess help create a unique and hilarious movie. The funny thing about this movie that I think many people don't realize is that this movie is making fun of itself, Wain and Showalter were simply trying to make a movie that makes us laugh and they accomplished that.  Be warned though, if you don't enjoy laughing or find that you yourself don't own a sense of humor then do not watch this movie. WHAS is a parody of movies such as Meatballs and gives the viewer a new kind of comedy that is most likely not suitable for the mainstream comedy fans who simply don't get it.  For those of you who do not like this movie then all I can say is, sorry and hopefully you'll stop taking life so seriously someday.  But for those of you who are looking for a comedy that offers something wilder than American Pie or something more original than another Austin Powers movie then go check out this movie and see how clue-less all the nay-sayers of this movie are.  "},{"Title":"Funniest movie; Ever.","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is easily the funniest movie I have ever seen. I watch it again and again and it just gets funnier. The entire cast has a chemistry that creates beautiful comedic fusion throughout the entire film. Paul Rudd and Christopher Maloni are outstanding, playing their roles with an energy rarely seen in Hollywood. It's also great to see the two big names, Janeane Garofalo and David Hyde Pierce having a lot of fun playing roles ridiculously different from their usual work. And of course, all of the State alumni are naturally geniuses. The mix of spoofing 80's movies and oddball, absurd, nearly insane comedy is hilarious, with a capital H. This film is a must-see for anyone who enjoys laughing.  "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie so funny. I think mostly because I live in Maine and it takes place at a camp in Maine. Also if you ever went to camp or have been a camp counselor you know what the summer is like, not quite like this but close. It is at parts vulgar, stupid, and just plain ridiculous. The sub plots are great the cook that talks to canned goods and the meteor that is crashing to the earth. If you take it for what it's worth it's very enjoyable. Don't try to find any kind of meaning it, because there isn't any. In fact this movie is one that I watch annually at thanksgiving for no apparent reason, just a silly tradition that started one year.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful!!","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have two words for this movie Absolute Genius!!!  This is seriously the funniest movie I have ever seen! The Point of this movie is NOT to be a good movie!  You have to have a certain sense of humor for this movie.  I think it is absolutely amazing!!  The only story line that is a bit creepy is Molly Shannon and the kid who helps her through her divorce.  This is the most random movie I've ever seen.  The characters are purposely not developed and hilarious.  There are a few scenes that are pretty raunchy but they are really short.  This is literally the funniest movie I have ever seen in my life.  Everyone should go rent this movie right now and love every second of it! "},{"Title":"People who don't like this movie are fools - seriously.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  WHAS is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen.  I can't even go into it - it's hilarious.Now, I've checked on all these reviews, and it seems quite apparent that people that don't like this movie are lame / stupid / both.  Want some proof?Here's what one guy said All the actors who participated in this farce of a film should be but on acting suspension for stooping so low. The story was rubbish, the acting was terrible, and the sensationalization of homosexually was downright immoral.Wow, farce of a movie?  That's kind of what it was, Einstein.  Nice use of the word but, you tasteless homophobe; it's not like the b is particularly close to the p on the keyboard.  I find your intolerance and your ability to invent new words sensationalizationingly immoral.And then there's this genius I don't know where to start. First of all, notice how the director makes the characters in the movie believable by casting 30 year old people to play 16 (yes 16!) year olds. The story is also as unoriginal and stupid as it can get.It is not funny, nor intelligent....not even for monkies!!Wow, especially not funny for people who spell monkeys with an i.  Nice job noticing how the director cast 30 year olds as 16 year olds.  The 80s summer camp movies WHAS parodied didn't resort to anything like that.  I just want to know why you're wasting your time writing IMDB reviews when you could be saving the world with your brilliant insight.But this one's my favorite David Hyde Pierce has sunk so low. Niles Crane would have had a heyday with this movie. I did not laugh once.Is that funny enough, or do I have to tack anything on to that?  Bottom line if you plan your weeks around episodes of Frasier you will not like this movie.  You also have probably missed a lot of jokes throughout the course of your life, and although you all collectively represent the we-just-don't-get-it people I feel like my life has been an eternal struggle against, I pity you.Ah, but I digress.  This movie is hysterical.  Paul Rudd knocking a tray off the table and then picking it up with little enthusiasm is worth the  cost of renting it.  If you have a decent sense of humor, rent it.I said fondu with cheddar. "},{"Title":"I could hardly believe what a bad movie this is!","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK, just in case anyone who knows me is reading this, I DID NOT purposely see Wet Hot American Movie. It happened sort of by accident. Last night we were part of a rather exhaustive wine-tasting party and not being in the mood to do much else today, I figured Comedy Central would provide a few laughs. Well, it didn't. At least not with this movie. This movie has some really first-rate actors. Janeane Garofalo gets first billing as Beth who spends a good part of the movie chasing David Hyde Pierce who plays Henry, the head guy at Camp Firewood. He also happens to be a capable scientist, and one of the side stories is his discovering that SkyLab is falling out of orbit towards the camp and he has to figure out some weird science to change its course. Michael Ian Black, Paul Rudd, and Molly Shannon are all funny with the right script, but this one just wasn't it. It was obvious that everyone was trying to be funny, but it just wasn't. Writer/director David Wain has some obscure TV credits and with this effort will likely remain obscure. It is interesting to see that this movie has an IMDb rating of 6.2, and 28% of the voters have given it a 10. That seems awfully high for a movie that received only a 29% positive rating on Rotten Tomatoes, and the positive comments weren't very positive. I think 3 is the most reasonable rating. I can't imagine why anyone would give it a vote of 10. "},{"Title":"As funny as jumping from a high cliff with no parachute.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is indeed, one of the worst movies I've ever seen. I don't know where to start. First of all, notice how the director makes the characters in the movie believable by casting 30 year old people to play 16 (yes 16!) year olds. The story is also as unoriginal and stupid as it can get.It is not funny, nor intelligent....not even for monkies!! "}]