[{"Title":"I was devastated by this vicious, brilliant film","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"44 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is a necessary act of violation on its viewers. A pure, lethal injection of dramatic suffering which is beautifully rendered but left me feeling devastated by its intensity. Breillat is a director who has already made shock-waves with her last film Romance. In her latest piece of disturbing cinematic violence, she takes us inside the life of a 13 year old overweight girl inside an average, upper middle-class family. On a holiday away with this family, we experience her exposed difference as her 15 year old sister begins to experiment with sex, often with her young sister a passive spectator. The parents are indifferent creatures, affected mainly by social pressures and appearances. Unaware - or possibly simply disinterested - in their daughters lives, they miss the painful undersides of the two girls forced closeness. Breillat offers more explicit sex, erections, and some extremely gruelling violence. I recommend this film but its intelligence and emotional truth is, necessary. "},{"Title":"Should Be Required Viewing in Sex Ed Classes for Young Teens","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"40 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fat Girl is unrated so probably will never be shown in sex ed classes for 14-year-old girls willing to read the subtitles of a French film. Too bad. Written and directed by Catherine Breillat, whose other controversial movies about girls and sex I've somehow missed and will now catch up on, the original title of A ma soeur! (to, or maybe colloquially for, my sister) makes a lot more sense.But not since the very scary Smooth Talk have I seen the seduction of a pretty teen-ager by a hunky older guy shown so effectively, as this is a whole lot more explicit and sensually realistic in how they interact in a cagey game of alluring naiveté vs. determined persuasion.Unlike American Beauty whose quasi-pedophilia I found disturbing, this is a sophisticated view of the powerful forces unleashed between a guy young enough to be attracted yet old enough to know better, and a girl old enough to be attracted yet young enough not to know better. Is he the banality of evil, an update of Sportin' Life or the snake -- or is he just being a guy? In class, the teacher could stop the tape in the middle of the dialog and action, and say Whoa, girls, what could you say when he says that? When he does that? When you feel like that?And we watch this all played out in a fascinating way, from the viewpoint of, with devastating impact on, her younger, titular sister who has to endure an up close and personal intimacy with them under the noses of oblivious parents.While the sibling relationship is the anchor, the ending may be a culminating precautionary statement on a very negative view of the battle of the sexes, but no one walking out of the theater was sure.The Ontario Film Review Board missed the educational point in censoring the film, but I concur that it's a disturbing film.Listening to Top 40 radio on the way home sure made me suspicious of all those declarations of love pouring out from all those guys.Coincidentally, I re-saw the Rohmer film Pauline on the Beach hours later on IFC and now see that Breillat is making a dark commentary on that classic, both riffing off a 14-year-old on vacation amidst a sexual whirligig; the French may have a different reaction than me.(originally written 10/27/2001) "},{"Title":"Take what you will","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At the NY Film Festival's Q&A with Breillat, she expressly forbid seeing Fat Girl (as she prefers to call it) as a morality play. She eluded any attempts to draw her into conclusions about her film, insisting that she is not a moralist. What is clear from the questions she asks, however, is that she views sex with a certain contempt, especially as regards the male role in the act. The men that are in the film are either insensitive, duplicitous or murderous. Breillat's intent is to show how adrift any adolescent girl is when it comes to sexuality and to somehow convey that to an adult audience. She counseled young Anais during filming by saying, We are making a film that I don't even think you can see when it is done, but it is not for you. It is supposed to scare adults. "},{"Title":"A polished film from Breillat on her usual themes of sexuality","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Director Breillat is back and, as she did with Romance, pushing the bounds of censorship in an intellectually challenging fashion. The story follows the sexual development of two sisters in their early teens. Their middle class family embody the usual social mores and protective attitudes. Moreover, the story makes us aware of the legal dilemma of under age sex, undertaken as a matter of conscious choice and with proper protection by the 15-year old (older) sister with a boyfriend only a few years her senior (ie the relationship would be legal in Netherlands but not in many countries, including France). These are two fairly normal sisters, although the younger one is excessively overweight and only fantasizes about getting a boyfriend. There is some possible interpretation that the 15-year old's psychological development would progress more soundly were she not (initially) fettered by taboos over her own virginity. In one scene, a TV in the background has a Breillat-type character being interviewed and giving her philosophy about the intrinsic nature of sex, how it is something common to us all and that can be understood by anyone, and that we are all alike inasmuch as no-one is perfect. The characters and scenes are painted brilliantly, the sibling rivalry coupled with intense sisterly bonding, the mother driving at night and, as many people will have, with a lack of sleep and so not as perfectly safely as normal. It is the realism and ordinariness of the situations that keep us on the edge of our seats. The dialogue has the realism that suggests youngsters may have suggested some of the lines, with their observations that have the power to startle us out of complacency. The use of actors so young in fairly explicit scenes will be a matter of great concern, but Breillat is serious about her work and convinces us that she is not pandering to sensationalism but raising valid questions about how we effectively handle the challenges presented by precocious adolescents. The film is more polished than Breillat's earlier work and has an unnerving denouement, well-delivered. "},{"Title":"Being deeply unsatisfying is satisfyingly deep","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Most people watch movies in order to enjoy them. Every so often a film comes around that is hard to enjoy, but is undeniably artistic. And I'm not saying the movie isn't good -- I'm saying you're not supposed to leave the movie with feeling satisfied, happy, or particularly having enjoyed it.I found the relationship between the sisters to be superbly crafted. Despite their differences and constant bickering, they love each other. This is clear. The sisters meet Fernando, who proceeds to seduce 15 year old Elena with every clichéd you have to have sex with me to prove you love me technique imaginable. However mind-bogglingly obvious his impure intentions are, Elena falls for it hook, line, and sinker. Though it sounds rather formulaic, I found it intriguing because it really does happen this way so often.It is interesting how the younger Anais recognizes Fernando's intentions, yet allows her sister to make her own mistakes. Inevitably, it becomes apparent to all that Fernando betrayed Elena in the worst way. The mother responds in what is a rather cold and unsympathetic manner, but in reality this is exactly how any parent would react in the situation.This is a spoiler-filled review, so I will now tackle the ending without holding back details. I'm sure many people are reading this in order to find out the opinions of others over the shocking and violent final scenes. Most of the parallels that this form explains have already been mentioned in other comments here. Is virginity sacred? Anais and Elena would answer that differently. Nonetheless, the end result is the same for both -- their first mates betray them. Elena believed her virginity was sacred, but was easily seduced and lost it. Even though Anais has a different take on virginity, she is also betrayed, this time by a rapist. You can also ponder the moral quandary of whether or not Elena was raped by her Italian lover. She may as well have been. In fact, it seems that having her heart torn out was more emotionally traumatic than when Anais's virginity was forcibly torn away.Of course the responsibility for the tragic ending lies solely on the maniac who commits the acts. Yet, situationally speaking every single character (both sisters, both of their parents, Fernando, Fernando's mother) is somehow responsible for putting them in that place at that time.If you're looking for a deeper meaning in the ending, I believe there is a notable parallel between the narrative and the ending. So many people have said, the director ran out of ideas or it's a gimmick or it's just shock value or just think it doesn't fit the narrative. Many have expressed feelings of cinematic betrayal in the end of the film -- this betrayal mirrors the betrayal of both sisters. The director is like Fernando, seducing us for the entire film, screwing us, then abandoning us. It is so sudden, shocking, and unbecoming that we feel raped... much like the Fat Girl.The cinematic and artistic values hold true in the ending. You just have to look for it. It is up to personal taste whether this makes for a good movie or not. "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Somehow this film picked up the English title 'A Fat Girl'.  How inappropriate, I thought, because for most of the film, the romance of the elder, more attractive sister takes center-stage.  It is only at the end, after some horrible things have happened, that it becomes clear that the film has been leading us to understand the fat sister Anais's strange reaction to what happened to her.  I have read criticism of the violence late in the film, as not having flowed out of what has gone before.  Such criticism misses the point of the movie, I think, which is about the contrast between Anais's first sexual experience and the lovely Elena's, and Anais's acceptance of rape as being preferable to being in love with the boy, as Elena had been, when we and Anais watched Elena's first intercourse.I thought the acting in this film wonderful, and Anais Reboux, as the fat girl is an outstanding find.  This is a touching film, with real characters with whom to empathize, especially the two girls, both young and romantic, one with a saving touch of cynicism. "},{"Title":"Devastation","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a film that is difficult to say you liked. It gives a view of the different facets of cruelty.  Anais (the Fat Girl of the title) is buffeted with cruelty and indifference at every turn--that directed toward her and that she witnesses.  Her corpulence is both an attempt to insulate herself against these assaults but at the same time, indicative of her internalization of them.  But ultimately, the film is similarly an assault on the viewer, be warned.  It stings. "},{"Title":"Very much in the eye of the beholder!","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Another film that has polarised critics and audiences alike worldwide. There must be few adjectives if not expletives,yet to be ascribed to this quite extraordinary movie. Whatever one's opinion ultimately, A MA SOEUR (known in Australia and the US rather unflatteringly as FAT GIRL) is not a movie I would consider easy to ignore.What it DOES achieve, and I won't re-hash the plot given that so many people have, is an ascerbic observation, if not insight into the mind of precocious teenage girls....one primed and ready for the physical, but not the emotional, the other with all the same hopes and dreams, but not the packaging. These girls are good - you FEEL the plight of a gawky 13 year old who yearns unrealistically to compete with her sister on a sexual and experiential level.The ending?  Well yeah we ARE talking majorly sensationalistic poetic license here. Violence of a fascinatingly unlikely nature. I applaud the director's red herring during that final freeway fourney...most every viewer would have been awaiting that final pile-up. The concluding rape and its aftermath will be discussed ad infinitum...You either get it, don't get...or don't CARE to get it!Personally I believe this film warrants a 7.6! "},{"Title":"Moviezone Award Jury rapport @ International FilmFestival Rotterdam","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Moviezone Award Jury rapport 2002 -  Fat Girl (Catherine Breillat)The winning film amongst three fantastic films has got to be a very special feature. Catherine Breillat showed the jury the world of two sisters which do not only differ in the physical aspect of their characters but also have their own very distinctive expectations and desires when it comes to their first time having sex. The bond between the sisters is portrayed very well, the girls and the life they live are very recognizable. When you are watching the film you forget you are watching actresses when they flawlessly get across very strong and personal emotions in a very subtle manner. The observations of the fat girl show precisely how she encounters her sisterhood; her negative self-image and the absurd fascination for her sister. The strong hand of the director and the personal theme makes Fat Girl a film which will be remembered for a long time and which will be the subject of many discussions. "},{"Title":"A Matter of Taste","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ***Spoilers*** Breillat is a polarizing filmmaker. She makes film that are meant to divide us. Whether you cry Heretic! or Genius! it points to her effectiveness.Sure, the last 10 minutes seem like a fake-out, but it's a perfectly executed one. She creates a feeling of imminent doom through claustrophobic camera set-ups and then subverts expectations. The ending could be seen as a realistic fantasy. After all, we are watching a film which implicitly is fantasy. For the entire film, we've shared Anais POV. A shift like this isn't as off the mark as some viewers seem to suggest. We are seeing the world through Anais caged prepubescent eyes. To me, it seemed like a clever collaboration between storyteller and character. It services the viewer's craving for resolution. The sudden presence of a hatchet-wielding assailant is shocking and upsetting, but such an event was clearly foreshadowed. Elena's reference to being in the dead man's seat and the mother's reluctance to drive as well as Anais' commitment to having sex for the first time with somebody that's she's not in love with all point to a resolution like this. It's as if Anais libidinous fantasy has come to life. Perhaps the filmmaker is simply saying Be careful what you wish for or maybe she saw no other alternative for her wishful protagonist than to experience the ultimate sex/death scenario. Beyond the feelings that this climax generates, what precedes it is a painstaking and honest portrait of youthful angst and sexuality. Bravo to Breillat for having the courage to charter this territory and never letting her singular vision be compromised. "}{"Title":"Suddenly, Last Summer","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Catherine Breillat's Fat Girl (2001) is an astounding movie that provides uncompromising and unblinking look at the relationship between two teenage sisters, and their first sexual experiences. The older sister, 15 years old Elena, has no problems attracting boys' attention and sexual desire and while on the family vacation, she meets an older, more experienced boy, who will say and promise anything to seduce her. There are two long, thorough and uncomfortable scenes of seducing Elena that take place in the girls' bedroom with the younger sister, 12 years old Anais, the fat girl of the title not quite asleep. Breillat remembers well what the hell it is to be a teenager, to be confused, frustrated, to think low of yourself, to be ready to enter the world of sexual relationships, to be ready for love, for intimate closeness and to pretend that you don't care about them at all. She also looks closely and with none a gram of sentimentality into siblings' and parents &#150;daughters relationship. The scenes of cruelty and contempt the older sister treats the younger one alternate with rare but poignant moments of tenderness and understanding. Breillat takes us to places we don't go often and we don't want to go but they exist. If you've seen Brellat's movies already, you know that her outlook is not particularly happy, optimistic, or sentimental but Fat Girl will shock you as very few movies can. Just when you think that the movie is over and despite the disappointments, embarrassing revelations, and shameless manipulations, live goes on and has so much to offer, Breillat presents you with the final scene that is very difficult to watch and impossible to forget. It does not matter really if the final scene actually took place or was just a fantasy, just the dream projected on the screen. "},{"Title":"heterosexuality in a mess","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Devastating portrait of heterosexuality in a mess. A holiday romance between an beautiful virgin and a bland seducer is anatomised to show every twist and turn of the manipulations involved when a boy tries to get his dick inside a Romantically-inclined girl. The relationship begs many questions, not least why heterosexual sex needs to be conducted under the cloud of subterfuge. All of this is witnessed by the girl's overweight younger sister, a heretic against society's body fascism who carries not just excess body fat but a cynicism about men and relationships which belies her age to a frightening degree.The long central sex scene in the sisters' shared bedroom is painful and authentic, with a morbid humour. The adults in the film - a workaholic bourgeois father, his neurotic wife and the blowzy Italian mama of the boy who indulges in over-dramatic posturing, suggest that the troubled teens have little but hypocrisy and pathology to look forwards to in adulthood.At the end of the film, something truly shocking and horrible happens, after a long and hair-raising driving sequence as terrifying as anything in Duel. The ending is contentious and a deliberate non-sequitur. It seems to be suggesting that the truth about male/female sexuality is a murderous fury from the male end combined with a retreat into self-protective emotional catatonia in the female. A film which has been a social comedy-drama turns into a transgressive fantasy, and the effect leaves a very nasty taste in the mouth, not least because some of the possible readings involve the younger girl both willing and needing the event to happen in order to liberate her from the prison of her family and the oppressive beauty of her sister. "},{"Title":"pretentious and pointless","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" a true portrait of some incredibly immature people you can't possibly come to care one bit about, who flop from one impulse or random surface emotion to another, lie to and absent-mindedly manipulate each other, with loads of prurient underage sex that adds nothing to the story, and a supremely lazy ending that i wish like hell i could get out of my memory. if you want to believe the above reviewers who say it's all poignant and intimate and all that, well go right ahead and see it. but when you hate the vicious ending and can't get it out of your head ever and it gives you the creeps every time you think of it, well, i did try to warn you. i've seen a couple of her films (this will be the last ever), and she seems to take a very schizophrenic delight in openly wallowing in the permissive/sordid lives of her characters, only to kill them out of nowhere, ultimately an incredibly dull moralizing prudishness masked as curiosity. maybe this smelled like a big windup to some big revelation to her, but to me it just stunk. "},{"Title":"Better than expected tale of adolescent sexuality","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Directed by the 'controversial' Catherine Breillat (she showed a hard-on in her last movie, 'Romance'), the story revolves around a family on holiday with two adolescent sisters, the chubby 13 year old Anaïs (played by Anaïs Reboux) and the rather more svelte Elena (Roxane Mesquida) who is two years her senior, although rather less mature. Both girls are still virgins, although Elena is clearly aware of the power of her beauty over the opposite sex. Effortlessly she pulls Italian law student Fernando (Libero De Rienzo, with whom she begins an intense relationship. Fernando talks of love, but is obviously keen for sex. Poor Anaïs is unfortunately sharing a room with the pair as they fumble towards a deflowering. Indeed, this is one of the most beguiling scenes in the movie; you feel awkward bearing witness to what is going on - the constant demands of Fernando for 'a demonstration of love', which after refusals brings forth the sorts of coercing phrases regarding anal sex that so many girls must dread to hear. The animosity is often intense between the sisters, Anaïs' bitterness towards her sister combined with a resigned maturity that only rejection and frustration can breed. But at the same time there are wonderful scenes of the two sharing sisterly moments; albeit with bile never far away. The point is well made, the bond is there, no matter how much of a bitch Elena can be. Anaïs is such a lost, sad character; the melancholic beauty of one scene on the beach where she is singing to herself whilst Elena and Fernando 'make out' is incredible. Also well portrayed is the relationship with the parents. Mother is very much like Elena; Father is a workaholic who hates holidays and returns home before the others. Although the parents are mostly secondary in the story, you sense that they tend to reinforce Anaïs insecurities and knock her down further. This is exemplified in the scene the morning after the first Elena & Fernando night together. Anaïs is clearly really low, crying and choked. Her parents offer zero warmth, the only solace coming from a still caustic Elena shoving bread into her mouth to comfort her. The story climaxes as the sisters and their mother return home from their holiday, after a gloriously comic scene where Fernando's mother (Laura Betti) visits to reclaim a precious ring that he had given to Elena as an engagement ring. The journey toward home is fantastically shot; the claustrophobia of motorway driving - especially since the mother doesn't like driving, and is pretty p****d at Elena's antics and Anaïs' miserableness - metaphoring the unease between the three, even more so as night wears on and mother becomes more wary of the huge dangerous lorries that she overtakes incautiously on the freeway. If I was an absolute ponce (or totally fearless), I would say these trucks are a metaphor for the male predatory sexuality against the tiny feminine car (which still manages to nimbly overtake at will most of the time). But I'm not (?), so I won't. Anyway, the ending comes as a huge shock. So I'm not going to tell you it. But safe to say you don't leave the cinema with a laugh and a giggle. Overall, I was actually surprised by how deep this story was; there was only one gratuitous erection, and even that was covered by a condom. A brave attempt to analyse adolescent female sexuality, often leaving an unplesant taste in the mouth, but well worth a go if you're in the mood. "},{"Title":"The brilliant, amazing Catherine Breillat....one of her best films, and one of the greatest films ever made about sex...","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I adore Catherine Breillat. Her films really get at the core of the war (and it's a war) between men and women. Gone is any trace of silliness and sentimentality. This film, Fat Girl (aka For My Sister) was the first film of hers I saw, and it's still a favorite. The film centers around 2 sisters, one seductive and one slovenly and fat, yet the fat one seems to know what's going on better than her (at least physically) more attractive sister. The scenes where an Italian suitor tries to seduce the attractive sister are difficult to watch, because they have so much truth in them. Many people dislike Breillat's film intensely, usually American critics. Mind you, the critics of Breillat's films aren't the usual, religious fundamentalists. They are usually educated, liberal critics who are supposed to be open minded, but seems to shut down their minds when reviewing Breillat's films. They take scenes out of context (like right wing fundies do when they criticise films they don't like), and start attacking Breillat herself, instead of looking at her work. She's been compared to the Marquis de Sade, not in terms of S/M sex, but in the tone of her work regarding relationships (many people have never read de Sade. His work is about much more than bondage). Watching interviews with her is as fascinating as her films. Her films are very bleak and cynical, yet there is more truth in one frame of Fat Girl (and Breillat's other work) than in an entire season of Sex and the City (I would have loved to see her as special guest director on Sex and the City. It would have been the best episode), or many American films that are pretending to be edgy about sex, but in fact end up being childish. Many people dislike the ending of this film, saying it doesn't fit in with the rest of the movie. The ending fits in perfectly with the tone of the film (and of the character it most affects). I think the ending is so unique that many people just can't accept it. This (along with Anatomy of Hell) are amongst the best of her films. To have a filmmaker as perceptive as her in this day and age is something we should all be grateful for. See Sex is Comedy as well. It's a companion piece to this film. Brilliant Breillat. "},{"Title":"Black and Bloodless at the Same Time...","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Is this art? Hey, you tell me. First of all, IMHO, a story/film doesn't need to qualify as art to be enjoyable. Second of all, like Bill Sampson says in my beloved All About Eve, What book of rules says that theatre exists only within some ugly buildings crowded into one square-mile of New York City? Or London, Paris, or Vienna? Wherever there's magic and make-believe and an audience, there's theatre. Even if it's not theatre to you, it's theatre to someone - somewhere. (paraphrase) Well, there sure as heck ain't magic here.There is an excellent scene where 13-year old budding misanthrope Anais, full of the passion-bloom of early adolescence and the fairy-tale imagination of childhood, swims back and forth in the pool, picturing herself as the desired object of two dream lovers. I also liked the fact that Anais is already light years ahead of her 15-year old sister in the brains department. However, a good scene does not a good movie make.The shame is &#x96; it might have made a very good story. What could have been a pitch-perfect, pitch-dark comedy/horror about sibling rivalry, middle-class ennui and the treachery of some young men somehow turned into a nihilistic mishmash of implausible dialogue and uneven tone.It's interesting to me, a rampant film freak, that I have no blanket objection to the controversial subject matter/images of the film, but to the movie's tone and execution itself. Child rape? Hey, I found B*****d out of Carolina hard viewing, but an excellent film. Miserable adolescence? Dawn Weiner, we salute you. Men can be scum? Hello, and welcome to the Company of Men. (Man, Aaron Eckhart scared me off dating for YEARS with that one.) Ultra-violence, ahoy? A Clockwork Orange &#x96; gorgeousness and gorgeosity! The depiction of twisted sex and the dark roads it can lead its characters &#x96; and us &#x96; down? Why not try Don't Move with Penelope Cruz? A film wants to be controversial? I'm all for it &#x96; I consider free speech one of my greatest privileges and I don't condone censorship.But this &#x96; alas. Watching it, I couldn't help but remember a quote from the quirky NYC comedy Jeffrey &#x96; Evil is one-note. It bores me. IMHO, this is darkness and mire without shading, dimension, satire, irony or much of anything original to say.This is a movie that would probably like to believe it's as quirky, sharp and sardonic as Anais actually is. Unfortunately, it's as trite, pasty and insipid as her snarky older sister is. Anais deserves another &#x96; better &#x96; story, as do the viewers.No matter how slim the selection of your local movie mart, there are so many more comedies, tragedies and romances that deserve your time. If you happen to see this on the shelf, why not give it a polite nod&#x85;and then keep walking? Your schedule &#x96; and your wallet &#x96; will thank you.** Please also read Shinwa's insightful comments from 2002 &#x96; an excellent post! "},{"Title":"Be careful with what you wish for.","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Catherine Breillat's Fat Girl is another one of those European coming-of-age films where two friends/relatives, one more sexually active than the other, spend a summer vacation in a beach resort. This time, it's two sisters Fifteen-year old Elena (Roxana Mesquida, who appears to be younger) is the oldest and wishes to loose her virginity with someone she loves. Her younger sister is a innocent and chunky twelve-year old Anais (Anaïs Reboux) who would rather experience sex with a complete stranger. Both of them get their wishes.Most of the film takes place inside the girls' bedroom, where Elena's slightly older Italian lover Fernando (Libero de Rienzo) hops through the window occasionally at night. The fact that Anais' bed is in the same room doesn't stop them from experiencing sex in front of her, who watches them in curiosity, as well as repugnance.Similar to the bedroom scenes in Breillat's previous film, the dreadful Romance X, these are actually some of this film's strongest aspects. They last for quite a while, and they actually feel like one single scene. Unlike other films with strong sexual content, Breillat never switches on the porno mode, making the scene seem like one single unbroken piece.Briellat's films are famous for having graphic depictions of sex but Fat Girl uses a more subtle approach. While we do see the couple naked, the camera never lingers into the bodies, it is all filmed in one take. And not much of it is shown, Breillat leaves it to our imagination by filming Anais' reaction to it all, and only allowing us to hear the encounter. Alejandro Amenabar used a very similar trick in Thesis, where sound would allow us to imagine the snuff film's brutal murders.The two sisters' relationship is a far cry from what one would expect. If you are waiting for constant whining and shouting between them, you will be disappointed. While they do argue, they are for most of the time friendly with each other. Little scenes like the family's visit to a mall, or when they talk in bed together, are what make this film special. In the end, they are best friends and do love each other, despite their differences and arguments.Many people have criticized Breillat for negative portrayal of men in her films. Lorenzo is indeed a narrow-minded opportunist who is only seeking to take Elena's virginity, but no other character in the film is very positive either except for the title character. Elena is so naïve that at times she could be the protagonist of a Lars Von Trier tragedy, and the mother (Arsinée Khanjian) doesn't really know how to handle the situation near the end. One must give actress Anais Reboux credit for making her character adorable, when many other characters could have failed to cross the from innocent and cute to annoying borderline.Similar to Takashi Miike's Audition, Fat Girl goes from a slow drama to very disturbing horror near the end. Many people have criticized the ending but I am one of the defenders. ***SPOILERS*** It is very hard to believe the events in the conclusion were real. Like Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver, I stand by the theory that it all takes place in poor Anais' imagination, nothing but a twisted fantasy on how it would have all come full-cycle. In less than a minute, both girls have their wishes come true. Elena gets both her and her mother killed, just like she said in a road-stop, and Anais looses her virginity to a complete stranger, somehow. I would also like to mention the window-shattering moment has to be one of the most surprising moments in cinema in the last years. It comes out of nowhere, and will make you jump more than any other cheap scare tactic used in many lame horror films these days. ***END OF SPOILERS*** One of the best, and darkest, coming-of-age films you will ever encounter, Fat Girl is essential viewing to anyone who likes the genre. Great acting, superb cinematography, and well-handled direction by one of France's most daring filmmakers. "},{"Title":"Faces of Death IV  Supercilious French Movie","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is a reasonably well-acted and interesting movie here up until the shocking and grotesque final sequence. Further, make no mistake that the grotesque nature of this sequence alone is not the source of my criticism. For example, the violent scene in La Historia Oficial is quite jarring and cruel, but perfectly appropriate and powerful... in short, necessary. Saving Private Ryan is another example of over-the-top grotesquery and intimate violence that did not feel gratuitous. This movie does not accomplish anything near the seamless integration of these examples.While I understand the role of the rape of the fat girl and would consider it powerful in isolation, the scene as a whole is powerful only as an exemplar of superfluousness. In fact, it seems to me that the tacked on violence does considerable damage to the painstakingly constructed emotion of the rest of the film. What can the viewer surmise from the juxtaposition of such graphic and senseless murder with the deceitful theft of an innocent girl's virginity but that the latter is natural, fairly harmless and ultimately insignificant? Is this meant to cheer up the jilted teenagers of the world by emphasizing that worse things can happen? Is it meant to liberate women from society's emphasis on their virginity? Either way the extended shot of a young girl's cracked skull and oozing brain does not seem necessary. Can I suggest that instead the fat girl should have been quietly raped while going to the bathroom at the rest stop and failed to report the crime? I think this would have been more powerful.Without the unnecessary obscenity, this is a thoughtful, interesting study of the bond of sisterhood, girls coming of age, alienation and sexual liberation, which I would give a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and disjointed","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's impossible to talk about this movie without mentioning the ending, so I've included one spoiler-free review for people who intend to see it. Do not read the second review if you are one of the latter category.SPOILER-FREE REVIEWThe less you know going into this movie, the better, but generally it deals with the complicated relationship between two adolescent sisters, one strikingly attractive and undergoing an initiation into adult sexuality via a persuasive and manipulative law student (but I repeat myself), the other overweight and cynical, observing her sister's experiences with alternating envy and contempt. It's pretty turgid going for the most part, and its treatment of sex leaves one a little queasy, but contains some memorable characterization and at least one very startling twist in the narrative that make it ultimately worthwhile. Rest assured you will be wide awake when you leave the theater.SPOILERS GALOREI was really very tired of this movie by the time the final sequence came around. I found the dialogue overwritten (and overabundant) and the characters undeveloped, and the whole thing dragged itself along at a maddeningly slow pace. The actors are brave, and they do the best they can under Breillat's incessantly voyeuristic gaze which, if nothing else, evoke the carnality and emotional maelstrom of adolescent sexuality quite well (despite the aforementioned leaden dialogue), but in such a clinical and dispassionate way that one feels bad for the actors not because of the explicit nudity and sexuality, but because the inertness of the presentation sucks up all of their emotions and makes you feel as if you're watching the characters through a cage. This is not necessarily a bad thing, but it's very uncomfortable to sit through.THEN comes the final sequence, presaged only by a vaguely ominous long highway driving sequence that carries on for several minutes, perhaps so that the audience will sympathize with the characters and nod off. It has previously been established that the mother is not used to driving, and the trucks bearing down on her at top speed suggest that a car accident is in the cards. Instead, they pull of the highway, and the audience relaxes. And then comes as shocking an explosion of violence as I can recall seeing in any movie.In the context of all that comes before, it feels like a cheat, and my first impression was to say, What a gimmicky cop-out. But it can't help but stay with one, and I am hard pressed to find a film that reproduces as effectively the shocking suddenness of death, which often DOES come out of nowhere as it does here. It's a shattering, nightmarish and profoundly disturbing scene, which trivializes all that comes before it (although much of it seemed pretty trivial to begin with). The coda vitiates the impact somewhat (it's implausible and considering what came before, leaves a bad taste in one's mouth), but without this final sequence I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone I know. Breillat pulls it off with a flourish, but between her calculatedly callous treatment of the characters, her tedious dialogue and the fact that as effective as the ending is, it is still a gimmick, I have some reservations in extending more than modest praise. "},{"Title":"Awful.","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the movies I could easily rate as one of the most hateful movies of all time. I saw it some time ago on TV, as the last thing on that day, so, luckily, it couldn't spoil much of the rest of my day.But I imagine myself what would have been had I seen this on big screen, having paid for it. I think I would have asked myself Did I really need to see this ? Worst thing is it doesn't get that bad, to make you walk out on it, until the last few minutes, but, when it gets bad, it gets obnoxious.I wonder what made the director want to do this movie, then, I remembered that this species of film directors exist for quite some time, who want to stir controversy at all costs, and who live on the hype, and not on the money their movies make.Having said all that I think that this movie could have been saved at least partially, if that last sequence of events had been set only in the imagination of the young girl. All the movie is about the build-up of hate from the main character towards her sister (and her mom, for her indifference), so I could have understood it. But then the director said Well, let's make it real. Just for shock's sake. I bet every film critic will have something to say about this.1* (because 0 is not an option on IMDb, unfortunately). "}{"Title":"interpretation excellent theme, lackluster presentation","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  spoilers, interpretationI really like the ideas behind this movie. First of all there is the traditional view of virginity as sacred. When the guy is trying to have sex with this underage girl in the beginning, we're supposed to feel horrified that she is falling for his obvious lies. No! your virginity is too important! Don't do it! Personally I felt that a bit too much time was spent on this seduction because I'm more inclined towards the modern view that sex is just physical interaction. Luckily, fat girl realizes this. There is nothing sacred about sex itself, it's the emotional bonds related that are important. Hence fat girl realizes there is no substantial difference between anal sex and vaginal sex. Saving yourself, your virginity, by simply having anal sex is just absurd. So fat girl is not going to save her vagina for someone she loves, but her emotional attachment. Skinny girl's anal sex is equated to fat girl's rape. Both are seen as pseudo-sexuality that must be gone through in order to reach true loving sexuality. Skinny girl may have reached this true sexuality in the future, but abstaining from vaginal sex does nothing to promote this. Fat girl has to lose her virginity in order to reach authentic sex because as a virgin guys cannot get past objectivitifying her as a thing to be conquered. Only after can she have true sex. Skinny girl thinks that anal sex doesn't count but really it's the first sexual encounter that doesn't count. So when fat girl embraces her raper and then denies that it was rape, she is personifying this idea. The rape fit in perfectly and was an excellent ending. So the idea is great, it's just the presentation that gets in the way. The skinny/fat juxtaposition is nice. The literal comparison highlights the sexual differences Skinny girl's religious views of sex and Fat girl's secular views. So it works when we see so much effort put into stealing Skinny's girls virginity. She is building up the purity of sex for Fat girl to destroy it in the end. Overall I think that the building up is just too drawn out. It takes three fourths of the movie and just gets old. Besides the scene when Fat girl kisses poles in the pool and singing her prophetic songs, there isn't much creativity. There's not much to give interest to the underlying ideas. Another problem is the Hollywood murder ending. There is no real reason for killing off mother and sister. This was done to put Fat girl in the position to get raped. A more fitting ending would have been for her to sneak out when mother and sister are asleep in order to investigate this trucker. It works because prior when the truck drove by and she saw all the sex items in the window her curiosity was aroused. She should then have gone out and still gotten raped. This way we stick to the main themes and discard the superfluous melodrama. So besides a few problems in plot, this was a good movie thematically. It's just the lackluster presentation that made me give it a six. I don't plan on ever seeing this movie again, though I had fun interpreting it.   "},{"Title":"Going on a crash diet","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Catherine Breillat, the director of this film, knows how to provoke an audience with her risky themes. A ma soeur is a more disturbing film than the other director's movies, which we have enjoyed. Miss Breillat presents us an overweight teen ager who shows signs of low self esteem. To make matters worse, her sister, who is an attractive and slim girl, shows a cruel strain toward her sibling.We find the two sisters during a summer vacation. The two girls are so different that logically, we feel bad for the poor fat sister, who obviously, is at a disadvantage. The pretty sister has no problems attracting boys; she has no problems taking the one she likes to bed, while her sister listens to all what's going on in the room. This is cruelty beyond imagination.Miss Breillat shows courage in presenting this thorny account about sexual awakening. The only thing that feels out of place is the long sequence at the end of the film, which comes out of nowhere and leaves the audience stunned, as proved by the people that flocked to read the review posted on the lobby of the Lincoln Plaza cinemas, as many viewers obviously had trouble understanding the film.Those last minutes of the film seem endless and proved nothing more than perhaps a director who ran out of ideas and didn't know where to take the story, therefore the ending that will disappoint even those avid Breillat's fans. "},{"Title":"Food and Sex","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fat Girl opens with a scene depicting the sister Anais, 13, and Elena, 15, walking to town from their vacation how to get a drink. At first it appears as a seemingly innocent scene until their conversation is overheard. Of course, the topic is sex. While this topic is nothing new for teenagers going through the difficult years of puberty, what strikes the viewer is that the conversation goes far beyond mere curiosity. Elena, slim and pretty, has already engaged in a number of amorous activities besides actual penetration and Anais, overweight, plain, and deadpan, while still a virgin, is convinced that she wants her first sexual encounter to be with someone that she does not love so that she will be broken in for the man that she will one day love. This conversation devolves until Elena challenges Anais to see who can get a boy first.Arriving at a small outdoor café, an Italian university student invites to Anais and Elena to sit at his table with him. Anais is quick to sit beside the student, whose name is Fernando, but is ordered to stand by Elena. Fernando assures the girls that it is perfectly alright to sit with him and Elena quickly takes the seat next to him and soon, after ordering some refreshments and making small talk the two are kissing. Because of her beauty and character, Elena's parents made a rule that Anais must be with her at all times away from the vacation home, but Elena is quick to abandon her sister for a short getaway with her new boyfriend.Later in the film, after sharing a meal with Elena and Anais and their parents, Fernando sneaks into the vacation home and puts the move on Elena and she is more than willing to do anything for Fernando outside of intercourse. On this point, Fernando's demeanor changes and he tries to convince Elena to give herself to him as a proof of love because if she does not he will have to go off and find another woman which he does not want to do because he loves her. To appease Fernando, Elena consents to another route of intimacy which leaves her feeling ashamed, but Fernando assures her that it was beautiful and a proof of her love for him. During this entire process, Anais has been watching the young couple. She was not spying on them per se because the activities were taking place within the bedroom that she shares with her sister. More mature than her amorously inclined but naïve older sister, Anais can see that things are leading to disaster.Always a controversial director because of her filmic depictions of sexuality that borderline on the pornographic, some would say dive right into the pornographic, Breillat delved into new ground and faced even more controversy because of its depictions of underage sexuality. However, the sexual acts depicted in the film are not meant to titillate but to make the viewer feel uncomfortable, because it is one of the few films that reflect the suffering of a young girl who has been suckered by a man she loves, she is already talking to Fernando about getting married which he fully supports to reach his goal, and the damaging effects that it has. Also, the film does a wonderful job depicting children who grow up too quickly and the highly uncomfortable situations that it can create. The scenes depicting the drive home are almost exhausting because of the high sense of tension that they create.While I cannot recommend Fat Girl to everyone, I can recommend it to film viewers who want to delve into a film that depicts sexuality, especially on the part of the male, at its mot base and the resulting psychological and sociological effects that it has. "},{"Title":"Undone by ending","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I understand that a film dealing with issues of female virginity - especially when the women involved are as young as the girls in this movie - can and indeed should be more than light entertainment. That said, I did not care for this movie. It's not the subject matter or the subetext or the mode of presentation that got me; it was the cruel, moralistic, judgmental tone taken by the director. Dynamics between the characters were compellingly and interestingly explored the sisters' antagonism, and moreso the contrast of one brilliant scene in which they convince us all that they do love each other, the older sister's interaction with her parents, which was realistically one sided and antagonistic (she is a teenager after all). Even the wrenching scenes of her lover's manipulation of her were well-acted and occasionally subtle. Having to listen to her being sodomized, however, was unnecessary. It was the sort of shock technique that betrays a director's contempt of her audience We understand that his manipulation of her is evil beyond words, and we hate him enough. As the scene descends from the quiet politics of (basically) a man trying to rape an unexperienced, lovesick girl into a series of shrieks and abrupt grunts (all the while we stare into the uninterested face of the Fat Girl of the American title), it's not in-your-face realism, it's just bathos. Then there's the ending. The director spends an hour creating interesting character dynamics, a tense conflict between a young girl whose desires conflict with her own best interest but is too young to understand it, her sister who is forced to grow up under the influence of this person, and her mother who is confounded by the whole affair, and then decides to end it with a murderer with a hatchet. Yes, the scene is thematically resonant All the characters get exactly what they want. The older sister gets to die along with her mom, and the younger sister gets to lose her virginity to a man who means nothing to her. So that's what the movie is? The director saying Be careful what you wish for? Obviously, a director has an obligation to follow her or his muse; but that is no reason to revert to abject cruelty, both toward characters and the audience. Again, it's condescending We can see the moral issues at work in this situation, so why do we need a psychopath to reduce everything to an obvious moral absolute in the most unpleasant, brutal fashion possible? It's just annoying moralism on the director's part, punishing the characters for... something - while punishing the audience, apparently, for caring about the characters. And we do care about the sisters. They deserve a better movie. "},{"Title":"Story of two sisters is rather dull before it gets worse","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" (CONTAINS SPOILERS-The ending is discussed) Another stunningly strange film from Catherine Breillat, director of Romance, Anatomy of Hell and Real Young Girl.The plot concerns two sisters the older one, Elena who is about 14 or 15, and is thin and beautiful, and the younger,Anais, who is 12, is fat. While on vacation they meet a law student and Elena begins a dangerous flirtation with the young man. This quickly leads to several secret night time visits to the girls room as Anais watches her sister and her paramour. Tension grows between the girls as Anais longs for the affection that her sister is getting.I should state I'm not a fan of Catherine Breillat. I find her films shocking and silly. Clearly she's going for an effect, which she usually achieves, and which is usually dissipated by the the lack of anything behind it (to paraphrase some one famous she presents the obvious by way of the scandalous). Here for example we have several scenes of intimacy between Elena and her beau, which are filmed in long almost painful takes that simulate Anais watching from across the room. The scenes are edgy for what they are showing and uncomfortable since the girl involved is 14 or 15. (Anais is suppose to be 12. Though both seem older.) For me the scenes went from intriguing to uncomfortable to dull rather quickly as they seemed to just drag on. To me the scenes would have worked better had we gotten to know the two girls more at the start. Certainly a later scene where the pair shows affection for each other adds a great deal the relationship between the pair, but for me it was too late to affect the early sex scenes. Breillat also goes for effect when she has the mother drive the girls home and we have what seems like a two hour ride with the three women in the car moving in and out of traffic. Its grand foreshadowing and she builds tension for an event that never comes while at the same time keeping you sleepy enough that when the final bit comes you're completely unprepared.I have to tell you what that was but nothing that happens in the preceding 80 minutes prepared me for the unintentionally funny conclusion of this film. Many people find the sudden and shocking turn of events horrify and unnerving and the very end is, however what sparks that is simply very silly, and it was so out of left field, so bizarre, so ridiculous that the boredom of the long car sequence was sent packing as I doubled over in a fit of laughter. I can not and could not believe that anyone would do what Breillat does. Its a shock technique that doesn't belong in this film or a film like this which no doubt why so many people are horrified by it. Even if this were the sort of film that it might belong in, no one would do it as silly as here. What bothers me is that it leads up to a disturbing event that, and we should be really shocked and rattled to our core but for me it was wildly undercut in its power because what it took to get us there was so contrived and so ludicrous it runs the final bit.I don't know what deeper meaning was behind it all, certainly the rivalry between sisters and sexual longing and such,but I got no hidden truth, nothing I didn't know before. I'm sure it has something with Anais' statements about sex, then again it could be the most forceful statement of what many consider a slasher films morality, namely sex is bad. To be honest I had my cage rattled a bit, but to what end? Perhaps had I been a girl with a sister or two this might have meant something to me, but as it stands now its a dullish movie with a WTF ending.I'd leave this review there except I have to say something about the best thing in this film, namely the two girls the story revolves around. They are both stunning beautiful and damn fine actresses. The interplay between them is very real and I would love to see them paired up again, in a better film. To be honest they are so good that I will probably watch this again to see them interact (especially in the secrets scene) 4 out of 10 (I was tempted to say 5 out of ten but the ending really strikes me as too silly- a great moment-but for all the wrong reasons. I think the end is what sealed this films doom) "},{"Title":"An Artistic Vision that Can Confuse","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am a fan of foreign films for they go directly to areas that American Cinema dances around or softens sometimes just to make sure box office receipts wont be affected. Make no mistake, this film may offend, confuse but most of all make you discuss it's flaws or its potential brilliance. For me, its familiar to flawed.The first thing I have to point out that does add to the flaw is the American translation of the film's title. I am no French Language expert, but the translation of the title Fat Girl for American Audiences to the French words With My Sister means a lot to how one would interpret this film. The latter title is more fitting than the first - and that could be where those who see the film discover points of confusion.For me, it was a coming of age tale that involves two sisters on vacation with their parents - one sister pleasantly thin, the other, obnoxiously fat. The film takes great pains to make sure the viewer is aware of the fat and thin differences. But it also gives you a glimpse into the heart of female siblings, one of the only redeeming characteristics of this film for me.What comes between them besides food and the obligatory take your sister with you anywhere you go mandate is...a man. Nothing new here. Nothing new about this tale of coming of age of sexual discovery in female adolescence. And nothing new about the rivalry and jealousy between two sisters - be them fat or thin, younger or older on this subject. That interaction was clear and honest, and was the best part of the film for me.Where the film drops from that peak into something so questionable is the ending of the film that begs to ask the question - Why go there?. Is the director making a commentary on today's society as a whole? To make the viewer go back and look at the events of this family and how there wasn't any way for them to come to a conclusion of the events of this vacation other than this? Or was it for the viewer to pinpoint how ignored, alone and mentally abused this character was? This is something to talk about and discuss, I don't think with any clear endings albeit symbolic, abstract or spot on. Unnecessary...? Or more of an artistic license that is way over the top to make a small point?This is a film for all who view will see that everyone has an opinion. It's fine that film can do that, and I love when it does. But on the other hand, this is not a foreign film I would care to remember or recommend unless I tacked on the phrase ...if you have nothing else to see, check this one out. "},{"Title":"This is terrible","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I read the insert with this movie and the director said she had two stories she wanted to tell and it feels like it. The ending ruins the whole movie. It feels tacked on and shocking for the sake of shock. From the moment the women get in the car, you know something bad is going to happen to them, the story takes a dive and you just wait for the bad, which does happen.I can not tell you how sick I am of rape scenes, especially in French movies where the women end up embracing or encouraging their rapists. I also am not happy with the nudity of a 12-year-old girl and watching her get raped (with nudity involved) after seeing her family killed.For people who like this kind of mess and don't know of more French movies like this, please see I Stand Alone, Criminal Lovers and/or One, Two, Three, Sun. All with rape scenes where the rapist is embraced or the act is condoned and make you feel incredibly disgusting after seeing them. "},{"Title":"the confusion of  a young girl","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've enjoyed this picture because of the fine acting. For the main part it seems to be a family drama ,with some ironic touches,about the rivalry between two sisters , The oldest is fifteen and very attractive, the younger one is overweight and desperate to find ways to challenge her sister. There is rivalry concerning boys, but also concerning the attention of the parents. Nothing prepares you for the brutal last fifteen minutes of the otherwise slow moving story  a stranger attacks the mother and the older sister in their car, murders them, then takes the younger one into the woods and rapes her. The girl seems to undergo this ordeal in a docile way. Yet it is clear that we are watching murder and rape.The viewer is shocked and unprepared for this event  why is she reacting that way?Why does she declare to the police that it wasn't rape? But then one thinks back at the scenes where the older girl is seduced by her lover, in front of her sister who supposedly is sleeping...The young man persistently talks to the girl in his arms about love until she gives in to have sex with him, very reluctantly and crying.Is that what gives the other sister her ideas about love? That love and sex are undeniably linked with violence and pain? Breillat makes films about women and girls, and the way they react to the world  the men are merely there to make her (ambiguous) point. "},{"Title":"Sex and the fat girl!","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In her movies the director does not intend to shock you, but reveals the harsh ugliness of the human condition via the power of sex that leads all to temptation &#150; and destruction. In A Ma Soeur! we see the slow torturous disintegration of the title character via the relationships with the elder sibling and parents. On top of that she has the anti-social disease, being FAT. With everything against her, this poor creature endures humiliation right down to the final blow. It's never pretty in a Catherine Breillat movie, but it at least is brutally honest in every way. What hit home for me was the depiction of teenagers and their approach to sex. It reminded me of my puberty phase in life, where sex was seen as a cruel instrument for which to punish with and also to abuse for one's own gratification! "},{"Title":"Fairly good film, but............","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well, I am not sure why director made the decisions she did regarding the last 15 minutes of the film. She seems to have taken a page out of Claude Chabrol's textbook, which may have been a good thing but here it feels rather forced. The film seems to be a Last Tango in Paris for teenagers, as a young man from Italy takes up with a French girl who has a love/hate relationship with her fat sister (the title character). As Brando did with Maria Schidner, the Italian guy uses the word 'love' to exploit the girl sexually. The good acting makes the film work, until the part I have qualms. I am not sure the credit fully belongs to the director, but like Larry Clark's Kids, the result is a profound statement about the cruelty of adolescence. We certainly empathize with the title character, and therefore it is harder to accept certain aspects of this film. The film is one of several French films in recent years with a brutal, pessimistic tone, including The Dreamlife of Angels and demonlover. This film is far better than the director's awful mess Romance. I can see why some people either really admired or loathed this film. Objectively, no one can take away from the great acting and solid cinematography and for that reason I choose to give it 3 stars as opposed to 2 and a half. "}{"Title":"Sets Us Aside","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Brelliat drives me a little crazy. She is an observer of one small corner of life and seems incidentally a filmmaker. You get different editions of her observations on the distance of young sex across which we throw ropes.So the question is which is the best and whether each one that follows adds something new, worthwhile.The best to my mind was A Real Young Girl of thirty years ago. It had an honesty that everything subsequently lacks. By this I mean you could feel the filmmaker's emotions quite apart from whatever was happening on screen.What we have here are two scenes. The first is hugely promising a pretty girl loses her virginity while witnessed by her much younger sister. Drawn out circling of the boy. Set up in a way that we share in the discomfort as witness and some of the charm of the situation. We are seducer, voyeur, victim.Brelliat knew this well enough to build a whole different movie about the nature of this voyeurism, Sex is Comedy. You need to see the two together to get the folding.The problem with Brelliat is that she has these emotional insights and she can pose scenes. But she has no skill at all in seeing the larger shape of the narrative. She doesn't understand the long form and the structure of a story. Lacking this, we get only scenes, and here we have only two. The second one is brutal, as if the first demanded the second.The only thing to recommend this is the effect you get from watching the first scene. You quickly realize that because you are watching, you are part of the damage she sketches.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"An inhuman film","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film suffers from the skewed view of human nature that infects much of European film, and indeed western culture.  The sisters in this film are reduced to their sexual natures.  We view them only through their sexual desires, the other aspects of their personalities are glossed over and subsumed into these sexual desires.  Many have stated that this film is real, but I have to disagree.  I do not think that teenagers are solely the selfish, sexualized beings depicted here.  A few are, and their hormones are certainly raging, but they cannot be reduced to their sexuality.  This film depicts teenagers the way many western intellectual elites want them to be, not the way they really are.  The sisters' natures are one-dimensional.I Anais' actions and reactions at the end of the film to be totally unrealistic.  I cannot imagine a 12 year old girl behaving that way in that situation. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This latest French foreign film to hit North America is a small offering and only certain serious movie goers who frequent films or just art house cinema, will seek it out.  However, this may all change for 2 reasons1) It is a brilliant film, and2) It has already been banned in certain places.À ma seour tells the story of 2 young girls a 15 year old named Anais and her overweight younger 13 year old sister Elena.  Anais is a beautiful young girl who is very experimental towards the opposite sex.  We are introduced to Anais and Elena (who always follows her older sister around behind her like some miscast), when they start talking about what it means to loose their virginity.  Its understandable to see how young people dive into this arena, but director Catherine Breillat gives a straight approach no holds barred truth adaptation into the confusion and heartache that young woman go through, instead of a hollywood formulaic film.  Anais immediatly meets a young Italian lawyer at a cafe with her sister, and within 5 minutes of meeting him they are making out.  Elena sits across from the table eating a banana split, and you can feel her jealousy across the screen.  Many times Anais even insults her about how she is always eating, and following her around like some pathetic dog. But Elena has more to be spiteful than just being ridiculed, Elena wants to be the attention of men and loose her virginity too.It is this inbetween rivalry that the film bases its story on.  With that, the film intercuts Anais' permiscuity with the older law student, he sneaks into her bedroom and tries to swoon Anais into giving her virginity away while Elena pretends to be sleeping in the same room, but watching everything.  Of course the parents aren't involved in their kids life, they're more of a distraction than something they should be taking care of let alone discussing sex.  In the end Anais's first experience is what the majority of women feel for the first time, bad, confusing and hurtful. Elena is too smart for her age to already know this herself, and tells Anais that the only way she will want to loose her virginity is to a man who she doesn't love and will never see again.The acting between these 2 girls is just pure beauty.  We see them fight, talk about old times when they were younger, and it doesn't even seem like they are even actresses, they really seem like sisters sharing all their intimate feelings and thoughts.  This movie should have been released with the appropriate direct translation just to give justice to these 2 young actresses.  In the end, a horrible tragedy (or perhaps its a fitting end) occours, and the viewer is left astounded.This movie is a serious work of art, and so wonderful in telling a tale of 2 young women.  This film is also going to be very difficult for some people to swallow, because it is so real to life and does not sugar coat its reality.  If anything many people may not even be able to stomach it this is NOT a film for the weak at heart who would rather be entertained by a sentimental half-baked paint by numbers script and characters.  It is nonetheless a movie that left me extremely pleased with the magic of cinema.Now, there are people who are wanting to ban this film.  This film has already been banned in the Canadian province of Ontario.  Some people are even comparing it to child pornography because it portrays the concept of minors having sex with adults.  If anything this film tells the real reailty of sex in youth.  It is all an empty shell and a distraction filled with meaningless, where emotions are tossed around like old clothes, and people get hurt and get a hard lessson in life.  If anything, the sex scenes are very ANTI-EROTIC..  And even more true to life this is not a porno film, it has something important to say and those looking for 'the money shot' will certainly be displeased and have to head elsewhere.  More importantly even though its great, what is being presented on screen is NOT REAL these are ACTORS!!  Certainly no porno film has people 'totaly' faking the act of sex.This film must be seen and I am so glad I did.Rating 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A criminally unseen drama to shock you raw","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Anaïs (Anaïs Reboux in her only acting role as of 2013) is the titular character in Catherine Breillat's Fat Girl (À ma soeur! being its original French title). A chubby twelve year old girl, who finds herself constantly browbeaten by her fifteen year old sister, Elena (Roxane Mesquida) while they are vacationing with their parents off the coast of France. Elena, unlike her sister, is thin, incredibly gorgeous, and possesses a beautiful body. A topic of discussion between the two young girls as they listlessly walk around the resort is their virginity and their relationships. Elena, while sexually promiscuous, holds the belief that your virginity should be taken by someone you love. Her younger sister, however, believes that you should your first time should happen just to happen and you should just get it over with.While walking, they meet a law student named Fernando (Libero De Rienzo), who immediately finds himself attracted to Elena. Not long after meeting him does Elena invite Fernando up to her room to talk. Fernando believes like Elena does - that sex should be something sacred and special - but he winds up convincing her to partake in anal sex instead, as vaginal sex is something that judges whether or not you still have your virginity.While it is questionable that Fernando actually believes what he is saying, we can see Elena's hesitation during the foreplay and the sex. We are well aware of her beliefs at this point in time, however, we can see that she has a common curiosity about sex so much so that she simply wants to see just how the act is performed and executed.This scene is one lengthy, naturalistic shot Breillat conducts in the room shared by Elena and Anaïs, boldly establishing real-time, mood, and discomfort just by the way the shot is framed, how long it lasts, and how the characters are placed inside the shot. Fernando and Elena are spooning, with Elena's nightgown on and her vagina and pubic hair clearly visible to the audience. Fernando continues to rub her stomach in a way that doesn't change Elena's blank, frustrated, and confused expression. She knows what she's doing is wrong but is overcome by understandable adolescent curiosity. Anaïs is laying in bed several feet away, closing her eyes and pretending her sister's innocence isn't being taken away in front of her.Fat Girl works well because it illustrates the sexual tendencies of the female and a believable sibling rivalry that is captured with surprising purity and tenderness. When Anaïs and Elena fight, it's nothing but believable. When the two talk quietly in bed it is also believable, almost as if they are real-life sisters. This is because Reboux and Mesquida are not only great screen presences but evoke relatable chemistry as young girls. This chemistry is what the entire film rests on, due to the fact that parents' roles are predicated off of disinterest and ignorance, leaving the girls to utilize each other for companionship and advice.It's a tough subject and Breillat doesn't sugarcoat it. Either she lived a grim reality similar to her characters or she has seen friends go through circumstances akin to Anaïs's and Elena's. Or perhaps she has her head inside a teenage girls' head. Perhaps she just has a deep resonance and an awareness to the sexual maturity of adolescent girls. If that's the case, it would be tough to communicate such a resonance, but Breillat finds ways to do so in Fat Girl that make the film an unsettling and often very consuming piece of work.Much has been made about the ending that is admittedly out of nowhere, able to shock the most hardened viewer raw because of its jolting nature, and implied to add ambiguity and an additional layer to the story. After several hours, where it has crossed my mind about every five minutes, I have not made up my mind on it. An amendment to the review will be made if I do. Perhaps it's a rare moment when an instance in a very great film happens that I'll never be able to define. Did I like it? Did I loathe it? Is it out of place? Does it derail the story? No matter the answer to the question, the previous seventy-nine minutes were still disturbing and well worth seeing.Starring Anaïs Reboux, Roxane Mesquida, Libero De Rienzo, and Arsinée Khanjian. Directed by Catherine Breillat. "},{"Title":"Very emotional movie. One to rent.","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fat Girl is a very different kind of movie. Anais is the fat girl of the movie and she loves to eat. She watches her beautiful sister Elena get involved with and get seduced by a suitor. All Anais wants is to lose her virginity too. When she makes out with an imaginary boyfriend in the swimming pool, it is heart-breaking. The actors are all stunning all around. The ending, like the synopsis said, is shocking and controversial. I think it is fitting because real life is never predicted. All the events and reasonings we are all lead up to are believable because Anais never hides who she is and what she wants. Fat Girl is a movie that was never seen by the masses but lucky it is now available on DVD. I would never want to watch it more than once, but I recommend everybody to see it at least once. "},{"Title":"A ma souer","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At first, Catherine Breillat's movie about sisterhood and sexual awakening appears to be one of those sophisticated French character studies in which nothing much happens throughout &#150; and for much of the film's brief running time, this is the case. However, having carried us along a familiar &#150; if somewhat darker than usual &#150; path, Breillat fashions a climax that is as violent and shocking as it is unexpected and cryptic. This climax, and the film's stark portrayal of teenage sex are the film's main talking points, and have perhaps served to earn it more of a reputation than it deserves; one can only speculate on Breillat's motives for choosing to end her film in a manner that is so at odds to the rest of the film's content. Sexy, vivacious Elena (Roxanne Mesquida) and plump, pasty Anais (Anais Pingot) are sisters who are polar opposites, both physically and emotionally. At fifteen, Elena is already the focus of men's desires; she has a highly naïve and romanticised view of sex and &#150; more specifically &#150; of how she wishes to lose her virginity she wishes it to be a declaration of and testimony to the love she shares with her partner. Anais, a couple of years younger than her sister, but far wiser and level-headed, would prefer to lose hers to a stranger, a man who means nothing to her, instinctively understanding that the physical act is less important than the emotional attachment of love. It has to be said that this is pretty adult thinking for a 12/13-year-old, but serves to demonstrate the differences between the sisters that leads to the events that follow. While on holiday, the sisters meet an older Italian boy, Fernando (Libero De Rienzo), and within minutes Elena and Fernando are swapping spit while Anais gorges herself on a banana split. One night, Fernando creeps into the girls' bedroom and, in a quietly devastating scene that is all the more powerful for its matter-of-factness, begs and cajoles Elena into having sex with him. Elena finally agrees to anal sex while Anais feigns sleep in the bed across the room. The following night, frightened of losing Fernando, Elena agrees to full sex. When their liaison is discovered, the girls' mother (Arsinee Khanjian) angrily cuts short their holiday, and the three embark on an ill-fated journey home. A Ma Soeur is a slow, deliberately paced film that takes the time to fully explore the relationship between Elena and Anais, and the ways in which each react toward their own burgeoning sexuality. The depiction of this relationship is one of the stronger, more believable, aspects of the film. Elena is, by turns, cruel and kind toward her little sister (although, apart from a wonderfully staged scene in which the sister's share an intimate moment recalling shared memories, all these displays of affection are either when the girls are alone, or to serve her own purposes), while Anais wastes no opportunity to remind Elena of what a bitch she is. Despite this, there is an unbreakable bond between the two girls that is acknowledged by neither of them. Anais' own sexual awakening is inspired by the approach of Elena's inevitable deflowering, and she bombards her older sister with questions, the answers to which fuel a smouldering resentment of her sister's looks, and the opportunities they afford her. Completing a classic vicious circle by turning to food for comfort, Anais resorts to fantasising about lover's tormented by her flightiness, mouthing soothing words to each of them as she swims back and forth between the diving board and the steps of a swimming pool.The deliberately un-erotic 'seduction' scene lasts for nearly twenty minutes, and is compellingly realistic as Fernando skilfully manipulates Elena into making a 'demonstration of her love' by using methods of persuasion used by most boys &#150; and heard by most girls &#150; at some point in their early adulthood. The trick here, though, is that, although she plays coy, Elena isn't really reluctant to make love to Fernando &#150; she just needs to be talked into it, to be persuaded by declarations of love that will fulfil her romantic juvenile fantasies. Despite what others may think, while this film may arguably be a feminist tract, it isn't anti-men &#150; it simply casts an unerringly accurate eye on the ploys and the self-deception we all employ in our pursuit of sexual gratification at that age. The jarring climax seems a strange choice on Breillat's part, although it can be argued that it resonates with the implications of views expressed earlier in the film by Anais. In fact, I first thought it was all part of some dark fantasy of Anais' until the final scene; but, as the camera freezes on her face, perhaps we are seeing that she believes she has achieved some kind of parity with her sister, has undergone her initiation and, having done so, can now concentrate on more meaningful pursuits.  And, then again, perhaps not. It's one of those ambiguous endings &#150; open to numerous interpretations - that the more cynical viewer may believe has been deliberately designed to provoke speculation and debate. "},{"Title":"A different kind of family film","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was shocked and in awe of this film. I rated it as one of the best films of 2001. The plot revolves around the relationship of two french sisters, both of whom are teenagers. The underlying theme of the film is the perception of society toward beauty and acceptance.There are moments where the attitude towards the larger sister, Anais, are hideous and hard to watch. This is juxtaposed with some wonderfully shot scenes. Most notably a scene on a beach where Anais tenderly sings to herself.As the film comes to a shocking end it's important to remember the comments on societies ideas of happiness and beauty. Things should never be so shallow. "},{"Title":"Another hard look at teenage sexuality by Breillat","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Unlike other French films that frequently delve into the subject of teenage love and sex this effort offers a more tougher (and at times realistic) viewpoint and ends up using violence to make a statement. The ending to this film has angered and confused many viewers and while I'm the first to say that it was probably unnecessary I still think this is something that should be viewed and talked about. Story is about two teenage sisters that are staying with their parents in a resort town while on vacation and while discussing the subject of losing their virginity they find out that they have opposite opinions. Elena (Roxane Mesquida) is 15 and very pretty and she wants to save herself for true love but her overweight 12 year old sister Anais (Anais Pingot) declares that she would rather it be to a stranger so that it will be over and done.*****SPOILER ALERT***** Elena meets 21 year old Fernando (Libero De Rienzo) who's a law student and he ends up sneaking into the two sisters bedroom at night for some fun but Elena tells him that she's saving her virginity although he still manages to talk her into two other forms of intimacy. Eventually Fernando does have intercourse with Elena but her mother (Arsinee Khanjian) finds out and gets very upset to the point that she cancels the rest of the vacation and pours her two daughters into the car so that they can drive back home. During the long drive Elena's mother is still fuming and tells her that they might have her inspected which would add to her humiliation but things unexpectedly turn tragic when the three of them are attacked while at a rest stop.Director Catherine Breillat has not only dealt before with the theme of exploring ones sexuality she's pretty much made her whole career out of it and she's always been a filmmaker that's been deemed controversial so I wasn't entirely shocked by the sudden ending. If one can (somewhat) try and forget the last 10 minutes they might remember that everything that came before it is actually pretty interesting starting with the fact that Breillat makes the younger sister the wisest of the two. Being a woman Breillat offers no sympathy to young female characters in her films since she understands their motives like the pretty Elena who want's love before sex but forces herself to believe Fernando's words and allows him to have his way. Breillat once again doesn't shy away from nudity in her films and here there is an extended sequence with Fernando and Elena in bed that lasts probably well over 15 minutes with the two of them naked as he seduces her and in case you were wondering...yes, that's a prosthetic penis he's wearing which explains his brief but horse hung appearance. Those who are confused by the ending might want to remember that Anais wanted to lose herself to a stranger not to mention that the assailant killed her pretty sister and chose to have sex with her instead but my question is did Breillat need that type of ending to make her point? I don't think so and you can't argue with those who hated it but I do think this is a thought provoking film that deserves not only a viewing but a tough discussion afterward. That's more than enough reason to recommend this and you have to respect any director who offers a challenge to it's audience which is what Breillat has been doing for some time. "},{"Title":"Disturbed and disturbing, confused and confusing...(POSSIBLE SPOILERS)","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film far more than I thought I would. Despite its somewhat slow build-up, this allows us space to breathe, to consider the relationships being shown, and I do think there was an honest emotional core to the film, the bond between the two sisters. I found the scene where they were lying on the bed giggling and chatting together incredibly moving and it had a real feel of truth to it. Some have commented that the older sister acts rather like an experienced prick-tease (in fact, she specifically claims she is not one in the course of the film)but I once again found her mixture of sexual curiosity, excitement, fear and uncertainty wholly believable. The sex scene, shot from Anais' point of view, with just the Italian guy's feet and ankles in shot, with a graphic soundtrack, was as hard-hitting as anything more explicit would have been. So, all in all, this was turning out to be an interesting movie with things to say about girls and coming -of-age - and then the ending forces you to reassess. I'm settling for seeing it as entirely a fantasy sequence, allowing Anais to escape her suffocating family situation and rid herself of her hated virginity. If we read this as a fantasy come true, however, then the rape becomes incredibly problematic - Breillat seems to be suggesting this is what Anais has wanted all along, she's wanted her sex scene too. The rape becomes a favour, allowing the 'fat girl' to prove herself as wanted as her slimmer sister. Satirical critique then teeters over into its own misogyny I'm afraid. A more damning indictment of French female neuroticism would be hard to find.    "},{"Title":"The Ending","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I disagree with previous commenters who said that the violent ending was gratuitous. It did seem to come out of nowhere, but it was foreshadowed. Actually, while I was watching it, I thought it was Anais's fantasy.I don't want to give anything away, but I thought it was significant that Anais said You won't hurt me rather than Please don't hurt me. (Actually, I didn't notice what she actually said in French, so I don't know if the distinction was the same as in the English subtitles.)I can't honestly say that I understand the ending, but I didn't think it was the result of the director running out of ideas. I believe it was intended. "}{"Title":"More superior than 'Romance' (some spoilers).","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This films' deceptively quiet, slow-moving pace never seems to prepare the viewer for its jolting, violent and completely unexpected ending, and even its reasonably explicit sexual content. The juxtaposition of these images seemed to create an uncomfortable feeling - we would not reasonably expect to see images like these in this style of film. But it is extremely effective, and seems more confronting than a film that depicts similar images in a more blatant and less subtle manner.The seemingly innocuous attention to irrelevant detail will either build an atmosphere of dread - that 'something' is about to happen - or will simply bore the viewer. It all depends on your sensibilities.Some of the films' content is provocative - it is French after all. Its depiction of the sexual intercourse and nudity of a 15 year old girl (Elena), and particularly the rape of the 12 year old girl (Alais) might test some people's level of tolerance. The cool and detached manner in which Alais was raped seemed more confronting than the violent depiction of the rape of a 10 year old girl in 'Bastard Out of Carolina' (1996). However, presentation of the rape was absolutely necessary. A sub-plot of this film was to compare the rape to the deceptive seduction, false intimate intent and pressure Elena's partner (Fernando) placed onto her, into submitting to him for the first time in what would superficially seem to be consensual intercourse. Never mind the fact that both girls were pre-occupied with losing their virginity. Weren't they both 'raped'?The film is a reasonably interesting, if somewhat detached foray into teenage sexuality, of the concept of internal and external beauty, and of sibling rivalry. Certainly worth a look, particularly if you enjoyed Breillat's earlier film, '36 Fillette'.     "},{"Title":"Shocking Film but Well Acted","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The dead eyes of the fat sister said it all I am not loved. I don't love myself. So when what happens to her sister and mother doesn't happen to her, of course she's relieved. The idea of two children being so distanced from their parents that one of them could make torrid love in the girls' bedroom without the parents hearing anything is amazingly believable in this day of mini-mansions.One child is promiscuous ..the other one eats anything phallic. Both emitting I am not loved signals, while clinging to one another. The continual insults and humiliations of the fat girl will make you cringe.If you know any parents emotionally neglecting their children due to their professional or social careers, insist that they see this one. And, for God's sake, never stop at a rest area here or in France to get some shut-eye. As the trucker told me, who had to stop on the way from Nashville with 4 children in the car because I was so exhausted, Too many people have been attacked here. Follow me to the next exit and always sleep at a convenience store with a lighted parking lot and people going and coming. I did, and was thankful.A movie that got more and more interesting, the longer it went on. "},{"Title":"A tale of seduction of a young Lolita followed by heartbreak and a shocking climax.","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really liked this one. It was so true to life. People concerned only about themselves. No sympathy for another. The cold harshness of reality.The film begins with a bet over who will lose there virginity first Elena 15 or Anais 12. Elena wants it to be someone who lover her Anais someone who doesn't care because he will only leave her anyway.The seduction of the 15 year old Elena while her sister Anais 12 listens is believable. Because she wont let him take her virginity the first night he persuades her to let him take her anal instead. Her screams of pain and his lustful gasps fill the room.Eventually he takes her and leaves her heartbroken.The family ride back at night. The feeling of emptiness of life. The photography superb. Builds up for the final climax which is very violent and shocking. The second sister gets her wish to have her virginity taken by someone who doesn't care about her. I was speechless for two hours after watching this film. It stunned me. It was haunting. "},{"Title":"Just another horror film?","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A ma souer (crudely re-titled Fat Girl) tells the story of Elena and Anais, two sisters only a few years apart in age. The younger, Anais, is overweight, miserable and lost in her own depressed world. Elena is slim and beautiful and just about realising her superior sexual status, if still a little girl at heart. Elena meets an Italian student on a family holiday, considerably older than her and he smooth talks her into sexual relations. These are undertaken in the sisters' shared bedroom, as Anais is forced to listen and watch. After a dispute with the student's mother, the family return home but a horrific incident intervenes.Many things in this are handled very effectively - The relationship between the sisters is psychologically very complex, and the young actors do great work in this respect. Anais' jealousy and self-loathing are vivid as she listens to her sister being talked into anal sex, then losing her virginity. The use of underage actresses does provoke some moral questioning, but Breillat just about stays on the balance between controversial and exploitative.The nighttime driving scene is filled with foreboding as the sisters' angst-ridden and exhausted mother is surrounded by lorries and speeding drivers on the motorway home, her lapses in concentration frequently bringing the possibility of an accident closer and closer. It's like one of those road safety educational shorts.Otherwise the film moves at a slow pace, favouring a detached, objective viewpoint. The acting seems precise and deliberate throughout, apart from one scene which is like a breath of fresh air, as the girls discuss their childhood amidst fits of giggles, apparently genuine!The ending? Let's just say the only vaguely satisfying way to understand it is by partly applying the sexual principles of the horror / slasher film genre. Except here, everyone is punished. A few very effective scenes, but in general not involving enough to provoke much interest in analysing the abrupt intriguing, frustrating, terrifying ending. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Incredible film!!!","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Fat Girl' is about two sisters who share a love-hate relationship while vacationing at a residential beach side in France. Elena(Roxane Mesquida), is 15, pretty with a thin and picture perfect body and the titular character, Elena's younger sister, Anais, played by amazing newcomer, Anais Reboux. Cute-as-a-button, 12-year old Anais has a weight problem that is exacerbated by a family that offers nothing. No understanding, no affection, no love or understanding to help build up the Anais's self esteem. Rosy cheeked Anais has already found her own way of dealing with her emptiness. Food. The movie begins with the two sisters walking to an outdoor café. There, the girls meet 20 something year old college student, Fernando(Libero De Rienzo)who's got his eyes on Elena. They sit with him and while Fernando and Elena start conversing, Anais is off in her own world devouring one of her favorite dishes. A banana split. Elena and Fernando immediately hit it off and start kissing despite the fact that they've only known each other for a few minutes. Fernando drives Elena back to the gate where Anais has to walk back. There's no doubt that Anais is the third wheel but must be with her sister at all times as that is the only way the parents will let them out.In the film's most touching scene, while Anais is swimming in the pool, she performs a soap opera like scene to herself when she chooses the ladder pole and dock leg from the pool as two men who she's in love with.Fernando sneaks into Elena's bedroom she shares with Anais (who's bed is right across the room). The two young lovers spend the night kissing and fondling each other while Anais pretends to be asleep. Deep down inside, we see that Anais wishes to be in her sister's shoes. Elena plays hard to get on the first night and claims she doesn't want to give up her virginity just yet to Fernando. The girls' father gets an unexpected call from work and he cuts his vocation short and leaves the mother with the girls. Fernando gives Elena an expensive antique ring that he steals from his mother claiming his love for Elena but it's very obvious it's just to get her in bed. Elena doesn't realize the scheme involving the ring and gives in. They both have sex while Anais hears it all only wishing it was her and not her beautiful sister. She cries in silence as jealousy along with the urge of wanting to be loved, overwhelm her. At this point you have to feel nothing but sympathy for poor Anais. It's like you can almost feel her feelings. All she wants is to be loved by anyone and feel the sexual desires her sister feels. But soon Elena's romance bubble is popped the moment Fernando's mother comes into her house the next morning demanding that she give the ring back. Fernando's mother shares a story about her son's trick into getting girls he's been with to get them to sleep with him. Elena's mother is shocked when she hears the news, gets embarrassed and decides to pack up and head back home with the girls. On their way back home, the mother pulls over to sleep off her exhaustion on a highway rest stop. Elena falls asleep too as Anais sits in the back chewing on some candy, thinking about everything. Within literally seconds into the scene, it takes a dramatic turn. A deranged stranger, after brutally killing her mother and sister, pounces on young Anais and although he doesn't kill her, he brutally rapes her. The scene was very difficult to watch. I really don't know how the young actress managed to do this difficult scene and pull it off so well with such meaning in her eyes. What makes the scene even more intense is that Anais begins to suddenly welcome the disgusting crime the man is inflicting on her body. The next morning, the police are investigating the murder scene and the bodies of the dead mother and sister. They find Anais in the woods where she denies that she's been raped and the movie ends there. After watching the movie a few times, I guess I can say that I see Catherine Breillat's point. Anais was desperate to lose her virginity. She denies the rape because she wants to feel that she gave her virginity away rather than face the truth that it was actually violently stolen from her. The rapist was an example of Anais's point although I'm guessing no one was expecting Anais's first time to be so violent and unexpected. All in all this film was very well made and I give all of the credit to young Anais Reboux who's courage and amazing talent, despite having no previous film experience, totally blew me away. I couldn't help but feel sympathy for her. I felt like giving Anais a big hug myself. I just hope her amazing talent doesn't go to waste and she stars in many future movies. Catherine Breillat does an amazing job once again by molding young amateurs into wonderful masterpieces. 9 stars!!!Unrated. Contains some language, violence, nudity, sex and a graphic rape scene involving a young girl. "},{"Title":"When is rape not rape?","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The French flick Fat Girl looks at a semi functional family of four on hiatus at a beach home as their attractive 15 year old daughter experiences deflowering while her 13 year old sister, the fat girl, watches with mixed emotions from afar. The film focuses on the pair of sibs and the plight of the less attractive sib who has to cope with the myriad of emotions which go with the unhappy lack of parity life has dealt her. A very well crafted darkish drama, Fat Girl accomplishes its provocateur ambition with a bold statement near the end of the film. If reasonably engaged by the one hour mark, the viewer will likely not want to miss the conclusion which punctuates the body of the film. Excellent stuff for those into coming of sexual age films with psycho dramatic elements. (B+) "},{"Title":"Sticking an exclamation mark in the title doesn't make the film exciting, Cathy","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was amused - or should have been - when Anaïs complained that Elena and Fernando's canoodling was keeping her awake.  It was having the opposite effect on me.  That scene, in which Fernando uses every dodgy teen-on-teen seduction line in the book (one gets the impression that he's quoting verbatim FROM the book) goes on FOREVER, while half the audience is dozing off and the other half is silently screaming at the screen Conclude! Cut! Develop! Show some life! Do SOMETHING!  The entire movie has this quality, to some degree.About the ending (you have been warned)...I admire the honesty of an earlier commenter, who said she didn't understand the ending but that it was obviously foreshadowed by Anaïs's earlier fantasies - although she was wrong to suppose that this meant it wasn't an arbitrary shocked tactic employed by Breillat out of desperation.  Anaïs's words forty minutes earlier themselves have the feeling of having been retrospectively edited into the script in order to justify the sudden violence at the end.  I, too, realised instantly that the murderous rapist was, in a monkey's paw kind of way, exactly what Anaïs wanted - but I still found myself scratching my head after the abrupt conclusion and saying Huh?  And really, what WAS the point of the violence, apart from the fact that it broke the preceding 87 minutes of repellent tedium?  For that matter, what was the point of the 87 minutes of repellent tedium? "},{"Title":"A very sensitive look at adolescent behavior","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I got the chance to preview this film in its entirely last night,since the theatre marquee had given it an stern X rating. This was the first time I saw this film in the South,and the last time as well. This comes from the controversial director who gave us two years ago the erotic thriller from France called Romance(2000).If you do,please be forewarned that this is not for the faint of heart.A ma soeur! or Fat Girl which it is called here in the states, tells the story of a sexual coming-of-age thirteen year old named Anais who is against her beautiful sibling Elena,who is fifteen and having sexual intercourse with strangers. As they slouch and slink around,annoying their parents on the family's summer holiday,the two incounter different people,whom by which Elena falls for a older man twice her age. Yet the film uncovers the delicate balance between sisterly love and loathing and reveals the intimacy that makes it so frightening and so intense. Director Catherine Breillat's signature graphic sex scenes and the shocking finale are disturbing because there are actual emotions,not merely toned bodies at play. A brutal and compelling antidote to contemporary teen flicks of today(for further analysis I would compare this flim to Y Tu Mama Tambien from Mexico for strong sexual content scenes and graphic details also)and their cartoonish versions of sexual awakening that you might find in about several porn flicks.Since this movie has been playing exclusively in larger cities and will make its way down to specially selected art-houses where they shown films that are beyond the point of normality. But on the other hand,this movie has been banned not only in the province of Ontario in Canada,but several cities here in the USA where the subject of child molestation is featured throughout this movie where children are being exposed(cities like Atlanta,Washington,DC and Chicago refused to show it).A very graphical and sensitive look at adolescent behaviors. "},{"Title":"For die-hard Breillat fans only","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Breillat is superb at filming endless debates on sex beds in the guise of human sexual 'profundity'. You won't be denied your dose of excess if you see this typical piece of Breillat pretentiousness. One sex scene on a bed between the two young lovers goes on for almost 30 minutes! And after this nonsense, you're only slightly more familiar with what the characters are about (we already know what they're about anyway; this 'plot' is not very difficult to understand).If these were Bergmanesque or Rohmeresque glacier-like sex scenes (i.e. if they illuminated the 'study' of the characters or propelled the narrative) I could forgive writer/director Breillat. But she does the opposite. This is the fourth of her films that I've seen (I kept thinking I'd missed something brilliant). I'm now fully convinced that she's a flat-out sensationalist voyeur, and commits the deadly sin of being deliberately controversial. In my opinion, she does this because her talent is, well, limited.Breillat's films are loaded with dialogue, which is a shame because she simply doesn't have very much to say. She paints all of her films around sex, and that becomes a pretty flimsy canvas very quickly. "},{"Title":"Counter-Culture Masterpiece","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a response to those who hated the filmIf you like films that generate zero debate then avoid it. Clearly, however, if you subscribe to the notion that art should generate a complex emotional response in the viewer, Fat Girl delivers. Fat Girl is not designed to be easily digested and those who are not seasoned travelers in the world of their unconscious may be horrified. That is the response the filmmaker wants. Her goal is to create a work that melds tenderness with horror. I feel a great deal of sympathy for the lead character. To be perfectly honest, this film is a perfect depiction of childhood. The world of the adolescent is not some hallmark teen flick. It is banal, seedy, desperate, violent and senseless with a few fleeting moments of tenderness. The filmmaker wants to show what others block out of their youth. She wants to shine an un-blinking gaze on the tragedy of failed sex and communication in our society. In her interviews she discusses how lovemaking should be simple, normal and healthy between two people that love each other; but the reality is that it's not. It's fraught with complexities, revulsion, need, identity, pushing, pulling, definition. This act we are so quick to hide from the public eye, is what defines our most intense flaws and hopes.That is why the deflowering scene is the set piece. The length of it is meant to underscore the simple, ineffable horror of a girl forced to watch her sister giving up her virginity and her personality to an act of degradation. The multiple murders at the end are not a random ending. It is meant to juxtapose the sex scene. To counter it. She is comparing the acts. She is revealing how to her, there is not that vast of a difference between the horror the main character experiences when her sister is deflowered, and the end when her family is killed. In fact, Anais prefers the later. Getting raped is actually less horrific for her, then the sex scene which is supposedly a normal, healthy act. The Fat Girl is a true outsider in that respect. If she were reading this post chances are she would wish destruction on all of you. She is a tyrant in her own mind. But her outsider status was thrust upon her in the form of her superior intelligence and unconventional body. You may not understand this film, and that may anger you. You may hate the filmmaker for causing you to confront issues you would have rather ignored. But keep in mind that this film was not intended for you. It was made for a very select segment of the population, and in that way it is an elitist work. In many ways, it was made in spite of you, and so I can understand your anger. "}{"Title":"And the point was?","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Maybe the BBFC's seven minutes of cuts accidentally chopped out some vital piece of narrative from this gruelling film.The emotional undercurrent of the film is handled quite beautifully, particularly the fraught sex scenes, but they don't excuse the flimsy plot or frankly ridiculous ending.  For a dirty old pervert like me to come out of a film that featured a beautiful, naked teenage girl and think that was bad, it must have been a real shocker.Maybe the cuts that were considered too much for our delicate British eyes would redeem it, but I doubt that anything could indulge such contrivance. "},{"Title":"Comprehensively incompetent","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Roxane Mesquida is one of the most stunning young actresses to show up in the movies, so I suppose it might be worth watching just her. (Her mom, Arsinee Khanjian, is not exactly chopped liver, either...in fact, she looks a bit like Laura Elena Harring). But the scriptwriting is totally duff and gratuitious, extremely nasty-minded violence is resorted to when the writer's ideas have dried up. Not that they got flowing in the first place, however. The character development is miserably poor and 1-dimensional from the start. The French title, by the way, means To my sister. To a surprising extent, the movie is a near-remake of the director's earlier 36 Fillette, which also dealt with the sexual travails of a young fat girl. This time, Breillat apparently felt she was improving things by adding a much more gratuitous helping of violence.Hopefully soon we will get a chance to see Roxane is some better caliber movie. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, truthful and shocking","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Please take time to see this movie. This movie is a beautiful portrait of human nature. Yes HUMAN nature, not female nature, not male nature, human nature. People like to dub this a man hating movie, but when you see it for yourself you'll see it's nothing of the like. The characters, both male and female, are far from virtuous, the mother is cold, relentless and hateful, the father smug and selfish, Fernando's mother does 'his dirty work' and is herself artificial etc. etc...All aspects of human action and reaction is taken into account and exposed. The perhaps shocking yet truthful part of this movie is Anias's cold hard logic which in the end proves correct. The reason most people didn't understand this movie is either because they didn't take the time to analyze it (it is permeated with symbolism, especially direct contrast), it hit a chord with them, or they are in denial about themselves. It may be unsettling, it may have gotten bad reviews, but sometimes the truth hurts. "},{"Title":"unhappy, yet real","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It seems to me most the public did not enjoy this particular movie as it is not the kind of movie with a happy or funny ending. This movie comes with a more real-life ending. While this may not be something most the public may wish to see, I was glad to see a film this daring being shown to the public. I believe the film truly shows the unhappy reality of humanity these times and what today's selfish mankind will do to meet certain animalistic needs.Regards. "},{"Title":"Much adieu about Nothing","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tres dreary, n'ece pas? (Pardon my french...) Anyway, kept waiting for the unsparing, bold, unique, hard to watch features of the film I had read about in the reviews and was sorely disappointed! At times it was interminably slow-paced. I did think Anais favored Greta Garbo in the eyes, however. The ending was truly a puzzle and very unclear. I felt like I had just wasted an hour and a half of my precious time. And it was so beautiful outside...I could have been taking a walk, shopping, sipping on a milkshake, munching on a cookie...you get the idea. Anything but trying to decipher the meaning of this movie. "},{"Title":"Commonly misunderstood","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While this film is clearly not for all audiences, it does make an interesting point about how awkward the issue of virginity is for women. Virginity is an interesting double standard that woman have to deal with in our society and this film explains that in a very direct way.If you are an easily offended or easily shocked person, do not watch this film because chances are you will be thinking too much about being shocked to think about what Catherine Breillat is trying to say.In my experience, Breillat makes films that are not meant to be enjoyed in the traditional sense, but rather analyzed and understood through thought and symbolism.If you are not someone who likes to think about films past the surface, you may not want to watch this film.I think there is a lot to be thought about an analyzed from this film, so if you're up to seeing something unlike you've ever seen before and you're not easily shocked, go for it. "},{"Title":"Just because it's subtitled doesn't make it worth watching!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am a big fan of foreign and artsy films.  This film, however, was a complete waste of time and money. I am accustomed to the pace of European films, but boy, did this one cry out for editing.  I could have taken 3 naps during the sex scene - I wanted to scream I GET IT- HE'S TRYING TO TALK HER INTO IT! ALRIGHT ALREADY and I could have gone into hibernation during the driving sequence - (are lane changes all that interesting?). And the ending? shocking, yes, but...so? I can't remember the last time I hated a movie that much.  "},{"Title":"Sick, disturbing and pointless.","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Because of the quality-gone-bad Hollywood movies, I've been finding myself viewing more and more foreign and independent movies as of late.  Most of the time, I'm pleased with how those movies went.  But after watching 'Fat Girl', I've realized some foreign movies are as bad as Hollywood's not-much-acting with too-much-special effect films, if not worse.  I don't see many cases where bad independent or foreign movies worse off than bad Hollywood movies, as the former shows plenty of acting whereas the latter shows little or almost none.  But with this garbage titled 'Fat Girl', the director managed to pull an accident, an accident that never should have found itself in big screen.  The movie not only shows disturbing scenes at its lowest, but also shows not any one can be a movie director.  I don't know what Breillat's motive was when directing this film.  But this trash has graphic scenes that we already know about but don't need to see, and has no point whatsoever.  I don't know, maybe she's saying all men are violent, cunning, and perverts.  Only a sick group of people like the director and the crew of this garbage could allow a couple of teenagers to get molested in front of the big screen.  Some professional critics (and I use the term 'professional' loosely) who praised this movie should not be allowed to be near children.  Someone also said, this movie is unforgettable.  Yeah, it's unforgettable because it SUCKS SO BAD!!!  Avoid this trash, even if you don't have anything better to do. "},{"Title":"One of the most disturbing films I have ever seen","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First, about the technical aspects of the film; the acting was superb, the directorial style was visually pleasing, and the premise was deceptively simple. It's what you don't know about this film that really makes it as powerful as it ultimately is. I went in not having even seen a preview, and I was blown away. When this movie ended, my jaw was on the floor, and my heart was pounding. I didn't know what just happened, why it happened, and how it could have hit me so forcefully. I won't spoil anything here, but this movie is one of the most shocking films I have seen in a long time. It's difficult to watch, but a great example of what talent truly is. "},{"Title":"Fat is fabulous","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sex-obsessed director, Catherine Breillat has only gone and done another film about sex! Well, actually Fat Girl is over a decade old now so she's done a few more sex-related films which I'm yet to see. In fact, Fat Girl is my very first taste of Catherine Breillat and I'll definitely be tucking in for more if they're all as tasty as this one. For those who don't know, Fat Girl tells the story of a chubby 12 year-old gal and her sexy fifteen year-old sister who may as well be called Lolita.The film is pretty short and simplistic but it definitely leaves a lasting impression. I suspect that most people would find it boring because the scenes are extremely long and drawn out. The longest bit must be the extended foreplay scene in which Lolita and her fancy man are on the verge of doing the dirty deed. Not one moment of the film bored me though. I found myself sucked into its atmosphere of stark realism and drawn to the engaging characters.I was also really impressed with the young actors. Anaïs Reboux who plays the fat girl in question was particularly enthralling. It's important to bear in mind that she was only twelve years-old at the time of filming and it's a fairly challenging role to play which deals with adolescence, sexuality and sibling rivalry. There's a lovely tender moment between the two siblings where they lay on the bed and joke together. It feels very genuine and just goes to show how brilliant the two actresses are and how realised their characters are.The film builds up to an awkward car journey which ends in a genuinely unexpected and shocking way. Many people have condemned the ending for being shocking for the sake of it; however I don't think that's true. If you pay attention to the first 70 minutes you'll spot a lot of foreshadowing and find that it actually has a lot of meaning which is important to the overall story. I think it's just the sudden change in tone which people find jarring and off-putting. I'm all for unpredictability though.Quite a lot of people also complain that the film is basically child pornography masquerading as art. The BBFC even cut the DVD release of the film relating to potential harm, to address the specific danger that video enables the scene to be used to stimulate and validate abusive action. I'd disagree. The scene in question isn't gratuitous (I watched the uncut Australian version) and in my unprofessional opinion isn't harmful or erotic to the rational human mind. It's also very important to the themes of the story.Prudes should also note that the sexy sister was actually eighteen years-old at the time of filming and that the erect penis is actually prosthetic! It is a graphic film, but it is also a film all about sex and sex does tend be to be graphic. I'm not sure why people get so disgusted about graphic sex scenes in films. We all have sex in real life so why is watching it on a screen so repulsive? Anywho, Fat Girl is not a porn film. It is an interesting story about sexual awakening. It's beautifully acted and directed, and also has a wonderfully immersive atmosphere. I'd particularly recommend it to fans of the new French extremity and European art films. "}{"Title":"Definitely worth watching","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having such realistic and well made dialogs in your film is one of the greatest pros I can grant to a film maker. My warmest congratulations to Breillat for this aspect of the movie , as well as for presenting so accurately flirt and sex scenes without being offensive or vulgar in my eyes. I understand that many concerned voices raised when a film where teenage girls are exploring their sexuality came out , due to modern fruitless moralism. Let's be honest with ourselves and admit that sex is number one topic of thoughts and conversations at the ages of the girls as depicted , so cinema should not be forbidden to materialize them as they represent reality,no matter how raw. Cinematographically , *spoiler* I really enjoyed the long takes in which Libero De Rienzo is trying to persuade Mesquida to have sex for the first time. It felt so real and somehow everyone can relate to these moments. However I found myself largely disappointed with the ending. Normally I avoid judging scriptwriters' and directors' choices but that kind of twist did not seem to fit in this otherwise very successful and accurate presentation of human relationships. "},{"Title":"Do syblings always have compete, and why?","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I wish I could give a good review to this movie, for I had loved such masterpieces by Catherine Breillat as Romance X, Anatomy of Hell and Blue Beard, but I do not want to be one of those people that once they fall in love with an artist, accept everything by them as genius, as though they can do no wrong. I felt that the movie was trite, fake, overacted, too obvious, and with a ridiculous ending. Now some will talk about symbolic, and metaphorical depth of it, and go on blah blah blah on and on about the themes this film had explored, and use many fancy literally terms, but if I had to describe it in one word, it would be failure.Once again Catherine, investigates the psychology of sibling rivalry. The familiar theme of two sisters, who seemingly love each other, and yet are in turmoil driven by jealousy, and are by circumstances placed into an unseen competition, is the subject of the movie. This time it's a typical French family, on a summer vacation, at a beach town. Elena (Roxanne Mesquida), is a breathtaking 15 year old beauty, (so gorgeous almost makes the movie tolerable), while her sister, Anais (Anais Reboux), is an awkward, antisocial, plump (Fat Girl) 12 year old, who is both jealous and fascinated by her sister, who in turn is thrilled to have an audience for her mischief.The plot unfolds, when a slightly older Italian picks up Elena at a café, and is soon sneaked into her bedroom, where in an absurdly cliché manner, he seduces her to have sex with him. The scenes that were meant to be provocative, felt ridiculous to me, and instead of the thrill of sexual arousal, in certain parts they made me laugh out loud. The utterly banal romance continues, until the parents find out, and are forced to leave the beach house, and that is where an unexpected, and for lack of a better word, stupid ending comes.It's clear what the intention of the movie was, but it was not captured.I really wonder about sibling rivalry. It seems that whoever you are closets to, is the person that will hurt you the most. And though I had grown up without such feelings, (maybe slight competition with my cousins), being the only child. I personally know many people, who are at real war with their brothers and sisters. My mother would be a perfect example, she hasn't spoken to her brother in years. And I see such pattern repeat itself more often than not. Instead of helping, people within the same family, consciously or unconsciously sabotage each other.As I was writing this review I kept thinking about Kane and Allele, and how even The Bible begins with jealousy between brothers. Is this a part of natural evolution, survival of the fittest, a motivation of a sort? Or is it something else? "},{"Title":"A dull piece of pseudo-art","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To begin with I love artistic movies. Even slow ones. Subtle ones. So when I say, that this movie was for me painful and boring to watch, it's not at all because I dislike the pace itself. No, this movie was painfully boring because of how DULL it in reality is. I spent my time asking my self what the actual point to this was. The movie lacks any original thought or vision. The romance is dull, boring, poorly presented and over-sexualized. The relationship between the sisters (which is probably supposed to be the main focus of this film) is dull, boring, and forcefully pathological. The characters are incoherent and there is virtually no character development. The movie tries hard to be controversial and provocative, but for me it came out as forced and annoying. The ending just nailed this impression.Not worth seeing. (Who thought that 20 minutes of driving on the highway, with no interesting interactions between the characters at all, would be a good thing to put into a movie? I mean What the hell?) "},{"Title":"Hard to describe","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie is interesting, the problem of course is that you have to pay attention in great detail because it only has subtitles in English. That maybe why I took a lot away from this, my friends teacher showed this and she bought it on Amazon. Basically I took away from it that it's about jealousy (sibling rivalry), adolescents, and an interesting family setting. The mother always seems to blame things on the kids age. It was an interesting movie, I can't say I wasn't a bit disturbed by the ending. It was kind of sudden I felt, I agree with the other comment that it was forced. In fact my other friend and I were quite disturbed for at least an hour. I think if you can handle it you should watch it, there is great acting and great cinematography. "},{"Title":"sex...haha got your  attention","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fantastic use of many binary oppositions, especially age, sex, and beauty/weight. But the stereotypical cultural stereotype of sexually highly strung young Italian, ahem, stallions did slightly drag it down...I didn't actually care much the first time i saw it- i was researching Breillat for an auteur project for college and i happened to discover her in 1000 Movies you must see before you Die and thought yep she's everything i need to be different from the average Tarantino or Scorsese project- she's a Foreign Female Feminist whoop whoop- but I've since had experiences which made me reflect highly upon the subject matter and how much it (the personal experiences) don't actually differ,personally.Sorry, i do film studies. "},{"Title":"What I learned from this film!","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What I learned from this film . . . . and the other films of this Director! Words like Provocative, Controversial, Shocking when used to describe a film usually mean a film has already been made that deals with the subject that has more taste, cleverness, attention to narrative believability and character development than the Provocative Controversial and Shocking one.Provocative, Controversial, and Shocking filmmakers can get people to watch their films by being Provocative, Controversial, and Shocking over and over again on basically the same theme.Girls (at least in France) will start French kissing you in a public cafe within the first 2 minutes of meeting you in front of your sister if you are from Italy, cute and have limited command of French but can amazingly have 30 minute intimate conversations and then mentally rape you with their limited command of French.Teenagers (at least in France and parts of Italy) think about sex 24 hours a day and have no other interests that would make them fully rounded human beings worth really caring about and when they actually are intimate show no compassion tenderness or enjoyment of eroticism because men always mentally rape girls and girls are really dense.Mental Rape consists of being - conned into having Anal sex(because it's not real sex)by someone who doesn't really speak your language well- with your sister in the room. Going down on your boyfriend the next day without him even asking because you're confused and don't realize you've been mentally raped, but you go down on him anyway because???. Having sex on the beach, again with the sister nearby, having sex at night again with the sister in the room. Telling the girl you really love her and want to see her again and then still not really knowing you've been mentally raped because mental rape means you don't realize you're being mentally raped.Wondering if %100 percent of civilization has been missing out by not having their sister in the room while having passionless sex.There can be really cool scenes on highways that build up and then go nowhere.Serial Killers can blunder out of Nowhere smash your window without your Mother waking up, kill your Sister, rip your mothers clothes and fondle her for no apparent reason before killing her and then not kill you but rape you and make you eat your own underwear but letting you live so there will be a cool freeze frame at the end that is Provocative Controversial and Shocking.It is OK and not outrageously hypocritical for a Director seeking the truth to lie to a 13 year old actress by telling them their dog just died to get a performance out of them.It is OK (in France at least) to have a 13 year old perform a brutal explicit rape scene and gag on her own underwear as its stuffed into her mouth and have it not considered pornographic but artistic because its the truth - by way of a dead dog that's not really dead.It is OK to mock people even liberals! because they find a 13 year old performing a brutal explicit rape scene and gag on her own underwear as its stuffed into her mouth as pornographic and not enlightened.It is OK to have a 13 year old perform a brutal explicit rape scene and gag on her own underwear as its stuffed into her mouth but not to actually see the finished film because they are not old enough.There are some people who don't understand why the above is painfully ironic and will mock you for mentioning it and call you Moral and you must be an American These same people are Enlightened.Enlightenment in the 21st century is more of a catch phrase people use when they can't explain why someone is not Getting It and are too busy texting to explain further. It is not the same as Enlightenment in the age that nobody cares about anymore because it happened along time ago and they don't bother to teach it in school because they would have to cut the budget on the new Football field to pay for the classes.It is OK and not outrageously hypocritical for a Director seeking the truth about the degrading aspects of sex on women as dealt by men to hire a notorious porn star who has dunked womens heads into toilets while having anal sex to act in your film because he has a big weenie.It is OK and not outrageously hypocritical to say professional seasoned actors are all mediocre and conformists because they are too smart to agree to be in your films.It is OK and not outrageously hypocritical to say professional seasoned actors are all mediocre and conformists because they don't look good nude or have small weenies.Saying All true artists are hated is only %50 true. It won't make you an artist but it will get you hated.It is OK for a filmmaker to have a grossly unhealthy, childishly obsessive and ugly view of human sexuality without offering any juxtaposition, contrast or thematic development of this limited theme and pass it off as Provocative, Controversial, Shocking and truthful over and over again while using manipulation, hypocritical views, methods and a serious lack of narrative common sense, instead of seeking some kind of therapy so they will stop making the same movies on the same subject the rest of their lives. "},{"Title":"Another Disappointing Shocker...","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First off - FAT GIRL is not a bad film. It's actually a pretty solid coming-of-age tale that ends up being marred by the shocking ending which comes totally out of left field. There's an interesting story to be told here, too bad it gets cut short by the end-scenes, which feel to me as though they were included strictly for shock-value and to liven up the film a bit, or as a way to abruptly conclude a film without committing to any real resolution.A family on vacation repeatedly shows the audience their dysfunctions, especially amongst the two young sisters - one a 15 year old beauty, the other, her slightly younger sister who is the fat girl. During the vacation, the hotter sister meets an older boy who uses all of the typical adolescent/young-adult lines to get her to give up the goods. Of course this works - and we get some relatively explicit (full-frontal from the chick, guy shows his boner, no penetration) lolita scenes. The mother finds out about her daughter's deflowering and starts the long drive home. There's lots of crying and finger-pointing between the mother and two daughters, and eventually the mother tires and pulls over at a rest-stop for the night. As the mother and hotter sister are sleeping in the front seat ***Spoilers*** out of nowhere - a hatchet wielding maniac smashes in the windshield, hits hot sister over the head with the hatchet (killing her) and strangles the mother to death. Fat Girl runs into the woods where she is pursued by psycho-hatchet-wielder who then rapes her. The cops find the crime scene with Fat Girl as the sole survivor...THE END...FAT GIRL reminded me too much of another over-rated shocker - IRREVERSIBLE, in that most of what will be talked about in the film is the one scene of brutal violence. In FAT GIRL's case, there's some (simulated) under-age sex too to cry about for all the morality-cops out there, but for the most part - the shock scenes are all that anyone's gonna notice. It's a shame too, as unlike IRREVERSIBLE which I found dull and with no real point - FAT GIRL's story of lost youth and innocence and familial discontent are universal concepts and were handled rather well until the completely disjointed and out-of-place ending. Now, I dig shock films way more than the average film viewer - but unfortunately the ending of FAT GIRL just seemed like a cheap cop-out to an otherwise decent film. Again, not a terrible film (hence my slightly above average rating) - but my disappointment in both the ending of the film and the hype I'd heard surrounding it, drop this one down several notches...6/10 "},{"Title":"Wrongfooting the viewer","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Breillat's movie at first seems to be the sort of French coming of age movie that we've seen 100 times before. The older sister is very much in the mould of Vanessa Paradis or Ludivine Sagnier - perky, pouty, coquettish and not averse to getting naked when it's artistically justified. She gets naked, the viewer gets turned on, then remembers she's only meant to be 15. Confusion, confusion...Of course, this is clearly not an idyllic, soft-focus loss-of-innocence-on-summer-holiday romp. Breillat's sexual politics come through clearly, as the two main male characters are seen to be obnoxious abusers, exercising their control through sex (the boyfriend) or paternal/capitalist power (the father).The ending, shocking as it is, is too ambiguous. Presumably the violence is meant to remind us that the other male characters are equally guilty, but in a more socially acceptable way. However, an alternative interpretation is that such real, extreme, sociopathic violence puts the actions of the boyfriend and father into context. Are their behaviours really so bad, when compared with the behaviour of the transgressor in the car park.So... watch if you want an essay in feminism. Or if you like cute, naked girls. How very postmodern, Catherine. "},{"Title":"total disappointment","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hi all, I loved Romance, and thought something of such quality and depth should never have been banned from my country (lucky it was re-rated!). I saw For My Sister shortly after, in total anticipation and of the expectation that it would be just as fantastic as Romance. It was real and presented some very valid points, but I was disappointed in the quality of not only the acting, but the lack of chemistry between the actors the way it just fizzled towards the end. Sexual curiosity is a valid thing to explore, but the way it was presented was over-tragic and melodramatic. I will still continue to search out Catherine Brelliat's work, and hope to see Anatomy of Hell soon!  "},{"Title":"not a review, but a complaint","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have not seen Fat Girl, and may never see it, because the Film Censor squad in Ontario has deemed it unfit for my eyes. I have been reading the comments on this film with some interest, but also with a sense of frustration--I feel like somebody who wasn't invited to a party.I won't be able to judge whether Breillat (whose Romance was, bizarrely, passed for viewing here) has made a good film or a bad one, or whether the rape scene has artistic merit, or...what's the use of even discussing this? Suffice it to say that the censors have continued a long tradition of banning difficult films--Pretty Baby, The Tin Drum.Note to people in the United States who will see the ads the phrase banned in Canada is untrue; the film has been shown in several provinces already. "}{"Title":"Brilliant in parts but pushing an ethical and legal envelope.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The French director is intensely interested not only in the sexual awakening of female teenagers but also in their interaction with others unaware of their doubts, urges, interests and associations.  In this film, premiered at the New York Film Festival and now running at Lincoln Plaza Cinemas in Manhattan to apparently sell-out audiences, the complex interdependence of a beautiful fifteen-year old teen with her thirteen- year-old obese, unattractive and perpetually gluttonous sister is sharply etched through the younger girl's unavoidable, and perhaps intended, voyeuristic sharing of the other's initiation into various sex acts with a smooth-talking Italian law student.As a law professor I often can not avoid noting whether legal issues and lawyers in general are protrayed accurately or not.  But this film brought forth a different and rare analysis had this film been produced in the U.S. there is no doubt in my mind felony prosecutions would have been very possible for a number of those involved.  I would be hesitant to advise any theater owner outside a major city, in fact not managing an art cinema house, that it is legally safe to show this film.  The sexual activities openly portrayed in front of and involving a girl who was actually thirteen at the time of filming trip not only legal landmines but ethical and moral ones as well. I am rarely discomfited by any displays of sexuality but this film goes beyond, in my view, acceptable and proper limits.Notwithstanding that, the cast is well-suited for the roles they play and the contradictory love/hate, independent/dependent relationship of the two teens will strike many viewers as sympathetically and realistically acted.A very troubling film. "},{"Title":"A realistic movie about young people","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rebellion I could not believe that after ROMANCE (who was probably the most boring movie in my life), Breillat could make such an incredible movie. The story, about two sister trying sex for the first time, shows the curiosity but also the rebellion in their minds. Every situation that anybody with an older/smaller brother lived in that age is reflected here with unexpected realism (the big brother/sister, the ugly/stupidity of the little one, the hate/jealousy, and of course the love).There are only two things I really did not like .  The gratuitous violent and shocking end (I can not take that of my mind) and some part of the dialog with the Italian boyfriend, to naive to be believed.This is an ALMOST PERFECT MOVIE worth seeing, but be careful, this is not an American movie, nudity, sex scenes here (even if it is not as explicit as in ROMANCE) and violence are quite realistic are not for meant to be fun. "},{"Title":"Pretentious piece of garbage.........","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have just seen A Ma Soeur, and all I can say is it's a pretentious piece if garbage. What is it about French film directors that makes critics and film buffs alike salivate at the mouth when discussing what are , essentially, in the main, arrogant, self-indulgent works of pseudo-intellectual nonsense? You can throw Pedro Almoldovar into that category as well. He is yet another European auteur whose films grate to the point where I want to throw a brick at the screen. All of this solipsistic home-spun philosophizing gimmickry is nothing more than a case of the Emperor's New Clothes.In the case of A Ma Soeur, the denouement is totally incongruous and non-sequitir with the rest of the film; completely out of sync with the main corpus of the piece. For the most part, we are watching a sleazy Italian student attempting to deflower an attractive teenage girl while her younger overweight sister looks on. This, in itself evoked a sense of ennui in me. For the gratuitous sake of sensationalism, a few controversial love scenes are added to the mix, but hey, this IS a French film, so it is all for the sake of Art and Artistic Endeavour The ending is so ridiculous and over the top that it bears no resemblance to the themes and motifs of the rest of the film. If a Hollywood director made a piece of garbage like this, he would have been rightly lambasted but, because this is a French film, it is regarded by the pseudo-intellectual cognoscenti as challenging and uncompromising.The denouement reminded me of those excellent films, The Player and Adaptation, where Altman and Kaufman/Jonze respectively take the unmerciful p**s out of overblown, sensationalist Hollywood films, which start out in one direction but take a completely different route for the sake of increased cinema audiences and publicity; except A Ma Soeur continued to take itself seriously right up to the silly unbelievable,ridiculous ending. "},{"Title":"This fat girl comes as such a bitter disappointment.","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I admit, there are some beautiful, irreplaceably touching moments in this, concerning first love, and sisterly love between two opposites. One girl is beautiful, a sex object of a lot of wolf whistles, who falls for a young French guy, while holidaying with her younger, plump sister who adores food. She of course envies her, and so much wants a boyfriend, as seen by her kissing a pool pole, fantasizing it's the real thing. The especially funny scene is when the older sister and boyfriend who have just met, are sharing a perpetual kiss in an outdoor cafe, while little sister, cross seated on, watches on, while devouring her sundae/coppa. From there our love birds really get intimate sharing a raunchy night of intimacy in the girl's big bedroom, while little sister watches on there as well. These unhurried scenes have already carried half of the movie, where the fireworks between mother and daughter soon play out, and they are soon packing up and going home, the following twenty minutes is pointless, and has no substance, save for a shocking finale, something I admit, I never saw coming, which is no apology. Brielliat has done better, here. There is a coming of age story, but not enough of it to carry it through as a film, in this strung tale, that relies on very few scenes, despite good performances. Brielliat's other pics of higher rank, are far better, this a one off. Mesquida is hot, though. The title song, sung, by the younger sister, stays with me. "},{"Title":"Interesting and Surprising","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" French director Catherine Breillat has a reputation for making sexually explicit films. In Fat Girl, the lead, Anais is overweight, twelve years old, and a frustrated virgin. Her older sister, Elena, is beautiful and thin. While at a resort at a beach in France, they discuss their plans for losing their innocence. Elena is waiting for love and Anais just wants to get it over with. They meet a student, Fernando, who is invited to their bedroom. Mom and dad are heavy sleepers and oblivious. After begging all night Elena submits to anal sex, with her sister nearby. The next morning, the threesome go to the beach where Fernando presents Elena with an expensive opal ring. It works like a charm, because that night they have sexual intercourse. Uh oh, big mistake; here comes Fernando's mother, looking for her ring.The girl's mother decides to drive them back home. They stop at a rest area to nap, and a man with bad intentions, armed with an axe shows up. The climax is not what I expected, but it certainly is original and surprising, given that Fat Girl was made by a female director. , "},{"Title":"Nonsensical","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had to watch this film for my university French course and, don't get me wrong, I love French and French cinema, but this is one of the exceptions. For the majority of the film, I was bored, confused and occasionally repulsed. My repulsion is quite explainable, due to the amount of nuditiy in this film. While I don't find the female body repulsive, I do find needless scenes of female nudity being shoved in my face repulsive, particularly when they involve the breasts of a 14 year- old girl. My boredom and confusion however, stem from the fact that virtually every scene in this film is either too long or goes nowhere, often just seeming like filler. There are also scenes which make no sense whatsoever, such as when Anaïs suddenly appears naked on the beach, without any rhyme or reason. Then, suddenly, at the end, we are hit by an unfeasibly dark 'twist'. I put 'twist' in inverted commas because the mood of the film towards the end makes it blatantly obvious that there will be one. The only thing we aren't told is what that twist is. The twist itself is needlessly violent, and the reactions of the characters are somewhat confusing.This film shall be condemned to the vast scrapheap of movies I have seen, simply because it goes nowhere and makes little to no sense. "},{"Title":"Somewhat realistic approach to Family Dysfunction.","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Truthfully I didn't get much out of Fat Girl. It was a moderately realistic approach to a pretty dysfunctional family, with some serious issues thrown in here and there....actually there are issues thrown all over the place. This movie is unique in a way where you don't focus on anything else besides what's going to happen next. For example, films like Happiness or Bad Boy Bubby, these are two films where the situations presented are so strong and realistic feeling you don't even think about the acting or cinematography etc. For this feeling that Fat Girl gives off, the film should be applauded. But on the other hand it doesn't really teach you anything. Anyone with a grip on today's reality, should understand these situations aren't so uncommon. But the ending is a totally different story. I, like everyone else watching this flick was waiting for something to happen to Anaise, but what did occur was pretty out-there. Im sure they could have handled the situation differently, to get that same exact line Anaise spoke. For one, why not have sister's boyfriend rape her? But, I suppose it's not the situation that is most important, but why she said it in the first place. All her talk about not wanting her first to be someone she didn't love.....she wasn't kidding. "},{"Title":"Teenage shocker","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When A Ma Soeur! was banned in Singapore few years back, i have no idea why the film was banned despite the title was named Fat Girl in English. Now, A Ma Soeur has given me a very good answer to the reason why it was banned.The movie itself was a shocker.We were presented with 2 sisters, the 12 year old Anais and 15 year old Elena, who goes for a holiday with their parents. Anais was fat and Elena was a beauty, where Elena was seduced by Fernando, an Italian student on holiday. Elena had sex with Fernando, and Anais saw the whole thing going on. She kept quiet about it, and it ends with a disaster.Director Catherine Breillat has highlighted an issue on teenagers growing up with sexuality. Anais was still in her puberty period, and never did we expected that thoughts on sex and sexuality of an adult could come from a 12 year old mind. She imitates Elena, in terms of taste of fashion, and her liking on guys. While in some scenes, audience get to see how Anais expressed her desire on having sex.What shocks me in the film was not how Elena shared her affection with Fernando, but more rather, Anais's reaction to sexual issues. Anais looks more like a girl who grows up with Sex and the City and fashion magazine glorifying sex instead of fairy tales and cartoons. This somehow, was a reflection to what has happened to today's society.A Ma Soeur! do not shock an audience directly from the scenes. Instead, one gets the shock after digesting the film. "},{"Title":"HELL","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Deeply moving emotional peice showing the adolesance of 2 young french girls. its not that good, its actually quite disturbing. you sit in shock most of the time. its french it may be a bit much for american audiences. its ending is worth the cost of admission, but wow, dont go if you have a weak heart. "},{"Title":"I would not recommend this movie","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  OK, Fat Girl isn't as appalling as Requiem for a Dream but it's in the same ballpark and my reaction is the same.  What is the point of movies like this?  I know that life is not a Nora Ephron written, Penny Marshall directed, Tom Hanks starring movie. I know that life is difficult and that all human beings have the potential to hurt each other but why make a film that leaves the viewer with absolutely nothing to take away with them?  No shred of comfort or hope. I'm sorry I saw this movie.  "}{"Title":"Not About Childhood","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Proof that the French            have perfected detached malevolence to an art. This film, in fact, is            misanthropic, literally MAN-hating, feminism with a vengeance.           You know you're not in the realm of literal psychological reality when at            the onset the 15 year-old protagonist, Elena (Roxanne Mesquida), sits            down in an open-air cafe next to a total stranger, a law student older            than herself, and within minutes, after a lecherous leer his way, is            passionately necking with him, in front of everyone, including her            younger sister. Rather than reality, this is a distillation, an            exaggeration, an abstraction, meant to isolate and make plain truths            buried in us all in less pure, whole form (just as The Underground Man is            both freak and Everyman). The off-hand casualness with which the            characters live out this hyper- reality is by nature artifice, a            conceit. I make this point because the critics to a man/woman have all            described this film as harrowingly real.           Breillat aims for a dispassionately clinical examination of emerging            female pubescent sexuality in the context of sibling rivalry and            upper-middle class sterility. (This is thus still another movie by a            woman about women.) She conducts her investigation with forced            methodicalness, putting adult words in teenage mouths, making children            act out her own dour, disillusioned vision of humankind (what e.e.            cummings would call manunkind). Watching children, after all, is so            much more sensationalistic, prurient--how much press would this film have            gotten if Elena was only 3 years older? Technically still a virgin, she            submits to her seduction with a passive-aggressive masochism, sneaking            the law student into her bed but not allowing him to penetrate her            vagina. After a long (and hackneyed) negotiation (Will you still love me            tomorrow?), she lets him sodomize her, as her sister watches from a            nearby bed; then, before he leaves, freely gives him oral sex at the            gate. She behaves not like a noviciate of 15, but a lustful woman at            least 10 years older. The only trace of girlishness left her by Breillat            is a certain superficial gullibility, a half-hearted mistaking of sex for            love.            Poor Anais (Anais Reboux), 13 and the fat ugly duckling, is mocked with            clinical precision by parents and sister alike. Beyond her years, she is            made by Breillat, one, to voyeuristically experience her sister's            promiscuity, and, two, sing forlorn love-songs to herself, as if she were            a wise, old Edith Paif. The parents, cold, aloof, self-preoccupied, and            materialistic, are as much a malevolently distilled abstraction as the            daughters.            This is a squalid, drab little movie about guile and deception (including            self-deception), that is, until the ending, which comes out of nowhere            and leaves you gasping. With one fell swoop of the ax the movie jumps            from arty sociosex-psychology to lurid crime blotter. It's as if Breillat            didn't know how to finish the film, or, even more likely, as if she            wanted to pack in one more shocking thrill, trotting out the bogeyman            from behind the bushes, in order to send 'em home reeling. Nothing which            precedes it prepares us for this. In the hands of someone more skilled,            say, Breton, it might have been linked by imaginative associations with            the rest of the film, by hints, symbols, and leitmotiv made into a brutal            last expression of naked male sexuality. But here, in Breillat's meager            unkind hands, it's just bogus, a final insult. "},{"Title":"Fat Girl Masterpiece","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fat Girl (2001) **** (out of 4) 12-year-old Anais (Anais Reboux) and her 15-year-old sister Elena (Roxane Mesquida) are on summer vacation when the two discover sex and start to explore their virginity. Things take a change for reality when the older sister meets a boy who claims to love her. This is an incredible little film and there's no wonderful it caused so much controversy here in the States. I think it's a damn shame that American films no longer contain any guts and when a film with a true message comes along it usually stirs up trouble. This is an incredibly moving, heartbreaking and shocking look at two young girls and how they view their virginity. The ending was outrageously shocking but the message was right there. It's been a very long time since I've seen a film that left such an impact. I'm sure most will be turned off by the subject matter and the films blunt truthfulness towards that subject but this is a real gem. "},{"Title":"ZZZZZ..","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had really anticipated seeing the controversial film. But, unfortunately to watch it, I had to be shaken several times. Very slow and plodding. Did enjoy the main character's performance, however, it is not enough to recommend this film.  "},{"Title":"Disgusting Movie","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What is wrong with everyone???? The actress in this movie was only twelve!! How could have a studio have released this movie, or any actor have worked in it is beyond me. I really doubt any of them will work again, who would hire them? The director should be arrested for exploiting children.I feel sorry for people who would watch this.Just because a movie is critically acclaimed does not mean its good. Directors get knighted as artists when in fact its just a way of bringing attention to their work and making more money off young people who need something to look up to. There are good movies out there but please don't believe that because someone has enough money to make the lame movie they want, that they are any good (movie critics are the lowest strata of society). i promise you these exploitive directors probably all started out in pornos inorder to support their drug habits. Why would we watch their movies and promote whats noxious in this world ? "},{"Title":"a seemingly pointless film--avoid it at all costs unless you are a pedophile","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I so much wanted to like this film. From what the DVD box said, it seemed like a great idea for a movie--the troubles a fat girl goes through when she has an older, very attractive sister who seemingly has it all. However, that was not the message I took from the movie. It was more along the lines of life stinks--then you get raped or die. Oh I hated this movie and I have contempt for those who created it.So why did I hate it other that the fact that the theme really was not what I had expected? First, the movie is VERY sexually graphic and the nudity portrayed involved girls who appeared between the ages of 12 and 15 or so. Because of this, I doubt it would even be legal to make this film in many countries--especially when the 12 year-old is raped on film! I am truly worried that a pedophile might become very aroused watching the movie.Second, the exact purpose and theme of the movie is completely ambiguous. Every time I thought the movie was trying to make a point, the plot completely changed directions and the meaning was obscured. I know for those in the know, the point of such films IS the pointlessness. Okay, fine, I get it....but so what?!Third, the ending was sick and meaningless and seemed 100% random. COMPLETELY out of the blue, the mother and older daughter are brutally murdered on camera while they are resting in their car at a rest stop (the older daughter having her head bashed in with a hatchet and the mother was strangled). THEN, the 12 year-old is graphically raped on camera as well. It was like watching a snuff film and I cannot recommend this film to anyone.It was even more disturbing when I read the notes inside the Criterion DVD case. Apparently the young girl who played the Fat Girl (Anaïs Reboux) was not told that was going to be the international title for the film (in France it was titled À ma soeur!). That, combined with the rape scene--I'd hate to have to pay that girl's therapy bills when she gets older!The only reason the film gets a 2 was because the film was TECHNICALLY well-made. While a technically horrible film like PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE or THEY SAVED HITLER'S BRAIN are clearly scored a 1 on the IMDb, I would MUCH rather view them. Although these two films are a mess and the acting is poor, at least they weren't patently offensive or exploitative or make me feel dirty for having watched them. Do NOT watch this film and do not believe any of the positive hype you've heard about the movie. "}]