[{"Title":"I didn't know the 21st century looked like this!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"81 out of 107 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It doesn't take much to get me to go to a movie, and I had high hopes for a movie with a) Josh Hartnett, and b) a clever premise. I looked forward to insightful and funny commentary about the relationship between sex and love and men and women in our post-modern world. What I got was breasts. Lots and lots of breasts. While the movie does a fairly good job (by Hollywood standards) of including a panoply of attractive women instead of a cookie-cutter ideal, the women are ultimately reduced to meaningless bodies that crave the power that sex supposedly gives them.WARNING WHAT FOLLOWS IS A COMMENT ABOUT THE END OF THE MOVIE, WHICH IS SOMEWHAT RELEVANT TO THE PLOT. SO DON'T READ IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW.I could go on in that vein for hours, but what REALLY made me almost walk out on this film is the fact that Matt, the hero, is RAPED by is ex-girlfriend in the final minutes of the movie. Did nobody at the studio recognize that act for what it is? If the gender roles were reversed in that scene, it would have totally changed the mood and content of the film. As it was, I kept waiting for Matt, or ANYBODY, to call the police. Instead, movie goers get a happy ending where Matt's new girlfriend finally FORGIVES HIM FOR BEING RAPED. Hooray for Hollywood.I guess it's not even safe to go to romantic comedies anymore. Sigh. "},{"Title":"Spoiler  Highly offensive ending...","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"33 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  SpoilerWhile most of the offensive and insulting material in this film is unsurprising and rather dependent on one's moral point of view I have to agree with HEP632 and Malmir comments regarding the final scene with the lead character and his ex-girlfriend. It is inexcusable that this rape scene is treated so casually.  "},{"Title":"rape is never OK","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"37 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK, so the movie wasn't great. Not bad, but not great either. I'm sure you've read a million plot summaries by now. Some good laughs, some cheesy dialogue...(what follows is a spoiler, but I recommend you read it before seeing the movie) And then comes the rape scene.Thank you to all the other comments posted acknowledging that rape is bad. Having non-consentual sex with a bound, drunk, delirious ex-lover? This is what passes as OK in Hollywood these days? The worst part is the fact that not only is the fact that it was rape never mentioned in the rest of the movie, but the victim is held responsible! I actually signed up for an IMDb account JUST to condemn this film. I'm sickened by having watched that filth. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous premise about shallow people","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood and their incredible shallowness wants it's viewers to care a lot for the main character in this film and it's because he's good looking. Nothing more than that and I took an instant disliking to this ridiculous attempt at comedy and the rest of the characters are portrayed as either vapid or moronic. Story is about Matt Sullivan (Josh Hartnett) who is having a very difficult time getting over his breakup with Nicole (Vinessa Shaw) and he goes out with several girls but they don't amount to anything and he becomes disgusted by his own behavior. Matt decides to give up sex for Lent and at first he seems okay with it but as time goes on it gets very difficult and while at the laundromat he meets a new woman.*****SPOILER ALERT*****Matt meets Erica (Shannyn Sossamon) and they have an instant attraction to one another but he has a hard time explaining his actions when he starts acting weird but she finds out the truth when Matt's co-workers put his plan on a website and place bets whether he can last the whole duration.This film is directed by Michael Lehmann who has helmed two pretty good films (Heathers, The Truth About Cats & Dogs) that deal with relationships and human interaction but he has also directed some awful films (Hudson Hawk, Meet The Applegates, My Giant) and I certainly believe that this attempt belongs in the latter. The film is basically an attempt to showcase Josh Hartnett and take advantage of his looks which is fine but the script makes his character so nice that he's just a complete bore. Are we really supposed to feel sorry for him because he's not getting laid? Is not getting any for 40 days that long? If it is I definitely live in another universe and basically I cannot relate to Hartnett's character on any level, and I'm a single guy! Every female that works in the same office as Hartnett is smoking hot and this is an office that easily has no idea what sexual misconduct is. Hartnett is not a bad actor but when he's cast in these cutesy boy roles he's ingratiating. With the exception of Sossamon who gives an earnest attempt the rest of the cast is portrayed as uncaring jerks who seemingly have embraced their shallowness. If your looking for a smart and sophisticated comedy than keep walking because this lame film has a script that is totally devoid of anything resembling wit and intelligence.  "},{"Title":"Is it still funny if we flip it round.","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Over the years there have been many chauvanistic male movie characters who produce stereotypical images to the viewers. However if we look at 40 days and 40 nights and flip the plot around so that it is a girl who has to go the aforementioned length of time without having sex and we no longer have a comedy but an extremely offensive movie.***PLOT (if you can call it that) SPOILERS!!!!Take the scene where the girl tries to seduce him on the photocopier or the two girls in the store room who kiss. I am not a prude in any way but if those scenes were reversed and it was a female on the receiving end then the scenes would have had a far darker meaning. And lets not even go near the scene at the end where the ex-girlfriend ruins the mission so to speak. Once again flipped around this would surely be rape. Which begs the question is it funny? I don't think so.Yes it is only a teen comedy and maybe I should lighten up somewhat but where the American Pie films had a certain charm and illustrated the prat falls for both men and women, 40 days and 40 nights went for morally questionable gags to sell the movie. "},{"Title":"Bland comedy, but watchable","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to the movies with a friend, and this was the only film we could agree on. I had pretty low expectations to begin with, so I can't really say I was disappointed, but 40 Days... didn't really leave any lasting impression on me. It's a bland film - it does create a few laughs - but all in all, it's a pretty forgettable affair.The best thing this film has going for it, is the nice on-screen chemistry between the two leads. Both Josh Hartnett and newcomer Shannyn Sossamon do well with their characters - or at least as well as the juvenile script allows them. The funniest moments in the film were the condom scene at the beginning, dinner with the parents and the examination of Matt's sheets. It's also nice to see a Hollywood movie that doesn't drag on beyond the two hour point. 40 Days... clocks in at a pleasant 94 minutes, which feels just about right.All in all, it's a mildly enjoyable film, but nothing memorable. I'll rate it 3 out of 6 on my dice.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, BUT...","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Overall, I enjoyed this film.  I liked the leads and thought they had good chemistry, and while not as funny as, say, American Pie, I did find many of the jokes amusing.However, there was one aspect of the film that really bothered me, which I notice has been mentioned by others as well.  (SPOILER WARNING)Now, if a woman was handcuffed to a bed and sleeping and somewhat delirious and her ex-boyfriend showed up and had sex with her, when she is clearly in no position to give consent, few people would hesitate to label that as rape, and it certainly would not go without mention and condemnation in the film.  Yet Nicole rapes Matt, and the only issue that seems to arise is how he screwed up.  Excuse me? Granted, blaming the rape victim is not a new concept, but one would hope in this day and age it doesn't find its way into films, at least not without suitable counter statements being made.  Male rape is a serious issue that is rarely dealt with as such, and movies like this tend to reinforce the erroneous belief that male rape doesn't exist, except in prison, or Deliverance.  Maybe we shouldn't expect this movie to have any great social impact, challenge the views of the establishment, but acknowledgement that SOMETHING wrong had happened (other than Matt screwing up) would have been nice.  I seriously hope Nicole didn't get to collect on her bet.Also, someone suggested that it was unrealistic for Matt not to have woken up before he had an orgasm.  I'm not a guy, so I can't speak from experience, but there are such things as wet dreams.  It seems to me that was essentially what Matt had, only unbeknownst to him, he had a little help.  (That's actually what I found unbelievable; surely he would have long since had a wet dream on his own.  But it's a movie.) "},{"Title":"Hartnett is charismatic enough to make it work","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"27 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Josh Hartnett is a good looking kid who does not use his looks to put up a wall between him and the audience in this movie.  He seems very human and sweet.  This helps in a lot in this movie because he's the 'sex object' who is not getting any, and you don't mind not seeing him 'add another notch to the bedpost.' Since all of his conquests make him feel bad or doomed for unhappiness, Matt (Hartnett) feels he must take drastic action by not giving in to any sexual urges.  He becomes the subject of an intense office pool and some of the girls who had bet on a specific day he would 'cave in' make moves on him.  A website is dedicated to him and he is soon referred to as 'Vow Boy.'The movie has a lot of laughs.  A couple of scenes seem retundant and a couple don't belong at all, but for the most part this is pleasant enough entertainment.  Josh gets some big laughs, more than anyone else, but his roommate and his boss get some too.  Josh has some good chemistry with Shannyn Sossamon who plays Erica.  7/10. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"76 out of 139 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't find any redeeming qualities in this movie.  I knew going in the movie was kind of based on the sophomoric premise that a sexually active young man was giving up sex for Lent.  The movie also purports to be a comedy.  So, almost all of the humor of the film revolves around Matt's (Josh Hartnett) attempt at celibacy, while apparently in his world every woman is young beautiful, and willing to have sex with him.  So, you get lots of scenes of him gasping in frustration running away from women while putting ice down his pants.  I found the humor witless, and below the standards of Porky's or typical teenage drive-in type movies.Also, in this world were Matt lives, everyone knows about everyone else's sex lifes, they are freely discussed, and in Matt's case becomes the subject of world wide betting on the internet.  While Matt seems to view this as an unfortunate turn of events, apparently he harbours no ill will towards his friends for publishing his plight.  Or doesn't seem to be upset with them as they go out of their way to make him break is vow for Lent.There is more to the plot of the movie, he meets a girl and falls in love but the movie screams the question HOW CAN THEY BE IN LOVE IF THEY AREN'T HAVING SEX?  I'm not sure what the movie answered... it doesn't matter.  The movie is absurd, the ending is meaningless.  "},{"Title":"crude and physically impossible, but mildly entertaining","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS Each year, we all claim we're going to give up something for Lent. Whether for religious reasons, physical reasons or even for a bet, we all have attempted, and mostly failed, to sacrifice those things we need the most. It'd be interesting to know how many have attempted to sacrifice sexual activity for that time. In 2002's '40 Days and 40 Nights', Josh Hartnett's character tries just that. Crammed full of sexual reference and incredibly dumb moments, '40 Days and 40 Nights' is saved from the oblivion where it so obviously belongs by the pure fact that it is occasionally entertaining. Yes it never makes you fall off your seat in laughter, and the characters are incredibly shallow, but more often than not, you can't help but find yourself smiling.Matt Sullivan (Hartnett) is a mess. Never recovering from his last girlfriends rejection, he leaps from bed to bed only to find himself suffering psychological trauma and hallucinations. Deciding he needs to get his head sorted, Matt decides that it is time to give up sex. Thus for the 40 days and nights of Lent, he gives up all sexual activity. Including personal relief into the decision, Matt finds temptation constantly around the corner, not least from the fact that he has a new girlfriend in the shape of Erica (Shannyn Sossamon).Firstly, lets ponder the impossibilities involved with '40 Days and 40 Nights'. There's the fact that at one point he makes Erica orgasm using a flower, a fact that women will happily condemn at a moments notice (although most have probably tried after watching this film). There's also the fact that if a man goes from constant sex to no relief of any kind, that he's not going to have a say in the matter. The body will find a way to make him let off steam. The fact that for the entire time Matt lasts in the film, he never once experiences any sort of wet dream (as would happen in such a sudden 'cold turkey' situation), is just evidence of how little the creators thought this premise through.Away from practical impossibility, the film also suffers from the predictable fact that it is often incredibly crude. Whether it is a hot office worker spreading her legs on the photocopier or Matt's hallucinations of naked women, the film is never afraid to lower the tone beyond sensible parameters. At just over an hour and a half long, it is just one long smut joke, and it's doubtful 'Confessions of a window cleaner' had this many sexual references.All the characters are also incredibly shallow individuals. Obsessed with sex, every single girl offers herself to him in return for the possibility of winning money. At the same time, all of his friends, rather than supporting him, ridicule and humiliate him with an online betting syndicate. There's not an individual in the film that doesn't seem to be sex obsessed and superficial. This isn't real life, this is some sort of nightmarish fantasy.So where do we go from here? There's so many criticisms about the film, there surely can't be any saving grace? Well, against all better judgement, there is. You see, whilst the film is crude, flawed and dumb, it is also at times entertaining. We're not talking hilarious or anything, but it does sometimes make you smile and enjoy it. You watch the story unfold, you really don't care for any of the characters, and yet you just can't turn it off. The film hooks you in and subjects you to ninety minutes of torture. Yet once it's finished, you do find yourself happy and content by what you've seen. It's always annoying when something like this happens, but when the story is really this bad, you find yourself even more frustrated.Rude, crude, physically impossible and woefully shallow, '40 Days and 40 Nights' is not a good film. So it is with a heavy heart therefore to confess that you might actually enjoy it. It's a guilty pleasure. It's a film which is so inexplicably bad, and yet for some unknown reason, you find yourself occasionally smiling through it. You feel like the ninety minutes have been worthwhile, even though they haven't, and you genuinely believe that the film is worth anyone's attention. This is the evil of Hollywood at it's most pronounced and it's an annoying fact of life. You should hate this film, but you'll think you like it. "}{"Title":"Holding out for the One...","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"26 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Michael Lehman's 40 Days and 40 Nights is a surprisingly funny, smart, edgy romantic comedy with an amazing sweetness to it. This is a feat given some of the graphic dialog, and outrageous sight gags. Credit the star power of Josh Hartnett, the skillful direction of Michael Lehman, and a brisk and in your face screenplay by Rob Perez. The movie intends to offend, and we give it permission to do so-- the effect is a fun time at the movies. Josh Hartnett plays young Dot Commer, Matt, who is suffering since his break up 6 months ago from Nicole (a viciously good Vinessa Shaw). Matt has visions of a Black Hole fissuring from the ceiling whenever he is having sex with women which is very often-- poor guy. Matt confides in his brother, John (Adam Trese), a priest completing his probationary period. John is not the tower of strength and inspiration that Matt is looking for. Then by design, divine intervention, or sheer insanity, Matt chooses abstinence for 40 days and nights until Lent. And this is extreme-- no fondling and... no masturbation. No one believes Matt will last 40 days, much less a week. Among the faithless is Matt's roommate, Ryan (Paulo Costanzo), who betrays Matt confidence and tells his co-workers at Matt's Internet company. They start a pool on a website predicting Matt's demise. In the meantime, Matt pursues a relationship with a great girl, Erica (a beautiful Shannyn Sossamon), who he met at the local laundromat. Also by design it just happens that Erica has a history of dating weirdos, and she works for Cyber Nanny, a company that safeguards against porn-sites. Matt also finds out that Nicole is back from Europe and now engaged, and she will not let him forget this. What makes the movie special is that Matt really falls in love with Erica without sleeping with her, and that he remains abstinent, because he said so... This is refreshing. Josh Hartnett is great here. His Matt is a good-looking, charming guy who makes an insane choice and lives with it. Hartnett also comes across as empathetic, as a man thrust in an almost impossible situation where everyone is betting on his failure. He has a quiet strength about him, is very funny, and totally believable. Shannyn Sossamon is stunning-- you can see why Matt falls for her. And when she wonders if Matt is gay, this is hilarious. Sossamon's Erica is smart and compassionate with great humanity. Playing a woman wondering why the guy she is attracted to doesn't want to have sex with her is not an easy role... or natural. The humor in 40 Days is raw, though enjoy the ride. Afterall it is a romance, managed well by Lehman, Harnett, and Sossamon. And we don't mind being offended as long as it is done smartly with style, and that we are ultimately touched. "},{"Title":"Basically, this is the biggest piece of crap I've ever seen","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film reflects the decadence of Hollywood. Now a days, every incompetent being, each stupider than the last one, may get to direct a movie, or even worst, to write a script. That's the only possible explanation to the fact that this movie ever came out. Technically the movie is really lame. In fact I strongly doubt there was anyone involved in the production of this film that was aware that there exist techniques to shoot a movie. There's no photography management, no aesthetics careness, no nothing that would justify the one big and completely flaw by antonomasia that the script is. The only attempt of innovation you may find in the movie is the 100% computer animated sea of mammary glands waving all along the screen as the central character is supposed to be having an alucination. Concerning the script, there isn't a single part of it that doesn't deserve to go straightly to the trash bin. I strongly recommend, as well, that Mr. Rob Pérez dedicates the rest of his life in another work, as good as he makes sure it doesn't involve writing. The plot is just absurd (spoiler?). A guy swears to god that he won't have sex for the next 40 days, and what's worst the entire community around him is so stupid and has nothing better to do in their own lives, that they run a hi-tech bet system in which they bet to the day they think the oath will be broken. Give it a 5 second thought. If your neighbour doesn't want to have sex do you really give a damn about it??? Will your life start to work around that fact??? of course not!!! The movie it self doesn't have sense!!! Not even to mention the predictability of it. From the very beginning of the movie you know how it's going to end. And the gags and jokes, that were supposed to be the strong side of the movie, don't get to work at all. In all the time I wasted watching this movie, not ever once my lips showed a glimpse of a smile. "},{"Title":"Fails to Go the Distance","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After spending six months dwelling on the demise of his last relationship, Matt Sullivan (Josh Hartnett) decides to give up all his sexual outlets for Lent. Naturally, upon making this decision, he meets Erica (Shannyn Sossamon) and has to hope their budding relationship will survive `40 Days and 40 Nights'. Spoilers follow.To be perfectly fair, I have to say that the allure of Josh Hartnett has mostly escaped me. Slouching lethargically through every role he plays, Hartnett mumbles his lines as if slightly embarrassed in a voice just an octave short of Herman Munster and with all the energy of a very old man on a Nyquil bender. Watching Hartnett, I found his sleepy-eyed Matt a little hard to buy as a Lothario in overdrive. He hardly seems capable of dressing himself in the morning, let alone pursuing so strenuous an activity as sex.As one would expect, Matt doesn't manage to pursue his spiritual journey unnoticed - friends, co-workers, and even total strangers become aware of his pledge in short order. The addition of an Internet betting pool on the demise Matt's celibacy is one of the film's few smart moves - money always being an acceptable means of providing motivation where there would otherwise exist only mild interest. Folks with a stake in the whole mess begin to conspire against Matt immediately with all the attendant inappropriate, unlikely, and sometimes patiently illegal acts that might result in some kind of court date out in the real world. You know the jokes already Viagra in the orange juice; the office slut teasingly spread-eagled on the copier with an open invitation; the offer of a full-service ménage a trios with a couple of other female co-workers out to win the pool, making them a couple of high-priced (okay, very high priced) prostitutes by proxy. Only in your local Spearmint Rhino and films like this do women dress this provocatively and men behave this foolishly in the workplace.The movie makes some feeble effort to acknowledge the spiritual nature of Lent, having horndog Matt experiencing some mildly sacrilegious hallucinations shortly after making his conviction. Short of that and some rambling allusions to Satan's tests for Jesus while Matt is on the home stretch to victory (seemingly only achievable at the zero hour by handcuffing himself to his bed), the film uses the whole concept of spiritual growth through self-denial cruelly. By the `climax', Matt has devolved into such a twitchy, bumbling, sweaty, hallucinating, unbelievable neurotic that it's safe to say his journey has been a failure even if the trip has landed a hot new babe in his bed. Unfortunately, the attraction between Harnett and the slightly funky but lovely Sossamon seems as forced as the entire premise.The movie does offer a precious few titillating moments (personally, I don't think I would have made it past the office slut's offer on top of the copier) but there is nothing in the film so erotically evocative to make it worth the price of admission. For that kind of thrill, there are far better films one can rent, in the privacy of your own home, with your own remote control, and your own bottle of baby oil. I think you know where I'm going.The only real bright spot in the whole dismal setting for me is Paulo Costanzo as Matt's roomie. Costanzo seems to have come from the Jerry Seinfeld School of Acting, being unable to deliver a line without an attendant smirk. Usually, this would be annoying but Costanzo manages to make it somehow bearable - kind of like talking to a good friend and sharing a sharing a private joke. He seemed to consistently generate the most laughs out of the wasted cast.I guess to the pompous, vaguely agnostic, Hey-We're-Bigger-Than-Jesus executives over at good ol' Universal, releasing `40 Days, 40 Nights' during Lent seemed like a real no-brainer. Certainly, it doesn't seem likely that any devout Catholics will have this film at the top of their `To Do' list though some kind of protest action by a fringe activist group doesn't seem out of the question. If you are Catholic and you haven't given up anything for Lent, might I suggest films like this? I'm all for a good old-fashioned, slightly titillating, youth-oriented sex comedy but since you can also add `mindless', `unconvincing', and `unfunny' to the list of adjectives in this case, you can live without them for the next 40 days. I'm not Catholic or a prude or even religious but I can still appreciate the value of self-sacrifice. Fortunately for me, giving up films like `40 Days and 40 Nights' is a little like giving up crushing my testicles in a vise - easy to do and I wouldn't miss it a bit. Three Stars out of Ten. "},{"Title":"Awful movie","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is awful on so many levels, it's difficult to choose what to focus on. First of all, the main characters are horribly underdeveloped. Josh Hartnet's character hardly speaks throughout the movie, and while Erica, his new love interest, does a decent job expressing her sensitivity through her body language, her character is equally undeveloped. And while Hartnet's character may be a heart throb, do girls really throw themselves at guys so hard and fast that it's that difficult to turn down sex? If this movie was meant for teens, then the producers did young people a horrible injustice by making twenty-something life look so shallow. In the beginning of the film, he's getting tail like its on sale at Costco. The caricatured version of a hot, male bachelor's life makes the movie unbearably cartoonish. SPOILERS Then, when Erica and Matt (is that Josh's character's name?) they fall in love so fast, after one date. This is problematic because Erica is SOOOOO upset when she learns about his vow. Why wouldn't they just have a calm conversation about it and her ask why he's doing what he's doing? It's not like they know each other that well. OK, and the orgasm scene with the flower--meant to be hot, was embarrassing and contrived. I could imagine that scene being very hot, but something about the way the actors acted it made me blush in embarrassment&#x97;not because it was sexually arousing, but because it wasn't. Matt's ex-girlfriend is equally caricatured, and dumps him for a rich young partner at Stanley Morgan. Finally, SPOILERS the RAPE SCENE AT THE END. What the hell?? I can't believe the producers put that in there&#x97;not because it wouldn't ever happen, but that Matt blames himself for it. Is Matt really that much of a screwed up catholic? And the final scene when Matt talks about how he just kept screwing up and screwing up. How did he screw up? everyone else seemed to--his jackass friends for betting on his celibacy, but not him for taking a break. Finally, one last stab at the movie&#x97;it just wasn't funny. I laughed hard once (can't remember when), but that good chuckle didn't make up the piece of crap this film is. "},{"Title":"Thank god, I am not the only one...","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Text taken from HEP632  I could go on in that vein for hours, but what REALLY made me almost walk out on this film is the fact that Matt, the hero, is RAPED by is ex-girlfriend in the final minutes of the movie. Did nobody at the studio recognize that act for what it is? If the gender roles were reversed in that scene, it would have totally changed the mood and content of the film. As it was, I kept waiting for Matt, or ANYBODY, to call the police. Instead, movie goes get a happy ending where Matt's new girlfriend finally FORGIVES HIM FOR BEING RAPED. Hooray for Hollywood.As Matt being raped AND NOT voluntarily joined in the act, actually made Matt as the final winner of the bet. Why this ? Yes You see,he keeped his vow, he didn't touch her. And that makes her a hustler without payment. That part is also keeped away from the movie, why ? Did the film team not understand the consequences of this final part ?I still feel and will forever, this movie stinks for eternity...! "},{"Title":"Godawful ending","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is mostly a superfluous movie based on a rather idiotic plot idea, with not much originality in the script and rather untalented actors. I have no idea why I even bothered watching it back then. But the main reason why I gave it the minimum rating was really the unbelievable awful ending.!!! Spoilers ahead !!!Yes I will spoil the ending.!!! Stop reading already if you don't want to get the end spoiled !!!The final actions in this movie is a rape of a man who was helplessly bound to the bed, by his ex-girlfriend, and than that man seriously having to apologize about that to his girlfriend, who instead of helping him blamed him for being a crime victim.If you are seriously having trouble understanding whats wrong this ending, then just invert the genders. A woman in the place of the man would have been a rape victim, and the man as a boyfriend would have the urge to run after the other man for some serious beating up.Personally, in the position of the man, I would have immediately called the police and filed my ex-girlfriend for rape. Also immediately dropped my current girlfriend for not helping me and even blaming me for getting raped while I was completely unable to fight back at all.It the exactly the same logic as those Islamic idiots who want to stone female rape victims to death for having committed adultery. But the script authors where seriously believing the audience would buy that. What the heck ? !!! End of spoilers !!!This is definitely one of the worst endings in all of movie history. "},{"Title":"Mourning Wood","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Six months of hot women can't get emotionally blocked San Francisco stud Josh Hartnett (as Matt Sullivan) to forget sexy ex-girlfriend Vinessa Shaw (as Nicole); so, he decides to give up sex for 40 Days and 40 Nights (aka Lent, the time period before Easter). It's a lot harder than it sounds, because Mr. Harnett vows to give up ALL forms of sexual activity, including masturbation. Promiscuous roommate Paulo Costanzo (as Ryan) is around to help; he examines Hartnett's sheets for fluids, and lets everyone on the Internet know about his pal's pledge. Presumably, Mr. Costanzo orders Hartnett to shower with the door open.Things get very sticky (or, not) when women try to arouse Hartnett's interest. To complicate matters, he meets sexy Shannyn Sossamon (as Erica) at the Laundromat. Still, Hartnett perseveres. He gets Christian help, in the confessional, from priestly brother Adam Trese (as John); Mr. Trese is, secretly, struggling with the same vow. Of course, the real story is the discovery, by Hartnett, of true love (instead of just sex). Other than a confusing, dream sequence climax; it's all fairly predictable. Director Michael Lehmann and team succeed in making the premise unrealistic, even for a silly movie. Sossamon and Costanzo are very likable with Hartnett. There are a few laughs. One cool scene features more topless women than Electric Ladyland.***** 40 Days and 40 Nights (3/1/02) Michael Lehmann ~ Josh Hartnett, Shannyn Sossamon, Paulo Costanzo, Adam Trese "},{"Title":"So-so movie, until the last reel","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Unless you are a shallow person who thinks sex is something that's bad yet funny, avoid this movie. (Spoilers, but trust me you are gonna want to read this.)In the last reel of the movie, the main character hand-cuffs himself to his bed in order to prevent himself from having a little self pleasure. His ex-girlfriend barges into his apartment, sees him sleeping like this and RAPES him! Yeah, pretty horrible eh? Of course he is blamed because all men are sex pigs and can't be raped, right?Anyway, some of it is so-so funny, but still the ending is one of the worst I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"HORRIBLE movie *spoiler*","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of the worst movies I've seen. The script is just lame. There's no action, there's no jokes, its just a whole film containing nothing but boredom.There's not one single character in this film that i liked. The star is so self absorbed and self important. The world evolves around his lame little relationship issues. Who gives a damn? He is constantly visiting his brother for help, and isn't grateful. Hes just selfish and self absorbed and lame.The flatmate is an idiot. Everyone he works with is childish and annoying. The guy who runs the website documenting his abstinence is an idiot. If it was me, and someone was doing that about me.... id rearrange their face.The woman he is supposed to be having a hard break up from is a horrible bi*** The whole scene where he bumps into her and her new guy is one of the most amateurish scenes ever in a movie. The guy is the stereotypical upper class idiot and she acts like the stereotypical I'm doing much better without you role. Its just sooo horrible!!!!! Then there's the woman love interest who he meets in the laundry room. She has funny eyebrows. She is snooty and annoying and if he wasn't such a fool controlled by whats in his pants, he would realise she is a pain in the rear and would tell her to get lost.All the women in this movie are airhead sluts. They are all like...omg! like totally! like he doesn't want sex for 40 days!! omg!!! men are like... sooooo primitive... omg!. It makes me want to drown them all. The guys are not much better.Avoid this movie at all costs unless you are about 12 years old and want to see an insane movie about relationships as a 20 something year old only.... not accurate at all, and annoying, and full of ridiculous characters. Unless you are a no life loser, anyone you meet like that in real life should just be avoided. Lifes too short. "},{"Title":"Do not recommend","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It is self evident that the makers of this movie have never tried to do what they have the protagonist of the story attempt. They make it out as if it's some sort of unattainable fantasy vice a lifestyle choice. 40 Days and 40 Nights is based off a singular idea men can't live without sex. Actually, it's based off a more basic idea than even that men can't control themselves. This movie contains an attempted drugging, sexual harassment, sexual molestation, and outright rape and we're supposed to just laugh it off because it happens to a man. And as we all know, men can't go more than 7 seconds without thinking about sex. This is a horrible, propaganda filled, hateful little piece of indoctrination that deserves the death penalty at the very least. "}{"Title":"Lovely Acting overshadowed by illegitimate Rape","Date":"14 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm SO glad to see that other reviewers weren't blindfolded to the ugly truth of this movie... ! Proof our culture still has a brain. D So...gender equality = treating both genders with respect & not violating their rights (in a nut shell.) So why then, do we allow raping a man chained to a bed??? ...Really people?This movie tries to make us believe that a) Men cannot control their sexual urges b) Forcing yourself sexually on a drunk, sleeping person tied to a bed (against their will) is OK (as long as it's a man!) Rape is only legitimate if a man rapes a woman apparently... (!?!?) c) Abstinence is torture / Life without sex is meaningless ... blah blah blah d) Respecting people's bodies is overrated Literally everybody should re-watch the ending if they didn't find it disgusting. Men, women, virgins, individuals with healthy sexual lives..... ALL OF US ... should be upset with how blatantly ignorant the ending of this movie is! He's raped 3 minutes before midnight?? That's your idea of an ENDING?!? This seemingly humorous rom-com kills the basic idea of respect & basic human dignity. Instead it aims to.... demonize celibacy, make men into brainless & sexualized pigs, make women into pretty/sexualized objects, & ignore rape. So a more objective rating would go like this....(Positives) -- Main actors are talented --- Humor is consistently good -- Original date ideas & non-cliché type characters --- Plot isn't TOO predictable --- Refreshing to see Sossamon's edgy style as the lead role --- Male protagonist respects women --- All the apartment decor looks like a sexy bohemian Pinterest board(Negatives) --- Male rape is basically deemed illegitimate. The climax of this film occurs when the ex-girlfriend sneaks into his house when he (main character) is trying to remain abstinent & she forces him to have sex with her while he's DRUNK, SLEEPING & CHAINED TO A BED. (He says NO!) The writer's cover it up by letting him get the good girl in the end & never recognizing that the ex she-beast raped him. Apparently male rape does Not exist in the planet of these scene writers?!--- Excessive use of boobs. I didn't know it was possible to allow that many pointless boobs in one scene. --- There just HAD to be the cliché priest-who-has-excessive-sexual-urges character. Seriously? When is Hollywood going to get bored of saying that celibate people can't be celibate if they want to? A priest is statistically less likely to have sex/ rape / molest a person than a child's teacher or parents!! ... Hollywood needs to stop rubbing this false holy- clergy-sex-fantasy stereotype in our faces.Movies like this are why male rape is under-reported & under-punished. Our culture needs to stop saying that only women can be raped. The idea that being raped somehow makes you more feminine or not tough enough to fight them off is ridiculous. The reality is that the crime of Rape is a violent act committed against a person (against their will)...regardless of the victim's gender! Women rapists (or men raping men) shouldn't be getting away with this!!!!!Seriously...--- OK... End Rant! loll ---Gave it 4 stars because the movie COULD have easily been a 7 or 8 star edgy sexualized Rom-com if it hadn't been for the writer's making rape illegitimate & the random stereotyping. "},{"Title":"Rape Depicted as Good","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hollywood writers are largely egotistical, juvenile, spoiled, shallow, hedonistic, amoral, arrogant, and totally disconnected from the day-to-day world most of us nobodys live in. Once in a great while, something seeps into the scripts they write that's so extreme in it's reprehensibility it reveals their delusional view of the world. That's what happened with this movie, but since it wasn't a wildly popular blockbuster that was in the theatres for several months, it was mostly ignored. At the end of this movie a man is raped by a woman in a context that makes it clear that the writers think it's a good thing. Knowing the stupid plot of the movie doesn't make it any better. Matt (Josh Harnett) just had a bad break-up with a girl and decides he would get a better perspective on women and relationships if he went without sex during the 40 days of Lent, including kissing and masturbation. He meets a woman, but continues his experiment in sexual abstinence without explaining his experiment to her, just saying he wants a platonic relationship. I'll admit I didn't follow every detail of the plot and sub-plots (he's some kind of executive and has a lot of obnoxious roommates and co-workers) but I figure nothing could justify the rape at the end. There is a sequence where he's so aroused and frustrated he dreams he's flying through a landscape of CGIed breasts, which I guess is relatively imaginative. Near the end of the movie he goes to bed, as always handcuffed to the bedposts so he can't masturbate. His ex-girlfriend gets on top of him and RAPES HIM! If the sexes were reversed there'd be a public outcry about this movie that would be pretty considerable even though the movie wasn't extremely well- known. I think what the so-called writers think is that men having sex whenever they can get it and perpetually pursuing sex like mindless animals the rest of the time is the natural order of Nature and any man who goes against that is denying nature and is not a real man and deserves to be FORCED back into sexual activity, in other words deserves to be RAPED. In their minds, the abstinence is the twisted thing and the rape is the healthy thing. Of course movies are primarily entertainment and some people, mostly women I guess, would get a kick out of seeing a healthy, good-looking young guy constantly horny and teased and frustrated, but the movie doesn't even work on that dark level because Hartnett doesn't react the way most men would. Most of the other characters in the film are shallow, obnoxious twenty- somethings who act like 12-year-olds and I can't help thinking that this must be pretty close to what the writers act like. There are a lot of jokes about embarrassment over having erections at work. This isn't the worst movie ever made - that honor I think belongs to Forrest Gump - only because 40 Days and 40 Nights is useful in the way it reveals the society-induced mental disorders of the writers. "},{"Title":"yet another boring comedy","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am so sick of seeing these boring comedies with no real story, no real laughs and horrible actors. Why waste your time.So a boy is obsessed with his ex girlfriend and he tries to get over her by having sex with lots of other girls, but he has trouble being with other women cause he's haunted by his ex. He then decides he's going to become celibate and all of his co-workers know he's a horn dog so they start a betting pool to see if he can make the entire 40 days he had set out to go.During this time he meets another girl and finds hes falling for her and he tells her he doesn't have sex which freaks her out, and meanwhile all the girls in on the bet try to seduce him and his ex comes back into his life and yada yada - predictable yawn-fest with no laughs.Josh Hartnett kinda sucks as an actor, hes a young talentless Tommy Lee Jones look-a-like and then we have co-stars like Shannyn Sossamon, who is a boring Angelina Jolie wanna be and Paulo Costanzo who is a younger looking annoying Jon Stewart look-a-like and then god forbid that I compare the horrible Maggie Gyllenhaal to anyone because no one is that special brand of ugly that she is - she looks like a grandma and isn't even 30.This movie was stupid and worthless, I never got his motives and I don't think it was cute and sweet enough to be considered romantic comedy, and it wasn't young enough to be a teen comedy and no one over 17 would wanna watch it, so who's the audience... 2 stars and thats being generous. "},{"Title":"Gets worse as it goes along","Date":"8 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sort of enjoyable at first, with a decent if not clichéd setup of characters, 40 Days and 40 Nights pretty much degenerates into a rut of single-minded sex humor and bag of clichés that runs badly on empty. It becomes consumed with fixation on a lot of weak sex jokes. We checked it out at the library so the price was right - free. Was this supposed to be about adults? - it was more like a frat act. It's disappointing how distasteful and adolescent material gets in an effort to get a cheap laugh. Women don't act like this, and certainly no workplace functions as such - there'd be sexual lawsuits left and right. Even if you suspend your belief, you still have uninteresting puppy love relationships with flat conversation and zero chemistry. Avoid if you like some complexity in your jokes beyond sex. "},{"Title":"Josh Harnett was good but some major concerns!!","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" WARNING Major spoiler ahead! I thought Josh Harnett was good in this...considering. It was an OK movie in some ways, and it's encouraging that people of the level of insight/maturity of the screen writer (=low) can actually succeed in Hollywood(!?!), but...Is it just me, or was anyone else blown away by the fact that his ex-girlfriend maliciously RAPED him?! She forced herself on him while he was unconscious and tied down... He was upset about it, didn't want it, and it wrecked his life ... but nobody said boo about it. AND then his real girlfriend LEFT him because of it. Imagine the tables turned Semi-conscious girl is handcuffed to a bed, ex-boyfriend enters her apartment without permission, forces himself on her as an act of aggression purely to hurt her and damage her life... Then her actual boyfriend leaves her because she got raped ... and nobody reports any of this to the police or even hints that it was, er, bad? Can't we do better than this in this day and age?! It's also ridiculous the way ordinary girls behave in the movie; all of his office colleagues turn into sex workers, and extremely sexually aggressive ones at that. Real women just don't behave that way (very rarely), so I believe that it all reveals, as usual, something pretty 'interesting' about the psyche of the writer (and director).Because in other respects it's a 'nice' movie and Josh Harnett is kind of sweet, it's easy for these serious issues to slip under the mental radar of many viewers, especially young ones, so it's a bit of a worry to me... "},{"Title":"Another dull, predictable romantic comedy.","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Has a couple of solid moments, but ultimately even the 90 minutes drag on forever. The movie especially loses itself in the last third when things get predictably romantic and cheesy. The premise is sort of absurd, some of the jokes are even dumb &#150; in the sense that they don't make sense even within the movie's own logic, hence are unfunny. Example when Josh and his brother visit their parents, the latter starts getting graphic about their sex lives even though we've been told that the kids were brought up religiously. That's what's called twisting the logic for a cheap laugh. Naturally, such a scene isn't even remotely funny because humour always has to be based in some sort of reality or logic in order to be funny.Josh Hartnett is one of very few guys from his generation of actors who isn't a wuss (unlike Damon, Bloom, Philippe, Di Caprio, and other girls), but he was totally miscast. He has a strong presence and for him to play insecure, shy and almost nerdy scenes would be like Di Caprio playing Rocky Balboa. The love interest could have been better okay, she's not that bad, but couldn't they have gotten someone better-looking? This is really just your typical sophomoric, formulaic teen (romantic) comedy, except that this genre is worse than it was in the 90s and 80s. "},{"Title":"Tepid juvenile attempt at a sex comedy","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I never saw this in the theater. I'm not a huge fan of Josh Hartnett, though I've seen him perform well in some films. It just didn't look all that particularly good, but with the library expanding their DVD limit from 3 at a time to 5, that leaves me a little more room to experiment. Hence, 40 Days and 40 Nights.It's not the worst pitch &#150; a man who has trouble getting over his ex takes a vow of celibacy for Lent while he tries to get his life back together &#150; but it's not the most inspired idea for a film either. What could have been an intelligent, sarcastic look at sex degenerates into a teenage sex comedy, complete with repeated masturbation jokes, naked or nearly-naked women, and an almost complete loss of focus through much of the film.Hartnett gives it a game try, but the script is just too juvenile. Most of Matt's (Hartnett) co-workers, including his roommate, are morons, obsessed with sex and boobs, and his brother is a priest, who really isn't much help to him throughout the picture. Of course right after he swears off women he meets the right one, Erica (Shannyn Sossaman), who finds out the wrong way about his vow. Naturally he has to balance his celibacy with his burgeoning desire for Erica, whom he actually really likes, and I saw an opportunity to make a point about making a connection on a plane other than physical, but apparently even that sentiment was too deep for this film, which largely consists of the same gag repeated, namely, everyone tries to get Matt to get off. Guys try to slip him viagra. Women come on to him with tricks borrowed from the lamest porn movies. Guys hand him Penthouse magazines. And so on. I suppose your average sixth grader would have found it really funny, but mostly, the film's just an embarrassment.One small note; the ever-wonderful Michael Maronna (Big Pete on The Adventures of Pete and Pete) has a recurring role as a bagel delivery man known simply as Bagel Guy. He has most of the better lines and as usual displays sharp comic timing. But not worth sitting through just to see his small part. You should follow Matt's example and swear off this movie &#150; for good.  "},{"Title":"It gets worse and worse the longer it runs","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie starts out as a normal, decent, silly American comedy, however, the movie gets worse and worse the longer you watch. Towards the end it's just plain stupid. The way that people, especially the lead role, behave is completely irregular, and utterly unrealistic. Watch something else. "},{"Title":"Sad effort from writer of Heathers","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film lacked the wit and intelligence of Heathers, and it's a shame.Ultimately, this movie was a dumb comedy based on a dumb premise.  People in one's life would not typical react to a vow of celibacy as extremely as they did in the movie.  ***Spoiler just ahead.What appalled me the most about this was that there was a rape scene that was never acknowledged as such.  It amazed me that Hollywood put it in but never addressed it.  It was an opportunity to make an extremely intelligent statement about females raping males - and they didn't acknowledge it for what it was!  The rape scene was clearly rape - she had sex with him without his consent - and she did for reasons associated with POWER.  It could have been a great sick joke.  Instead - it was ignored and the main character was made to feel like HE did something wrong.I give it 2/10 - for Josh Hartnett's acting and Shannyn's presence. "},{"Title":"Wait to rent it","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't expecting too much with this movie, but I was expecting more than what I got. Watching this, I couldn't help but think I've seen this so many times before. Josh Hartnett (who did pretty good with what he was given), plays a heart-broken guy who swears off ALL forms of sex for Lent in order to gain a better perspective on life.  Shannyn Sossaman plays his love interest, which makes his vow of celibacy all the more tougher to handle.  Can he do it??? Does it matter??? This movie was predictable and unfunny. The secondary characters are nothing more than annoying American Pie rejects, the character of Erica is in SERIOUS need of a hair wash and comb, and, well, it's just not very funny. "}{"Title":"Juvenile and Full of Stereotypes","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you are one of the few men out there that fit the stereotype that this movie so  desperately tries to push, you'll like this movie.If you are under the age of 12 and have no clue about adult sexualrelationships, you'll like this movie.If you are one of the disturbed women who can't stay away from thesestereotypical men, you'll like this movie.For the other 90% of us, this movie is nice in some places, truly funny in other  places, but mostly juvenile and ignorant.  Of course, this wasn't hard to predict  since the entire basis of the movie is out-of-touch with reality (including its dot- com-centric focus a couple of years after the bubble burst), but I still hoped that  there would be more substance and less fluff.Nope.  For example, in the middle of the movie the main romantic sub-plot ischoked out and forgotten in a seemingly never-ending stream of immaturescenes showing the main character's struggle with his sex drive and coworkers.   It even sounds funnier the way I type it than it actually was.Believe me, there is way too much fluff and filler in this movie, and it's more of a  pre-teen boy's movie than a Romantic Comedy.  I'd compare them to some ofthe ones I remember watching at that age, but they were that forgettable.  This  movie will be forgotten, too -- don't waste your valuable time. "},{"Title":"This Movie Is Nothing But A Big Piece Of Crap","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After Matt(Josh Hartnett) gets dumped by his girlfriend Nicole(Vinessa Shaw) he starts to have sex with every girl possible just to forget about her. But then during the 40 days of Lent, Matt vows to himself that he will not have sex for 40 days and 40 nights. But then of course he meets the girl of his dreams, named Erica(Shannyn Sossamon) and he starts having second thoughts about not having sex and betraying his vow. Of course you can guess the rest. This movie is predictable, dumb and just a big piece of crap. Nothing about this movie was funny or entertaining. The movie sends out wrong messages to it's audience and it's just a pain in the butt to sit through. There weren't even enough hot girls to save this movie from the big piece of crap it is. I would give 40 Days and 40 Nights 3/10 "},{"Title":"A brave, yet wasted effort.","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I give Hartnett credit. Not only did he win the heart of my mother in PEARL HARBOR but he also showed he also has the cojones to play a role such as the one of Matt in 40 DAYS. Funny enough, the first two-thirds of the movie is not funny at all, and goes through the motions of just about every other sitcom on television. And when the final third of the movie comes around, everything just becomes overly ludicrous.Matt is tired of his empty, sex-filled life. For Lent, he vows off of sex, just in time to meet the perfect girl of course.At one time, Toronto was rated the second least romantic city of the world (Warsaw beat us, those darn Polish!), so living in a city where I see my friends and I working hard enough as it is to pay rent and keep our bellies full of food and beer (eh), sex is hardly a factor in a city where you are working too hard to think about it or you are having too much of it. Simply, I do not see the big deal about losing 40 days and nights of no sex. So the entire joke is wasted on me and the satire of the fact was not funny at all. But I give credit for Hartnett and the gusto of most of the actors involved. Hardly a step up for anyone but nothing detrimental. "},{"Title":"Save your time and money","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Every once in a while, a film comes along which makes you wonder why it was written, why it was produced and how, in God's name, it was financed.Well, 40 Days and 40 Nights is one of those films. A comedy that is not funny, is incredibly tasteless, is totally pointless and fails to entertain.After watching this film I felt like the director, Michael Lehmann, and the writer, Rob Perez, had conspired to bore me to death. It surprises me that the featured players would want to participate in such a project. Perhaps they were just desperate for work or had neglected to read the script before agreeing to appear.Even the worst of films has some saving grace -- this one has none! What's more, it seems like there's a little something in this film to offend everyone, especially Catholics and anyone over the age of 17.In summary, 40 Days and 40 Nights is a 93 minute dirty joke that fails to entertain or amuse, but will almost certainly offend. Save your time and money! "},{"Title":"It felt like 40 days and 40 nights passed while I suffered..","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Some films (eg Schindlers List) add something to your life. They stay with you and change you for good. Then there are films that are just entertainment. After that come the turkeys, and finally there are a small number of films that are in the opposite category to the first. You just wish you'd never seen them, not just because they are so bad, but because they take something from you. You feel almost damaged by them. 40 Days and 40 Nights is one of those films.  The sad thing, is that it could have been better. So much better. There are good ideas waiting to be used... but they are totally wasted. Is the film maker making a serious point here? Obviously not because the humour makes Carry On movies seem ultra sophisticated. Is there anything approaching a story line? Well... no, not really. I saw a poster that said Romantic Comedy. I took my wife to see it for our anniversary. She closed her eyes after half an hour and tried to go to sleep instead.  Enough said. Don't make the same mistake as us. Not even if it's free on the box. Not even if they pay you. Or hold a gun to your head... "},{"Title":"boring, predictable and horrible stupid","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yeah well, another masterpiece from America. Yohoo ... Okay, enough sarcasm today. This is really a horrible bad movie. Not only that it is so predictable from the first minute one, but it also has a stupid topic and a more stupid message, that goes like if u don't have sex with every woman you see, you are a dork. Very smart ... wohoo!Anyway, it's not a comedy (I only laugthed three times), it's nothing romantic (I wouldn't go into this movie with ANY woman on this whole planet), nor it is anything else.1 from 10 and I wished I could vote negative ... "},{"Title":"Josh Hartnett finds sex an empty void...the basis for any hilarious comedy","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sniggering, nauseous interplay between the sexes, as block of wood Josh Hartnett, pining for his ex-girlfriend who is now engaged to another man, decides to give up all-things-sexual for Lent (what connection this has with his former flame is never made clear, except that intimate relationships with all other women since has provoked panic). Soon, the kid's co-workers at an internet company are taking bets on whether or not Josh will spread his seed. And it gets even funnier from there a quirky new chick at the laundromat, who washes her clothes every Friday night at the same time, has caught Josh's eye, but all he can do for now is blow flower pedals across her exposed torso. Excruciating film was apparently some people's idea of a good time (it was a substantial hit in theaters), although Rob Perez's screenplay seems extended (badly) from a Seinfeld episode. Strictly for non-discriminating Cineplex teenagers who are apt to giggle over words like penis and masturbation. Once Hartnett's roommate goes through his bedsheets with a blue light, adults may want to check out early. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"In despair at the state of his life, a very sexually active young man vows to give up sex for lent and then meets the girl of his dreams.","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The main idea of this movie was so intriguing, I decided to watch it a very sexually active young man is so frustrated by his life that he decides to give up sex for lent then meets the girl of his dreams. It provides an opportunity to explore ideas the true value of sex in a relationship, questions of openness and honesty. Will the girl be understanding and patient? How will other people react? The movie actually meets all these expectations but apart from the man and the girl themselves (to a certain extent) it does it in such a crude destructive way as to spoil the experience. It has its moments, but the humour just didn't work for me. "},{"Title":"Sophomoric sex comedy for the juvenile mind","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I could only stomach the first half of 40 Days... before finally cutting my loses well past the point of diminishing returns. The film is all about a single San Francisco man (Harnett) who give up sex for Lent and other reasons. Apparently screenwriter Perez was never in boot camp. Duh!The film is a good shoot, lively, with okay technicals. However, the short list of flaws is too long for this website...the humor is sophomoric and Harnett obviously is not up for romantic comedy at this point in his career. The chemistry between him and main squeeze Sossamon is poor, the Kodak moments don't work, the side characters are stupid cliches, and the film is generally inane and boring and focused on crotch humor. Not recommendable, 40 Days... is a flick which could only be appreciated by its off-target demographic who are mostly too young for the R rating. (D+) "},{"Title":"what a waste of celluloid!","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  the film was terrible, that was 2 hours of my life I'd like to have back. No wonder Mr. Harnett was embarassed everytime he had to describe the plot in his interviews. no wonder he didn't want his mother to see the film. the entire cast should be ashamed of themselfs.  this is the sort of film that old hollywood would have forced their stars to be in because they were under contract.  It was a film directed at the youth of to day and the mind less entertainment they waste money on.  i had respect for mr. Harnett and his career, but now...why bother going to his films if he's likely to do such trash. what little meaningful message there was was lost in all of the pornigraphic bull s***.  Having an orgasim from a flower, that is laughable and ubserd.  this film sucked and don't waste one precious minuet of your life on it. "}{"Title":"Some Laughs; Some Cringes; Make this a Rental 6/10","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  40 Days and 40 Nights is a one joke comedy that is pretty funny.  As the same joke wears on though, the film becomes tiresome.  The script lacks; but the performances make up for it.  Josh Hartnett gives another excellent performance -- but the real stars are the two GORGEOUS women Shannyn Sossamon and Vinessa Shaw.Young adults looking for a sex comedy -- with plenty of sex and nudity -- this is your film. People looking to laugh a lot, try something else and wait for this one on video. "},{"Title":"Worse than I thought?","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well. Yes. I didn't think it would be. I am no Josh Hartnett fan, and I thought the idea for the movie ridiculous. When my girl made me go, I set my expectations really low hoping to be surprised. I was, it was much, much worse. This movie did the one thing I thought could never happen, make so many masturbation jokes that they became un-funny. Add to it the list of completely non-sensical parts and this movie truly made me want to see crossroads.  A saving grace might have occurred had one man or woman in it had a healthy, mature attitude about sex, but not the hero, not the clergy, and not any man or woman in it did. A bad premise, for a lot of bad jokes, and bad acting. Think of how funny it is to see Josh Hartnett coming down from a crack high. Now sit through an hour and a half of it. "},{"Title":"It felt longer than 40 days and 40 nights.","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Now that this movie has finally been released, we know the real reason that its release was delayed at least twice it's a bomb.  All that it has going for it is Shannyn Sossamon.  Let's hope that she doesn't get stuck with any blame for this, because had the script and the editing been even marginally decent, she may very well have pulled this off.  Her character wasn't supposed to add comedy, but Josh Hartnett's character is the center of virtually every scene that is supposed to be funny, but he was not in the least bit funny at any time.  There is plenty of blame for the directing and casting, but as for the writing, I seriously wonder if there actually was a script or whether the actors found themselves having to make their lines up as they went along.  True, you don't expect a lot of story in this sort of movie, but you do expect some truly funny situations and some character development so that you can feel for these two people and cheer when they eventually get together.  When this finally did happen, it was as anti-climatic as they could possibly have made it, which is very odd considering that if this movie isn't about climaxing, it isn't about anything.  These two people meet in a Laundromat, and she tries repeatedly to get him to talk to her, but he doesn't speak a word and won't even make eye contact.  Then, the next week, he goes back to the Laundromat and finds her, and after about ten emotionless words of explanation, they are suddenly supposed to be smitten with each other?  Give me a break.  Shannyn, you're a sweetheart, and I want to see more of you, so please, please be more picky with your roles in the future, because one or two more of these and your fifteen minutes will be over almost before they started.  That would be a shame.  "},{"Title":"Stupidity at a new level","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't know why people would care about this movie. The actors are stupid the story is more stupid and so bad. If you wanna sleep this is the movie for you.It doesn't make any sense plus the ending was so predictable and empty.I don't care about a story like this and i guess no one wants to see this movie at all.Where are all the good movies? We're filled with bad movies these days and this one is the best worst movie...I Wanna see some good movies from now not some stupid teen comedy who's definitely not funny at all. "},{"Title":"It was an interesting idea, but......","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 40 Days and 40 Nights could have been written into something interesting. In fact I'm sure it started out interesting, then a series of re-writes probably ruined it. The film cannot decide if it's a sex farce, a date movie, or some kind of statement about morality. The cast seems generally appealing, and the idea of such a promiscuous young man suddenly abstaining from sex sets up some interesting possibilities. Ultimitely, it just goes down as another failed date movie.Josh Hartnett plays a young man who has just broken up with the girl of his dreams. He then becomes wildly promiscuous; sleeping around with anyone who will talk to him. After some time, his conscience begins to get the better of him, and he swears off sex for Lent. Yep, that means he cannot even masturbate or so much as kiss a girl for the time frame mentioned in the title. That seems like an interesting starting point for a film, but scene after scene never generates the results we the audience are after.Of course, Hartnett meets another wonderful young lady at the laundry mat. They obviously fall for each other instantly, but their relationship is nothing more than a ploy to see how much the young man can be tempted to break his vow. Of course the script doesn't give him the courage to be honest about why he can't sleep with his new girlfriend. This is only meant to cause tension between the two of them, and frankly it does nothing more than delay what we know will eventually happen.Scene after scene reminds you that this is only a movie, and in no way do people behave normally or do things happen rationally. First of all, would it make any sense for a guy looking to avoid sex to hang around with a babe like Shannyn Sossamon? I think not. How about their first date? The two of them just ride around San Francisco on a public bus and make warm faces at one another while Chemistry by Semisonic chimes away on the soundtrack. Can we say date movie? How about the office where Hartnett works? All the girls are hot of course, further tempting our young man. All the guys dress like GAP models, and none of them talk about sports at all! Sure we guys talk about sex at work, but we always at least talk a little about sports, too. In another scene, Hartnett actually gives Sossamon an orgasm using only the petals of a flower. (He can't touch her, if you recall!) To meet a woman like that.... if only! On a more serious note, practicing Catholics will definitely be offended by one scene in particular. In it, Hartnett walks in on his brother who is a priest in training and catches him making out with a nun. If this were an intelligent film, you might make the case that the film is only lobbying for priests to be able to have relations with women; perhaps to help alleviate some of the child abuse scandals. Trust me though, this film is not that intelligent. The scene was included only for schlock value.Overall, it was an interesting idea, but there were just too many ridiculous scenes to make it watchable. The film comes off as being more than a little wrong headed in a couple ways. First of all, nobody is really as sex-obsessed as the people in this film. And second of all, going without sex for 40 days and nights is disappointing, but not the end of the world. Having sex with a condom..... now there's torture!!!! 5 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"A dreadful experience","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I rented this DVD I was in the mood for some basic hollywood drivel. However, this movie goes far beyond what should be allowed in any decent society.The plot is basic, the dialogue diabolical, the characters bland and downright annoying, the acting terrible...Matt is a guy with a constant pained expression on his face.  His main problem in life is that he cannot find satisfaction in bedding the most amazing girls anyone of us has ever come across.  Good enough reason to hate him?  Well, not quite - he decides this is all due to Nicole, a girl who dumped him for an investment banker.  His solution to all this is, of course, to abstain from sex for a whole 40 days.  Logical?  No masturbation for poor Matt either.  Makes sense?As if this wasn't a stupid enough, the film carries on in an entirely predictable fashion.  Matt meets Erica, the girl of his dreams and things become very tough indeed.The rest of the film involves porn websites, annoying flatmates and colleagues, 'romantic' bus rides, viagra...  In short - DO NOT WASTE 2 HOURS OF YOUR TIME ON THIS!  You have been warned! "},{"Title":"A movie that says that rape is OK, rape is under no circumstances OK!","Date":"21 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" SPOILER ALERT!The first half of the movie is okay, the idea is fine but the ending is... I am shocked, the protagonist is clearly raped by his ex- girlfriend but in the movie it is shown as okay, RAPE IS NEVER OK! If it was the other way around and a man had sex with his ex-girlfriend while she was asleep and tied to a bed; he would be called a rapist and send to jail or the movie would never had been made because it says that rape is OK. The movie doesn't even discuss the issue, it is taken for granted that what happened was OK or legal, and he has to apologize for being raped afterwords. This movie shows how a man can be raped by a woman but say that it is no big deal. Another thing is, the movie goes too far with the protagonist's abstinences, suddenly there is naked women and boobs everywhere it is just too much and too vulgar. I apologize for typos, etc. "},{"Title":"Not a well thought through movie","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After his girlfriend dumps him Matt goes through a lot of meaningless sex that makes him feel bad,so in order to give himself time to recover he decides to give up sex and anything to do with sex for Lent.I liked the idea, but the movie ended up being a disappointment.Josh Hartnett is pretty bad in this movie. I can't think of any other movies with him, but considering that I know his name he did a few, so he might be a good actor. But this movie really doesn't show it. I wonder if he even knew it was a comedy, because he sure didn't act as if he did.Actually besides having a more or less original idea for a romantic comedy the movie didn't go too far from it. The joke was pretty much the same all through 90 minutes. And it was also stupid. It was the kind of sentiment I would expect for a teen movie, but the characters in this one were in their 20's, the whole omg the poor guy can't live without sex thing is just dumb. And this is what the whole movie was about, exaggerated and annoying.Also, while I think sex themed comedies can be very funny. Only this one was trying to be romantic, and this is what made her sexual theme fail. Some of the jokes were off, and seemed more vulgar than funny for the genre. Actually the only time I laughed was at the Bagel Boy.The story was not well thought through. It makes no sense whatsoever to me why Erica was mad at Matt about the whole abstinence thing. It's not like he decided not to have sex ever again in his life, or that it was a personal insult to her or that he was supposed to tell everything about himself on one date only. Silly. Same as the ending. I don't want to spoil, but what happened with Nicole was in no way funny. And it was also pretty unnecessary, one could have done it better without it. "},{"Title":"Funny funny funny","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"     This movie is FUNNY!  And the shots of San Francisco are beautiful.  Josh Hartnett is very skilled at being funny.  His co-star is a girl who has been taking lessons from the Winona Ryder School of Drama.  I guess messy hair and a lilting dip of the head is acting.    Sure, there are problems with the craft, such as very noticeable editing problems, voices dubbed in the ADR that don't BEGIN to match the voices in the other shots, etc.  If you aren't a filmmaker you might not notice, and in any case, you shouldn't care.  The reason you shouldn't care is this is a feel-good, genuinely funny movie.  So many movies purport to be funny, so few succeed. This one does.     I was raised as a Catholic and I found the whole Catholic theme amusing.  Of course, in the Catholic family, one brother is a repressed Seminarian, while the other is a ... Semen-arian?  This sex-obsessed guy gives up sex for Lent, and it just happens he works in a place with all these impossibly beautiful, sexy young women. The geeky guys at the workplace sit around and make bets on how long he'll last.      I am having fun making up the sequel for this movie in my head---- 40 Minutes- where he tries not to put his hands in his pockets for a whole 40 minutes...    "},{"Title":"it's like Pinochio factory explosion..","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yep, watching this film is like watching Pinochio factory explosion.. It's a freaking wooden-acting mess (especially lead actor Josh Hartnett)I didn't laugh more than 5 times through out the movie, but cringed at the bad acting throughout. I can't believe the actings are so bad that I am considering porn star such as Jena Jameson Oscar award worthy.The plot is also pretty much brainlessly wrote, as contrive as it can get and devoid little humour beside the tagline a guy is not to have sex for 40 days and 40 nights.The camera work is also pretty horrible. It is especially irritating to see the camera focus on the mouth while main character talks to his brother the priest about things. (it might as well been socks talking, come to think of it, I think the director think Hartnett's acting is so bad, he can only focus on the mouth for minimal acting)1/10. (should have been 0. It just can't go any lower...) "}{"Title":"Awful movie further ruined by a terrible ending","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The only good thing really I can say about 40 Days and 40 Nights is the soundtrack, especially the use of Recondita Armonia(from Tosca) performed the wonderful Jussi Bjorling. The rest though is a mess. The scenery is decent, but the editing could have been much tighter and the photography more fluid. Josh Hartnett and Shannon Sossaman are charming to look at, but they are rather awkward and never are believable together. It's not their fault though, they struggled with a flat predictable story, a bad smutty script, uneven pacing and especially shallow characters. What spoilt this movie the most was the ending, which is the most terrible and most insulting ending I've seen in a long time. In conclusion, an awful movie. 1/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Porky's 4  40 Days And 40 Nights","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is about a guy who thinks sex is getting in the way of his relationships, so he decides to do without it for 100 days and 100 nights.....no wait a minute, it only seems that long to the people unfortunate to view 40 Days and 40 Nights.  This motion picture was released by Miramax, the same Studio that locked up the Academy Awards this year before they were handed out.....but if I were the head of the studio I would think long and hard before ever including this on my resume.  Josh Hartnett should think about that also.If there is something funny about watching Josh Hartnett trying to abstain from any kind of sex, you won't find it here.  The whole premise is one long ridiculous bad joke, like one of those your friends forward to your e-mail box. At some point during all this, Matt meets the girl of his dreams (as if we didn't know that was going to happen), making the challenge and his half-witted goal that much harder to achieve.   His buddies find out about Matt's quest, and they begin to wager on the outcome of his crusade (what a surprise here!)and as the end of the 40 days is near, they do everything in their power to see that he doesn't make it (Never would have guessed that!).  Throw into all this, an ex-girlfriend who shows back up to........yep, you got it!  All this of course, builds toward that big climactic moment when we found out whether Matt will orgasm, a minute before the time limit, or a minute after. (As if we didn't know that would happen either).  The whole scene is so excrutiating,  but then this whole movie is that way, not to mention more annoying than a fly buzzing around your potato salad on the picnic table.How bad is this movie?  I was positive someone had found a copy of the long lost Porky's 4, that had been lost in a movie vault.  On the other hand, a Porky's 4 might have been an improvement. "},{"Title":"90 minutes too long","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ironically, this very heterosexual masterpiece is set in San Francisco and follows prettyboy Josh Hartnett doing his very best not to have sex for 40 days. From a medical viewpoint, it would have been interesting for the director and writer to have explored it with medical undertones.I'm certain that sooner or later Mr. Hartnett will breakout and the world will experience his unique acting talent.  Alas, 40 Days is not that vehicle.  Hartnett can not hold this picture together at all.  The supporting cast is terrible as well. Outside of a handful of comic scenes - the movie is a waste.  And, a direct slap at the Catholic Church, which is not necessary.  "},{"Title":"A comedy that isn't comedic","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I gave this movie a 3 out of 10.  While I was tempted to give it a one, I just didn't have the heart to and figured that 3 is only halfway between AWFUL and okay.  I would've given it the 1 except for the fact that it's not Josh Hartnett's fault if some studio totally miscast him and also that I love Shannyn Sossaman as she's always so real and her own thing.  If I was voting without those two in mind, I'd definitely have gone for 1, or if possible less than zero!  The director made the most lackluster, unlaughable comedy that I've seen in so long that I can't remember another movie to bury below this one.  And who the hell wrote this?  What were they thinking? I mean the idea of a young guy in todays world trying to go celibate for over a month could have been an interesting premise, but instead it just comes across as completely, utterly, absolutely lame.  Both Harnett and Sossaman give it their best, but Hartnett's strength certainly does not lie in comedy, at least not thus far in the evolution of his career, and Sossaman, God bless her, can't be expected to save a movie that fails left, right and center and everywhere in between.  Usually, I'm a bit of softie and give films more of a break than a lot of users but I've given this movie as much slack as I possibly can.  I would not even recommend this movie for rental. In fact, I'll take it one step further.  I strongly suggest you don't even waste your time watching it for free on cable.  It's an hour and change that you'll never get back of your life.A dud from start to finish.  Period. "},{"Title":"Tasteless, Vapid, Silly","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can never understand why Hollywood enjoys making incredibly silly comedies about sex-crazy young men who cannot stay without intercourse a second or... 40 days. Josh Hartnett is great in Faculty, or Black Hawk Down but not in this typically greasy, canary, brainless, soulless, idiotic comedy. What is it about? A man tries not to have sex for 40 days? What's the big deal? And. especially, why all these Catholic references and mockery? Why citations from the Scripture, and all in a wrong way? Is it all fun to see an erected penis and all those nude breasts? And the flowers sex scene! It is so crude, artificially passionate, but simply pathetic. Josh did not live to the requirements here. He sizzles here, and all the rest are mediocre. It is not recommended to anyone. "},{"Title":"raunchy sex romp ends poorly","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is pretty good.  The acting is good the plot is interesting and fairly believable.  I'm surprised that it managed to get an 'R' rating as there are quite a few things that push the envelope toward an 'X' rating. Josh Hartnett is wonderful as is the entire supporting cast.  The sense of anticipation and heightened sexual tension/frustration is communicated extremely well while Matt (Josh Hartnett) embarks on his 40-day celibacy during Lent. However. In a movie that is intended to be a dot-com, light-hearted romp I was surprised to see a casual treatment of male rape.  There is no question that in one scene a man is incapacitated and forced to have sex against his will.  I found this extremely disturbing and it turned the entire movie around making it extremely unpalatable rather than risque. I would invite you to see this movie and decide for yourself. But strap on a seat belt...the content is extremely sexual. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as I thought it would be","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First off this is far from a great movie but it's an ok night of entertainment if a) you're in the mood for a sex farce and b) there's nothing better on at the cinema. It has a lot of flaws, most notably the liberal applying of schmaltz across the whole film but it does have it's rewarding moments and interesting characters such as the Bagel guy who knows everything except how to turn up on time. A lot of the comedy is too heavy handed but there are moments which genuinely made me laugh. I particularly liked Josh Hartnett's Priest to be brother struggling to listen to Josh's tales of sexual encounters. That said the two main characters are somewhat lacking in life and could have done with a bit more development. This is a largely French funded film and it does show in places. There are elements of French farce about it but with transposing the action to California it was always inevitable there'd be the standard Hollywood ending and it doesn't disappoint in that respect. Hopefully this won't be the best film you'll see this year but it certainly could be worse. "},{"Title":"Average movie at best","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just didn't enjoy the premise of this film. There were some amusing scenes but too often I groaned at the antics of the cardboard characters in this film. I think the primary purpose of this film was to establish Josh Hartnett as a romantic leading man. I think he can be a great one but hopefully he will get to work with better material than this in the future. He is a superb actor as evidenced by his work in Black Hawk Down, O, and even the critically dogged Pearl Harbor. Nevertheless, for my tastes, this film rates a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Josh worth a couple of laughs","Date":"7 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Matt Sullivan (Josh Hartnett) designs web pages in San Francisco. Ryan (Paulo Costanzo) is his sleazy roommate. His brother John (Adam Trese) is a priest. It's been six months since Nicole (Vinessa Shaw) dumped him. He is tired of endless meaningless sex and then he's told Nicole is newly engaged. He vows to abstain from any sexual contact for 40 days and 40 nights of Lent. That's before he meets Erica Sutton (Shannyn Sossamon) at the laundromat. Ryan spreads the story and co-workers organize a betting pool on his self-restraint.Hartnett is often a stiff pretty boy actor. In this one, he is able to inject a bit of comedic energy. His jittery sexually-deprived mess is kind of funny. There are some minor laughs in this. It is somewhat inappropriate which leads to some awkward scenes. The awkwardness detracts from the comedic needs. For example, the ending needs to be reworked. It isn't funny and is actually off-putting. I can think of plenty of funnier ways to end his 40 days. This movie has a couple of laughs and isn't as bad as expected. "},{"Title":"I didn't mind it at all! I rather liked it.","Date":"18 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Matt Sullivan (Hartnett) is still in love with his ex. In order to get over her and start fresh, he vows celibacy for 40 days. When he meets Erica (Sossamon) , Matt's quest to stay celibate may be much quicker than he was hoping for. I actually had a decent time with this movie. It has some originality and it was genuine. It's also filled with smart humor and doesn't cross the line with crudeness. One of the funniest scenes is Hartnett faking an orgasm with Emmanuelle Vaugier. It still falls under the category of typical Rom-Com though. That's not a bad thing. I enjoy the genre, even the recycled ones. This one is definitely above average. Hartnett is winning in his role. I've always been a supporter of his. He's got charisma in spades and it sucks that he's not in the spotlight like he used to be. Sossamon is unique and winning herself. She's cute and spunky, something that was refreshing. She wasn't your typical love interest. This was a fairly fun flick. It's sweet, funny, cute and genuine. It's nothing that reinvigorated the genre by any means, but it'll give you some laughs. Isn't that what counts?6.6/10 "}{"Title":"40 Days and Nights of Whacking Off.","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 40 Days and 40 Nights (2002) Dir Michael Lehman / Cast Josh Hartnett, Shannyn Sossamon, Vinessa Shaw, Griffin Dunne, Paulo Costanzo Ads challenge viewers regarding sexual refusal. One would think that Josh Hartnett could make it through a ninety minute movie. Here he leads an active sex life but when his girlfriend dumps him he decides to go 40 days and 40 nights without sex. His friends make bets on his newest romance and whether he can make good on his case. Directed by Michael Lehman who previously made The Truth About Cats and Dogs. Here he is assisted by fine visual elements. Harnett has comic potential that deserves broader material. His situation draws serious themes that viewers could relate to but faltered with predictable structure and an attitude that learns nothing. Shannyn Sossamon as the laundo-mat girl has talent beyond this. She is basically a prop to teach Hartnett the value of relationships yet ends up on the same level as his other sexual conquests. Vinessa Shaw is subdued as his ex-girlfriend who will obviously reappear to voice her mistake in leaving him when she observes him with someone else. Griffin Dunne is caught masturbating in a public washroom. Paulo Costanzo plays the roommate and co-worker and pretty much initiates this scheme. Theme of sexual appetite bares truth but religious elements lack conviction. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Not as funny as I expected","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 40 days and 40 nights is a pretty basic plot wise film, and that could be the problem with the film. The premise is simple and pretty good but with how the film turned out, it was somewhat a disappointment. The film had more potential but many things such as the humour, jokes and character development were bad. The humour was basically Josh Hartnett's friend and the co-workers, and they weren't funny- rather annoying, while the jokes were all sex related. And the characters were severely underdeveloped. Especially Josh's and Shannyn's characters. Josh's character (Matt) barely spoke and we didn't really know much about him. Same with Shannyn (Erika), not enough detail to actually care a lot about. Though they were the most likable characters. Everyone else was either annoying or clichéd. It seemed that his roommate- friend wasn't really that great of a friend. He started the vow and set it up on the web for his co-workers and the world to see. Also him, along with his co-workers (males and females) all placed bets to see if Matt could survive. I thought that was rather childish.If not for the presence and chemistry between the leads, the film would have been yet another awful or at least run of the mill sex comedy. As it stands, however, it's still not very good, as it's lacking enough smarts, sophistication and/or novelty to stand out from the crowd. Although it thankfully doesn't feel as long as its title, the film wears out its welcome and ability to milk its premise long before its runtime is done. The ending was not pleasing and left the audiences feeling a little turned off. "},{"Title":"This is what you might think it is, or slightly worse","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I suppose I wasn't that thrilled about watching this. And yes, there is definitely a difference in how receptive you are to something, based on what your attitude towards it is before it begins. In spite of that, though, I doubt I would have cared that much for this, no matter what. You probably already know what it's about. It is as stupid as it sounds, and actually a tad more. And that's with this in reality being an attempt at sneaking something past guys. If you look at this entirely objectively, it's actually a *romantic comedy*. No, seriously. It's just got cussing, sex and nudity. This isn't even all that funny. It has moments... for example, I maintain that Costanzo can't suck. The jokes and gags are essentially all about the one subject. Plot is an excuse for the, often failed, attempts at humor. It actually does try to explore potentially interesting stuff, but it never reaches a level higher than juvenile. This doesn't hold many surprises, and it seemed to go on for far too long, when it's only an hour and a half. The cinematography and editing are fairly decent. The language is strong and relatively frequent. There is gratuitous skin shown in this. No violence, and nothing that should be disturbing to any teenagers who aren't completely immature. I recommend this only to the target audience. You know who you are. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  SpoilersTeen heart-throb Josh Hartnett leads this film as Matt Sullivan, a sex-obsessed male who gives up any form of sex for the 40 days of Lent. Of course, as Murphy's Law would have it, within a week he finds the girl of his dreams but can't do anything about it physically. Too bad - this could've have EXTREMELY funny, but this has to settle for being funny in only bits and pieces - and the funny scenes are too few and far between. Hartnett and relative newcomer Shannyn Sossamon are fine in their 2-dimensional roles but the only feeling you'll have after seeing this is a sorry feeling for poor Matt because of his nasty friends and the fact that he's raped with just seconds to go! "},{"Title":"prudent us-teens? no!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I awaited to see another oh-so-funny first time teenie movie and was really annoyed about the I don t want to have sexual intercourse for 40 days-theme.But the movie is set far apart from those movies. It s about twens (afaik) and the reasons why he wants to avoid sexual contact are totally different than I feared. This movie has nothing to do with movies such as american pie -> no premature idiots but (nearly;) adult people. I don t want to go any further into the story to avoid spoilers.It s a movie worth watching with jokes even 20-year-olds find funny, while staying a weird comedy. I doubt this movie is suitable for prudent folks.My favorite quote is You know that I ve been looking for 60 minutes for that porn? You know how long 60 minutes are when looking for porn???! I think that says it all ;) "},{"Title":"A few good moments","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie itself is very silly, based on a simple but extreme situation. The main character must be abstained from sex for 40 days and 40 nights, and as everyone can imagine he has a lot of occasions to broke his promise (I work in an internet company as him, and I can assure you that in real life .com companies simply haven't so much stunning beauties as employees). This plot leads to some funny situations, but nothing worth the price of the ticket. The ending is both expectable and full of good feelings, probably too much good feelings. Finally, I think that  this movie can be good for an evening in VHS or DVD, but has nothing worth the price of a cinema's ticket  "},{"Title":"A funny and energetic film with a gorgeous young cast.","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film definitely gets your mind on sex.  I was very impressed with Shannyn Sossamon.  She is going to be the next big thing.  A soon to be household name to young men between the ages of 15-50.  She and Josh Hartnett had some of the best on-screen chemistry I have seen in the latest of romantic twenty-something comedies.  "},{"Title":"Minor spoiler","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Once again I must comment on how seriously some of you take movies. This one was so funny and I personally thought Josh Hartnett was great. He didn't need huge slapstick comedy to be funny. It was the subtle things that he did and said that made this movie hilarious. Example After being asked Are you over her? he says Hell yeah!.....bitch. And people were laughing in the theater for a good 10 seconds and chuckling about it for the next 5 minutes. It's a fun movie to go see. It's not Shakespeare. Just sit back and laugh. "},{"Title":"Needs Some Style and a Better Editior.","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just last month I saw Josh Hartnett in a role of soldier fighting, not for a cause but for his fellows. A nice movie and one that I would recommend. The movie that I went to go see as a sneak preview, 40 days and 40 nights, was not.While the premise was fresh and interesting, the mere fact that in the end it had to resort to boner jokes left any credibility the movie might have had in the dust.Matt has a succesful life as a twenty something, a carreer as a dot com web artist and a beautiful and talented girlfriend whom he loves. The problem is she isn't with him anymore and he can't get rid of the spiritual loss. After going through a scene that could've been shortend Matt realizes that something needs to be done.After visiting his brother (a novice priest, who at the beginning of the movie seems to be imprisoned in the confession booth) He comes to an epiphany. Christ himself shows up and approves. No sex at all for lent. Good idea, it's something even I haven't managed, and I'm a girl, not to mention someone who doesn't believe in the whole idea of abstaining from something to torment and purify yourself.But after throwing away all the porn in his place, much to the chagrin of his room mate, Matt is heartend. This idea, vow, what have you, could work. Fine, every one is happy. But then it leaks out through who else, but the room mate.The other problem aside from the bets made on his vow is the girl he fell for at the laudromat. Here is where the movie loses it. It seems that since it can't continue forever in the attempts to get Matt to break the vow, they introduce romance into the picture.Okay, but then since he never tells her about the vow she thinks that after the second date they can consumate. Unfortunetly this isn't what happens and she becomes hurt. Deservedly so, but how can you stay hurt? And after several chances she finally gives into his sincere feelings.Finally with one day left he is a nervous wreck. Convincing himself to get some sleep and wait for his love to come and wake him, a long  dream sequence, which must have been rejected from Earth Girls are easy, comes into the picture. Flowing water and a sea of breasts ensues.This is not what i had in mind when i went to go see the movies. Unless you are an adolescent boy, or have a mind like one, this isn't even something you could enjoy on television. Much of the movie consists of the boys view of things, and while this isn't a bad thing, it also doesn't make much sense. A mans view of the world is a soft porn version of the playboy universe? Then count me out. And if only that were all.The movie takes place in San Franscisco, having never been there i don't know what the job market is like. But i'm farely sure that it no longer is mostly made up of dot com offices, which is where just about everyone in this movie works. So the whole thing comes off as strangly antiquated the same way that several other romantic comedies this year did not. Even when taking into account that those movies took place in a fantisy New York, they didn't feel retro the way this movie did.40 Days and 40 Nights felt as if someone had tried for nostalga mixed with fantasy and failed. The script, sitcom at best, did not mix well with the idea of taking the eighties and late ninties and puting them together. This is why no one has attempted to remake The Breakfast Club.  "},{"Title":"intelligent (& sexual) comedy","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Funny...yes, it was.  This movie definitely has it's moments.  But be forewarned, there's intelligence behind these non-slapstickish laughs. In fact, this comedy's whole approach is smart.  The characters never get bogged down in explaining their seemingly unexplainable behavior to one another.  (Just as in reallife,) the other character has already put 2-and-2 together, as well as, 4-and-4 for that matter. Need a refreshingly smart comedy full of laughs...bank on this one! "}{"Title":"Surprisingly Fun Film!","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't sure how this movie would play out. I've seen a lot of comedies like this fail, but this one managed to stay fun and not sink to a gross ridiculous level. Yeah, it was kind of unbelievable, but not that far fetched, and it wasn't going for realism, it was a FICTIONAL movie. The cast was great, especially Hartnett. This guy can actually act well, unlike a lot of his teen-throb counterparts (i.e. Chris Klein, Freddie Prince, etc...) Not setting the story in college or high school was a big part of the success of this movie. Overall, it was a solid comedy. The dialogue and physical humor was witty and funny without grossing you out beyond belief. I would have to give this film a B+. "},{"Title":"Mixed bag-- The Idiot Plot mars an otherwise funny outing","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER WARNING!!! Parts of this movie are good; parts are so-so; parts are pretty bad. I'd guess the semi-comic view of male sexuality would be somewhat instructive for many females. It's a bit exagerated, ladies, but that is how guys think. It's also a depiction of what guys feel, and the koo-koo biology that drives us, at least when we're under the age of 45. This part of the movie was funny and more or less plausible. The romance between Josh Harnet and the new chick was a bit mystifying however. What does he see in her? Her character is thinly drawn, and she appears to be shallow. We know more about, and care more about, her roommate than her. Also, the rape scene near the end was glossed over, as the vindictive, scheming ex-girlfriend rapes the handcuffed hero, and effectively steals $20,000+. How is that acceptable, even from a nasty character? And would a real soulmate and true love, whom the new chick was supposed to be, really dump the hero at that point, and waltz away? No-- real people would have reacted much differently. Much of the latter part of the movie's premise is nothing more than an example of critic Roger Ebert's famous Idiot Plot, wherein the entire plot would unravel were a key character only to say a few simple words. Words, mind you, that ANY actual person would have spoken immediately. We must allow a lot of leeway to a movie, of course, and theatrical devices are totally acceptable in the production of a story. There are lines and boundaries, however, that are somehow NOT acceptable to cross. It is art, and not a formula-- but sometimes a movie is silly and entertaining, but sometimes a movie is silly and annoying. 40 Days and 40 Nights was entertaining at times, but also it was largely frustrating and annoying. "},{"Title":"A fun, clever comedy gem","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A guy's romantic comedy, Michael Lehmann, Rob Perez and Josh Hartnett team up to create a sweet, funny and, yes, even romantic movie about doing without.Perez's allegedly in-some-way-autobiographical script gives 40 DAYS AND 40 NIGHTS a heart and soul (wonderfully realized by Hartnett's performance) that you wouldn't expect from a film with this many masturbation jokes.Women may not understand it -- my female moviegoing friend didn't buy how hard it would be for a man to go without any kind of sexual release for over a month -- but every guy out there will sympathize with some aspect of Matt's dilemma.Shannyn Sossamon is real, smart and cute, and Lehmann's stacked the cast with great character actors (Griffin Dunne, Jarrad Paul, and even Glenn Fitzgerald fresh off a 180-degree turn as a neo-Nazi in THE BELIEVER).40 DAYS is the perfect companion to Lehmann's other little romantic comedy gem, THE TRUTH ABOUT CATS AND DOGS.   "},{"Title":"If this movie had been released 3 years ago, it would've been as big as American Pie and","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If this movie had been released 3 years ago, it would've been as big as American Pie and started the teen gross-out film phase. But, since we're used to seeing things some might consider offensive, it didn't even cross my mind. American Pie was a movie I thought was ok. It didn't stick with me in any way and I can't remember laughing hysterically at any one scene, but in 40 Days, I was laughing every other minute. Josh Hartnett really proved himself in this movie and it was nice to see him in a light-hearted film rather than the war dramas he's been doing. He and Shannyn Sossamon also had a great chemistry, one I haven't seen him share with any other actress in his films. Although I could've done without the huge number of topless women, I liked this movie. It was funny and original, a nice change from the cheesy teen comedies we're flooded with, but not targeted only at teens.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Refreshing Comedy","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to this thinking I was in for one of two kinds of movies. The first being low-brow comedy on the teenager level a la Road Trip. The other being a moralistic and sappy love story hidden behind the guise of comedy. I am glad I found neither of those in this film.First off let me say I was pleased with the acting. I could actually feel Josh's pain, and came out of the movie feeling a little sex-starved myself. The rest of the cast was great at what they did and the characters were very well written.The movie itsself had some of the funniest moments I've ever been treated too... which is always a good thing. It wasn't brimming with nudity, and when there were nude scenes it didn't seem like they were there just for the sake of showing a breast or two. They always fit well and most of the time you wouldn't even realize that they were actually nude... like it was supposed to be like that.It also had great range. The topic of course could span across any age group for the most part, where as most movies would stick to one. This one however seems like it could be enjoyed by both sexes, and from age groups of early teens through middle aged. I would suggest this movie to anyone with a sense of humor.  "},{"Title":"Not believable at all","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is completely unrealistic. Unless you are hands-down the hottest, most good-looking, charismatic, gorgeous guy on the planet, no single guy should have a problem abstaining for 40 days. And, sad to say, Josh Hartnett is far from that. If you are a chiseled, Herculean god, and possess the unique ability to melt women's hearts by simply looking at them, then yes it would be a problem to abstain. But for 99% of us, going 40 days without sex is no sweat, hell some of us could go through 5 or 6 lents!Very arrogant and presumptive comedy in my book, as if women are just banging down our doors seducing us at every turn. *rolls eyes* This movie would make you think any guy can get any girl in the space of 40 days, and abstaining would be a devastating and unthinkable stray from the norm. I'd even go so far as to say this movie assumes it would be more difficult breaking a smoking habit than giving up sex for lent! Sorry, I can smoke a cigarette any time I want, day, night, Mondays through Sundays. Most guys just don't have the same luxury with women. "},{"Title":"A really fun movie for guys and girls","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw a sneak preview yesterday and just about laughed through the whole thing.  The movie is different in that it is a romantic comedy concentrating more on the comedy, but the romance works too.  The humor is a bit crude, but not entirely tasteless.  I think it is a good combination that will be appreciated by both men and women. "},{"Title":"Very funny.  Would see it again.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to the sneak peak preview of this movie last Saturday night.  I enjoyed the movie very much.  I did see too many kids there though.  Not really a kid movie with the nudity and the choice use of some swear words. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!!! and Josh ;)","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes! I loved this movie! Excellent, hilarious, wonderful. Sweet, funny, thrilling, absolutely marvelous. And I guess it helps that the main character of this movie, Matt, is played by the one, the only, the gorgeous, Josh Hartnett. ;) This is a must-see, great for girls and guys alike. It's sweet, while at the same time hilarious. I haven't laughed that much during a movie for.. who knows how long. I definitely recommend 40 Days and 40 Nights to anyone looking for a cute, humorous, and all-around entertaining movie... it was awesome. Oh. And so is Josh. ) "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Romantic comedies are not usually what I prefer to watch, but 40 Days and 40 Nights would be an exception. This movie is not your traditional romantic comedy. While most scenes were hilarious, the plot of the movie was beyond what you would expect. A goofy romantic comedy is what everyone needs once in a while, and 40 Days and 40 Nights is by far the best romantic comedy that I have ever watched in my life.The cast for this film was beyond excellence. Josh Hartnett is the kind of person you would expect to be in a horror film or action thriller, but this movie showed that he is also magnificent at comedy. Shannyn Sossoman was also the perfect person to play in this movie, as Josh Hartnett's co-star. The supporting cast was also a bunch of comedians, bringing this movie to life.40 Days and 40 Nights was one of the best romantic comedies I have seen, and it will remain so for many years to come. "}{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There's very few movies I own, but 40 Days and 40 Nights is one of those that I watch repeatedly. (Every Lent, for sure.) 40 Days and 40 Nights is far more than just another sex comedy. It's a parody of the sexual preoccupation of modern society.Matt is falling into a black hole of despair after a break-up, and has begun using casual sex almost as a drug to ease the pain. Finally realizing that that only contributes to his anguish, he vows for complete abstinence of all forms of sex for 40 days during Lent, during which time he meets the woman of his dreams.Many hilarious situations develop around the fact that everyone around him either deliberately or inadvertently hinders him on his quest to rid himself of his addiction... His seminarian brother discourages him, his parents blithely and happily chat about their sex lives in embarrassing detail, his co-workers bet against him, and his new girlfriend can't understand how love can be expressed without sex happening very early in the relationship.Sure, the movie has its flaws. Lent is 46 days, not 40 by the way (Yeah, check it on your calendar--the Sundays make it 46), and the director seems to be oddly ignorant of the fact it begins on Ash Wednesday and ends on Easter. (The church decorations for the first day of Lent are completely wrong!) Furthermore, in the last 10 minutes or so it reverts to a typically Hollywood sex comedy resolution... virtually a sellout of the unusual themes raised at the beginning.Yet, 40 Days and 40 Nights has more than its share of charms, one being one of the most natural depictions of religion in the lives of its characters in any movie. Throughout, the subject of religion comes up from time to time as it does in most of our lives, although non-religious movies would have as believe it never did. Yet 40 Days and 40 Nights has very realistic religious dialogue for these characters who range from the secular to those who are happy in their faith, to those who struggle with it.A very enjoyable, hilarious movie! "},{"Title":"Girl rapes a man.. This is OK????","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie deserved a *1* until the end of the movie...Please watch this romantic comedy and see for yourselves that not all movies hate rapists... (Described part is about 10-20 minutes) In this movie a woman breaks into a house, finds a man sleeping with handcuffs on and rapes him.... She does this so that she can win the bet, and he has to beg for forgiveness to his girl for being raped. After he does all this he is off the hook and has sex for 3 days or so... Movies like this one are highly recommended to watch... But probably not for children or teens... And people complain about animals being killed in Cannibal holocaust... "},{"Title":"I enjoyed the movie!","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I just can't understand how can the user rating be so low. I found the movie really enjoyable and amusing and funny and as romantic as it should be and something really nice for your part time... I saw it with a couple of friends and had a really nice time. I think thats the whole point for such movies. If you are a man you certainly get in the flow from the very beginning... if you are a woman you will know more about men after you have seen this. Also the cast did a great job. Very good performance especially by Josh Hartnett. One of the best romantic comedies i 've seen. A must see for ages 20-30 and not only........................ "},{"Title":"A really hot comedy","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 40 Days and 40 Nights is the kind of comedy film that tries hard to be really good because of its hot sexuality, but ends up being pretty standard with some stand-out plus-points.The good thing about the movie is that it appeals greatly to teenagers because of its many sexual references. There is a lot of female nudity to keep the male audience watching. The main star Josh Hartnett is good eye candy for the ladies. And finally, the sex scenes are very funny (they kept me giggling every time!).The bad thing about the movie is that there are some parts that are slow, so slow that you will actually want to reach the end of the movie quickly. However, the nude scenes actually saved the film for me.Overall, I'd say this is a pretty standard comedy except that it seems to bring a message to boys who want to abstain from sex for a while. But it would be more hugely appealing to both teen boys & girls because of its hot sexual style.I give this movie a 7/10. "},{"Title":"It's an ethnic movie...without the ethnics!","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have always said that screenwriter Rob Perez wrote this for a predominantly Latino cast, but was foiled by an Anglo-controlled Hollywood system. The heavy themes in Catholicism, some of the minor characters being cast as Hispanic, the overall tones of the film just strike me as familiar with Hispanic, primarily Mexican American culture. When you sit down and write a film, you have pictures in your head of what the characters look like and I am willing to wager that Perez pictured Latinos and not Josh Hartnett (who doesn't strike me as remotely Catholic) or Shannyn Sassoman (who is not Hispanic, but still beautiful) in these roles. The sad thing is, I think this movie would have fared better and not fallen to the wayside of the multitude of average teen movie offerings in recent years had Hollywood indulged in the concept a little bit and cast Hispanics in the roles. This could have actually been a great ethnic film and not the stereotypical garbage that Hollywood does hype like Chasing Papi. It's time that Latinos began to get respect in films and not just portrayed as caricatures. With a little more vision, this could have been a classic teen movie in the traditions of The Breakfast Club and Clueless and maybe even a prevalent stepping stone for great Latino images in film. It was a great script with themes custom built for Latinos. Instead, it's a movie that is barely remembered and not really missed by those who never even bothered. "},{"Title":"Could you do it?","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Answer yes I could do it according to his rules no problem. With two provisions. One nobody I mean NOBODY could know about the bet I mean if one girl knew that would be it. They would sleep with you just so you would lose. Two there would have be a lot of compensation at least $18,000 cash probably more. Then it's on. This movie was absolutely hilarious and one of the more entertaining comedies I've seen in the past few years. Shannon Sossamon is gorgeous and Matt's ex-girlfriend Nicole is a bonfire. Matt's brother is friggin outrageous I loved his part in the film. Summary of movie very funny, lots of hot women naked, and the ending blew my mind.  "},{"Title":"Are People Really Like This?","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If the characters presented in 40 Days and 40 Nights are typical of American youngsters, we're in trouble. However, I didn't identify or care about any of the people in this silly, vulgar movie. I am very liberal and love movies of all kinds. I do not mind sexual content. But 40 Days and 40 Nights revolves around stupid, self-absorbed, I-need-instant-gratification people that I doubt anybody really knows. If they DO know people such as the ones presented in this movie, the world is in trouble. The plot Josh Hartnett (a good actor; see Black Hawk Down and O) is a stud who beds different women constantly. When the one true love of his life leaves him, he decides to go without sex. His brother is a Priest-in-training, and Matthew (Hartnett) vows to him in confession that he can go 40 days and 40 nights without sex...including masturbation and anything that reminds him of sex. (We get hilarious scnes of Matthew getting rid of anything sexual...he grabs a trash bag and tosses away all of his room mate's porn magazines, as well as a large bottle of Wesson oil.) Everyone at his job bets that he can't go that long without any sexual gratification, and such scenes follow as Matthew going into an important board meeting with a huge boner sticking out of his pants; Matthew not being able to climax with a one-night stand, so he runs into the living room and fills a condom with Liquid Paper to prove to the girl that he did ejaculate; Matthew having a fantasy that he is in the land of breasts, where he flies around bouncing off of perky bossoms; and Matthew's decision to finally have sex with his new girlfriend because he catches his near-priest brother getting it on with a nun.  40 Days and 40 Nights sends the message that EVERYBODY is TOTALLY obsessed with sex, and that nobody, especially young guys, can go ONE DAY without it. The film presents an America in which self-control and morals are a thing of the past, and ultimately, 40 Days and 40 Nights shows us what young people want in this day and age I WANT IT NOW! I WILL NOT WAIT! GIVE IT TO ME NOW! I HAVE NO PATIENCE! I SHOULDN'T HAVE TO WAIT FOR ANYTHING! CAVE IN TO MY DESIRES....NOW! I CAN'T WAIT! "},{"Title":"Another in a long list of Romantic Comedy Flops..","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How the subject of obstaining from sex for 40 days could possibly be the subject of hilarity bemuses me. But I gave it the benefit of the doubt and decided to watch anyway. More fool me. What a complete load of rubbish. The script is about as shallow as George W.Bush's grip of the English Language. I know Romantic Comedy's are suppose to be light-hearted & easy to watch, but this is neither. It's a one joke film whose joke wasn't even funny first time round never mind 90 mins or so. This makes Maid in Manhatten look like a serious Oscar nominee. "},{"Title":"Nice idea, shame about the film","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After breaking up with Nicole (Vinessa Shaw), Matt (Josh Hartnett) has a series of unfulfilling one night stands whilst pining for his ex. He decides that the best way to get Nicole out of his system and get on with his life is to give up ALL sexual activity for lent (hence the 40 days). His friends and co workers secretly take bets on when he will break his vows, but Matt busies himself with making model cars and doing laundry until he meets Erica (Shannyn Sossamon). She is the girl of his dreams, but oh no - what about Matt's vows and who will win the bet!?The film was so tedious to watch, that it felt as if it had been shot in real time. None of the characters had any depth and I didn't even care about Matt or Erica. Although at least Matt was trying to improve his life despite the best attempts of Erica, his friends, family and co-workers.Erica for some reason was angry about Matt's vow (even though he was about half way through it when they met) and gave the impression that no sex no relationship. Wasn't that why Matt was doing this in the first place - to have more meaningful relationships? There was a scene that I found rather disturbing in which Matt is basically raped by Nicole (so she can win the bet). Not only was it never acknowledged in the rest of the film, but Matt has to go grovelling to Erica for forgiveness.This film did have a couple of amusing moments such as when Matt has to fake it with a girl (before he decides to take his vow), the titles of Matt's specialist video collection and the look on his brother's face (a trainee priest) when he announces his plans for lent.The basic story had a lot of potential, but it was all wasted. Overall 4 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Story should be cartoon porn","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The major problem with this movie is the script, written with a twelve year-old's perspective on sex, in the basic formula of a sitcom. Most of the jokes don't work because the setup is telegraphed. The only reason a script like this gets produced is because the studios believe it similar enough to the American Pie type of teen sex comedy, which it is, but those movies are also puerile and unfunny. All of the characters surrounding Josh Hartnett are put there to represent one basic conflict or another, and it's just not natural enough to make it interesting. He's a horndog who tries to give up sex, and his brother is a priest! What luck! He meets a girl he can't have sex with because of his vow, and it just so happens she works for CyberNanny and looks at web porn all day! Oh no! Then he has dinner with his parents and all his dad talks about is sex with his mom. Whose family is this? What was the point of that scene? Is it supposed to be funny that people are talking about sex everywhere he goes, even his parents? He can't escape it? That's not a joke, it's just a setup, and the whole movie is done that way. It's half sitcom and half porno. Not the good half, either.  "}{"Title":"Pretty lame !","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Here we have another film starring everybody's favourite dope turned actor Josh Hartnett . In this one he plays a young man who vows to give up sex and masturbation for 40 days . Well that's a potentially funny premise but laughs are very scattered in this film and any material that might be funny just goes to hell with Josh Hartnett who can't even do this part right.If you're looking for laughs than don't turn to this movie. "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was, what I think, a huge mistake. Sex can be a very funny subject to make a movie about. This is proved by a lot of movies like Road Trip and American Pie 1+2. But this movie goes about nothing. Everybody can't have sex for 40 Days and 40 Nights. Only this guy, a frustrated Josh Hartnett, can't. The only thing that you see the whole movie is a aroundrunning Josh Hartnett who is very desperate because he can't have sex anymore. Lozer.  "},{"Title":"Who cares if &#145;One man is about to do the unthinkable. No sex. Whatsoever. For... 40 Days and 40 Nights'? I didn't and still don't!","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I was asked to watch this movie, I was unsure of what to expect. But as I went further and further into it, I felt myself not liking what I saw. For a movie to use the celebrated term of &#145;Lent', like they do in &#145;40 days and 40 nights', for me was just offensive, as Jesus Christ's sacrifice is much more important. Sure, sexually active people might find solace in what is being shown here, but I was not the least bit interested in one guy's plight to stay &#145;celibate', as I feel this is not a great challenge at all. Are you interested?   To get over his last serious girlfriend Nicole, Matt Sullivan turned to sex &#150; and lots of it. But Matt realised that he needed to go further - to go where no man has gone before. No sex. Whatsoever. For 40 days. That's tough at the best of times, but for Matt it seems impossible he's just met the woman of his dreams, Erika and bets are out that he won't make it. Will he hold on? Will she hold out? *SPOILERS* warning review contains elements of the plotWhere do I start with my disapprovals of this heinous movie? I want to come out and say that I am not a fan of Josh Hartnett. My feeling is that the guy cannot act to save himself. In this film, I squirmed for the majority of the time I saw him on the screen, as his character seems desperate to relieve sexual tension. I only wished half way through that he did! Unfortunately, this movie will leave an unforgettable impression of what sort of an actor Hartnett is, and this will influence the movies I watch with him in it.But Hartnett is not the only one I intend to bag from the movie, as this film has characters that I found to be &#145;empty' for one of a better word. His love interest is Erika (Shannon Sossamon), a girl who is as confused by the whole situation she is placed in, with good reason. I believe people should not jeopardise any relationship by such a challenge, as one partner is sure to end up hurt. I wished that a girl who is as attractive as Shannon is, had not touched this movie with a ten foot pole, as l believe it did not bring out her acting talents well at all. The other female role that was bad in this film was Nicole (Vinessa Shaw), as I found her to be a bimbo and a girl that I am sure I would steer clear of. I much preferred Vinessa in the '99 movie &#145;eyes wide shut', which again discussed sex, but in a much more professional way. Yet I found a lot of the people that Matt comes into contact to be infuriating from where I see it. His work colleagues, male and female and even his room-mate Ryan (Paulo Costanzo) frustrated me, as they are only interested in this guy's sex life (or the lack of). I have to ask, do these people have lives of their own? Not if you watch what this movie tries to portray. I mean to have a running bet over this most personal of ideals, for me was not appreciated, as people deserve privacy, and this guy does not get it, when he needs it the most.     So whose really at fault for making this movie the kind of experience that I wish to forget. Start with the director, Michael Lehmann, from &#145;Heathers' and the romantic comedy &#145;Truth about Cats and Dogs'. While those two movies were great, this one was not. Michael's direction was weird from where I viewed it. I did not like the obvious religious reference that were placed in the movie by Lehmann as I felt they were in poor taste and make the movie offensive for religious people, who are bound to view it. But Lehmann is not only to blame, as this movie's script also had big faults. Written by Rob Perez, the script holds a story that I find to be somewhat bitter, with his character creations nothing I would call brilliant. There are some really disturbing scenes to this film in my view. The scene that disturbed me the most includes a scene which shows Matt tied up to a bed. This is quite fine, that is until we see Matt being raped by a character of the movie, to stuff up this quest that he is on. I know that I am giving away a lot of the films plot, but I find male rape to be an important issue in the world that we live. The other scene I found appalling was between Matt's brother, John (Adam Trese), a priest, who is caught making out with a nun. In the real catholic world, this would never happen. I am certain the Catholic Church would be offended by such a scene. The conclusion to the movie was also horrible, as it paints the picture that having sex is ok, after you have gone a while with out. I do not believe this for a minute. Then to have the guys continuing to bet how long Matt will bonk for, again is in bad taste, and nothing that makes a movie fresh or exciting.I do not mind movies that look into the issues of sex, and the implications that it can have on a person or a relationship, but to show it in a way that can make a person uninterested, like I was, is just appalling. Instead, I would have preferred to see more of the love that &#145;40 Days and 40 Nights' tried to show when Matt was not so concerned about using his crotch. I might have then given this movie more of a chance and credit. As it stands, I am not so forgiving.       CMRS gives &#145;40 Days and 40 Nights' 1 (Bad Film)  "},{"Title":"The most awful movie in months...","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry to say, but I found it the most awful movie I have seen in months. The plot is very simple, easy to guess and bad acted. The cast is acting very bad.I have seen 2 nice parts on the movie (when he is trying icewater, and when he was flying over the tits) but that was all.I recommend not to look at it, it is waste of your time.. "},{"Title":"Heartless and disappointing","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Disclaimer I am in my 20's, male, am not religious, was not raised in a religious environment, enjoy romantic comedies, and had nothing against anyone involved in this movie before watching it.I thought little of this film when it came out, but after being told by a few people that it wasn't so bad, I finally got around to seeing it (which I wouldn't have otherwise), and I found it to be quite an unpleasant experience.  The characters rarely have any legitimate motivation in any of their actions, even within the world of the romantic comedy, and this is significantly distracting.  As a man involved in a long-term relationship, I have been subjected to my fair share of girl movies, sometimes repeatedly, but I generally don't mind them at all, and I consider myself a fair judge of movies within genres.  I have recently enjoyed Legally Blond, Bridget Jones' Diary, Two Weeks Notice, and numerous others that sit here on the shelf in my fiance's collection.  This movie has none of the chemistry or sweet sentiment of any of those titles, and Josh Hartnett is unbelievably wooden.  I can't help but like him as a person- he comes off as a real human being who just can't act very well.So many actors say that they suffer stage fright, or had to be pushed into acting, or discovered it and overcame their anxieties, but Hartnett seems like one who should probably just give up and find something else.  He is much better in drama, and could develop over time in that arena, but here he looks like he definitely did NOT have to audition, but should have been made to.  If I didn't think that he was personally such a good person, I would have found this movie completely vapid and would quite likely be angry at having wasted my time.  I choose now to view it more along the lines that I would have had to watch it eventually, since my fiance owns it.  I take some solace in that she is unable to explain why she liked it, and says that she doesn't like it as much as she did in the theater.Anyway- I laughed out loud once, very near the end of the film, much too late, and the rest of the time I just stirred uncomfortably as I was bombarded with near constant sarcastic and unsophisticated sex jokes.  I liked seeing Michael Maradonna of Pete and Pete working again, even if he was forced into a horribly written role just to eat for another couple months. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Very FUNNY movie!!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not very good when comes to explain movies so I'm not going  to explain I'm just going to tell you what I think of it. This movie was really funny, the only reason I bought this movie was to see Josh Hartnett(and so the money was well spent)but also what I found out about this movie too was the fact that's it funnier than you expect it to be. Josh Hartnett done very well with the comedy and you see Shannyn Sossamon from a different angle. Many people would say that it is very sex-obsessed and at times I totally agreed with that but that is what the movie is all about so you can't really complain there. I really enjoyed the movie and i would totally recommend the movie!!  "},{"Title":"two words - as if!","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i wasn't expecting too much from this movie and i suppose it was ok, but one thing that annoyed me sooo much was the bit with the flower. AS IF matt could make erica orgasm by touching her with a flower and blowing a petal over her knickers! yeah ok, we get the point, he's not allowed to touch her because of his stupid vow, but that scene was absolutely ridiculous. I was also very uncomfortable with the bit where his girlfriend has sex with him while he is asleep (and it is so unrealistic that he could come without waking up!) another point, his friend puts a UV lamp on his bed to check for 'fluids', but he could easily have masturbated in the toilet or something! Anyway, rant over! "},{"Title":"Terribly unexciting","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Josh Hartnett is on my somewhat-long list of hot talented actors.  Well, I was very disappointed with his performance in this movie.  I really wanted to see this movie because I was anxious to see Josh Hartnett in a comedy.  I'd have to agree with George Parker's comments.  This movie just wasn't funny.  I didn't see the entire thing, but i saw most of it and it was pretty obvious what was going to happen next.  I didn't enjoy watching it at all.  And i really can't stand Shannyn Sossamon, I just don't like her as an actress and there was definitely no chemistry between her and Hartnett.  I would not recommend this movie to anyone.  Don't think that just because you enjoyed movies like American Pie that you'll like this...there is no comparison between the 2. "},{"Title":"What a snorious movie","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It sure was the best one and a half hours sleep I have gotten in a while. I am in no way offended by sex jokes or making fun of Jesus Christ himself. It is not that that makes this movie horrible, there is just so much else in it thats so bad.There is a couple of things I like with this movie, for instance I think that the Idea is great. Theres should be an endless stream of hilarious jokes about a man who promises not too have sex for 40 days, and on top of that he meets the sweetest thing in the world a girl. But the promising uplay of the movie fails to deliver any laughs. The other thing i liked with this movie was the actors that play Josh Hartnetts friends, they are the only ones that feel natural in the whole movie.And now too the lead couple. Josh can`t act, thats a fact, don`t know how he got the movie contract, I just wanna pukeact, faintact and dieact when I see his pretty face. The girl (don`t know her name, and don`t wanna learn it) isn`t much better, she is almost as bad actress as I am at English.The jokes in this flick is on a unusually low level. How fun is sperm coming out from a washing machine? or Josh flying around mountains of plastic tits? I don`t find it offensive, it`s just that it isn`t FUNNY!The movie is about a guy with a stiff, and he can`t do nothing about it. Thats funny, because this movie is real stiff, the difference is that I can turn it off. "},{"Title":"Truly Funny","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After reading the other reviews, I was baffled at those that slammed this movie. This is not a drama, it is a comedy, it is not meant to be realistic. I truly believe that those who claimed the the actors could not act and that there was no plot, claim this because they were offended by this Sophomoric sex comedy.I do not think it was the best movie I've ever seen, nor even a really good movie. Yet I found it funny and enjoyable to watch.If your were offended by such comedies as American Pie, Barbarella and What about Mary, you will be offended by this one as well. Yet if you enjoyed these, then you may want to check this one out as well. "}{"Title":"Too juvenile to be really bold","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  `40 Days and 40 Nights' is little more than a compilation of crude sex gags, with a bit of anti-religious sentiment thrown in to compound the film's egregiousness.  The movie may harbor illusions of being a daring, slashing satire on the sexual mores of our time, but the content matter and the approach the film takes to it are so epicene and juvenile that the whole thing merely offends when it should enlighten and entertain (I am certain that this is the first time, for instance, that a full blown erection has been shown, albeit covered up, in a mainstream Hollywood movie).When his girlfriend dumps him, Matt Sullivan decides to give up sex for Lent (thus the 40 days and 40 nights time span), not just sexual relations with women, mind you, but sexual release of ANY kind (and you know what THAT means).  Naturally, Matt's attempt at heroic celibacy makes him the cause celebre around town, with his very own friends setting up an internet pool to take bets on how long he will be able to last without giving into his natural urges.  Further complications arise when our frustrated hero meets and falls in love with a sweet young thing who simply can't understand why Matt won't put the moves on her (neither can we, frankly, since the motivation for sticking to the pledge, given all the aggravation it's causing for Matt, becomes more and more obscure as the movie grinds on).Sex comedies have been around since actors first climbed up onto the stage, but the measure of a truly successful one is in how deftly it can walk that fine line between crass vulgarity and subtle innuendo.  In the case of `40 Days and 40 Nights,' writer Robert Perez and director Michael Lehmann go for the lowest-common-denominator approach every time, piling on one crude comment, joke and sight gag after another, leaving little room for the understatement, subtlety and wit necessary for a truly effective sex farce.  I'm not trying to sound blue-nosed about this, but the level of humor in `40 Days and 40 Nights' rarely rises above the junior high locker room level.  That's a real pity because Josh Hartnett as Matt and Shannyn Sossamon as Erica, the girls he loves, make an endearing and attractive romantic couple.  More time spent with them and less with his Neanderthal friends &#150; who seem never to have heard of AIDS or STD's before - would have made the film far more palatable and enjoyable.  As it is, the movie exudes a kind of smarmy creepiness that renders most of the humor ineffective.  The screenplay also has a strangely sacrilegious tone to it, hitting its peak in a scene showing a priest and a nun engaged in some pretty intense French kissing.  Some of the daring shown by the makers of this film might have been commendable in a work with more serious aspirations.   But in a flat-footed sex romp like this one, the crudity is embarrassment-evoking at best.There is one very funny scene in which Matt and his brother (who is studying for the priesthood, mind you, and is having his own struggle with the celibate life) are having dinner over their parents' house, just at the time when Matt's `condition' is getting critical.  Matt feels that this will be the one `safe' place he can go, the one setting in which the subject of sex will never be broached.  Little does he suspect that his father has a few conversational goodies up his sleeve on that very topic.  The reason this scene works and most of the others don't is that the humor in this case arises from the incongruity of the situation and actually demonstrates a little imagination.  It is the one time in the film when we feel that the writer might actually be on to something.  Given more scenes like this one, the film might have elevated itself to the level of an honest-to-God sex farce, instead of merely contenting itself with being the movie equivalent of bathroom-stall scrawling.    If you're still not sure what I'm talking about, watch `40 Days and 40 Nights,' then check out `The Graduate' and see the difference for yourself.  "},{"Title":"i'm not laughing","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Why would anybody find this funny?****Spoilers****This movie is totally one-sided with no comedy at all. I think the only part i ever laughed at was with mrs. buttersworth or something like that. It was retarded, and lame. what really urked me was the ending. Who was smoking something to get a lame ending like that? it could have been better! I wasted like an hour of my life. Seeing somebody get raped, especially by the ex-girlfriend, was not tops on my list  1/10--for Josh "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  40 Days and 40 Nights  is a simple funny comedy that one can just go into and enjoy. It's good to see Josh Hartnett in a romantic comedy lead I think he pulls it off. The females in the movie are all sexy but I think the film could have used more T&A from named charcters and not no name girls. One of the funniest scenes inlucdes Hartnett flying through tit clouds. I give *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"just wonderful","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just another wonderful movie I have met. If you like such movies as Serendipity, Someone like you, Sweet November, The Wedding Planer this movie is designed for you. Moreover I have never seen such a colorful movie, I hope you will understand what I mean. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was awful.  SPOILERS!!  SPOILERS!! So this guy decides to give up sex for lent because??? Why??  It's ruining his relationships?Then when he meets the girl of his dreams his stupid little sacrifice becomes this major thing in his life.  Why wouldn't he just give it up?  Totally unrealistic plot.... Nobody would do this.  I guess the reason he didn't just give it up is because then there would have been no movie!  That would have undoubtedly been the better decision.There is only ONE funny part of the entire movie and it was in the preview!! (When his friend is combing over his bed for proof).Oh, and when did they all of a sudden become boyfriend and girlfriend?  One minute they had just met (and barely spoke to each other), in the next five minutes they were dating!! WTF??Don't waste your time with this movie unless you enjoy twenty-somethings sleepwalking through utterly ridiculous roles.  2/10 stars only because Josh Hartnett and Shannyn S. are nice to look at. "},{"Title":"40 Days without sex...","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a tale of a man who gives up sex for lent. It is apparent to me that the majority of reviews, and in fact the current rating (5.8) may be a little too harsh. Sure the characters are all typical clique-members but I must say that they are exactly what the movie needs to work- and I think that it does work. This movie is not meant to revolutionize your thoughts on sex. I don't even think that it is entirely a comedy. There are a few funny parts in the movie.What I think works for the movie is the fact that yes men think about sex a lot. Sure the writers exaggerate the extent to which it interferes with Matt's life. That is merely the vehicle to exemplify Matt and his friends. They are all shallow and most of the women in the movie are too. This allows the viewer to at least on some level ask him/herslf what it would be like to give up sex and sexual interference completely. This is not a masterpiece by any means- but I admire the movie for its attempts at being original, risque, and modern.For those that have so much mud to sling at this movie, ask yourself if you are really in the target audience for the movie. If you are old, married for some time, or generally not considered hip and modern I take your harsh comments for what they are worth. On the other hand, if you consider yourself with the times, willing to watch a movie with some originality, and liked any of the modern teen-movies within the last couple of years you should think about renting/watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Sorry I wasted my time on this...","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Aside from some nice acting from Josh Hartnett and Shannyn Sossamon (a stunning beauty who happens to also be a good actress), this movie (I rented the video) was a total waste.  The premise is incredibly stupid.  The motivation is ridiculous.  The entire story is hard to believe.  The bit about the main character's brother being a Catholic priest in training is completely out of left field.  I have already wasted more time writing this than the film merits. "},{"Title":"useless try of making a comedy ?!","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is interesting how bad a movie can be these days. It has some very interesting features, trying to show the reality, but... I wonder if the director of it was a woman, because, the movie looks stupid. The only lovely thing in the movie are the open minded chicks. "},{"Title":"honest movie","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Very few movies anymore can hold my attention longer than 30 minutes, but this one kept me intrigued the entire time.  The acting was good, the writing was good, which made the kind-of-hokey-storyline presentable.  I rate my movies in terms of DVD buy, and I'll be in the store  for this one. "},{"Title":"Sex without love?","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The situation on the West-Coast of America must be different from the one on the western coasts of Europe because from this movie I learned that the habitants of San-Francisco, Seattle or Vancouver must have sex every day.  Matt Sullivan (Josh Harnett) is a computer-nerd that has some psychological problems because he sees black holes in the ceiling every time he makes love.  His brother, a priest helps him as a psycho-therapeutist.  Well, this is enough for director Michael Lehmann to build up a comedy which is for me, as an European, nothing more than a satire on American mores.  The conclusion from this movie is love without sex is possible, but it helps. "}{"Title":"Young fellow gives up sex and naughty thoughts for Lent. Friends male and female take bets and set sexy traps. Not nearly as funny as it might sound. 2 Flys Out Of Five.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This made for youngsters film has Matt (Josh Hartnett) giving up sex, and naughty thoughts about sex for lent. He's been dumped by his girlfriend (Vinessa Shaw) six months previously but has since developed a real problem.When he's having sex with anyone else he imagines the ceiling cracking above his head. Sex isn't fun any more so he gives it up, but just for lent.These sex romp comedies evolve, if that's the right word. These days they're increasingly profane and the latest thing is masturbation. What was no go area five years ago is so fashionable now it will soon become required. What will be the next fad? Celibacy?It seems that in Matt's world the overwhelming topic is sex. When one of their number goes on the wagon it becomes a matter of honour to get Matt laid. They even start a book on it and of course put it up on the internet.Then Matt meets a pretty girl (Shannyn Sossamon) who of course looks like the new best thing. She reckons he's interesting because he won't even kiss her. Is he gay? (They must sell a lot of contraceptives in these communities.)Josh Hartnett has been doing war movies of late (Pearl Harbour, Black Hawk Down). He's pleasant in 40 Days and 40 Nights. So is Shannyn Sossamon).Bagel Man (Michael C. Maronna) and Jerry (Griffin Dunne) get the best lines in a throw away comedy that will be of value to those wanting to ogle Josh Hartnett.2 Masturbating Flys Out Of Five. "},{"Title":"Josh Hartnett amazes me again!","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You'd think that after watching Pearl Harbor, after Josh Hartnett's fabulous performance there, that all you'd see while watching him in this movie is a soldier from WW2. However, Hartnett does a spectacular job in this movie, again, convincing you every bit that he is this guy who gives up all forms of sex for 40 days. The jokes are funny, the plot makes sense, the ending is shocking. I laughed everytime it was suppose to be funny and many more times than that. It is definitely a movie to enjoy with your friends, guys and girls. Some people say that I only liked it because Josh Hartnett stars in it, however that is not true. True, Hartnett does a very good job playing this role, but the script was really the key to making it such a good movie. Not only that, but all the guy friends I watched it with all agreed that it was better than American Pie and American Pie 2, which were both really funny movies. "},{"Title":"Crude Humor Always Rocks","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Following in the footsteps of the highly successful American Pie movies, 40 Days and 40 Nights uses the crudest humor to draw in its teenage fans.  Most people will go see this movie because it features the hot Josh Hartnett and the beautiful Shannyn Sossamon.  But I think this movie really let us see Ms. Sossamon in a new light.  She played Heath Ledger's love interest in A Knight's Tale, but in this movie she plays a totally different character.  And it's interesting to see how Mr. Hartnett can come from a movie like Pearl Harbor into a movie like 40 Days and 40 Nights.  He is a talented actor and it's a shame Pearl Harbor didn't do that well.  But 40 Days and 40 Nights show off Mr. Hartnett in a new light to us.  Sex crazed Matt is a wonderful character.  And it's so hard to imagine that this is the same Mr. Hartnett I saw way back when he did Halloween H20.  I was even happy to see Vinessa Shaw as part of this cast because I remember her from those cute little movies like Ladybugs and Hocus Pocus.  She's really grown up now.  The only thing I disliked about this movie is that all the nude scenes were of women.  Come on now, where's naked Josh? "},{"Title":"Almost a good movie","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A cute premise nearly done in by a weak dialogue and some weak characters, 40 Days and 40 Nights is nearly a good movie, but not quite.  Thanks to the fine performance of star Josh Hartnett and some nice comedic bits, the movie plugs along on genial inertia for 100 minutes, dragging only occasionally, but leaving you not completely satisfied when it concludes.Hartnett plays Matt Sullivan, a webpage designer for a dot-com company in an alternate universe version of San Francisco (Clearly another reality, since super-model types are the only females employed at computer companies, and still more supermodel types spend Friday nights doing their laundry).  After a messy breakup sends him into the arms and beds of most of the female population of San Fran, Matt decides he is fed up with feeling like an empty void.  To fight his libido, he swears of all sexual activities for lent.  It's a good thing Matt's not Jewish; otherwise he would have had to give up sex for Yom Kippur; a scenario that would have created a much shorter (and significantly more dour) film.Quickly, Matt's roommate (Paulo Costanzo) and his fellow employees catch wind of his scheme, and soon bets are made, and saboteurs begin to try to taint his quest.  Yet another monkey wrench gets thrown into the celibacy machine when Matt meets Erica  (Shannyn Sossamon), a dreamy, quirky cutie who just might be `the one,' not to be confused with the super-powered One played by Jet Li last year in the film of the same name.Writer Rob Perez gets a lot of mileage using the ridiculously attractive cast as spoiling seductresses, and as the days tick away toward forty some genuine suspense is created from the will-he-won't-he tension.  Hartnett makes a likeable protagonist, especially considering he's a guy who's unhappy because he gets way too many women (Just like in the real world&#133;).  As the gags get more sexual, Hartnett plays his role in appropriately hammy fashion; but the budding relationship with Erica slowly distracts and hurts the main plot; mostly because while the script calls for Erica to be sassy in the meet cute, her character quickly becomes a complaining downer; soon we're questioning why Matt's so hung up on such a frequently harsh woman.  And the pseudo-sex scene involving flowers is far too sappy to belong in a movie that also sports a CGI dream sequence featuring a sea of female breasts.  40 Days only recovers from that cumbersome scene by the very end of Matt's journey, but by then most of the film's goofy energy is gone.  And a climax that involves a reconciliation between characters we don't care too much about doesn't make for gripping entertainment.  You leave liking the movie more than you enjoyed it; Matt deserves a movie (and a love interest) worthy of his and our imagination.  "},{"Title":"Major surprise","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was not expecting much when my girlfriend and I went to see this but i am glad we did. i thought it was going to be a chick flick but it was a slapstick comedy like the american pie movies. Josh Hartnett did well in the lead and the movie is just plane hilarious from the beginning to the end. "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I registered for this site so I could specifically comment on how awful this movie was. It was laugh out loud awful. Completely unoriginal, stereotypical and boring. Features the stereotype 20 year olds...yeah we went to a great college, work at a dot com, and all we do is party. Everybody has to see this movie, just for the ridiculousness of getting an orgasm from a flower. If you saw the movie, you know what I'm talking about. Or how about the ex-boyfriend that thought he was a bus. Yeah thats comedy. Wow, I'm not sure if this movie was released as a parody of awful romantic comedies, or this was really trying to be a romatic comedy. All and all, I recommend this movie to everybody that wants a good laugh at stupidity. And to think most people in the theater were laughing, so maybe they are as stupid as the writers who wrote this garbage. "},{"Title":"Love, American Style.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The tv show Love American Style updated for Generation Y, this film fails on almost all levels.  I wish I could have laughed as much as Sundance 14, (who also, may I point out, lauded Captain Corellis Mandolin- coincidentally another Mirimax film) but unfortunately this film is not very funny. Josh 'comedy chops' Harnett vows not to have sex for 40 days- an action which (natch) drives all the (unbelievably sexy) women around him into a FRENZY!!! They MUST HAVE HIM!!! Not that this is a sexist film, but really. The women who didn't walk out of the screening I was present at were too stunned to move. It's sexist, trite, and not funny. I'm sure it'll be a big hit. "},{"Title":"Adorable and fun","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a film about a young man who is challenged to have no sex for 40 days and 40 nights.I think 40 Days and 40 Nights is a refreshing change from the usual teenage sex comedy. Obviously there is still plenty of sex or provocative scenes, but the way these are presented is refreshingly different. Josh Hartnett is adorable, and he is so convincingly sex starved! The final scene featuring a washing machine is hilarious. It is such a good metaphor that I still remember it after years! 30 Days and 30 Nights is superficial, hedonistic, and probably something you would not want to watch with your kids or parents. but serves the purpose of being entertaining. "},{"Title":"Over-Hyped Star Vehicle. Terrible and Without Soul.","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 40 Days and 40 Nights has a simple premise - Matt (Played by Josh Hartnett) is a young man in the prime of life, who has sex with various women in an attempt to fulfil an empty life after being badly hurt by his ex-girlfriend and love of his life, Nicole. In an attempt to find new purpose to his life, he tries to go 40 Days without having any kind of sex. Things get complicated, however, when he falls in love with Erica (Played by Shannyn Sossamon). The film's based around this and of course, this basic plot is where most of the comedy comes from. The plot may sound interesting but it's not presented in an interesting way and you soon lose interest in Hartnett and his character's challenge. Sossamon does provide some kind of reprieve for the film, though. Her performance as Erica is very well done - her character, and indeed her, are likable and interesting. In fact - it's fair to say the film is partly let down by Hartnett's performance - his character becomes 2 dimensional, although some of his comedy acting shows promise, Hartnett is certainly nothing to get excited about in this film.The dialogue between the characters is usually very seedy and their outlook on sex is, like Hartnett's performance, one-dimensional. The plot chugs along at an infuriating slow rate and it's hindered by often pointless detours that were probably designed to build character but fail to do so, leaving you totally indifferent to any character and what happens to them. The ending is very shaky and leaves the film with an unresolved feeling in many ways. Sure, the film does have it's moments of comedy that are amusing, at least, but it's not enough to stop this film becoming what it is - totally unremarkable. "},{"Title":"Crass masturbatory comedy marketed as romance. It dances on the edge of trashiness... then plunges in with an anvil tied to its feet.","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Josh Hartnett decides to give up sex for Lent. He was doing okay till he met Erica (Shannyn Sossamon, the love interest in Knight's Tale). His mates at work hear about it, and decide to place bets as to whether he'll make it, which raises the stakes for the non-semitic audience members.The elaboration of this concept requires dancing on the edge of trashiness.The progression of the plot is basically how horny Josh Hartnett can get, and in what ways he can get tempted, before he either blows his top or wins the bet.One dream sequence almost made me vomit (you can picture it a sea of giant breasts that Hartnett dives into).This one's really pushing it. Definitely not suitable for youngsters.1/10. Yet, contains one of the most erotic scenes i've ever seen the girl from Knight's Tale brushing a feather over Hartnett's body, since she can't touch him. "}{"Title":"Glad I didn't pay to see this","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I debated whether or not to see this movie in the theatre and either due to better movie choices or a slight inclination that it may not be that good, I opted out of seeing it. Instead, I watched it on our student station at school right after its release on video. After about a half hour I was glad I hadn't paid anything to see it, although I suffered thru to the end.I was hoping that it would have had some clever humor, but I was wrong. Basically, a bunch of high schoolers could have written this script. There was nothing new or all that clever about any of it, and the characters were overly shallow and lame. Needless to say this movie did nothing to endear either one of the lead actors in my book, not that my opinions were that high to begin with. "},{"Title":"Good for uneventful nights...","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you are too serious a film seer, don't see this movie! It is sexist, many of the jokes are odd, 40 days without sex is barely a challenge and the end is somewhat disappointing. But if you can set your seriousness aside, you are in for some amusement in a totally uneventful night. Guys will love it because of the amazing display of unrealistic female outfits (and behaviour) and bare skin ; which makes this film a guy flick. Contrary to what the guys say here, of course! I saw it with my husband and we did get a few laughters (very few) and we were happy that it only lasted about 130 minutes. The two things that make me not like it were the fact that the big whore in the story goes unpunished (they didn't elaborate that) and the rape scene that simply stood there as something completely normal. C'mon movie makers wake up! Rape is not a good or normal thing in ANY case.That's it then just a little amusement in a rainy day when your car doesn't work, your friends are out of town, your computer is having a fit, you've read the literature at home for 200 times and time again, there's nobody around to cuddle up with, your bed is lumpy and your pet is moody.I give it a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Charming, funny movie","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was the best comedy I've seen in a long time.  I actually laughed!  I am a big fan of Josh Hartnett, and I tell you, I fall for his romantic characters.  This movie is funny because of the use of things that we all have said, done or experienced in our lives.  The rawness makes it funnier.  Definitely go see this movie. "},{"Title":"Fun and laughter","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Admittedly not a previously big Josh Hartnett fan, but I went to watch this movie on a whim, and am glad I took the plunge. It was good to see Hartnett in a comedy role and think he faired very well. There was such a neat innocence in some of the lines he delivered, where they could have been really crass.  Some of the sight gags were a little gross and some a bit disturbing, but on the whole I was pleasantly surprised, and the good stuff more than made up for it. The cast was great.. of which I recognised Hartnett, Sossomon and of course Griffin Dunne.  However, I really wished more time was spent with Hartnetts co-workers.  I would have loved to have seen their characters filled out more. I must admit I was taken with the actor, Chris Gauthier, that played Mikey (I actually stayed to the watch the end credits to take note of his name) and when the romance between the leads became a little long, really wanted to see Mikey and the co-workers back at the internet office. I would be interested in other works this actor has appeared in.  More time spent with the actor who played Chris would have been good too, in fact all the internet guys. That aside, I am looking forward to the release of the dvd, and will be buying a copy as soon as its available. "},{"Title":"Adorably Frisky Sex Comedy That's Fair to Both Sexes","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Home sick in bed for three days, when I was feeling better I could at least get to the VCR and stick in 40 Days and 40 Nights. Several times. Yes it seems like a cheap idea for a movie -- a guy swears off sex for Lent after a break-up with his girlfriend.But how is that a silly sex comedy can in fact work? By managing to poke fun at both guys and gals yet be sensitive to both. While the premise and extremely frank images and explicit dialog make this in no way a competitor to the old-styled classic Battles of the Sexes of Hepburn and Tracy, director Michael Lehmann has practically created a new date movie genre via his Heathers and The Truth About Cats and Dogs.First criteria for success is his choice of leads. Josh Hartnett has a checkered record of selecting teen crap to overblown melodrama to Big Hollywood I haven't seen with some actual good movies I have, but gosh he just might be the new Gary Cooper (too bad they don't make Westerns anymore. See I'm being Mrs. Robinson just by knowing of Cooper. And thinking of Josh in chaps.) That tall, lanky, aw shucks demeanor, crinkly eyes, and husky voice are perfect for heartfelt apologies. He can do goofy and besotted. (Not that Gary Cooper ever had to fake faking an orgasm.) He's such a star now that Daily Variety lists his current movie in production as Untitled Josh Hartnett Project.Second, the women are all strong characters, who actually have believable jobs (well, at dot.coms in San Francisco) and feelings. They all insist on f*cking on top. A key scene is a close-up of Shannyn Sossamon weeping after what she thinks is Josh's betrayal. Ah, these pawns bleed (to irreverently quote Norman Thomas from an anti-war rally in 1965).Third, while Lehmann uses humping as comedy fodder for both sexes, he appreciates the powerful cinematic importance of foreplay. There is a simply beautiful, creative, sexy scene of immaculate connection that raises the stakes and the temperature for the outcome beyond hard-ons (which, heck, are used for visual fun accompanied by Pete Yorn's Strange Condition).Nice to see some good bit players, Maggie Gyllenhaal, underused as the Best Friend, and the older Pete and Pete as Bagel Guy. I think there's a message there somewhere about balance in a relationship, but they are all so young and frisky it's hard to tell. There's certainly no claims of love or long term commitment.(Originally written 2/1/2003) "},{"Title":"Not good at all","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There are only a few redeeming qualities to this film. The scenery is of the wonderful San Francisco, the people are pretty, and it's short.As I sit here, having just seen the film, I wonder how such a thing can get made. How does the idea of a movie about some kid who gives up ejaculating for lent make it this far? You think this would stay in the drunken stupor it came out of. Throw on a cyber-nanny, flower-sex, and an international slew of dweebs who bet considerable amount of money on the main character's success, and this movie is absolutely unbelievable. The main premise is absurd; the whole film is outlandish. I don't understand how any sane person can believe in this project.I believe that most people should have something better to do than watch this one. "},{"Title":"Although I didn't take a liking to the ending, it was a decent movie","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 40 days and 40 nights is about a guy who vows that he will remain untouched for Lent. 40 days and 40 nights of him not touching a girl or himself to push the vow to go a little further. Seems easy, right? Oh, wait! I forgot, Josh Hartnett is the guy! That's what makes the movie so ridiculous. But you kind of get into it. It's kind of ironic, because Josh is a cutie that all the girls love, and you can't imagine a guy like him would make a vow like that. You'd think they would cast maybe a nerd or something. P Just kidding. I thought the movie was actually pretty good. It has some very funny moments and sexy ones as well. I would recommend for the weekend if you have nothing better to do. I just didn't like the ending too well, but you have to judge for yourself.6/10 "},{"Title":"Wrong-headed sex comedy has no pay off","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  40 Days & 40 Nights (2002) Josh Hartnett, Shannyn Sossamon, Vinessa Shaw, Paulo Costanzo, Griffin Dunne, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Michael Maronna, Glenn Fitzgerald, Mary Gross, D Michael Lehmann. Artificial comedy about a sexually active web designer giving up sex for Lent after a disappointing breakup-until he meets his Miss Right at a San Francisco Laundromat. To cause trouble for himself, his vow is pasted on an Internet site by his co-workers who make a bet that he can't stay by his promise. Inane setup has no payoff, no charm, and nobody to care about, but it is filled with-embarrassing dialogue! However the dinner scene with the parents (and their memories of making love) is hilarious. This is the first movie to use a sky full of breasts in a dream sequence. Running Time 93 minutes and rated R for language, sexual content, and nudity. RATING * ½ (out of ****)   "},{"Title":"This is more than just crudeness.","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I would like to make the reader aware that the following commentary will reveal certain elements of the film's plot.  If you would rather not have them revealed, then I would not recommend reading past this paragraph.  However, if you watch the movie, I would urge you to think about the full implications of its various scenes.I watched this film with two friends of mine, and despite the fact that we have fairly liberal views, all three of us (this includes both female and male) were rather appalled at what was shown, and found that there are some serious moral problems at hand.  First and foremost, while some viewers might not realize it, Josh Hartnett's character is raped towards the end of this movie.  His ex-girlfriend has sex with him, while he is tied to a bed, intoxicated, and only marginally aware of what is going on.  In spite of this, the film does not seem to show the seriousness of the incident. The main character seems to be casual about what happened, albeit disappointed that his celibacy did not reach the 40 day mark; his current love interest, played by Shannyn Sossamon, chooses to be angry, instead of being supportive, and his ex-girlfriend revels in snide triumph.  The rape of men by women does occur in real life; it is a horrific crime, as is any other form of rape, and this movie certainly doesn't help in making the society aware of its existence.The film also paints an inaccurate and incomplete picture of human sexuality, since men are portrayed as sex fiends, who find it next to impossible to not be controlled by their desires, while women are depicted as manipulative whores.  Shannyn Sossamon's aforementioned character is an exception, but she appears to be emotionally unstable, since she walks out whenever there is a problem, instead of making an attempt to communicate. When the main character ends up with her, this is treated as an and they lived happily ever after sort of ending, whereas realistically, what he probably has in store for him is another psychologically-damaging relationship.The problem at hand is not in what happens in the film, but in the film's attitude towards what happens.  I am not saying that a rape scene in a movie is always unacceptable.  What I am saying, is that such a scene should be treated as a rape scene, and not as a casual sexual encounter.  While I believe in artistic freedom, I also believe that film producers hold a level of responsibility for the sort of message that they carry across, and that is why I felt that something needed to be said.  I would generally not recommend this movie, but to those who are planning on watching it - please be aware of what is going on.  "},{"Title":"adult sex comedy - will mean different things each side of the Atlantic","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For many women, giving up sex for 40 days isn't that big a deal, whereas for men with healthy libidos and plenty of offers it is a major psychological undertaking. That's the story behind this better than average adult comedy. Matt originally tries the idea for Lent in a last ditch attempt to get former `love-of-his-life', Nicole, out of his head after screwing everything in the trendy San Francisco dot.com world has failed to alleviate his emotional needs. Swearing off sex includes giving up sex, fondling, kissing and even masturbation. This means he actually starts communicating with women (one woman in particular) on another level than purely physical and falls in love again. Within this rather limited comic milieu, various ideas are played out fairly well  women's use of sex to manipulate men features not only in the frantic attempts of his female colleagues (who, with the rest of the office, have placed bets on `how long he will last'), but also in the cynically exposed persona of Nicole. You have to give the film plenty of leeway in credibility terms  the story has lots of far fetched aspects  but so does lots of good comedy, and the love-it-or-hate-it script either completely justifies it for you or makes you wish you had such problems to faintly believe in them. If you were offended by `There's Something About Mary', don't go and see it. Of course, I've written this from a British point of view - Americans have had more exposure to the abstinence movement that we have thankfully been spared so far - they make get the jokes differently or take some meaning from the film that either isn't or shouldn't be there! (Apologies to discerning American filmgoers to whom this doesn't apply!) "}{"Title":"Amusing sex comedy","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In this comedy, Josh Hartnett is so distraught over his breakup with his babe girlfriend (Vinessa Shaw) and her sudden engagement to someone else that he decides to take a vow not to have sex or anything connected with sex for 40 days! This being a movie, the vow winds up becoming an internet phenomenon as people start betting on when he will give in,  a prospect that becomes more likely when he meets a cute girl (Shannyn Sossamon of A Knight's Tale) at a laundrymat and starts dating her.. An entertaining comedy that milks it's one joke fairly well for most of the picture and is helped by the appealing nature of the leads Hartnett and Sossamon as well as some amusing supporting players. As light-weight sex comedies go, this one is fairly entertaining. GRADE B "},{"Title":"Has sex ever been less funny?","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I doubt it.Someone who wants to have sex but is somehow thwarted; now THAT'S funny ... well, potentially funny. Someone who wants NOT to have sex but is somehow coerced into doing so; that's NOT funny.-Actually, very frequently it IS funny, but under conditions that don't hold here. The man who simply wants to read a book or work on his woodcarving but has an insatiable spouse; that can be amusing. The man who for obscure because it's in the script, that's why reasons gives up sex for Lent &#133; well, whatever. If the film wants to ignore this tepid premise and tell jokes about, say, badminton, that could work. But the sex that's been renounced is something we never hear the end of. It's like listening to someone say, No thanks, I don't want any sugar in my coffee, six hundred and fifty times.How long is this guy doing without, anyway? Forty days; a little over a month. Please. Most of us spend, give or take, the first five THOUSAND days of our lives without sex (and it's only so few if you accept the film's extended definition). How hard can it be?Not a single player in the story has a brain, and the central character is in addition one of the wettest schmendricks ever to be pushed forward as a romantic lead. "},{"Title":"A Fun Weekend Flick","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You know, I'm just as big of a pretentious d*ck as the next movie critic out there...I like the artsy, intelligent indie films, and I try to only give my patronage to good, smart, well-done movies.Which brings me to 40 Days and 40 Nights...a sex flick targeted at the common man. But you know what? When it came on this past Sunday on Comedy Central, I just had to watch it through. I really think it's a great movie for what it is.40 Days is a mildly intelligent, clever, creative movie with an intimidating number of hot women. See all these hot, scantily clad women actually reminds me a bit of my time at Arizona State.This film is a very engaging way to spend an hour and a half. If you're not a self-repressed type who is freaked out by the topic of sex, you'll love it. I gave it a 9. "},{"Title":"Should have been 40 minutes","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Potentially, and if it's a good one, a single gag can be stretched to a half-hour episode. The 'abstaining from orgasm' chestnut has already been done on Seinfeld, so they're just flogging a dead horse here.As we've come to expect from the man who gave us Meet The Applegates and Airheads, this is watchably predictable nonsense. It has just enough charm to get away with its central conceit without causing too much offence, but as with most rom-coms the supporting characters are the most fun. Hartnett and Sossamon are fine yet unengaging; his actions make no sense other than to give the movie its raison d'etre and her character is far too stroppy to be really cute.I'll own up to chuckling once or twice, but the smiles faltered when I realised that it's been 14 years since Heathers and Michael Lehmann's never come close to making a movie half as good. "},{"Title":"Very questionable ending","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have to add my comment to the list of reviews already made because this film really annoyed and offended me.How can it be that having a man handcuffed (admittedly at his free will) to a bed be an acceptable excuse for him to be effectively raped?You can turn it any way you want but a very quick role reversal would have had many different female groups complaining - and quite rightly.The completely off-handedness way that the situation is then dealt with is an offense to both sexes - women for the portrayal that they would use sexual means for anything they want and men for the portrayal that - hey - so long as they are having sex, then everything is okay.This is not okay at all - the film was acceptable up till this point but I am still fuming days after watching it! I can't believe I bought it on DVD - over to the local auction site I think.Avoid as a genuine protest against stupidty, please. "},{"Title":"Can it ever get worse ?","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"    This movie is filled with evilness and has a cruel and malicious way of showing what friendship is. I admit that I am from Europe, but if this movie is a general picture of how people treat each other in USA, it might be a good time for a review of the life style in common.  The last part with Vinessa Shaw in the end makes me sick. How can anyone state that as part of a comedy. It's so nauseating.  I would have given this movie some -10 stars points, but the lowest is 1 so, that is the score from me to this total atrocious movie. "},{"Title":"Utterly feeble and tragically unfunny","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Teen comedy about sex, or lack of, fails at every turn in everything it tries.Josh Hartnet is Matt, a borderline sexaholic. After a traumatic breakup with his girlfriend, he goes into free fall, bedding woman after woman, while all the time obsessing over his ex Nicole.After constant confessions to his priest-in-training brother, Matt decides the best way for him to make a clean break is to abstain for all forms of sex for 40 days.This forms the baseline of the movie, with Matt getting increasingly frustrated at his own vow, and curses his luck when he meets Erica who he inevitably falls for but cannot consummate his feelings with.The main problems with this movie are Hartnett and the script.First of all, Hartnett is simply not funny. He clearly struggles with comedy and fails to actually make us genuinely laugh. However, he is not aided by a quite appallingly bland script which features no wit, no decent visual gags, and complete drivel for dialogue.None of the characters are remotely interesting, with completely vacuous roles held by his housemate and his boss. His ex is there for a peripheral purpose and her overall presence seems completely pointless and hardly adds anything to the story.The direction is totally worthless and fails to hold our interest, while the acting is simply contrived.This movie isn't the worst I've ever seen, but when the only reason to watch a movie is for the gratuitously gorgeous females regularly featured, you know the quality hasn't a leg to stand on.Avoid. "},{"Title":"Makes me nostalgic","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm not really sure why I never watched this when it first came out. All my friends had crushes on Josh Hartnett, so they rushed to watch it. I on the other hand never made it through, but I did manage to go see Hollywood Homicide in the theater. Anyway, this movie is full of people from the late 90s that were huge, that now I'm not sure what they are up to. Shannyn Sossamon, Paulo Costanzo, Michael C. Maronna, Vinessa Shaw. Okay, I have seen them in some other things, but they are not nearly as big as they were back then. Quick summary, Matt is having trouble sleeping with random women because he is hung up on his ex, Nicole. He decides to give up all things sexual related for Lent, to kind of cleanse the pallet. RomComs being what they are, he almost immediately meets a girl that he could really be into. It wouldn't be such a huge deal, except he has given up all forms of sexual activity, including kissing and masturbation. Holding off on sleeping with someone for a little over a month doesn't seem that crazy, but not even a good night kiss?!?! Long story short, I'm not sure if it was really that god, or if it just made me nostalgic for the time when I was as free as the characters. "},{"Title":"Good talent gone to waste","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I guess young people need something to watch, but this was a catastrophe. Both Josh Hartnett and Shannyn Sossamon have talent and screen presence, but the script was embarrassingly bad. I shudder to think anyone took it seriously as true-to-life sounding expressions of sincerity. The hackneyed part of the obnoxious friend whose utterly un-friendlike behavior propels the plot more than the action of the principals makes this a difficult movie to watch. I pat myself on the back for having watched it from beginning to end; It almost feels like kind of a form of religious flagellation I suppose, not too much worse than the one the main character undertook.It never ceases to amaze me that intelligent studio people read scripts like this one and then green-light them. "},{"Title":"Basic but very Funny","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film has a very basic but very funny story line. Simply guy gets dumped, has lots of sex but freaks out every time, decides abstinence is the answer, meets girl of his dreams, struggles for the time, fails because his ex-girlfriend is a complete bitch and ultimately realises he should have give up in the first place to get the girl he wanted. There are quite a few good laughs from this and the ways his colleagues try to make him fail are legendary. How the hell do they get over $15,000 worth of bets. Overall the film was funny and easy to follow and I rate it at 8 out of 10. Every person who slates this film must be blind and death. A basic and funny film is what was needed and that is what it is. "}{"Title":"No realism whatsoever, but amusing nonetheless","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 40 days and 40 nights is not a masterpiece. That has to be stated first. It's very shallow, filled with smut and a bad script. But I enjoyed it anyway. This is mainly because Josh Hartnett and Shannyn Sossamon had very good chemistry and it was fun to watch them together. The way they interact at the laundromat and on their first is just so natural and sweet that it nearly melted my heart. Next to that there were some mildly funny jokes. Not 'rolling-over-the-floor-laughing' but entertaining enough to put a smile on your lips. It's a movie to watch when you have a gigantic bucket of ice cream and you're in the mood for mindless entertainment. If you're the type of person who's afraid his/her I.Q points will drop drastically when watching this, avoid avoid avoid. For the rest of you, watch and be entertained. "},{"Title":"Simplistic but still funny teen comedy","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After breaking up with his long term girlfriend Matt (Hartnett) vows to go without sex for lent in order to progress emotionally.The romantic genre has gone through numerous concepts over the years. From the sentimental friendship romance in Lost in Translation to the utterly crude but funny American Pie there are numerous ideologies thrown around and as is modern culture, a film is made depicting the terms and regulations teenagers seem to live by in relationships.Just Friends, Angus Thongs and perfect snogging and Donkey Punch to name but a few that all depict different ideas, from the friendship zone to growing up.This Michael Lehmann picture looks at the use of sex as a resolution to overcome depression. Sex has obviously been used before in When Harry met Sally for example and with that a renowned funny classic you may wonder what this has to compare.For starters this is a delusion on the trailer which depicts the film as a broad cruel epic with constant joking and a use of crude comedy to get it's entertainment across.Whilst there are numerous references to the different elements of sex that can give American Pie a run for its money, this is good because it does not take itself too seriously. The scripting is relaxed, and is not penned around set ups for an obvious joke. There are sharp timings in and amongst the 40 days with numerous challenges for the teen heart throb Josh Hartnett.The actor is likable enough with a chilled presence whilst bringing an elegant amount of comedy our way. The comedy however comes mostly from the supporting players, particularly Matt's flatmate. This is where this film succeeds though as Matt's target is a serious business considering his motivation to get over his ex girlfriend. The balance is therefore articulate as we comprehend the elegant dreams of the central protagonist with his problems we therefore do not need the awkward jokes subsiding the seriousness.This is by no means soft hearted either as the relationship between Matt and Erica is one of the most grown up dates you will see in teen comedy.The scripting is quite exquisite considering the modern language of stereotypical teenagers. The cocky flatmate isn't too over the top whilst the work colleagues seem ordinary enough but whilst this work the level of comedy is maintained.Here are a couple of drawbacks. The ending like all or most romantic comedies is inevitable; Erica's constant doubts and reactions can be tiring whilst Maggie Gyllenhaal is quite annoying.But this is a sharp comedy that is light-hearted but still funny with a good central lead that is certainly worth a look. "},{"Title":"A sex comedy for evangelical Christians?  NAH!","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 40 Days and 40 Nights deals with some very Christian issues, including Lent, abstinence, confession, and other Christian topics. But for those who are worried that the the raunchy sex comedy has been overtaken with Christian values, fear not. This is a sex comedy, plain and simple, and the sacrifice for Lent only serves to set up the plot.After a devastating break-up, Matt Sullivan (Josh Hartnett) is unable to get over it, and this leads to some disastrous sexual episodes. Frustrated, Matt gets the idea of taking sex out of the picture, so he decides to give up sex for Lent (40 days and 40 nights, hence the title). This includes everything from touching to self-gratification. Normally, this wouldn't seem that hard, but this is a good-looking young guy. Then he meets Erica (Shannyn Sossamon), a girl he falls for...hard. Worse still, his co-workers put up a betting website to see when he will give in to temptation. Now everyone wants him to fail, and they'll do anything to accomplish that.The premise has as much, if not more, potential than that of American Pie. Unfortunately, they're never fully realized. It's not the script doesn't cut it, rather, the execution is sloppy. This is surprising, seeing as director Michael Lehmann directed the cult classic Heathers and the romantic-comedy The Truth About Cats and Dogs. Josh Hartnett has never been an actor of great versatility. However, he has two qualities that are key for this sort of movie he's likable and good-looking. His female co-star, Shannyn Sossamon, is a better thespian and equally easy on the eyes. However, the two performers never really click. Big problem.His co-workers are supposed to provide a lot of the humor, and to an extent they do. The scenes with the girls at the office are hysterical, but the guys are annoying. Glenn Fitzgerald, the sleazy co-worker who started the bet is especially bad.Should you see it? There's enough good stuff here to make a tentative recommendation (there are plenty of opportunities to see where many laughs should be if they had tighter editing), but don't expect a lot. "},{"Title":"Can a man go without sex?","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Josh Hartnett vows to o without sex for 40 days and 40 nights but in the process he falls in love with Shannyn Sossamon and now he must woo her without sex....The film is funny at times especially when the women in the office find out that Josh's pact and try to use their hot, hot, hot, hot hot... bodies....Shannyn Sossamon provides a satisfactory love interest and at times is adorable while Jsoh Harnett doesn't exactly excel in terms of acting he seems to stay with one emotion or facial expression throughout the film. But a nice comedy film that provides a few mild laughs... "},{"Title":"Insipid Josh!","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After a destructive break-up with an ex Matt Sullivan vows that for 40 days and nights, he will stay celibate with absolutely no form of sex, mutual or solo of any kind. Once details of this make it out of his normal social circle, the women in his work suddenly want to seduce him and people begin to take wagers on whether or not he will crack.This is a pretty uninspired affair that I imagine that many a Hollywood head would have gotten hot under the collar over, loads of women dressed seductively to try and get Matt to crack. No doubt the bosses delighted at thinking about the extras they could get in stockings and thigh length boots, this however does not make for an interesting or entertaining movie. The comedy falls and fails at most level and for a comedy this flat you need a killer performer to raise it to at least an acceptable level and sadly Josh Hairnet is not the kind of performer. The script is nothing special and if you're gonna do something like this then you'd better have something to say about love cause if you don't then you may as well leave it someone who can.Nothing we haven't seen before, better, funnier and more touching elsewhere in the likes of Annie Hall, When Harry met Sally and Chasing Amy ...in my humble opinion.Nuff said Em "},{"Title":"UNrealised potential....most unfortunate!","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I had had no intention of watching this movie, but a boring Saturday night plus a cable TV station showing it, drew me in with quirky camera work in the opening scenes combined with Josh Hartnett's sincere-seeming performance, all of which I felt showed promise; one third of the way through, I was still eager about the way this movie might pan out...half way through, I was finding the crude humour a tad annoying; two thirds of the way through, I was loving the 'pseudo sex scene' but wondering why no-one had pointed out to the lead character that the REASON he'd finally met 'the girls of his dreams' (and able to bring her to orgasm with an orchid!!) was most likely BECAUSE he hadn't had sex with her, thus they'd both had TIME to get to know each other and let interest in the other person - as well as sexual tension - build; and four fifths of the way through, I, too, was horrified by the male- rape scene, and the way his ex-girlfriend got away with it (AND 'won' all that money which had been placed on the bet, essentially, unethically!)...I couldn't believe he didn't at very least have some sort of genuine showdown with her for this, even if he didn't have her arrested for the act itself; and what was with the girl he now loved not understanding what had happened to him?! OK so I enjoyed the final scene, but as pay-off within the context of what had so recently happened, it wasn't sufficient. We 'needed' to see the rapist-bitch-ex- girlfriend get some sort of come-uppance (note to the writer; it would have been so easy, too! How about some sort of scene involving a commentary on WHY her fiancé broke it off, and how she had been sexually used in much the same way as she'd used the lead character before she'd dumped him? - and how it was her own incredibly insensitivity to sex per se which had led her to mindlessly rape him for money without giving it a second thought! - some kind of character arch of self-realisation and insight would have been good for this woman, and helped heal the horrible rift she put in the budding romance between the lead characters, too). And so on, and so forth; my 'bottom line' on this is what a missed opportunity it was to point out how it is almost impossible to 'grow' a serious romantic relationship with someone when one's modus operandum is casual sex with strangers - and how part of the maturation process of young males and females alike is the dawning of awareness that once one has had a taste of something meaningful, abstaining from sex has meaning, too, instead of being some sort of test-of-character ritual, like soldiers enduring test-marches in hostile territory, etc. Instead, the argument for self-imposed celibacy was never completely made, with the one person (the priest) who seemed to have genuinely made that choice transpiring to be inauthentic in the end. Too bad. I really liked a lot of the acting, some of the jokes, and the quirky look and feel of the film, and of course that great 'orchids' sex-scene...! But overall, it misfired (pun intended!!!) ;) "},{"Title":"Raunchy and entertaining.","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Not as bad as many people say 40 Days and 40 Nights is a raunchy sexy comedy that should be watched with low expectations in order for the viewer to have a good time.I truly didn't expect this movie to be that sexual oriented on the jokes and humor but to my surprise, I found it to be quite interesting.There's some creativity behind the plot and the situations (for example, the jobs of the main characters, the whole abstinence desperation, the controversial male raping), and that's what refreshes this movie and makes it stand alone from others from the competition. I mean, it mixes humor from the style of American Pie and romantic comedies such as 10 Things I hate About You but still defines it's own path.Josh Hartnett proved to be a skilled comedian on these kind of movies. Shannyn Sossamon looks pretty hot and delivers a sexy fun performance; she is the perfect girl. Vinessa Shaw is a fox and also delivers a sexy performance (TOTALLY arousing was her sex scene in the ending). Paulo Constanzo does okay.The direction is pretty fresh and delivers expectations.Overall a funny movie that should be watched with low expectations and when you don't have anything better to do.Recommended for those who aren't easily offended. "},{"Title":"Refreshing","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think its a beautiful movie. I loved all the background scores especially Chemistry. Well if are in for a romantic mood with a touch of comedy, this is the movie. A nicely woven story, although may appear far from what happens in reality(u don't really discuss your sex life in public. Do you ?) The story gets funnier by each moment.Our hero has just taken a vow & then he meets his dream girl.The movie succeeds in capturing the range of emotions that both the boy and the girl go through.It leaves you in a feel good mood after the end of the movie & that's what counts ! So, just grab a rental & enjoy. I bet you will see it more than once. My rating 10/10. "},{"Title":"Funny comedy","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The plot is quite absurd A guy, who can have the girl that he wants, because is young and good-looking, has converted his life in one thing sex, sex and sex. But he is not happy, so he decides to make a penitence. 40 days without sex (anything!) in order to find his sense of life. Unfortunately, he knows a girl, and, as he is not interested in sex now, he fells in love, which cause lots of hilarious situations. It seems the typical young American crazy film, and well, it is. But possibly is the best typical young American crazy film I've seen in a long time. It doesn't result too much stupid, all the sketches are totally funny, the movie results very, very amusing. In addition, the chemistry between the main actors s very good. It all mixed result into a film, which has not a great quality, but results very funny and it will make you to laugh a lot! If you don't want a very high-quality film, and you just want to enjoy yourself during 90 minutes, this is a good film to do it. "},{"Title":"Surviving 40 Days and Night without Sex (spoilers)","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Surviving 40 Days and Nights without SexIn the film 40 Days and 40 Nights, no sex is Kryptonite to Josh Hartnett's character, Matt because he cannot go through a day without thinking of sex and it ruins his social life by not being able to talk to girls without having sex on his mind. He strongly wants to follow through with his promise to himself by staying pure for the entire 40 days and nights.This film is perfectly made for Josh Hartnett for being such a teenage heartthrob. It's a wonderful comedy full of hilarity and sexy jokes. There are all kinds of things to laugh at such as the bagel guy to the crazy roommate. Many of the characters in the movie are funny and don't make Matt have such an easy time with the whole 40 days and 40 nights. It's not something that he is capable of doing and they all have faith that he will fail.Matt being a raging sexaholic is a very strong character who attempts to not have sex for lent. Meaning for an entire 40 days and 40 nights he has to sacrifice what he enjoys most. Each day Matt tries to do something constructive that helps him no think about sex, such as model car building and doing laundry. In the work place, Matt's co-workers start a bet to see which day he will break. It later turned into an online betting all over the internet. Prior to all of this he's been on a sex binge because of his girlfriend left him to dry. It's been the only thing that he knows and helps cope with the pain he's suffering. Matt starts to go through sex withdraw and everything he sees turns into some sexy act in his mind.He then meets a girl while doing this laundry one day. Easily there's an attraction but knowing that he cannot have contact with any female physically, he keeps to himself and doesn't say a word to her. As time goes on Matt starts to talk to her and makes a date with her. The date goes wonderful but instilled in his mind is that he can't have any sexual acts with this woman. She finds this weird and at her work place she came upon the website with the online bets. This made things very difficult for him and her. She starts to lose interest in him when he tells her the truth about what he can't do. This is the first time he's felt this way for a woman other than his ex-girlfriend. He truly falls for her and this time he didn't have to have sex. In his mind he wants to get her back so bad but he has that promise to himself that he feels is more important. Now the movie becomes the typical love story where boy meets girl, boy loses girl, then boy will get her back.In anybody's point of view 40 Days and nights is torture to a character like Matt. Since he's such a lady's man and is extremely sex dependent. Many people know that 40 days isn't that much but to him it feels like an eternity. "}{"Title":"Good Silly Young Male Comedy","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is a travel into the young male's perspective of sex, which is, comically so, defined as having as many relations with as many beautiful women as possible. Basically anything to do with beautiful women and sex. That said, what this film also portrays is how one guy takes a vow to keep from anything sexual for forty days - his sacrifice for Lint. Director Michael Lehmannn shows us the life of Matt Sullivan (Josh Harnett) when the girl he is in love with leaves him. The film gets a bit funny afterward. Matt is shown as some supersex stud who meets new women all the time and has sex with them (yeah right). He then develops some sort of sexually-triggered paranoia that he confesses to his brother - a priest. He decides to give up sex for forty days as his way of not letting sex affect him (although he is not portrayed as an addict or anything). As luck would have it, he meets a girl, Erica Sutton (played by the beautiful Shannyn Sossamon from A Knight's Tale). He begins to have feelings for her while his coworkers are now staging a betting system on how long Matt will last the forty days. His own roommate is even against his success, thinking it is a foolish whim.The film has some funny parts with the betting and gets you to sympathize with Matt and his success. Some of the more interesting points are in his not being able to be intimate with Erica and the temptations of his female coworkers.While Forty Days and Forty Nights is definitely an outrageous comedy, it also something of a male version of a chick flick, where young guys wish they were Matt. Fellas, remember it's just a movie! Yeah, I know, one can dream. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Spoiler It's Not Rocket Science","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Too many people are looking at this movie from far too much of an intellectual standpoint. I don't feel that the movie is trying to hide some hidden meaning or make some point. It's about a guy who gets out of a relationship with a girl he loves (although it was more like lust) and decides to take a break from sex to clear his head. As irony would have it, he runs into an awesome girl that he lusts after, but can't have due to his vow. In upholding this vow he gets to know the girl and actually starts to form some real feeling for her from somewhere other than his crotch.In my opinion the meddlesome roommate and co-workers were thrown in to add some hilarity to an over-dramatic plot. The main character was a bit immature in his ideas about love and lust, but the actors and actresses played their parts wonderfully. I think the main point of focus on this one is the relationship between Erica and Matt and that you tend to find what you're looking for when you're not looking for it. Don't overthink this one just sit back and enjoy the ride. I know I did.  "},{"Title":"It's Not Rocket Science","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Too many people are looking at this movie from far too much of an intellectual standpoint. I don't feel that the movie is trying to hide some hidden meaning or make some point. It's about a guy who gets out of a relationship with a girl he loves (although it was more like lust) and decides to take a break from sex to clear his head. As irony would have it, he runs into an awesome girl that he lusts after, but can't have due to his vow. In upholding this vow he gets to know the girl and actually starts to form some real feeling for her from somewhere other than his crotch.In my opinion the meddlesome roommate and co-workers were thrown in to add some hilarity to an over-dramatic plot. The main character was a bit immature in his ideas about love and lust, but the actors and actresses played their parts wonderfully. I think the main point of focus on this one is the relationship between Erica and Matt and that you tend to find what you're looking for when you're not looking for it. Don't overthink this one just sit back and enjoy the ride. I know I did.  "},{"Title":"Fine chemistry between the leads but only average film","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD This was very nearly an excellent film, but somehow failed to make enough of the plotline.  Excellent chemistry between Shannyn Sossamon and Josh Hartnett rescued the film.  It has some very funny moments and with a little more effort could have been better.  Shannyn Sossamon dissapears from the film in the middle, just as you were beginning to enjoy the interplay between her and Josh, but reappears at the end.  I thought it a shame that she disappeared.  Difficult to say what could have been changed, it just didnt quite hit the right notes?Still worth seeing though.  I'd give it 6/10 "},{"Title":"change the actors","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've spent way too long reading everyone else's reviews.I recall having watched this about a year ago and not being too impressed with it. The one thing that most people seem to be complaining about is Josh Hartnett's apparent lack of comedic talent (although i didn't find this personally). It just struck me that Ashton Kutcher could have also played this role perfectly. I think he's got that whole, desparate look, totally nailed. As for suspending disbelief when watching films, i think the floating above the boobs scene was just so bizarre, that i still don't know whether it was funny or just plain sad. The second time i saw this movie (sigh) was at a birthday. EVERYONE kind of had this dead-bat look on their faces....so hmmmm... I personally like Josh Hartnett so i'm gonna hope for third time lucky and watch it again. Oh oh...i hear someone say. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Unimaginative waste of time","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was not written well at all. There are abundant ways the writer wrote things that are stupid, at least in my opinion.Yes, the women are pretty. However anyone that says this deserves a rating anywhere close to an X is either quite innocent about such things or is being intentionally misleading. Yes nearly the entire movie is about sex, but the nudity lasts a total of about ten seconds for the entire movie (unless I saw an edited version, which I doubt). "},{"Title":"Funny, but unspectacular.","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a funny, but unspectacular sex comedy. The Pace was off, the lighting was off, but if you're looking for a decent laugh, you could a lot worse. Nice to see scores of nudity, too, plus that stunning, (albeit short), girl/girl kiss scene. Unspectacular as the movie is, it still blows away recent sex comedies, like Saving Silverman, Say It Isn't So, Tomcats, National Lampoon's Van Wilder, etc. Overall, 40 Days and 40 Nights is a decent sex comedy. **1/2 (out of four) "},{"Title":"Unstimulating","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  And not very clever either, yet 40 Days managed to be better than I expected. I guess that is because I didn't expect anything to begin with.              I don't see any SPOILERS, but you never know.Boy dates girl, girl breaks up with him, boy is sad so he sleeps it off with half of the population, then realizes that this is no way to live his life. He can't do this anymore...literally can't. Whenever he is with a girl, a big hole starts to form in the ceiling, as if it is going to swallow him up, or the world is going to come crashing down, or perhaps this hole symbolizes the profound void in his life. He decides to give abstinence a shot. This all takes place, conveniently, right before Lent, so guess what this year's sacrifice is going to be? No sex. Of any kind. Then he meets another girl at the laundromat (oh man, nothing like the old laundromat to bring two losers together). He suddenly has a lot of clothes to dry. He and this girl (forgot her name, that's how much I liked her)start taking bus rides together. Sounds platonic enough...I suppose. Yet there are guys out there who have heard about the kid's vow (is his name Matt? Let's just call him that, anyway) and they are betting he won't last it out. News of these bus rides only encourage them. Since Matt can't have sex, this is the perfect opportunity for him to get to know a girl, and appreciate her for herself. Nevermind the fact that the girl doesn't exactly feel the same way at first. How ironic! Very tacky, and full of cliches. Yet there are some funny moments. But if you are going to rent it, expect complete garbage. That way you will be pleasantly surprised. You still might not be. Perhaps you should just catch it on television. Better to be safe... 4/10 "},{"Title":"Will anyone get what they deserve?","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really worry about Josh Hartnett.  Becoming a dreamy idol of lust for young women across the world in such a short time must be tough.  I'm guessing it was PEARL HARBOR that sealed the deal.  Affleck is beginning to show his age, and with young chiseled Hartnett standing beside him, the girls in the audience found a terrific relief pitcher.  Going from one Bruckheimer film to the next (BLACK HAWK DOWN) made me wonder if young Josh was already solidifying himself as an action star.  Guess I assumed too much.  In 40 DAY AND 40 NIGHTS, Hartnett plays the humble Matt Sullivan. A devoted boyfriend to a woman he's romantically dedicated his mind to.  The film opens with a montage of home movie footage showing Matt and Nicole (played by Vinessa Shaw) in what appears to be some happy and loving moments.  These precious memories were filmed by Matt's roommate Ryan, played by ROAD TRIP's Paulo Costanzo.  But we quickly learn that Matt and Nicole are no more, and our hero is doing his best to move forward sexually, only without the best results.  As Matt continues to accompany Ryan on chick hunts night after night, he comes to the realization that Nicole has ruined him for other women.  Sex doesn't work anymore, and he has constant nightmares to remind him of what's happened.  Things get worse when he finds out Nicole is now engaged to someone else.  After consulting with his priestly brother John, played by Adam Trese, Matt has an epiphany.  He decides to give up sex and any type of sexual conduct for 40 days and 40 nights.  His brother warns him of the difficulty and actually tries to dissuade Matt from the attempt.  Despite the odds, our hero begins his valiant mission, and at first things look rather good.  His friends at work soon catch wind of what's going on, and even start a betting pool on when Matt will falter.  His boss, played by a semi-manic Griffin Dunne, finds the act to be somewhat inspiring.  Unfortunately for Matt, it isn't long before EVERYONE finds out what's going on, thanks to his untrustworthy friends. To make things more difficult, a casual night at the local Laundromat leads to a romantic meeting with a beautiful girl named Erica, played by Shannyn (A KNIGHT'S TALE) Sossomon.  Matt falls madly in love with her, making his mission next to impossible.  She also falls madly in love with him, and can't understand why he refuses to get close.  Erica's roommate Samantha is concerned that she'll wind up hurt in similar fashion to her previous relationships.  Problems build as all of Matt's co-workers begin taking highly unfair steps to try and thwart his objective, and his former love tries to rekindle their now dead relationship.  Can Matt make it?  Will he find true love in the process?  Will someone give me a break?40 DAYS AND 40 NIGHTS isn't a bad movie, but we've seen this kind of thing before.  Hartnett plays the earnest hero in appropriate form, but exhibits one major flaw.  His emotions seem unaffected for the most part.  Oh sure, he frets and sweats and even gives us that shocked look time after time when he's tested.  But in the face of his supposed friends and their cruel attempts to screw him up, he does nothing.  No shouting, no angry looks, not even a single punch.  There lies the biggest problem.  The film has no payoff for the characters that deserve it.  We wait for it, but it never comes.  The humor, which is mature humor, works fairly well.  There are several moments of uproarious laughter, but most come with a that's so wrong mentality.  Most audiences might expect this to be a chick flick, and to some extent it is.  Surprisingly enough, there are PLENTY of hot women, bare boobs, and guy humor to make the unwilling boyfriends a bit more comfortable in the theater.  One scene involving a copier is worth the ticket alone.  The movie is funny, though not consistently enough. Hartnett proves his comedic ability, which is good, as he'll most likely get a wider range of scripts offered to him after this.  Director Michael Lehmann, who's helmed everything from HEATHERS to HUDSON HAWK, shows a subtle comedic touch here.  There are no over the top camera shots, and no need for there to be. Sossamon has a sexy yet demure look to her, which must be her obvious appeal.  She's that cool chick we all know, and wouldn't mind getting to know better.  Paulo Costanzo seemed underplayed for some reason, never really doing the funny things we'd expect him to in this role.  Vinessa Shaw is sexy and manipulative as Nicole, providing the antagonist character nicely, but like many of the characters in this flick does not get what she deserves.  Perhaps this was the film's way of saying real life isn't always fair, but you should still do the right thing.  Good guys must endure, in order for the rewards to feel deserved.  Either that or I'm just too darn old to get it.On a scale of ONE to TEN, 10 being the best, I give 40 DAYS AND 40 NIGHTS a 7. "},{"Title":"Terribly unfunny","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film 40 days and 40 nights is about our main character Matt, played by Josh Hartnett, abstaining from sex for 40 days as part of Lent in order to grow from his deprivation.  In that sense, this movie fails miserably.  Matt didn't seem to get anything out of it, except get more and more desperate toward the end.  Basically, the only thing that goes on in this film is Matt trying not to think about sex, and obstacles are constantly thrown in front of him.  For the first few times, it might be mildly amusing, but to go on and on with the same jokes makes the movie tedious and pointless.  Even going to his parent's house where they suddenly starts talking about sex positions seem to turn him on, besides the whole situation being incredible since nobody ever discussed about these things in the open before this topic of Karma Sutra positions came up, it should also not turn him on hearing his parent talk of such things. But this film doesn't know any better.The behavior of Matt is also at odds, since I would presume the toughest period would be the beginning, then once he get used to it, he would cruise home like a monk.  But the way this film treats sex is as if it is food, where the longer you are deprived of it, the worse condition you become.  Toward the end, he is in full mad dash toward the finish line, as if one is running toward home with a full bladder, where the closer you get toward home, the more you feel like going.The relationship with the girl he meets at the laundry is real odd, with him returning there the next week for some unknown reason.  I would think he would forgo following up on that brief encounter for the sake of his goal. Then they have this non-sexual relationship, but it seems to indicate without sex, there is no relationship.  Then he goes on titillating her with a flower while both of them are unclothed.  If the goal is celibacy, doing this violates the spirit of it, if not technically.  Even Matt's relationship with his last girlfriend seems at to be odd, with the blissful memories he had versus the vampy personality she portrays upon her apperance.I am not sure why the countdown goes to midnight, would it not be easier if he starts right at the point where he decides to abstain from sex?  Or from the time he last had sex?  I am not even sure what the ending indicates, since he goes on this massive 60 hour sex-fest, throwing what little concept this movie had out the window.  "}{"Title":"Funny, but nothing new","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When Nicole breaks up with Matt, Matt can't get her out of his mind.  He spends every minute thinking about her and finally decides that he will give up sex and anything sexual for lent in hopes that after 40 days and 40 nights he will be able to live without her.  He gets no support and all his friends make bets on when he finally is going to give up, and things don't get any easier when Erica comes into Matt's life.  40 Days and 40 Nights is a fun little comedy.  It is funny, and entertaining, but it just isn't anything new.  The acting is okay, but nothing special.  It just doesn't stand out as anything that is a must see.  It is a completely average movie.  ** out 0f **** "},{"Title":"Did they count Sundays?","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I quite enjoyed the frankness of this film in dealing with sex and masturbation, not normally subjects for Hollywood, and I must confess that overall I found it enjoyable to watch although not actually funny.I guess my attention may have wandered from time while I wondered how I myself could enter this fantasy land where an average looking, humourless guy and his frankly geeky flatmate go out to a nice designer bar most nights and without fail each time meet two good-looking girls who they bring home for a bout of perfect sex, only to be kicked out of bed so that our heros can have a good nights sleep, wake up fresh in the morning, and go off to an open-plan office where the bagels are free, the co-workers wear fishnets and thigh-length boots, and where setting up a porn website during office time is not only permitted, it is positively encouraged.  Maybe I should move to San Francisco?OK, I was willing to suspend disbelief and so I enjoyed the above at face value, although I doubt I would watch the film a second time.Unfortunately I had three serious problems with the film, as follows(1) Shannon Sossamyn can't dance.  She may be a part-time DJ in real life but she still has the most annoying dance moves of any girl that I have seen.(2) It had obvious and irritating product placement throughout.(3) Any Christian who can count knows that there are 46 days and 46 nights between Ash Wednesday and Easter Sunday.  For Catholics, at least, the explanation for this is that you are not required to observe Lent on Sundays - Sunday is a feast day and therefore on that day you are allowed to, indeed supposed to enjoy chocolate, alcohol, meat or whatever else you might have given up for Lent.  Only if you do not count Sundays are there 40 days and 40 nights.So which was it, filmmakers?  Did Josh Hartnett actually stay 'celibate' for 46 days and 46 nights, whatever the title of the film may suggest?  Or was he allowed to spank the monkey on Sundays (obviously itself not a very Catholic thing to do)? "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hey!40 days and 40 nights isn't bad!It's silly but not bad!I've laughed a lot watching the situations that Matt(Hartnet) face during his 40 days of abstinence of sex.Josh Hartnet is just the most funny character and he basic carry the movie.It's better than those typical comedies of teenagers like She's all that,Whatever it takes....bleeeerrrrr It's perfect for a Sunday afternoon!6 out of 10  "},{"Title":" Matt, you can't do this","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Josh Hartnett is ominous as Matt in this comical romance flick. The remaining cast is irritable. The costumes are flaky. One of the fair farces in the genre, 40 Days And 40 Nights gives devoid romances. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A great film! A great actor!","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is wonderful!  Originally, Adam Sandler was considered for the lead role, but the director's were concerned about his inability to keep the character from roaming too far into the realm of cartoony behavior. Josh Harnett's drama background allowed him to play the serious love scenes with real feeling, as opposed to making the film feel less serious.Admittedly more of a chick flick, but who wouldn't mind seeing Josh without his shirt on? "},{"Title":"What a load of Rubbish!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw 40 days and 40 nights on video last week and It's got to be the worst film I have seen this year. The plot, the acting, and the comedy moments were dull, sexiest and not funny at all. I felt dirty afterwards just watching it. The actors were all miscast, Josh Hartnett can't act to save his life, and Paulo Costanzo gets on my nerves like anything. Overall I would'net recommend this garbage to anybody. stay clear of this one people!Mark 2/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious with some great performances","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie really made me laugh. The idea was good to make a movie like this. It genuinely makes you laugh. Josh HArtnett is really a good actor and shannon sossamon is a real talented actress. I would recommend this movie to everyone. My rating - 9/10 "},{"Title":"another waste of monet mazurs talent.","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i have been waiting forever to see this film. and i was very disappointed. mostly as a huge fan of one of the films stars monet mazur i was disappointed not only in the plot but that yet again she was not even barely in the movie. as usual she is shown and hyped up in the media that this is her breakthrought role and shes in only three scenes as usual. the film it self lacked a point with the most unbelievable plot. and some bad acting. all in all i say this is one of the worst movies and a waste of ms. mazur's talent.she doesn't even get a film credit. "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I rented this movie I expected a childish excuse for massive quantity of T&A with some humorous points within.  What I found was a little different.  Sure it isn't the most perfect movie ever put together but the story does take an interesting angle with the concept.  The fact that his coworkers and friends make a mokery of the situation is downright hilarious. It is indicative of the massive lashing out he should expect from every man in the world.  Why the hell would he do this to himself.  The panic attack angle was a bit much but outside of the stupidity of the vow you actually have embedded a decent enough love story with a women who is good looking without being so over the top bimbo that you can understand the drive to keep her in his life.All around not a bad movie, some slow spots but others are down right hilarious.  Go in expecting nothing, and get a decent way to relax and be entertained for 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"So Not Good It Hurts","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  40 Days & 40 Nights claims to be a comedy.  I watched it expecting it to be stupid, funny, and have a few sweet moments.  Well, it was stupid, and it did have a few sweet moments, but where did they put the funny?  Honestly, I think I laughed twice.The problems start with the general premise of the film.  For most people, sex is not an addiction.  It's not like heroin.  You don't suffer withdrawal symptoms if you don't have it for a while.  Sure, it looks like Josh Hartnet's character likes sex alot, but he isn't an addict.  So right from the start, the premise of the film is flawed, and the film begins to suffer.All of the charachters are ciphers, shadows of real people.  There's the bitchy ex-girlfriend he can't get over, the roommate who is just as sex-crazed and not much of a friend, and the general assortment of dotcom employees who don't wear ties and goof off, so you know they're wacky.  The only real charachter is Erica, played by Shannon Sossamon, and she plays it well.  Her emotions and reactions are real, and she is the only person in the film I thought could actually exist in real life.There are attempts at broad physical comedy which fall flat, and an endless supply of sex jokes which in the end just seem sad.  Hartnet can't act his way out of a paper bag, as he's proved time and time again, and the films ending is a disgrace.  Please, no one see this movie.  It was painful.  I only finished watching it because I am was too lazy to turn it off.  Be warned. "}{"Title":"Likable romantic comedy that deserves some credit.","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Likable romantic comedy about an twenty-something internet designer (Josh Hartnett), who's going through a nasty break-up with his last girlfriend (Vanessa Shaw).  He decides to spend Lent without screwing around or anything that sounds out of the ordinary even he's started up another relationship with a girl (Shannyn Sossaman) whom he sees at a laundromat about once a week.The idea that director Michael Lehmann and his writer, Rob Perez to try sell here is that love shouldn't be treated lightly.  It's nice, but not as covered as in Y Tu Mama Tambien, which is a better movie altogether. However, some of the movie's jokes here do work quite effectively even though you're giggling or snickering at it.   "},{"Title":"Sex, self, sex . . . and little to laugh about.","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented this title, understanding I was not venturing into an award winning rental experience.  I was amazed, however, to discover that the title could actually have garnered an award in the arena of droll and pointless creativity.A vow of celibacy in the wake of wanton sexcapades in the sea of turmoil that results from being dumped by an obsessive love, coupled with a true love discovered in the middle of the storm of abasing self-denial.  Herein lies a plot that could have boasted tremendous humor born of self-realization.Therein dies a plot that was so hole-riddled by rauchily mistimed physical humor, poor scripting, and actors that held no sway beyond pretty faces and decent bodies.What was the point of this movie?  Sex and self.  What a drag.Don't waste your time or your money. You could have more fun grabbing a latte with the rental fee and copping a squat on a bench as you watch real people roll by.  Oy! "},{"Title":"mmhmm...","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i think this movie was great. i only had one prob. with the movie tho. but i understand why they did it... i wanna say it but i dont wanna ruin the movie for other ppl. but other than that it was great. josh hartnett does an awesome job as matt. and erica was played good, but not great, by shannon sossoman (sp?). i think she should stick to other things like a knights tale but she did good. "},{"Title":"If you must...","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, I am really glad I didn't see this movie out in theaters when it was.  I just saw it today and I thought it was OK--Josh Hartnett gives a normal performance as a man who gives up sex for 40 days and 40 nights because he can't quite get an ex out of his head. After this decision it just sort of gets predictable  he meets a beautiful woman, their relationship gets more intimate, etc. etc.The ending-- now I wouldn't want to do that, now would I?  I'm not going to, but lets just say that the movie was PREDICTABLEOh, unless you REALLY, REALLY like this movie, just rent it for $4 and get it done and over with.I give it a C+, it may been predictable, but it still had some funny moments.40 days... is rated R for strong sexual content (There are 3 scenes) Nudity (Guys in boxers or shirtless, and one or two womens' breasts showing) Language and no violence "},{"Title":"The ending really spoiled it","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was good until the ending. The movie had a good story line but the jokes were on the low side and as i said, the ending was aporling. I advise that you just rent this movie and not for you to go and buy it. Dont be excited about the ending though!. "},{"Title":"Nothing to remember","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There's one thing I can say about this movie I've seen it. But what can I say about a movie, when choice of actors (and actresses) is based on their look. Sure you can enjoy looking and almost naked young bodies of Josh Hartnett and Shannyn Sossamon. But that's all what there is to enjoy. Jokes are scarcely funny and original so after the end of the movie I felt really bored. "},{"Title":"wanna be discovered by girls....","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hi everybody! I saw the film last Thursday and I was very surprised that so many girls where in the cinema, I think it's a very funny and cool film with nice chicks and amusement for everyone! The girls like to movie too I think, because they laughed all the time and I know they wanna be in the same situation once in their life time....they want to discover a man and not the other..they want to play with us and I like that!JUST GO AND WATCH THIS FILM!  "},{"Title":"Shannyn shines...","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a good movie &#150; but not a great one since it suffers from several weaknesses.The most positive aspects of this movie are its two leading stars Josh Hartnett manages to deliver a surprisingly flawless comic performance, which I didn't expect from him since he's not exactly known to be a comedy actor. Well, he has proven me to be wrong! Shannyn Sossamon was equally great as his beautiful (though slightly offbeat) love interest. She definitely steals every scene she's in!Among the things I disliked about this movie was the totally unsympathetic character of Hartnett's roommate (`portrayed' by the unsympathetic Paolo Costanzo who also managed to be the only negative thing I can recall about `Road Trip'). Maybe I just don't like Costanzo&#133;sorry!`40 Days&#133;' main problem though is that the romance between Hartnett and Sossamon loses credibility since it never really gets time to develop. They meet twice in this laundromat and suddenly they're in love. In my opinion the writers should have given their two leading characters more time (and scenes together) to connect. What's so bad about a teen-comedy that runs 105 instead of 90 minutes???By the way I will never be able to really understand the ridiculous American rating system. This movie is (at least by European standards) absolutely harmless. It has been rated 12 in Germany which is the right thing to do. I watched it with the son of a colleague (he's 12) and I'm not afraid of him suffering any damages caused by this movie!Whatever I definitely enjoyed 40 Days and 40 Nights and went to the movies twice to see it!  "},{"Title":"A Stinker","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw this movie at the local cheap theater where movies go right before they hit the video stores.  I recommended it, and after it was over I was sorry I paid 2.50 for it, not to mention my husband had to sit through it as well.  I wouldn't say it was the worst movie I've seen, but it doesn't live up to my expectations.  I was expecting a little more from a movie with Josh Hartnett in it.  I guess I shouldn't have expected so much from a movie w/ this storyline.  Basically he vows not to have sex for 40 days and the whole movie is his friends making bets that he won't last that long... that's pathetic. "},{"Title":"funny..........","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  did someone actually put the words 40 days and 40 nights and FUNNY in the same sentence?  ugh, i thought this movie was HORRIBLE.i had an extremely open mind when i went into the theatre.  it was the only movie playing that i actually wanted to see.  i like josh hartnet, the story sounded good, and the previews made the movie look good.  too bad the previews were dead wrong.  the only thing i enjoyed was paulo costanzo and the end credits as i walked OUT of the theatre, disapointed!  why waste good talent on such crap?   "}{"Title":"Wacky sex comedy meets Chick flick","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"    This is a cross between wacky sex comedy with some chick flick romance thrown in.  While I did find myself laughing a few times, there really wasn't enough to classify this as hysterical.  I admit watching him try to hang in there for 40 days isn't too bad.  You almost start rooting for him as the movie progresses.  Matt meets this girl at a laundromat and they soon fall in love.  She can't deal with his vow and they spend the rest of the movie in and out of romance.  But of course, they end up together in the end.  On a side note, the ending to the premise of the film is very disappointing.  You know, had they just picked one genre to go with for this film, either the sex comedy or the chick flick it would've been preferable.  The movie can't make up its mind (and the overabundance of erection jokes didn't help either), therefore it suffers.  I give this a five.   "},{"Title":"Fun!!!!!!!","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's was not a cinematic masterpiece but it was a fun movie. This is not for everyone, of course, but I really enjoyed it. Josh Hartnett was the perfect guy for this film, he's got such an expressive face that you knew EXACTLY what he was feeling and you could sympathize or laugh which ever the case may be. The images he sees as the movie progresses are hilarious. "},{"Title":"This Is Hardcore.","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"       No, this film isn't as bad as the summary quote, I used it because it's a title of a song by the Brit pop group Pulp.  And while watching 40 DAYS 40 NIGHTS, the movie reminded me of the lyrics of the song.  Which is the first film that I can think of that shows the world for the first time ever, of the frustration a young male has to go through in a world filled with sex.  Think I'm exaggerating?  Look at the ads at the bus stops, billboards, magazines (even Time and Newsweek), commercials, etc.  and the message of sex is everywhere!        Josh Hartnett plays Matt Sullivan a man who had a good healthy relationship with a pretty girl named Nicole (Vinessa Shaw).  It turns out that Nicole dumps Matt, and Matt is in a six month guilt slump wondering on what went wrong.  Even Matt's friend and roommate Ryan (Paulo Costanzo) tries to brighten up Matt's mood by bringing in a one night stand vixen, Maureen (Michelle Harrison) so Matt could sleep better.  Then Matt hears a strong rumor from the bagel delivery guy at work that Nicole went to Paris, came back two weeks later, engaged.  Matt is now in a panic, so to prove to his love for Nicole Matt decides to obey the Catholic holiday of Lindt.  Lindt for those who don't know, is a Catholic holiday period where someone gives up a habit or trait from Ash Wednesday to Palm Sunday in honor of Christ.  Instead of giving up meat or sweets like other people, Matt gives up anything sexual.  That means giving up anything that would arouse Matt in a sexual manner.  Which is bad luck for Matt because while occupying his mind at the local Laundromat he meets the very beautiful and friendly Erica (Shannyn Sossamon).  Now that word gets out of Matt's vow of no sex or arousal, there is a large pool of money gathering for which day will Matt break the vow.  Since any guy knows that no normal man can last that long without his hormones being satisfied.      This is a very dark comedy, and it's no surprise that it is directed by Michael Lehmann, the same man who did the wonderful dark comedy HEATHERS.  This is a comedy with humor that some people would consider sick and crude.  But if people can accept the fact that this is what life is like, where men get the urge, then they can enjoy the movie, like I did.      True there is A LOT of sexual or sexual related jokes in the film, but the film manages to pull it off with wit hitting above the belt (unlike the recently comic dud SLACKERS which kept hitting below the belt).  The film manages to pull off jokes that are realistic with the stress and paranoia that a young male goes through whenever he sees an attractive woman.  One comic gem is when Matt is looking at a electrical outlet. It also does a accurate job of showing how unsupportive other friends and co-workers can be by only guessing and gambling on not wither Matt will keep his vow or not, but only guessing on what day will he fail.        Josh Hartnett is becoming the next Brad Pitt for the cinema, a actor who is a female desire doing great movies.  Yeah, Hartnett is now famous for the so-so PEARL HARBOR, but remember Hartnett was also in the excellent films like VIRGIN SUICIDES and BLACK HAWK DOWN. Which shows along with 40 DAYS 40 NIGHTS that he's not afraid to make himself look like a fool or to be taken seriously.  If Hartnett keep up this talent of picking good scripts while making the ladies go ga-ga, then he is sure to have a good and strong film career.      Hartnett also gets great support from Shannyn Sossamon and Paulo Costanzo.  Sossamon does a respectable job playing the good girl who enjoys being with Matt because of his personality, and not just his looks.  And Paulo Costanzo does a great job playing the comic  Ryan, who delivers witty one liners that seem like they came from a Kevin Smith film.  Plus for the guys, there is a variety of girls to google over, while watching the movie that I'm sure they will be asking each other, which other films was that girl in?  Thank god for Internet Movie Database, or guys would go nuts trying to answer the question.     What I think makes 40 DAYS 40 NIGHTS stand out is the point of view, since it is very accurate.  Being a Catholic, I been through what poor Matt went through in this film, and I can say that it's pretty much like that.  The insomnia, the delusion of women making passes at you, noticing they are wearing shorter skirts, listening to other guys talk about sex all the time, etc.  The classic SEINFIELD episode titled, the contest only scratched the surface on the topic of raging hormones.  Where 40 DAYS & 40 NIGHTS goes quite into detail about it.      Like I said, I don't think a lot of people would like this film.  I'm sure that more guys will enjoy this film than the girls will.  But hey, it's about time that the guys get a movie that they can relate to.  So in years to come, while the ladies can talk and giggle about girl related films like CLUELESS and LEGALLY BLONDE. I'm sure guys will be relating and talking about 40 DAYS & 40 NIGHTS.  This film isn't for all tastes, but for those who like wit mixed in with their humor, then this is your cup of tea.  ****1/2 (out of five)      "},{"Title":"A Triumphant Comedy","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One man is about to do the unthinkable.  No sex.  Whatsoever.  For 40 Days and 40 Nights.  Now I know everyone out there, especially at this school, is thinking the same thing.  He must be crazy, or pretty stupid, for that matter.  First, just take a look at the whole 40 days and 40 nights thing.  This time period is taken from the Catholic faith, and is the time period that Catholics are supposed to give up their one vice.  They give this up for Lent in honor of Jesus wandering the desert.  However, Catholics do not believe in premarital sex.  Basically, the entire plot of the movie is hypocritical.  I am sad to say that the film does not even acknowledge this fact either.  If you can go into this film with the ability to put this minor flaw aside like I did, then you will no doubt have a good time. 	40 Days stars Josh Hartnett (of The Faculty fame) as, Matt Sullivan, our boy who does the unthinkable.  The unthinkable in this situation means total abstinence, no sex, no touching, no kissing and no self-gratification.  Michael Lehmann directs the film.  He is the current director of the television series, The West Wing, and has also directed the comedies Airheads and My Giant.  First time writer Rob Perez writes the story and screenplay.  Even though this is a freshman effort for Perez, he actually writes a hip, clever, and smart script. 	Our story opens with Matt and his girlfriend Nicole (Vinessa Shaw) being completely happy together.  We are shown, through various attempts, a sense of what their happiness is and how we should feel about it.  After the opening credits finish we are told that Matt and Nicole are no longer together.  They have been broken up for six months.  In a way to cope with Matt's loss, he brings home a different girl every night and sleeps with her.  After the deeds are performed, Matt still feels empty inside, and endures a re-occurring illusion.  He always sees the ceiling start crack in the fashion of a black hole.  Matt does not know what this means or how to deal with his life, except to ask for assistance from his brother who just happens to be training in a seminary to become a priest.  Matt finally comes up with the bright idea that he will give up sex for lent.  No one thinks that he will be able to put this plan into action because of his track record with women.  Matt has no idea what he is getting himself into.  He soon finds his dream girl (Shannon Marie Kahoolani Sossamon of A Knight's Tale), while doing laundry on a Saturday night, and cannot do anything about it.  What is a celibate guy to do?  As we are shown, a high five seems to be the most appropriate thing in this situation.  Our adventure into celibacy continues with magnificent jokes in abundance.   	Even though almost all of the jokes in this movie have been used before, Perez puts such a great spin on them, that they appear unique, original, and outstandingly funny.  Our heartthrob Josh Hartnett proves that he is not only a man of action films, but he can also do comedies with great success.  His journey into celibacy appears to be easy, but he shows us how jaded one can become.  Overall Hartnett proves that he is no longer a cardboard cutout as he may have appeared in parts of The Faculty. He definitely put his game face on for this movie and shows us how he certainly has a talent to act.  The supporting role from the very beautiful Shannon Sossamon was certainly a surprise treat in my eyes, because of her limited acting background. 	40 Days is a movie that will entertain most.  The movie attempts to constantly throw jokes at the audience left and right to try and keep them entertained.  Their attempt certainly worked.  A great deal of comedies now a days fall flat on their faces from the repetitive nature of their jokes.  Hartnett certainly fuels and carries this film on his shoulders, and I hope to see many other great works from this up and coming talented actor in the near future.Grade B+  "},{"Title":"Strong Showing All-Around","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Alright, this movie won't take home and Oscar, Golden Globe (or even an MTV award)...but Josh Hartnett and crew pull together for a funny, strong movie. Going in, I expected the usual laugh-riot oriented, somewhat trashy, sexually driven movie.I got what I expected, and even a little bit more. Hartnett is one of the stronger actors in his genre, and performs well in a mostly comediac role. This movie is just 1 hour and 45 minutes to enjoy with friends. No movies are truly wastes of time, and even if they were, this is much better than to even be deserving of such a crude statement.Of course there's the typical random nudity and constant teases...but the jokes are mostly funny, puns mostly witty, actors mostly strong, and almost everyone of the girl's is scorching. Look out for the copy-machine girl and of course the lead actress. She is an insanely beautiful girl. And props for showing your bitties, today actresses see that as a bad thing. When it's part of life. Sex is, that is.I enjoyed the movies. It wasn't as good as an American Pie 2 or Road Trip...but it's far, far less crude. I think a group of guys, groupd of girls, and especially an openly romantic teen group would enjoy it.So if you are aged 16 (ok, nudity equals 18) to 23. I recommend this movie as a nice way to spend 1 hour and 45 minutes of your life.Rating 7 1/2 out of 10 (Strong for this genre of a movie) "},{"Title":"The Fall of Rome.","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  40 Days and 40 Nights (no stars) Directed by Michael Lehmann Written by Rob Perez Starring Josh Hartnett and a bunch of people I don't care about Rated R (Nudity and the Fall of Rome)Never in my life have I been so offended by a movie.  I've seen Pink Flamingos, which features acrobatic genitals, a morbidly obese woman in a playpen eating eggs and a drag queen eating dog poop.  That didn't offend me.  I laughed the whole way through Natural Born Killers.  However, this seemingly innocent 'romantic comedy' made me want to destroy everything around me.I wish I could say that I'm not mincing my words.  Obviously, I have to. Which is probably for the best.If you don't know the premise of the movie already, good for you.  Matt (Hartnett) is a slut.  He has been single for six months and is having sex with any female in sight.  But, oh, the poor guy is still hung up on his ex-girlfriend.  So, even though he's a huge whore, he gets freaked out after the act, and sometimes during the act since he's still thinking about his one true love.  He confides his problems to his brother, a priest-in-training.  Matt then decides to do the 'unthinkable' - no sex (or sex-related activities) for 40 days!  But, then he meets a girl, starts liking her a whole lot, and, for some reason, feels compelled to lie about the fact that he's taken a vow of celibacy for Lent.  People are betting that he can't make it.  Stuff happens, and I hate this movie.From a technical standpoint, yes, this movie was well made.  Clever edits and sight gags.  Better than average.  The acting was well done.  The writing wasn't terrible.  It was a bit dated (Matt is a 'dot commer'), but, it was fairly snappy.However, this film made me sick.It made me sick on many different levels.  It sickens me when people are reduced to nothing more than their most base urges.  Yes, people get horny, but that's not the primary motivation in people's lives.  I refuse to believe that it is.  There are schools of philosophy that teach that we are little more than pleasure-seeking machines.  I disagree with those schools greatly.While I am not the most religious person in the world, I don't stand for religions being debased in this way.  Any religion.  It's one thing to make a religious satire like The Life of Brian or a song like `Every Sperm is Sacred'.  It's quite another to pass off a vow of celibacy for Lent as being equal to the temptations Christ faced while fasting in the desert for 40 days and 40 nights.  It's one thing make the suicide scene in M*A*S*H look like `The Last Supper'.  It's just plain wrong to make Josh Hartnett into a Christ-symbol by being handcuffed to a bed so he won't break his vow.Sex, or the lack thereof, can be a very, very funny thing.  `Seinfeld' did it very well on at least two occasions.  The `Master of My Domain' episode is a perfect example of this.  So is any episode of `Benny Hill' or `Laugh-In'.  Things like that deconstruct sex, show just how silly and stupid and just plain fun it is.  40 Days and 40 Nights elevated it to such a level, made it the primary focus of every character in the movie that there are no redeemable people in the movie.  Everyone in the film is a slut, or wishes that they were.  I wish I were kidding.The movie hates women.  Which sickens me even more.  I've been watching the Fight Club DVD for about a week.  Fight Club features such lines as `If I had a tumor, I'd name it Marla,' and `We're a generation of men raised by our mothers.  Maybe another woman isn't what we need in our life.'  One scene in 40 Days features 2 women trying to regain the 'power' of withholding sex back from Matt by making out in front of him to make him break his vow.  Another has a woman spreading her legs to show off the tattoo on her inner thigh, making the most unsubtle innuendoes ever, and then making a photocopy of her butt, just in case he changes his mind. The female lead, Erica, is frustrated because she has such a great relationship with Matt, but she isn't having sex with him.  Fine, we get the point. It's not just men that think about sex.  But, why portray women as being men without the same anatomy?  As I stated earlier, everyone in the movie is a slut.  A trollop.  A whore.What sickens me the most is that this movie will make lots and lots of money.  It comes out less than a week after Fox aired a show about a bunch of fat people gorging themselves on mayonnaise, hard-boiled eggs and butter to prove who was the most deserving of being executed by John Doe from Se7en.  Now, we are treated to a movie that reduces the audience to nothing more than genitals with bodies attached, and tries to make us laugh about it.  It takes one of the most sacred times of the Christian year and turns it into a joke.  It takes the concept of strengthening yourself through self-denial and turns it into a parlor game.  Perhaps I'm being puritanical. Perhaps I should lighten up.  Perhaps I'm just waiting for the return of vomitoriums so we can continue gorging ourselves until our society collapses under the weight of its own excesses.Did I mention that this movie offended me?  "},{"Title":"No fooling around... can the average man abstain from his habits?","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Tick tock! Will Josh Hartnett's Matt be able to complete his titular vow? What if he doesn't trust his sexual promiscuity? Will he be capable of abstaining from sex for Lent, if his will can't help keep out the girl, he thinks he loves, and an ex, scheming to get him back to bed. Yep, this dimple-chinned heartthrob facing another battle to fight, only this time it's a battle lasting 40 days! And it's a test of his heart, not brawn! I enjoy watching Harnett's Matt character. the sort of everyday youth, still looking terrific despite his casual mannerism and down-to-earth way of dressing. Looking pensive at times, funny at others!The overall cast is pleasantly credible, although Paulo Costanzo's Ryan can be irritating at times. As a group, these characters bring to mind any bunch of devil-may-care smart-alecks out to challenge and bat each other over situations of the heart. Yep, their acts and conniving attitudes can easily kick off hilarious laughter from the viewers. Shannyn Sossamon, even with her unruly hairdo, looks as sweet as her princess role in The Knight's Tale. The screen chemistry of her Erica character and Harnett's Matt is wonderfully powerful. It's definitely a joy watching the pair.  I'm not exactly sure I enjoy watching Vanessa Shaw's Nicole! Her performance is awesome at the beginning as Harnett's high-spirited girlfriend, but returns, after a span of absence, as a doomed reject. Don't think the development of her revengeful traits exhibits well on screen. Her character then seems rather artificial!A sweet romantic celibacy comedy, no doubt, that fringes on some `American Pie' vulgar calamities. and typically flushing out the stereotypical concepts of male libido and orgasmic jokes to pump up laughter! Thank goodness, the humor comes without the disgustingly excessive shock tactics so common in such film comedies! The soundtrack's uneven blend of soft rock helps create Matt and Erica's unsettling moods. I actually find this movie entertaining, and feel it would definitely make a hit with the youthful crowd of moviegoers, or the young-at-heart looking for a fun movie to watch after dinner.  "},{"Title":"Actually not bad at all...","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so I had to go see this movie based on plot alone, and I wasn't surprised to find that I liked it a lot.The acting was well done and the characters were pretty well written... as always shows by their realistic feel.Dialog was quick witted and fast paced, but you come to expect that from the MTV generation.All in all, actually worth my hard earned cash. "},{"Title":"May be a bit raw for some taste but I thought this one was really funny!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I see movies that are dubbed hilarious and laugh riots and all sorts of other hypes ...that when I go to them and they stink up the theater I really feel ripped off.This one lives up to the hype and then some. The only thing that anyone could find wrong with this one is ....It is very liberal in those fundamentalist no-no areas called S-E-X-. In fact it is about sex, or the lack there of for one guy and it deals with the power games associated with the oldest war of mankind's history...the war between the sexes.We saw it tonight at a sneak and the place was full of MTV type kids. They loved it and I have to tell you I did too.I rated it a seven which is exponentially higher than I rate most comedy fare these days.One could nit-pick and say the editing was lame...it was. One could make a case for other craft related criticisms...but you know it is funny and that is more than can be said for most comedy efforts these days.So go see it and have a good laugh. If you tend to be a little stiff about sexual subjects stay home...Sorry about the pun...it was one before I realized it...I laughed a lot and I think you might too. "},{"Title":"No sex for 40 days- Enough to kill a man...","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Matt Sullivan(Josh Hartnett) gives up sex for Lent(nothing sexual) after a horrific breakup between him and his girlfriend. Although during this time, he falls in love and must battle against his hormones as his friends make massive betting pools on how long he can go.The idea is absolutely original. Atleat, I have never seen this idea brought into a romantic comedy. The movie itself was just an average romance story but the idea behind the romance just made the movie much better. Overall, the acting was average, the writing was average, and the story was interesting. The movie is definitely entertaining and you will enjoy it.I recommend this movie. "}{"Title":"Statement to all who judge movies","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" So, I've been reading some reviews of this movie just to see what all you people think. Apparently it's not worth my time. I should only be spending my time watching very well conceived and powerful movies, right? Interesting take. I feel that when a comedy takes the premise of the protagonist abstaining for sex for lent, the writers and directors are not striving to create a Oscar-winning picture. If any more reviews say if you're looking for an intelligent comedy, you've come to the wrong place I'll explode. You cannot knock a movie for not being something it never tried to be. You must also realize that this is a bogus fun comedy movie. Its a feelgood movie. Who's the better protagonist? The ugly guy who never gets any, or the stud who fights 'em off? These are all rhetorical questions, so please don't attempt to reply to my remarks. Just take them to heart. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Okay for late night channel surfers","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was surfing the channels the other night and ran across this movie just starting on one of the innumerable movie channels on my satellite lineup and decided to watch it.  40 days and 40 nights is funny, there are several places in the movie where it is hard not to laugh, not only with the goofy situations Josh Hartnett finds himself in, however, the running joke about he not being able to control his urges and impulses especially in light of the frequent attempts by his friends and colleagues to trip him up gets a little old and annoying.  His reason for his chastity is something that leaves the audience wondering why doing it is going to help his romantic life, and it is frustrating learning how sex driven Hartnett's characters is along with many of the supporting cast members in the film.  All in all, it was worth watching when there as nothing more enlightenening on the tube at midnight but reruns and infomercials, however, it would not have been a movie I would have been proud to have spent money to see, either by rental of by going to the theater to see it. "},{"Title":"Oooooh, what an end...","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I cannot seem stop wondering how it is possible to take a great potential story and turn it into a movie that has such a terrible end. Can anyone? I just had a plain ol' good time watching this movie - and then the end let me down, and I left the movie, not satisfied. "},{"Title":"It's not all about sex.....well maybe it is","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After reading some of the reviews for this film i thought about giving it a miss but my male instincts told me it was a must see and i am a self confessed American Pie fan so it couldn't be that bad.......and it wasn't at all, in fact far from it, along with American Pie 2 this is probably the best romantic comedy I've seen all year.Now admittedly i have to confess this movie isn't as funny as some other teen comedies out but i found the storyline in this to be something a bit different and it worked, but to be honest i don't think it would have worked if it hadn't been for some commendable acting and of course Shannyn Sossamon looking as amazing as she does. Personally i think this film has a deeper meaning than just a vow of celibacy, it's more the effect sex has on a relationship and if your a 16/17 year old watching this film you should be able to see that better than a 40 year old movie critic who's still enjoying playing The Pianist over in his head again.So my final word on this movie, your either gonna like it or not, i think it really depends on how much you can relate to the movie and how attractive you find Shannyn Sossamon to be or Josh Hartnett of course, if your a young person go see it, trust me you won't be disappointed. 4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have heard so much critism about this film but i actually liked it i thought it was quite good and it was nice to see Josh Hartnett play a kind of comedy role instead of his usual serious roles. I liked the storyline and most of the time was laughing so much i must admit though that sometimes it was a little pathetic but it is definitly a feel good happy film. "},{"Title":"93 minutes too long...","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Josh Hartnett should be ashamed of himself. If he weren't so damn cute this stupid story about a young man who gives up sex for lent would stop his career dead in its tracks. 40 Days and 40 Nights is puerile, insulting and at 96 minutes about 93 minutes too long &#150; I liked the music in the first three minutes of the opening credit sequence.  "},{"Title":"Amazingly smart, witty and funny","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is not your usual dull, hackneyed teen sex comedy.  I actually found it to be amazingly sharp and witty.  It's directed by Michael Lehmann, who also made the great teen satire Heathers.  The script is also well-written.  Josh Hartnett is one of the best new young actors, and gives another fine performance.  He doesn't play the scenes for laughs, but as a seriously conflicted man.  So the comedy works out better with him playing it straight.  Paolo Costanzo of Road Trip says a few hilarious lines and steals a few scenes as his free-spirited roommate.  Naturally, you can't make a teen comedy without at least one veteran adult actor in the cast, and this time it's Griffin Dunne, who's an absolute hoot as Hartnett's boss.  It's funny to watch him be just as obsessed with sex as his employees half his age.The movie isn't perfect.  Along with the witty sex gags there are some gratuitously predictable moments, like the dinner scene with Hartnett's parents, in which his father starts going on a tangent about the sexual positions he's still able to use with his broken hip.  And the third act contains no surprises, as it resorts to the usual feel-good cliches. As for the eye candy factor, both men and women should be satisfied.  Men should enjoy the gratuitous shots of naked women, as well as the hot-looking Shannon Sossymon, Vinessa Shaw and Maggie Gyllenhaal.  And needless to say, women should enjoy the sight of Josh Hartnett.My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"If only the whole movie was as good...","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  as the scene with Matt and his priest brother with their parents. I mean, it was so funny because who has parents that start talking about positions while eating a family dinner.  Some of the scenes such as the girls trying to win the bet by getting Matt to give in were funny.  But, it didn't make much sense why Matt would be wanting to date Erica during his vow.  I liked it for the most part except the ending because it just made Erica look stupid for taking him back since he did hook up with the ex again.FINAL VERDICT  I liked it. Sure, it isn't as funny as American Pie, but I still don't know why so many people gave it bad reviews.  I think it was funny enough to recommend seeing it. "},{"Title":"Immature twenty-something comedy","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It was bound to happen.  Josh Hartnett became a very hot property after `Pearl Harbor' so it was inevitable that he would get the lead in a romantic comedy.  Unfortunately, it isn't a very good one.  The screenplay is a typically sex-obsessed teen flick with twenty-something characters.  Matt (Hartnett) is trying to get over his ex-girlfriend Nicole (Vinessa Shaw) by having sex with every woman he meets.  When it dawns on him that this is superficial and fraught with anxiety, he decides to give up sex for lent.  Of course, as soon as he makes The Vow, he meets his dream girl Erica (Shannyn Sossamon) and he spends much of the ensuing time trying to come up with reasons not to have sex with her.  Meanwhile, his co-workers and half the internet have a pool on what day he will give in.  The comedy is mostly puerile, though there are a few funny lines sprinkled here and there.Director Michael Lehmann has plenty of experience with vacuous comedy, having directed `Heathers' and `Airheads'.  He has done better on TV with `The Larry Sanders Show' and `The West Wing'.   Lehmann keeps it light, but the material is just too jejune for him to do much.  To his credit, the cast seemed to be having fun with it.Josh Hartnett is an excellent dramatic actor.  However, as a buffoon he is just not that funny.  His true skills emerge in the romantic scenes with Shannyn Sossamon where his sincerity shines through.  Hartnett and Sossamon have terrific chemistry.  There is a very sensitive and endearing quality about their scenes together.  Sossamon is a bright young talent who might do well with the right scripts.  She is lovely and engaging with good acting ability.    Paul Costanzo provides much of the best comedy as Matt's sexually fixated roommate.This isn't a terrible comedy, but it is rather immature considering the age of the characters and the target audience.  I rated it a 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you would think","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I downloaded this one because I didn't wanna waste a lot of money for a movie that didn't sound good at all, but in the end, it wasn't really that bad. I had a couple of good laughs, and that's mainly what this movie is about. No looking for hidden lessons to learn here, just a fun movie... well, at times anyhow. Especially the bagelguy was cool. I'll give it a not so bad 5/10. "}{"Title":"A movie about abstinece has a whole lot of sex in it.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After I saw this movie, I wondered how it got an R rating and not an NC-17.  It must have just slipped by because it has more sex and sexual references in it that many soft porn movies I have seen.  I was thinking this movie would be similar to American Pie but the amount of sex scenes, nudity (women only of course), sexual talk, sexual jokes, sexual innuendo, and sexual symbolism (take another look at that poster) put it more along the lines of a movie like Basic Instinct.     The whole movie is about this guy who wants to abstain from having sex for lent.  This really wouldnt be too difficult for a lot of guys (especially for guys in the priesthood, guys in prison, or guys in the military) so they had to make it very difficult for the actor in this movie.  First off, this is one of the most sexually active guys in the city.  He has sex with three different women during the first 15 minutes of the movie.  This guy is supposedly so attractive that a girl who he meets when she accidentally hits him with a door ends up having sex with him right after she meets him.              After he decides to give up sex for lent (for reasons that are somewhat confusing....something about getting over an old girlfriend and about seeing black holes above him when he has sex....although all we see are ceilings cracking) the lead actor has to deal with his sexually active roommate, his parents who have a lengthy discussion about what sexual positions the father can do after he has hip surgery, his brother who is celibate (because hes becoming a priest) who tries to talk him out of abstinence (that seems like it would be funny, but its not), three or four attractive coworkers who will do anything for him not to acquire 'the power', a sexually frustrated boss, some sexually inactive coworkers who are betting on when he will crack, some porn websites (he works for a web site developer), his ex-girlfriend who comes back into his life (of course), beautiful women around him wherever he goes (some of whom he pictures nude), a ton of sex talk, sexual references, and sex jokes, and, finally, the girl of his dreams who he inadvertently meets on the first day of his abstinence.     Wow!  Thats a whole lot of stuff to get through.  It sure wears him down; at least thats what they want you to think.  They slowly make him look worse as the days go on, he gets tense, he starts having weird dreams, etc, etc.  None of the stuff that he goes through is very funny though.      Does he make it through?  Well, by the end of the movie, after sitting through everything mentioned above and more, I didnt care.  If you care maybe you should check out the movie.  "},{"Title":"Studly Panic","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Josh Hartnett is the person who makes the movie believable and worth seeing. The story verges on being irreverent, but it is his charm that makes takes the edge off any potential nastiness.The story of a young man who decides to give up all sex for Lent is punctuated (get the pun?) by lots of symbolism since the story takes place in San Francisco -- city of towers and bridges with towers. And there are plenty of other Freudian symbols if you look for them.The point of the story is that getting to know someone is much more important than having mindless sex. Yet the story trips itself up on its moral at the end. Nevertheless, it's a cute date movie and has some real fun in it. "},{"Title":"If you must see, please wait for video","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There once was a time when comedies were well-written, well-acted, and well-thought out.  Comedies used to be funny because of the situations in them and not because of a gimmick.  40/40 is one long, unfunny gimmick. Even the movie seems aware that the gimmick (no sex for 40 days and nights) runs thin after 20 minutes and introduces the conventional love story. Unfortunately, the movie becomes trite and predictable right to the last frame.  This is made more painful by the fact that the jokes fall flat and the characters are all one-dimensional. Now, let me say that I think Josh Hartnett is a fairly decent actor.  I admit that while Pearl Harbor was a painful experience, he turned in a pretty good performance.  However, in this film we see how little he can stretch.  He just isn't a comedic leading man.  He is also hindered by the fact that him and Shannyn Sossaman have zero chemistry.  But I can't really fault the actors when the script is so vacant. This film tries to be a sex comedy for the post-college crowd but lacks the intelligence and maturity to handle the subject matter in such a way. There a few funny moments in the film, but overall, it's yet another forgettable product of the Hollywood system. *1/2 out of ****   "},{"Title":"A review for GUYS","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Painful to sit through..... the things we do for our girlfriends!! You know, you pick a movie, then she gets to pick a movie... you get the idea. This film was truly a mission for me to sit through... I can only thank the mind altering effects of certain substances that enabled me to resist the urge to run for the razors!! This film contained everything that made me literally want to puke in the cinema. I received my fair share of elbows in the ribs when I groaned or huffed at the cheesy scenes. I have tried desperately to forget the experience, but the film is about a guy who gives up sex and fiddling with himself for a bet with his mates, when (shock) he meets the girl of his dreams and has to find other ways to appreciate her. This leads to a scene with a feather which unfortunately is in no way kinky. In fact that scene is the one that nearly made me retch. This film is in no doubt some female plot to get us to change, but DON'T BUY IT!!! Ya gotta TREAT 'EM MEAN to KEEP 'EM KEEN!!!! "},{"Title":"40 Days and 40 Nights","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I had heard about this film and knew the concept of no sex for the title amount, but I didn't know much else, so I had to try it, from director Michael Lehmann (Heathers, Hudson Hawk). Basically Matt Sullivan (30 Days of Night's Josh Hartnett) broke up with Nicole (Vinessa Shaw) months ago, who is now engaged to someone else, he meanwhile has no problem finding new lovers, but he can't help wanting her back. He also finds himself getting a little depressed with all the sex he is having, so he has the inspiration from a priest to give up sex for 40 days and 40 nights, just like Lent, no sexual acts at all, even kissing or masturbation, to get his perspective he needs. His roommate Ryan (Road Trip's Paulo Costanzo) is not convinced he can do it, and after telling many people he and a couple of others have a huge bet saying he will give up. Unfortunately, for Matt, he may be finding it more difficult when quite a while in, he has the met the girl of his dreams, Erica Sutton (A Knight's Tale's Shannyn Sossamon). Oh, don't worry, she finds out what he's doing, and they do get together, but with no bodily contact whatsoever, a very sexy scene involving a flower says it all. Oh, Matt is also having proposals by many women, getting some pornography, and towards the end of the lent, seeing things, e.g. women naked in the street, an ocean of breasts, so he is obviously desperate for it to end soon. So it comes to day 40, but he didn't finish properly, unfortunately mean Nicole spoilt it just minutes before midnight, by jerking him off, and it was meant to be Erica after the clock strike. Don't worry, he adds 10 days extra to make it up, and he and Erica finally have their first kiss, and having numerous (at least 40) sessions, a very happy ending indeed. Also starring Maggie Gyllenhaal as Sam, Glenn Fitzgerald as Chris, Griffin Dunne as Jerry and Adam Trese as John Sullivan. Hartnett proves himself a good comic lead, Sossamon is still beautiful, and you will enjoy her in the flower scene, trust me, a very likable romantic comedy. Good! "},{"Title":"funny and romantic but weak plot","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hey, his vow is pretty tough all right.  He can't kiss, or even watch bad movies.  He wasn't a playboy or something before this too.  But there's a PARADOx. If he is like this, that then how the HELL was he using birth control all this damn time. Call be Scrooge or whever. The plot doesn't connect, it's against ecclesiastical canon to bust your you  know what every two days. Get a real plot dude, the rape part is weak too.  Overall it's funny though.If you wanna get ball stroke put cold water on it when want to calm Down. "},{"Title":"Is There A Difference Between a Romantic Comedy And A Sex Comedy ?","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Matt Sullivan has just suffered a break up from the love of his life so has decided to give up sex for lent . Unfortunately he then meets the real love of his life called Erica . When I say  Unfortunately  I meant unfortunately for Matt and his vow of celibacy . Unfortunately for me I decided to watch this film because there was nothing else on .I was under the impression that 40 DAYS AND 40 NIGHTS was going to be a romantic comedy , something fairly gentle and forgettable but not totally unwatchable but alas it's a sex comedy and there is a difference . With this type of movie it tries to be gross and juvenile and for the first half it succeeds ( Not my type of movie ) but strangely for the second half it does try to be somewhat romantic which means for the lads who might have enjoyed the crass humour earlier in the movie have to watch a relationship movie and I guess all the girlies who watched because the of touted pretty boy lead must have been put off with the gross humour at the start so as is often the case when you make a movie trying to appeal to both males and females you end up - Like a poor bisexual lover - satisfying neither camp Josh Hartnett ? He starred in PEARL HARBOR which through no fault of his own was one of the biggest piles of horse manure that Hollywood produced in years , yeah he was fairly impressive in BLACK HAWK DOWN but the real star of BHD was Ridley Scott's technical achievements . With a movie like 40 DAYS AND 40 NIGHTS the whole film rests on the leads shoulders and it's fairly clear that Hartnett can't carry a movie on his performance alone . I shouldn't condemn him too much since the script is very poor and does raise some idiotic questions like if Matt is a devout catholic then we does he have sex outside of marriage and use a condom ? "}]