[{"Title":"A Truly Nice Film","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I liked this better than the original, and that''s a high compliment because I thought highly of the original film Stuart Little. As good as that was, I just thought this was even better.All the voice-overs are excellent with Nathan Lane having the best lines as Snowball, the cat. He was simply hilarious, line after line.The film once again features great colors, a virtual rainbow of them, especially with some of the inventive rooms in the Little house. The parents, once again, are super nice. It's a treat to watch Geena Davis and Hugh Laurie play an old- fashioned Leave It To Beaver-type couple. The film has no objectionable material and leaves you with a nice feeling. There are animated films or animated/real life combinations like this, that advertise family-friendly viewing but don't really deliver, instead sneaking in sexual innuendos and the like.Not here. This one is pure, morals-wise, except for one scene near the end when the mom (Geena Davis) tells Stuart and their son she's still proud of them even though they just got caught in a big lie. (Inferring that the lie was okay since everything turned out okay.) Other than that, nothing but good messages were heard and seen all around and this is a funny movie, to boot. Highly recommended for the family, and that's no cliché. "},{"Title":"This Little goes a long way.","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  While less isn't always more, the makers of Stuart Little 2 resisted the temptation to pad it out from its shorthand running time, meaning it goes by quickly and painlessly. Not that the actual plot of this followup to the original charmer is hard to take in itself (Stuart is starting to feel a bit left out, and when Margalo the wren literally drops into his life he gets a new dimension).In terms of technical levels it's only slightly easier to fault (Margalo looks a bit too cartoonish to be real, unlike Stuart Little himself and the falcon that's the movie's villain - but then again, Melanie Griffith the voice of Margalo always seems like a cartoon anyway), but the story by screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin and the movie's producer Douglas Wick is what makes this ultimately inferior to its predecessor; what helped drive Stuart Little was our hero's wish to be accepted by his human brother and by the cat - sneer all you want, but the family message was hard to ignore. For the sequel it's more standard - the friend who's acting out of ulterior motives at first but then turns out to be a real friend, etc. Stuart isn't so much the protagonist this time, and it hurts a little.So the freshness is reduced, but this still isn't stale - the charm and humour of the first movie remains, Michael J. Fox and Nathan Lane are as adept as ever as Stuart and Snowbell (This better be important. Margalo is missing. I'd better be more specific - I meant important to ME.), and the human Littles remain just right - loving but not without making you want to slit your own throats. HBO Family has recently aired an animated version with all the principals except Hugh Laurie absent - it'll have to go a long way to live up to the two movies. (In-joke for score fans Alan Silvestri slips in a quote from his Back to the Future theme in the climax.)But I can see why this didn't do as well at the box-office as it should have - having a soccer match plus including Gilbert O'Sullivan AND Celine Dion on the soundtrack was asking for trouble... "},{"Title":"cute kid's movie","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Some cartoons, even those aimed primarily at children, are still well worth seeing for adults.  I was hoping Stuart Little 2 would be one of those, but it falls just a little short of the mark.  It's cute, and it's funny enough to have kept me from turning it off, but it's a kid's movie all the way. If you're a parent who wants to watch something with your kid this is a good choice because it's fairly entertaining, but I wouldn't recommend it to adults without kids.  But it's darn cute. "},{"Title":"The best family film of the summer","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first STUART LITTLE wasn't a great movie and STUART LITTLE 2 isn't a great movie, but both are fun and entertaining movies that the whole family can enjoy. The characters are charming, the special effects are amazing, there are plenty of laughs, and the voice work is terrific. I think the PG rating on the film isn't really deserved since there wasn't anything that I think would offend anybody. It should have been rated G. Even though the year is only half over, I think at the end of the year, this will still be the best family film of 2002! "},{"Title":"I do not exaggerate in giving this my highest rating. I enjoyed it *that* much.","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As of present (May 2010), I have never read the E.B. White classic Stuart Little, however I have had the delightful privilege to see the two films based loosely upon its content. The first Stuart Little, released in 1999, was a very sweet and charming little family picture that I enjoyed immensely as a kid and still do to this day. I remember I also enjoyed the sequel, Stuart Little 2 when I was younger, but now having re-watched the film for the first time in a long time, I discover that a rare instance has occurred I enjoy the movie more now as an adult than I did when I was eleven. Perhaps it's because I now understand the adult humor and Snowbell's hilarious lines better, but overall, Stuart Little 2 is a very good picture.In the sequel, Stuart Little (voiced by Michael J. Fox) now has a quintessential relationship to his family. His human brother George has accepted him as a sibling and the cat Snowbell is now his pal instead of his enemy. However, poor Stuart feels a little left-out in the world because of his small size and his lack of real friends. That is until a little bird named Margolo (voiced by Melanie Griffith) literally drops into his life (from the sky), pursued by a vicious falcon. When they are clear of the evil bird's talons, Stuart and Margolo develop a very strong, very heart-warming friendship while teaching to the younger audience members very important lessons about life and friendship.Those messages were communicated to be very well when I was younger and they still are today. I'm not exactly sure why I like Stuart Little 2 more as an adult than I did as a kid, but maybe it's because I can understand the full extent of it. The filmmakers made the right choice to film it as a family picture, incorporating elements that children can understand but leaving in great moments of comedy to keep the adults interested. More so than in the first one, the picture is kept upbeat by the hilarious presence of Snowbell the cat, voiced by Nathan Lane, who has one terrific one-liner after another. A favorite moment of mine is when Snowbell is serving as a tool so Stuart can speak into a payphone. Their time runs out and he asks Snowbell for more change. The cat looks at the mouse standing on his head and cackles out What do I look like? A fanny pack? Stuart Little 2 is a real treat to look at with some gorgeous cinematography and a deliberately over-painted New York City with everybody in the movie wearing extravagant outfits. The special effects used for Stuart, Margolo, Snowbell, the falcon, and the other animated characters in the film is very good, best exemplified by the eyes of Stuart and Margolo. Their eyes are solid black with no visible pupils, but the animators carefully manipulate the characters' expressions to mirror every emotion that could be asked for from a real-life performer.Perhaps the best element of Stuart Little 2 is the change of point-of-view from the first one. In the original film, most of the plot involved the Littles' difficulties in adopting a talking mouse as a child and a great portion of the film was people looking down upon little Stuart. Here, the story takes place on Stuart's level, from his point-of-view, and we come to associate and identify more with him this time around. I also really like Hugh Laurie, Geena Davis, and Jonathan Lipnicki as Stuart's adoptive family, who do a really good job at maintaining the illusion that they are communicating to a two-inch mouse adopted as their son and treating him with loving affection.But the best scenes are the scenes of Margolo and Stuart, particularly a little scene where they are on a date at a makeshift drive-in movie theater sitting in Stuart's model car in front of a television, watching Alfred Hitchcock's marvelous 1958 film Vertigo which we later learn is a poignant choice as there are some parallels in the relationship between Stuart and his avian companion.Stuart Little 2 is a wonderful family film. Some may question my judgment and wonder if I exaggerate just a little in shelling out my highest rating for this film. You may ask maybe it's good, but is it *that* good? Well, maybe not on some critical scales. But the way I review movies, dissecting and analyzing but more or less reporting how I personally responded, than no, not in the least. I enjoyed Stuart Little 2 so much, every little second of it was a gem for me, and I more than enthusiastically award it ten stars. "},{"Title":"A parable on drifting siblings","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Stuart Little 2 is one of those children's films that appeals to both the children and those who must pay the ticket price. I thought those kinds of films only existed with the name Pixar stamped on them or the occasional Dreamworks. The film largely compiles odds and ends from the first film to try and lift the sequel off its feet but its sweet, good-natured charisma and kinetic warmth make the seventy-eight minute endeavor worth it.The Little family are still happy, vibrant, and warm in their quest to give their new mouse sibling, Stuart (voiced by Michael J. Fox) a home he can be proud of. Yet the mother (Geena Davis) still worries that Stuart's small stature gives him the unfair advantage in sports and life itself, while the father (Hugh Laurie) is more of an optimist and feels that if a Little applies himself, he can be quite the character.The main themes Stuart Little 2 tries to explore, however, are not about doing anything you want to do and proving that being small isn't a limitation but a welcomed challenge, like the first film, but more about siblings that drift away from each other. Stuart's older brother, George (Jonathan Lipnicki) is beginning to spend more time with his friends rather than Stuart, and while this is a natural part of life, it is nonetheless heartbreaking to the mouse himself, who begins to view himself as just a pest (no pun intended).Stuart begins to befriend a small yellow canary named Margalo (Melanie Griffith), who he rescued after seeing her being pursued by an ominous falcon in the sky. It turns out, Margalo is in cahoots with the falcon to steal valuables from homes all across New York City, but little Margalo keeps that secret away from Stuart when she discovers how kind and gentle he really is.Stuart Little 2 isn't particularly compelling or a very life-affirming film, but it's a genial, warm picture, with great computer effects, wonderful yet subtle themes on sibling relationships, and a plethora of jokes that kids and adults will find pleasing and joyful.Starring Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie, and Jonathan Lipnicki. Voiced by Michael J. Fox, Melanie Griffith, and Nathan Lane. Directed by Rob Minkoff. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie with amazing technology...great for the entire family!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  We liked the first one so much that we went to see this one without our grandkids. It was spectacular. The technology is amazing, the story is cute, Nathan Lane is just the funniest and best as is Michael J Fox, Geena Davis and James Woods.  A can't miss great summer movie, even better than the first one. Kudos to the people who put this together! "},{"Title":"good family flick","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  While I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, I hold with the minority opinion that it isn't up to the standards of the original.  The first movie succeeded in being sweet and charming without being the least bit sugary.  Alas, the sequel doesn't entirely avoid this pitfall (that little high, little low business is just a little gagging). Also, the plot is too predictable, although that probably won't matter much to children, who are, after all, the film's target audience.These are really minor quibbles, though.  Stuart 2 is a fine movie, both for kids and adults.  The special effects are well-done, all the actors do a good job in their roles, and the dialogue has some real gems.  Particularly noteworthy is Snowbell, the cat (voiced to hilarious perfection by Nathan Lane).  He gets all the best lines, and steals every scene he's in--he even upstages Stuart himself! Verdict Good movie. Go see. "},{"Title":"A nice sequel","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  'Stuart Little 2' is a nice and sweet sequel with the same charms as the first movie. The mouse Stuart (voice by Michael J. Fox) has an adventure in the big city together with the house cat Snowbell (voice by Nathan Lane) because the bird he loves (voice by Melanie Griffiths) is taken by Falcon (James Woods). Of course the family Little (with Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie and son George played by Jonathan Lipnicki) is looking for Stuart.A movie like this is allowed to be predictable. You know it will end happy and that is the way it should end. A movie like this needs some charming, sweet and funny moments and 'Stuart Little 2' has those moments. Every moment between Margalo the bird and Stuart is sweet and charming and especially the moments with the real characters are sometimes very funny. Another nice thing is the creation of the mouse and bird itself. Since Stuart or Margalo is in almost every scene in the movie there is always something nice to look at. This is a perfect movie for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Inventive nature no longer new and this is only for the kids","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Mother Little (Geena Davis) is overly protective of Stuart (Michael J. Fox) and his little size. Mr. Little (Hugh Laurie) is more confident. He almost gets injured in the soccer game when brother George (Jonathan Lipnicki) scores the winning goal. George has a new friend Will. Stuart tries to fix George's model plane, he gets an unintentional ride and wrecks it. George is not happy with Stuart and they grow apart. Then canary Margalo (Melanie Griffith) falls from the sky into Stuart's car. A falcon (James Woods) is chasing them. Margalo is hurt and she stays with the Littles. It turns out that Margalo and the falcon are in it together to rob the Littles. The falcon pushes Margalo to steal mother Little's ring and she flies away. Stuart and Snowbell (Nathan Lane) set off into the scarier parts of NYC to find her while George covers for them.This doesn't have the fun of discovery of this charming world where a little mouse is treated as any other boy. This starts off with a strained brotherhood between George and Stuart. That could have been a good subject to explore. Instead they introduce a cute canary and sets Stuart off on a different adventure. So instead of a deeper character relationship story, it's another children's adventure story. It's still good for the kids, but not much for everybody else. The short running time also points to the thin material they're working with in this one. "}{"Title":"Fifth Element Meets Accidental Tourist","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I am really enjoying big kids movies. That's because they are so well engineered -- a  little skill in understanding what works adds up to big DVD sales. In this case, we have  something that superficially resembles the first film but is actually a beast of a different  order.In this case, the whole purpose of the film is the creation of the world, slightly adjusted  from ours a half step toward fantasy. This is all built around Geena Davis, in remarkable  red hair and slightly heavy fifties pancake, makeup influenced by Julianne Moore's recent  work. She's a really clever actress who finds and communicates a niche that brings the  architecture of the thing to life. Watch what she does, and how the score extends  everything she says.The story is only an excuse to keep things moving but the Leeloo influence in Margalo is  strong. Watch the two films together for great fun.As with recent fare (Pirates, Nemo, Ring, Potter), we have lots of vertical space.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Too bad","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I know that ''Stuart Little '' is a movie specially Destined for kids, but it is so boring, that I don't know how even kids can handle it, and also how Geena Davis( who is a great actress) had the courage to work in a piece of junk like this. The only funny thing in this movie is Snowbell, the white cat of the Little's family. And that's it. The most annoying thing is the plot How can a family adopt a mouse and think this is the most normal thing in the world, thinking of him as a son and a brother to his kid? And even more absurd is the idea of Stuart Little going to a human School,having classes and playing soccer with humans. I like family movies, but this one is too awful to be true. "},{"Title":"Bigger and Better Than the First.","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Stuart Little 2 (2002) Dir Rob Minkoff / Cast Hugh Laurie, Geena Davis / Voices Michael J. Fox, Melanie Griffith, Nathan Lane Major improvement after the pathetic film that preceded it. This one is broader in its themes and contains a simplistic plot yet detailed structure and exciting climax. Hugh Laurie and Geena Davis return as Mr. and Mrs. Little and they are as plain and cardboard as they were in the first film where they seemingly adopt a mouse that wears clothes and not bat an eye at the absurdity. Here we accept it and Stuart joins George Little, the son of the parents, at school. He scores a new friend in the form of a bird named Margalo. She lands in Stuart's miniature car to escape a falcon but the real story is that she is a thief under threat by this falcon. She is forced to steal Mrs. Little's wedding ring. She disappears and Stuart is determined to locate her and face the falcon. Directed by Rob Minkoff who made the horrible first film as well as the Disney masterpiece The Lion King. Michael J. Fox voices Stuart, the mouse determined not to be outdone by his small stature and face odds larger than life. Melanie Griffith voices the soul searching Margalo who discovers friendship and a life outside crime and oppression. Nathan Lane steals scenes voicing Snellbell the fluffy cat with an appetite for food but shies away from danger. Strong themes for families regarding making a difference regardless of one's size. Score 7 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"for  kids","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" not profound different by first part, it has a special virtue - it is a film for kids. naive, not very complicated, nice and full of basic romanticism and heroism. so, for adult public it could be a disappointment. but to be the kind of movie for a specific viewer is the vocation of this type of films. to use the child sensitivity, to preserve the fairy tale's spirit, to explore the adventure rules, to be charming and sweet and colored. so, for its purpose, the second Stuart Little represents the best result. and that is the secret to see it. to ignore the first expectations. for enjoy. and for remind the genuine seduction of a small story. "},{"Title":"An adorable sequel to the 1999 hit movie of the same name","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've seen this countless times before and to be quite honest I actually enjoyed it. Yes it is kind of silly in a way with a mouse(voiced by Micheal J Fox) being raised by humans(Genna Davis is the mother,Hugh Laurie from House and Blackadder is the father,and Johnathan Lippiki is his brother) but WHO CARES right.In this 2002 sequel we see Stuart meeting a friend who happens to be a bird (voiced by Mrs Antonio Banderas Melanie Griffith)who is working for Falcon(voiced by James Woods,who if whoever thought of Hades from Hercules voices the villain in this too,you know I think Woods here loves being the villain don't you reckon). The story is very heartwarming and for a running time of 80 minutes long this film can keep the kids entertained while the adults can enjoy all the sillness and cuteness of this movie.Overall im giving it a 6 out of 10. But I do like this movie especially that cat who is hilarious. "},{"Title":"Stuart is the most adorable mouse ever!","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I just watched Stuart Little 2 on television and even though I've seen it before, I have to say, it was great. This film, in my opinion, took a steady improvement from the prequel. There's more action, excitement and wonder to it which is fantastic! The characters were all brilliant. Stuart and the bird are so adorable! Snowball the cat, well, from wanting to eat Stuart in the 1st movie, to being best friends in this sequel, I have to say it's all good. Also, I think the chemistry between them is really sweet because they embark on the adventure together, with no one else but them and there's a lot of friendship going on. Also it's great to see that Snowball always has Stuart's back like when the other cat in the restaurant wanted to eat him, he just stuck up for him.Stuart's personality has widened. He's not only the sweet and adorable mouse but in this movie, it shows his heroic instincts. This mainly approaches at the end of the movie, where re-fixes his old aeroplane and flies around New York to stop the Falcon and save Margalo. Which purifies his bravery and cleverness.In terms of animation-wise, it was good. Stuart and the bird looked believably realistic. However, my only negative point is The Falcon, who could have looked more in-this-world, it looked so computer-animated that it somewhat gave away it's evil instincts.Like I said, this sequel took a good improvement from the prequel. In this movie, there's a lot more plot and excitement to it, which scores on the fun factor. Stuart embarks on a mission to save his bird friend, Margalo meeting adventure along the way, I mean that's the sort of genre that keeps me on the edge of my seat.Overall, I would love to watch this movie again. It is simply a wonderful family film. To be honest, I think this film classifies as my Top Ten favourite Family films! Why? Because it's fun, charming and enjoyable. Definitely recommend. "},{"Title":"Charming Littles","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The family in this film is so charming and just adorable. E.B. White is a talented children's book author and this second film sticks to the feel of the first excellently.The far reaching love of this family is still the central theme with more brother issues thrown in and cool toys and gadgets to really engage young viewers.An absolutely sweet movie, like the first, with its sentimental moments, but with plenty of action also.A must see for young families, and I'm sure many not-so-young will love it, too. I did. "},{"Title":"What a load of garbage!","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I seriously doubt that even children would relate to this. A mouse that is sent out to play football with a human schoolboy team has to be the stupidest plot imaginable! I must admit that animated cartoons where animals behave like humans aren't my idea of fun at the best of times but when real people are subjected to this sort of thing I really wonder where their mentality is! Having so said though, it is only fair to add that, when those animals are fantastic (as in Willow for example) thats a totally different matter (and, also in fairness, I DO note that this film is categorized as a fantasy). But when the animals are presented as though they were ordinary people, that has to be over the top in ridiculousness! I can only presume that there are people who enjoy this sort of rubbish but I sure ain't one of them! "},{"Title":"The Clock Train","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Dear Sirs,I have a 3 years old son who's watching all the time Stuart Little 2. He really loves to wealth it. At the beginning of the movie,there's a scene in which George wakes up by a clock in a shape of a train. We live nearly a railway station and he also loves trains. I would like to know if there's a way of buying such a clock in order to offer him.I hope you continues to give people all that Stuart Little that Stuart Little Magic.Best regardsSílvia Martins "},{"Title":"Lovely Family Film","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Its a lovely heart warming film filled with adventure, Happiness, love, and the true meaning of friendship! Micheal J fox does a grand job voicing Stuart little! When a female canary who stuart befriends gets in trouble with a evil falcon who is making the canary do crimes that she does'nt want to do! Stuart and his pal snow bell go to the rescue. There are some sad scenes when things go wrong for Stuart! And the soundtrack for the film is brilliant. The Soundtrack was that good i recently purchased it which i enjoyed hearing. I Loved this film and would recommend it to anyone! Its a film for all the family to enjoy and the children will love it. "}{"Title":"A movie you can watch with your kids","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sure, this is a kid's movie, but it's sufficiently engaging to hold mom and dad's attention, even through repeated viewings. Little touches like having tiny Stuart wear a NY (football) Giants t-shirt and clever, and the highly stylized look of the film is just fun. The costume designer should get an award for making the costumes look sort of contemporary and Miracle on 34th Street at the same time. And while the plot is predictable and telegraphs its punches, it's also gentle and doesn't drag out the scary stuff too long, which makes this a good movie for kids. A lot better than a lot of the kids movies you will run across at Blockbuster. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What can I say? I loved this film! I'm 60 years old and think it may be the best thing I've seen in a long time. The lines are funny, the emotions real & it never drags. A bit far-fetched? Of course! It's a cartoon with a few cartoonish live actors...and I enjoyed it more than Finding Nemo which was also well done. Just sit back & enjoy! "},{"Title":"Definately NOT NEAR as cute (or funny) as the first one","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS**I saw the first Stuart Little movie, and I liked it alot. So when the second came out, I wanted to see it, because I just *knew* it would be just as funny and cute as the first one.LIE!!!!!This is by far one of the stupidest movies I have seen in a long time. And I like kids movies, too. But the plot did not make any senseFirst of all, WHY and WHAT would a falcon want with a stupid diamond ring? Falcons aren't greedy, and they don't need the money. That just doesn't make any sense to me.Second of all, WHY and WHAT would a mouse be doing in a SOCCER FIELD? And NO WAY would a mouse ever survive that. I know it's a kids movie, but even kids movies have to make SOME sense!Third of all, I HATED how everything in the Little family was all goody-goody, nothing can ever go wrong here. That was NAUSEATING!The jokes were okay, too. Except the one where Stuart says I should start wearing a cup. What was the point of that? It wasn't funny, not to mention that it's gross!On the positive side, I liked the idea of Stuart helping a canary. I like how it teaches kids to befriend and help anyone no matter how different they are. I also like the idea of how Stuart, Snowbell and the kid (I forget his name) all work as a team to save Margelo. The cats were funny, too.**END OF POSSIBLE SPOILERS**I kinda like the opening song, Put a Little Love in Your Heart, by Mary Mary. It's a cute song, and it went well with the movie.So overall, I only recommend this movie to parent that have REALLY small children. That way, they'll be too young to realize that absolutely nothing in this movie makes any sense! ;)-Jessie "},{"Title":"Stuart Little 2 is quite simply one of the best movies I have seen in a long time &#150; and I watch a lot of movies.","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The story of how the mouse, Stuart Little, has fitted in with his adopted human family is one that will appeal to children and adults alike. Children will love it because of its fantastical premise, while adults are drawn in by the innocence and charm of  Stuart Little and his adopted family and their pet cat. What's more, there is not one word of bad language uttered in the movie. The storyline is rather simplistic with Stuart Little, voiced by Back to the Future star Michael J. Fox, setting off across New York to rescue a bird friend Margalo (Melanie Griffith) from the clutches of the dreaded Falcon (Steve Zahn). Along for the ride is the Little's pet cat Snowbell (Nathan Lane) who, ironically, steals the show without even trying. It's also heartening that Michael J. Fox is still involved in movies despite being diagnosed with Parkinson's Disease last decade. Director Rob Minkoff faultlessly mixes the actors playing the Little family with the animation bringing a real-life feel to the story, which is fun the whole way. MENSA queen Geena Davis plays Mrs Little while former Blackadder star Hugh Laurie wrangles an American accent as Mr Little. Stuart's older brother, George, is played by Jerry Maguire star Jonathan Lipnicki, whose fickleness gets Stuart into trouble. There are plenty of comic moments in the film, particularly those involving Stuart's radio controlled car, which he drives to school each day. His handling of George's remote controlled bi-plane is also a priceless scene with plenty of action and drama. Stuart Little 2, now showing at The Regent Theatre in Te Awamutu, is a movie that should not be missed and is the ideal school holiday treat for children and parents alike.  "},{"Title":"After Watching the DVD","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really like the movie. The story is nice and compact and I really love the final sequence where Stuart has to match wits with the falcon (flying skills).Recommended for a nice entertaining evening and for entertaining friends.Deserve at least a 7.5 rather than 5.8A pity the movie is so short at only 75 minutes! Does not seem like good use your money to watch in the theatres but worth a rental nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Hilarious sequel.","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers??This movie was just hilarious.  It was hard to watch a clock with this movie.  It's great for the kids, it's great for just about anyone to chear up their day.My only gripe is that it's way too short.  Certainly they weren't that over budget.  But still, the story was kosher.  So I'm kosher with that. )9/10Quality 6/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable 10/10 "},{"Title":"Cute movie for kids","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think this is a cute movie for kids but it's really not just for kids. I'm 18 years old and I thought this was a funny and cute movie. I loved all the characters and it had a great story line. I really liked Snowbell the cat. Nathan Lane was a great choice for the voice of Snowbell. This movie reminded me a lot of Cats & Dogs because Snowbell looks a lot like Mr. Tinkles. Margalo the bird was so cute and I liked her character. Hugh Laurie, Geena Davis, and Jonathan Lipnicki all had great performances. I saw the first Stuart Little when it was still in theaters but I don't remember much of it so I can't say whether it was better than this sequel or not. All I can say is that this was a very cute movie and I enjoyed it. Well, bye and thanks for reading my review!!  "},{"Title":"same characters, flat jokes... a typical sequel!!!!","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wouldn't it be nice if a movie studio leave a film as a standalone? Because Stuart Little raked in buckets o' cash, the makers just had to forge ahead with a crappy sequel. My summary says it all the jokes are flat (my kids weren't even laughing; I didn't even crack a smile the entire 70-odd minutes) and the plot is hackneyed. The only character who is remotely interesting is James Woods as Falcon. Stuart Little 2 is very forgettable. Even though my kids conned me into buying the DVD, I'm hoping they let me sell it for them on ebay when they grow tired of it --- which I am sure will be very soon. "},{"Title":"little hi...little ho hum","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've never been one for rodents.  For some people it's spiders, but in my case, mice and rats scare the proverbial out of me.  That was until two years ago when a mouse by the name of Stuart made the biggest impact of any disease carrying animal since Mickey.  He stole a place in the heart of the masses.  Well, the little fella's back, and this time going through a bit of a teenage crisis.  Boys will be boys, and I suppose mice, mice - so there comes a time when impressing the fairer sex seems all important.  So when a mouse, brought up by humans, falls in love with a bird it should make for an interesting tale.  Unfortunately it doesn't.  Sure, Stuart is still incredibly cute, his love interest, Margalo, does have a certain nubile air about her and the villain, Falcon, is suitably evil, but the script gives them very little to work with.  The theatre packed full of youngsters (the best test of a family movie) were a good indication that Stuart Little 2 lacked the x factor that the first movie had.  While they didn't make endless journeys to the little boy's & girl's room, they didn't laugh that much either.  There were no ooohs and ahhhs of amazement.  As they left, there was no excited chatter.  Perhaps the biggest problem is that Stuart Little 2 is too cutesy pie, even for the littlies in the audience.  The jokes, which are far and few between, fall flat.   The first Stuart Little had more of an edge to it (thanks to a script by M. Night Shyalaman), and with kids growing up so fast these days needed it.  In its attempt to be an uplifting family movie, Stuart Little 2 has become over sanitised with the end result being a lack lustre sterile movie.  Now I have to say the computer generated characters are so life like it is hard to tell where reality begins and ends.  Every hair on Stuart's ears is a work of art, and he still has (thanks to Michael J Fox's voicing) a charmingly mischievous side to him.  Problem is, Stuart Little 2 is a little hi, little ho-hum. "},{"Title":"A great movie. Good family entertainment.","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A great film, and Ibelive that it was just as good as Stuaart Little, being one of the few sequels that are as good as the original. Again a beautifull fairy-tell for the hole family. The story is about Stuart Little, the nice family mouse that finds a girlfriend, a little bird, that isn't what she really seems to be. But I won@t spoil you. Just see the film. One of the best things of this movie was also the soundrack. A multitude of songs. The best one was Celine Dion's single I'm Alive. My raiting for the movie was 9/10, because it couldn't rise to the quality of films like Jungle2Jungle, My Girl 2, or The Parent Trap. Stil, a must see movie.   "}{"Title":"Cute, heartwarming, a little silly","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I took my boys, 9 & 11, to see this movie back to back with Spy Kids II.  They liked Spy Kids II better.  I liked this one better.The movie has a lot of suspense, but relatively little violence, which is good, from my point of view.  Very small children are going to find it too scary, but it was not at all too scary for kids the age of mine.The CG characters are fairly well-developed, as are the kids, but the human adults are somewhat cartoonish -- sort of an interesting turnabout. The mother is an especially intriguing caricature.  She is a traditional '50's type mother -- except that she wears incredibly tight clothes and swings her hips rather dramatically when she walks.  There is one bedroom scene, where the parents are fairly demurely dressed in pajamas, except that there is one -- again rather dramatic -- profile shot of the mother showing that her nightie is skin tight and that she has an exceptional, Playboy type figure.  I guess they have to put these things in so that fathers who bring their kids to movies won't complain too much.  This mom is an odd juxtaposition, saying all these staid, stay-at-home mom type things, but her body language and clothing are sending very slutty messages.  It was strange seeing this in a children's movie.By contrast, the Dad is a cartoonish, nerd, though a good father.The little boy is much more normal seeming, except that he acts older than his body looks.Basically, the human actors are just props, and the real action revolves around the CG characters Stuart, Margolo, and the hawk -- and the cat, who is possibly not CG, but at least has a CG mouth.  They seem real, while the people seem fake.The movie, despite the slightly odd mother, promotes traditional family values of love and acceptance.  I thought the best line in the movie was that of the little bird, that the Littles don't seem to have very much, just each other.  Of course, actually they have an exceptionally nice townhouse; but never mind the point is that they love and support each other and by acting together they can accomplish what none of them can accomplish separately and material possessions are not too important. The movie is very short.  You don't really feel like you've seen a whole movie.  Still it was nice.  I'm glad I went. "},{"Title":"a fairly good movie","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  On a dull Sunday morning,i woke up and went to the nearest cinema to watch this movie.At first I didn't think this was a good movie because I don't like the first one and I started to doze off.But after the little bird came into Stuart Little' life it seemed to be more entertaining than I've expected.And the big hawk is really a bit thrilling.The computer animation of Stuart Little is better than the first one.If you have a kid,this movie is really worth watching with a whole family. "},{"Title":"First Little was better; but..","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I *really* expected a lot for this Little 2 movie since I loved the way they depicted innocent, well-meaning and happy family & their adopted cute little son Stuart the mouse(obviously). Loved Mr&Mrs Little-Geena Davis&Hugh Laurie (they look really chummy, by the way), loved George- Lipnicki and of course,the voice of J.Fox and Nathan Lane. Maybe I liked ('Sixth Sense','Sign' director) M.Night Shamalyn's screenplay better than Bruce Joel Rubin.(No offense.)For the first half part, this movie was pretty disappointing. It was far from family any longer. It was all about Hollywood action-packed adventure movie. I kept yawning and whispering 'hey..this is gonna be bad~' Moreover, I don't like the way they used POP SONGs in here!! Why didn't they just use Alan Silvestri's scores? That'd be real moving; but Mandy Moore? Celine Dion? Hey I like those gals but please! Even the great song 'Alone again' sounded pretty lame for me.But after Stuart left for Margalow with Snowbell, then the fun began. You can't think of anything from there. It's really fun,funny,thrilling and touching also. (I won't give out any spoilers here.)Most of the credits and kudos to Michael J. Fox(Mom! Dad! I'm goin' in! & Save yourself!), James Woods(very scary,let me tell you! My cousine couldn't look at this hawk straight in the eye. Maybe too scary for the kids.), unbelievable Melanie Griffith! I never thought she would make that kinda job. Pretty satisfactory compared to her previous works.Lastly-Mr.Nathan Lane!! He's the man here. I strongly insist the producers should make 'Snowbell Little' out of this flick. Nathan Lane rocks! He inspires this little white cat into a human being! I will never forget his acting here. He is so~ natural. Of course, Steve Zahn also the greatest. Never let me down both of those guys.Trivia- I like that little Afro-American boy called Will(George's friend) as well. Very cute(uh..he brought a magazine.)!So I'm telling you- quite disappointing from the start, very irritating those pop songs;but you'll get rewarded by the last half sequences. "},{"Title":"Good movie for kids","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I watched this with my nephew and niece I realized that there were only a few movies that I could take them to and not insult their intelligence or for that matter, mine. This is one of them. They laghed at the characters..the falcon and the cat were thier favorites, along with Stuart.The animated films are becoming boring (their words not mine), so it's ok to be able to laugh at this stuff and not expose them to violence.  "},{"Title":"Way to go Stuart!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Stuart Little 2 is a simple movie mainly about home and the importance of family togetherness. Michael J. Fox speaks on behalf of Stuart, the mouse adopted by the Little family in the first installment.   Spoiler. In this movie Stuart complains of isolation, wishing he could have a friend besides his brother. Well as a matter of fact he didn't know what was waiting around the corner, let me rephrase that, falling from the sky. Yep a friend in waiting. Only that's what Stuart initially thought. What he didn't know was his new friend, a lady bird named Margalo, was sent by her accomplice Falcon who wanted to infiltrate the Little home, and acquire information on their goods and belongings. Only it was evident to Margalo that this was more than a house, it was a home. After reluctantly embezzling Mrs. Little's precious wedding ring, Stuart endangers himself trying to find it in the sink. Margalo soon realizes she is doing damage to this prim and perfect family and decides to quietly depart. Stuart feels Margalo may have been kidnapped and engages in a full-fledged bird hunt along with the self-serving household Cat, Snowball.I definitely enjoyed this movie, it was humorous, harmless, preached family togetherness. I also enjoyed the music from the Soundtrack.  Way to go Stuart! "},{"Title":"The law of diminishing returns","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I always thought Stuart Little #1 was a cute children movie. Recent critics I had read lead me to believe that the second installment would be better. After seeing it last night with my wife and 2 year old daughter (who adores the first one), I can say that it doesn't live up to the first one.Sure, the special effects are nice and the cat is funny. But the movie is really really short, the storyline dumber than a Carrot Top Commercial, and Genna Davis very annoying.(WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD) In the movie, she plays a mother who is over-protective of Stuart and wants to protect him at all costs, which leaves Stuart somewhat frustrated. Whenever Stuart gets into some kind of danger, she blatantly disregards the safety of her 2 year old baby girl to rush to the rescue of Stuart. I am ready to buy the premise of a talking mouse as a member of the family, but I don't think it excuses the things Genna Davis character exposes her newborn to. For example, when Stuart crashes George toy plane in Central Park, the whole family runs out of the house seeking for him. Where is the baby? We don't know... But the front door is left open and there is no nanny in the house.And at the end, when they are all in the back of a taxi cab rushing through traffic going backwards no less to find Stuart, the baby is in an unattached portable child seat held by Genna Davis. Great parenting, risk killing one kid to find another.Look I know this is just a movie and I might be overreacting a bit, but what the hell...(END OF SPOILERS)Wait for it to come out of DVD or something, it isn't worth the price of admission  "},{"Title":"Just a warning","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My 4-year-old girl was frightened for a week by the falcon. She hasn't had this reaction to any previous movie. Overall, I thought the movie was cute and a fine child's entertainment. Nathan Lane makes me laugh. "},{"Title":"Stuart Little 2 was a good movie but I Think It should of been more realistic.","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Stuart Little 2 was a good movie. Why you ask? The voices of the animals were great, Snowbell and Monty were exspecially funny!Also very good because of it's a heart warming film and acttually at some points in the movie it would put you on the edge of your seats. Like the big falcon chase between Stuart, The Falcon, and Margalo. Never heard of that name before. Just to let you know Stuart and Margalo were in a airplane. No Stuart's and Margalo's sise plane. But also to me the movie should of been a little more realistic like when The Falcon ramed into the plane it should of gotten a little more beat up or maybe even killed. Also I think Snowbell should have been a little more braver against the falcon, not just jump and get stuck in a paint can. But overall Stuart Little was a great family film and I think you and your family should go see it! I gave it a 8 in the voting! You should go see this film. "},{"Title":"Adored It!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Perhaps I've seen one too many children's movies this summer, because I certainly wasn't looking forward to yet another one. So begrudgingly, I took my five year old to Stuart Little 2 (as it was too hot outside to play and he was begging to see it). I wasn't sure if he'd enjoy it, as we haven't seen the original movie or read the books. I'm pleased to announce however, that we were both pleasantly surprised, and I admit, I adored this movie! Based on the characters from the E.B. White novel, Stuart is a mouse who lives as part of the Little family. In this second movie, Stuart rescues a fallen bird, Margalo, and hopes she'll decide to stay with him and become his friend. What our poor hero doesn't know is that Margalo is on a secret mission and works for an evil falcon. Filled with action, humor, tenderness and a great soundtrack, this is a splendid movie for the entire family and not to be missed! Some youngsters may become frightened by the falcon however, so best to keep the three-year-olds at home. "},{"Title":"What a live action cartoon should be...","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok, the first thing I'm saying is this.. if you aren't into cartoons, or nifty animation, of any kind, you probably shouldn't waste your time on this..With that said, that's what this is.. without the need for potty humour or other severely childish antics that come from crapfests like Scooby Doo, this is what a live action cartoon should be like.. along the lines of the Babe (about the pig, not the baseball player) films..The story isn't very ambitious, they could have done a lot more with it.. but in this day and age, too often films try to go beyond what their reach is capable of, and it ends up being some lame attempt at being epic or some grand adventure.. so, it falls to a simple, but I think fitting saying.. If you can't make a 'simple' film well, how do you expect to make a more 'ambitious, complex' one look good?The acting was generally cartoonish.. the script is simple, but executed well enough that in the end, it doesn't really matter.. it'll fall into the 'cute' catagory for many people, so for those of you who have a thing against cute, you're probably better off to stray elsewhere, but then, if you've seen the trailer or the first film, you already know that, or should..There are some general cartoon physics spread loosely throughout.. Live action cartoon, as I said before..Some good sayings within, even if a couple of them are quite common and often overused, they fit the context of the film..Now, the animation.. this is where the film is on high marks.. Stuart and the Falcon, the animation for these two characters are just wonderfully done.. I mean, watching either or on screen is worth the admission price alone.. the bird, however, is pretty good, but not nearly as the two aformentioned..Voice Talents; Micheal J. Fox as Stuart Little, I'm glad to see him working here and there, quite regularly.. with what he's gone through, he's an insperation to just keep going like he does, even when his voice appears in the less than grand adventure Atlantis (but then, he had the chance to be in Titan A.E., whom was replaced by Matt Damon, which I thought fit better).. he gives Stuart the necessary innocence and constantly looking to the stars approach, as he did in the first movie.. Nathan Lane as Snowball, great voice talent who was in Titan A.E. as well, giving the cat a sense of cowardice and complimenting the opposite of Stuart Little.. James Woods as Falcon, he's certainly got an interesting voice, and it plays out well here (unlike the cold 'doll-like faces' of Final Fantasy), his best role to date would still have to be Videodrome, even though he often brings something interesting to each part he takes on.. Melanie Griffith.. as the bird, Margalo, she does an adequite job here.. not really familiar with her work - though I have heard of her in the past.. There's also Steve Zahn, but his part is small, merely to return from the first film but also to add a couple moments to this one and guide our hero along to his destination..The actors, very cartoonish, including Geena Davis as the overprotective parent, and that Hugh guy as the father, a cartoon version of like the 'perfect' farther.. the son, Jonathon Lipnicki, played by the 'cute' kid from Jerry Maguire, who goes through his usual measures here as the brother branching out to new friends while leaving little Stuart behind.. as well as the friend, who is just there for the sake of taking care of a few plot points..What this film reminded me of was a weekly animated series.. except, this weekly animated series is taking years to produce a new episode, and costing a hell of a lot more.. but that's what kind of feeling/vibe I got from it..I enjoyed the film for what it is.. not great, but entertaining.. and I hope my sometimes awkward review helped on some level..also, a great little spoiler quote from the film..Giving up is fun, and look at all the time you save! I'm telling you, Stu, if more people just gave up, there'd be a lot less wars! -Snowball, Stuart Little 2 "}{"Title":"Despite small oversights, Stuart Little 2 is an enjoyment to watch.","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Stuart Little returns to the big screen, after a 2 year absence.  He is now completely settled into his lifestyle with the Little family, and has a great set up in the top bunk of his brother George's bed.  In a world where TV's are drive in movie's and a toy car is your ride to school, having a mouse for a brother seems cool.Although no one seems to notice or mind when they see a little red corvette with a well dressed mouse inside, zipping along the sidewalk along the streets of New York.  They don't even stand on chairs and screaming mouse! mouse! when they see Stuart enter into a room, as the most common comedic reaction is portrayed.But don't think that this movie doesn't have its own share of funny moments, the best one liners I've heard in a while are delivered by Snowball, the sarcastic family cat.  When Stuart's new friend Margalo (perfectly voiced by Melanie Griffith) goes missing, Stuart enlists in the help of Snowball to track down her whereabouts.  Snowball's declaration that his paint can dangling hundred's of feet over the city has just become a litter box, and other such comments help balance the constant cheeriness of the movie.The sickeningly sweet Little lifestyle, includes their own greetings Little hi, little low, little hey, little ho! and Mrs. Little's overdone attempts to get the newest edition of the family, Martha, to speak her first words.  This gets old very quickly but through a child's eyes, I suspect this would all be perfectly normal. Another element that would slide right over a youngster's head, is that it also makes obvious uses of the colours yellow and red through out the film. It is never more obvious during the film than the final scene.  When Stuart soars high above everyone's heads in his brother's model plane, everyone in the park below gawks, and runs to look.  Most the extra's in the scene are wearing red, while the Littles stand out perfectly in their bright sunny yellow.  How quaint.  I wonder if they were trying to bring out attention to the Little family?Desite these oversights, the movie is enjoyable, and probably even more so with a youngster along.  Although there is no specific underlying theme in the movie, there is a strong sense of family, and a taste of adventure as Stuart sets out to rescue Margalo - his first big adventure.  Children will love this installment because it has plenty of the things they love, slap stick antics, adventure, friendship and a basic plot line.  If you can overlook the Little's lifestyle, and the colour scheme throughout the movie, then you just might like this movie too. "},{"Title":"The kids at heart will enjoy it","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those rare sequels that builds on its concept rather than coasting on it.  You probably know what to expect. A two inch high mouse fully integrated into a loving family who accept his presence as readily as the anonymous New Yorkers between whose feet the little guy speeds in his toy car.  This time, the moviemakers focus almost entirely on the non-human characters. But the movie doesn't suffer for it, as the furry and feathery characters lead lives as complex and interesting as the humans (who still provide strong supporting roles).  The concept is outlandish, the moviemakers know it, and they're glad to let us laugh at the absurdity of it.  But while they do so they're still building important details into the movie.  An early scene where Stuart's mom graphically illustrates her squeamishness to the father about letting Stuart play soccer becomes important to a central theme of the movie later on.Stuart's challenge is a bit more mature this time, as he is forced to sift through his feelings on friendship and facing what look like insurmountable setbacks when a small yellow bird literally falls into his life.  All is not as it appears, however, as his new friend has ties to a con artist in the form of a falcon voiced menacingly by James Wood.  Michael J. Fox (again pitch perfect as the plucky mouse's voice) lends a voice to Stuart that leaves no doubt he will rise to whatever challenge he faces.  And Nathan Lane once again is the perfect voice for the more cynical of the two adopted Littles as Snowbell the cat.  The parents do wonderful jobs as well,  making clear within the same scene the dilemma of wanting to protect their tiny son while giving him room to grow.  Stuart's human brother behaves exactly as you'd expect a caring older brother to.  At times frustrated with the smaller sibling's needs and wanting his own space, but still willing to take risks for a little brother.The subject matter is more mature and at times borders on dark, but its still a wonderful story for children.  The movie is unafraid to put its characters in genuinely dangerous situations or tinge a scene with sadness. Yet in the end the movie is all about overcoming obstacles and finding the brighter side when things look gloomy, without ever resorting to cliches or preachiness.This movie is beautiful to look at.  Bright colors abound but never clash or overwhelm the action.  The effects and animation are good enough that I was never jarred out of my suspension of disbelief.  The scenes where Stuart takes to the sky in a sporty yellow biplane are a joy to watch for the freedom they embody (what child never dreamed of flying a toy plane through their home), yet remain an integral part of the movie. After a bit of retrospection, I'd say the sequel is better to me than the original.  The story is better this time, and its mastery of techniques both traditional and relatively new makes for an enjoyable experience.  If you've got kids or are still a kid at heart, you probably won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not just for kids!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My Wife and I recently saw this film, and just like the previous one, it was excellent. We were worried about going to see this film at our age, without any kids in tow, but we were amazed at how many people of our age, without any kids either, were in the cinema queue. The animals steal the show, as usual.I just love Snowbell the cat, he gets lots of good lines.Hats off to the special effects guys, you could almost believe that animals could talk! From now on, I won't be afraid to go and see a Kids film, without any! Bring on Stuart Little 3! "},{"Title":"A Very Enjoyable Family Movie","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My 7-year-old daughter and I went to see this movie recently in London and I must say how much we both enjoyed it. An unexpected and added bonus was the use of an extract, although rather short, of Gilbert O'Sullivan's lovely melody, 'Alone Again', on the sound-track at the beginning of the movie.I would unreservedly recommend anyone - young or old - to go and see this delightful movie. "},{"Title":"As mighty as a mouse can be","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's a shame that a percentage of people expect to see movies that have the slightest taste of crude humor or Matrix-like action and say it's TIGHT. And yes, it is the teens.  But this movie, although based for the little ones, is a movie that if you change the mouse into Action-packed Man, and you change the mini-sized plane into a batwing, or you change the lovable New York City into a deep, dark, futuristic world, then teens may like it.Well, Stuart Little 2 brings the joy out of children, who want to interact with the characters (at least that was my experience.)  They want to shout at Snowbell (the scaredy-cat) for committing a regrettable but funny mistake.  They want to direct Stuart into flying to his rightful destination.  They want to warn Stuart or Margolo (Stuart's new bird friend) if the falcon is on their back.  The toddlers even pronounce each character's name just to pass time.  Stuart's ways make children grin.  So yes, it is lovable and joyful. And yes, it is predictable but funny.  The digital-animation, a key to why I liked the movie, is cartoony but with a chance of possibility that birds and mice can live with humans.  Kids probably think that the creatures are real, because the cartoons they watch, but the computer animation makes a comfortable border between the real and animation.  The flying scenes that brought the uninterested teens into full consciousness opened doors and minds, giving cinematographers more authentic ideas in filming explosive scenes. It wasn't that great, but you can learn a pleasant lesson from this movie as George Little (Jonathan Lipnicki, trademark with glasses) learns his. "},{"Title":"Betrayal! Disillusionment! Revenge! Redemption!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...That's right, boys and girls, it's STUART LITTLE 2!  America's favorite talking, driving, aviator mouse is back, in another adventure, adorable as ever.  And this time, along for the ride is an equally adorable little bird named Margalo (adorably voiced by Melanie Griffith). There's a bad bird too, who makes Margalo -=- MINOR SPOILER AHEAD -=- scam Stuart by befriending him and then stealing his mom's ring (hence the betrayal and the disillusionment - the revenge and redemption come later).  My only question was what did the bad bird plan to do with the ring? Sell it on the black bird market? But then again if you're wondering about that in a film where mice fly planes and ride sportcars, you would have a problem.  The only thing that would have made this adorable and creative film even better would have been more scenes for the -yes - adorable Jonathan Lipnicki, from Jerry Maguire, who had me at hello years ago. "},{"Title":"Such a Happy Movie","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was eagerly awaiting the release of Stuart Little 2.  The first movie was so heart warming and fun that I was very happy to see that another would be released.It was everything I wanted it to be.  New characters, returning favorites and big adventures.  The cast is as wonderful as ever.  Nathan Lane steals the show as Snowbell.The visuals are so appealing.  The film makers do a very good job creating a world for Stuart and The Littles to live in.  The soundtrack was also very good. I left the theatre with the same happy feeling I get after I watch the first one.   "},{"Title":"Fun Film","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just came back from seeing Stuart Little 2 with my 4 and a half year old son.  He loved it and I had a good time too!!!! It was appropriate for his age and nothing shocking for him (he loved the airplane). One note though; this was the first movie with James Woods in it that he didn't cuss in (it must have been painful for him)!!!!! "},{"Title":"Kids/Family and Comedy","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Plucky, pint-sized hero Stuart Little (voiced by Michael J. Fox) returns in STUART LITTLE 2, delighting audiences with even more action-packed adventure. This time, there are two brand new additions to the Little family -- a nine-month old sister named Martha and a spirited bird named Margalo (voiced by Melanie Griffith). "},{"Title":"Definately not a little movie..","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was even better than the first.  Bringing to life more than just spirit and hope, but also terrific writing and wonderful acting as well. The special effects were simply amazing, with details on each character and truely magnificant design to each one.  Former cast members and new comers, join the Little clan which include, James Woods, Melanie Griffith, and Steve Zahn. Michael J. Fox was terrific as usual, who happens to be my personal favorite actor.  This aside, the entire cast was excellent, including Nathan Lane, and Johnathan Lipnickie. If you have kids or not, you should definately look into seeing this film, short, but once you're involved in the plot twists, it doesn't seem it. Try it out, you'll be pleasantly surprised.  "}{"Title":"Stuart Little in another big adventure","Date":"3 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After the success of the original 1999 film the whole cast reunite for this sequel that may be a rare case of a film that betters the original.Again using the classic book by E.B White as source material this film manages to create story lines that is appealing to both adults and children and moves along at a nice pace.The human actors are all good in their roles with Hugh Laurie trying out the American accent that would prove useful in the TV series 'House' years later and the voice acting of Nathan Lane and Michael J Fox is great.Overall a welcome addition to the series and if your family enjoyed the first one they should certainly enjoy seeing what happened to the Little's next. "},{"Title":"A good family film","Date":"6 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film is about a domesticated mouse that having a big adventure when he saves a chicken that is preyed upon by an bad vulture.Stuart Little 2 has a good plot, as it celebrates love, courage and freedom. How the Little family care for each other is portrayed well, creating the atmosphere of love and warmth in a family. It sends a positive and uplifting message to viewers. The adventures of Stuart Little is also thrilling. Even though I knew nothing bad will happen in the end because it is a children's film, the above elements kept me interested throughout. Stuart Little 2 is a good film for a family to enjoy together. "},{"Title":"Stuart Average","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Stuart Little 1 was a fun movie,even though there was a bit of sentimental rubbish at times. But Stuart Little 2 was almost nothing like the first film. It was not as funny, there was enough sentimental trash to choke a small horse and there were just too many American values in it. The bird friend was just ridiculous and made you want to chuck your birdwatching binoculars away and buy a shotgun. Snowbell the cat was probably supposed to be the comic relief amidst all the sentimental mayhem but was a massive failure. The falcon just went into the same category as the friendly undersized budgie shotgun fodder. I felt sorry for my little brother who had to go through this rather unenjoyable pastiche. Things I learned from this movie -Falcons are nasty, vicious, bloodthirsty pickpockets -cats are afraid of having their house burgled by strange, undersized budgies -Sentimentality in films is like syrup. Thick and sticky -little spectacled brats(eg George Little)belong to some strange subspecies of overgrown garden gnomes with an affection for lab rats (eg Stuart Little). "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this movie for the first time, and I must say this is awful. It is by far one of THE WORST childrens movies that I have ever seen. The animation is very unbelievable, the story is barely there and I found it just a tad bit ridiculous. The first one was much better (on that child's movie scale)and I would suggest that you save some money and skip this one. "},{"Title":"good cartoon characters","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think the mouse, canary, and hawk looked pretty realistic for this type of animation.  As for the story, it was more of a kid's movie. I didn't find it too interesting. It's just too silly to see a couple referring to a mouse as their son.  It was cute when the little boy, George, gets his friend to tell a story about Stuart being at the friend's house. George's mom is looking for Stuart, and getting the run around from the friend because they don't know where Stuart is either. And the ending was OK,nothing outlandish.FINAL VERDICT  OK for kids, but I wouldn't recommend it for adults. "},{"Title":"Spectacular digital animation and a nice story.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have a personal affection for this film because it's the first one I've seen with modern digital animation featuring birds.  Birds are tough to do in animation and they are done exceptionally well in this particular kids film.The story is the usual Stuart Little for those who might remember the stories from childhood.  Kids will like it and adult viewers who lack the excuse of taking the kids will not suffer too much for it.  In this story, Stuart Little finds himself a little lonely until a female canary falls out of the sky into his company complaining of an injured wing and a pursuing hawk.  Stuart is smitten, of course, but it turns out the canary's past has some unfortunate complications.The cast is just fantastic.  Nathan Hale shows up as the white Angora cat -- again -- reprising his role in Cats and Dogs.  There is also some excellent musical pieces that anyone should enjoy.  Best of all the animation is very nearly perfect.  The colors seem a little intense, but this is in character with the style of the book which is a very poised fantasy. "},{"Title":"cute","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This E.B White story is cute and enjoyable to watch.  Even at my old age of 58, there were some moments of laughter with a cartoon like fantasy of a feature.  No doubt, the kids in the audience were treated to a fine film for youngsters, since their reactions were so very audible. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films EVER!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There is nothing negative I can say about Stuart Little 2.  The voices, the direction, the production, the acting, and the story are close to perfect.  Stuart Little 2 is a sequel that is better than the original.Nathan Lane is the  voice of Snowball, the cat.  He just about steals the show. Melanie Griffith is the voice of Margalo (I love that name), the bird with the broken wing whom Stuart rescues.  All the voices including Michael J. Fox as the voice of Stuart and Steve Zahn as Monty, the alley cat, are great!  The entire cast is uniformly excellent with Hugh Loring as Mr. Little and Geena Davis as Mrs. Little.Don't let negative comments and reviewers on this site who abhor family life depicted in a positive way keep you away from this treat.Go see it and enjoy.  People of all ages will love it.  "},{"Title":"Little fun for the fam","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the first part of Stuart Little the Little household adopted a cute white mouse.In the sequel Stuart rescues a canary called Margalo from a falcon.The canary moves in with the Littles and one day she disappears.So it's off to the rescue for Stuart and Snowbell the cat.Rob Minkoff's Stuart Little 2 is great entertainment for the smaller and a little bigger kids to enjoy.Just like was the first part.The family members are the same as they were in the first part.Geena Davis portrays Eleanor Little, Hugh Laurie is Frederick Little and Jonathan Lipnicki does the part of George Little.The baby Martha (Ashley Hoelck) is a new comer.Michael J.Fox is heard as the voice of Stuart Little and he's awesome.I've only seen the dubbed version of the first part so I didn't hear him at the first time.He sure does make great Stuart.Nathan Lane does great voice acting as Snowbell.Melanie Griffith is the Margalo the bird and James Woods is The Evil Falcon.They're both terrific.Then there's Steve Zahn as Monty the Alley-Cat.Stuart Little 2 is a funny movie with many thrilling situations.Just watch that little mouse trying to beat the falcon.You don't have to be big to beat the enemy.And you don't have to be a kid to enjoy this movie.You can dig that inner child out of you while you're watching this movie. "},{"Title":"He's back!","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's a childrens movie. Or? Actually, many turns and twists in this second movie is made by, and aimed for, us, not yet grown up adults!Having seen the #1 and comparing with this #2, this is a more true movie for all audiences. We have the all good vs the mostly all bad.Yupp, the japs are doing the animations very (read extremely) well. I recommend this movie for all that still have their child's heart! 10 or 50 years old, no matter! "}{"Title":"A sweet sequel.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Artistically, STUART LITTLE 2 is perfectly made. It is a good family movie too, perfect for kids that believe in mice that are suited for the real world, tackling real life issues. Now not that I would not be concerned at any child that thinks with such an imagination, but that's what the target audience is for. Margalo is a nice addition for the movie, not just acting through the motions. You soon forget that talking mice, cats and birds are not part of real life.Lonely Stuart feels the need for a friend suitable for his size. One literally falls from the sky right into the passenger seat of his car.You know, for a movie with a large supporting cast, everyone gets their due and fair share of dialogue and screen time. Nothing is wasted in a movie that is only 75 minutes long! But it is quality time spent and there is little more beyond saying that STUART LITTLE 2 is a good sequel for anyone who enjoyed the original. "},{"Title":"superb CGI, yaaaawn story","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think that my one-line summary just about summarized this movie. CGI characters are very realistic, animation is top-notch, SFX...especially invisible ones are spectacular. Story is so so. Family values, corn flakes, school plays, meatloaf and salad.Blah.5/10 "},{"Title":"Just as good as the first","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this sequel was just as good as the first.  Michael J. Fox is great as the voice for Stuart.  I could not figure who was the little bird til the end.  Melanie Griffith did a terrific job.  I was surprised to see James Wood as  a voice of the falcon,  but as soon as I heard the voice I knew who it was.  He always plays a great bad guy. The story is great as it continues from the first.  It was different enough from the first that it was a good sequel.  I believe kids will enjoy this film.  It is great family entertainment.  It has something for everyone.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Nice Film For Big Kids Too","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was dragged to see this film by my two nieces and thought I was in for a boring 87 minutes.WRONG.I would pay to see this film again, if only to hear the wonderful contribution of Nathan Lane.Clever writing made this a film for all ages and I loved the way the charecters all took the mickey out of themselves.Well done to all concerned.  "},{"Title":"Put a little love in your heart...","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ... is the song that opens this, the newest film in the Stewart Little franchise... and the &#145;little' part is entirely intentional.While not quite as enchanting as the first in the series it has its own unique appeal.Michael J Fox, Geena Davis, Jonathan Lipnicki and the incomparable Hugh Laurie are reprised as the Little family. They live in an anachronistic single-family dwelling in the heart of New York City -- fixed in a time warp of an unknown, enchanting era.  The appliances and furnishings in their charmingly out-of-date dwelling are perfect for that time-out-of-space feeling that is necessary to appreciate this film.The entire score is perfectly suited to the action on screen -- always enhancing the story and the exploits that are occurring.Nathan Lane is back as the voice of Snowbell, the cat and a new addition is James Woods as the Falcon. Melanie Griffith is adequate as the little-bird-lost &#145;Margalo.'There are times in this version when Stuart looks somewhat more like a rodent than in the past -- not something that is particularly agreeable in a character that the audience is supposed to feel a connection to; however, the overall look of the computer generated image/puppet will evoke the warm fuzzies in most everyone.There is some adult humour and quite a bit of slapstick -- so this film should appeal to everyone in the audience.The chase scene between Falcon and Stewart when he is in his airplane is somewhat reminiscent of the Steve McQueen film `Bullitt' -- though, of course, on a much lighter level.This really is an enjoyable summer film -- pure escapism and a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"for the kids only","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This sequel to the mouse as family member film is well.. for the kids only... I found it rather dull for long stretches and, despite first rate animation, nothing much of note happens that would make me care about Stuart or the little birdy he is trying to save. GRADE D "},{"Title":"Just as charming as the first film.","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Usually sequels don't surpass their predecessors in terms of quality, but Stuart Little 2 is such a charming film, that it is hard not to like it. It is a little predictable at times, but that's my only real complaint of this movie. Stuart makes friends with Margalo, voiced with real innocence by Melanie Griffith, and it is this that makes the film so charming. Little does he know she is in league with a falcon, voiced with seedy villainy by James Woods, very like Hades in Hercules. Michael J.Fox still delights as the voice of Stuart, but it is Nathan Lane as Snowbell who has the best lines, they were that funny. Other funny lines were those such as Flying in the House? as the look on Hugh Laurie's face was priceless. The film is sprinkled with lovely messages, that never preaches and kids take to them like a pinch of salt. The script is more subdued than its predecessor but still delivers as effectively. The chase scenes are memorable and never slow the film down. All in all, an exceedingly charming sequel, with an 8/10. Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"Stuart Little 2","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From same director Rob Minkoff (The Lion King), this films brings back the cute rodent character based on the book by Charlotte's Web author E.B. White. Basically adopted mouse Stuart (Michael J. Fox) has settled into the Little family very nicely, but mother Eleanor (Geena Davis) is very protective of him, seeing how he's very small, and his father Fredrick (Hugh Laurie) thinks he should be able to do things without worry or fuss. Oh, and Stuart's brother George (Jonathan Lipnicki) has made a new friend, Will (Marc John Jefferies), so he is feeling lonely. That is until he meets and rescues canary Margalo (Melanie Griffith) from a Falcon (James Woods), and she soon moves in, but no-one knows she is helping con-artist Falcon. But Margalo does obviously grow to like Stuart and the family for real, and its up to Stuart and Snowbell the cat (Nathan Lane) to save her. This may not have the same charm and wit of the previous film, but there is still some fun to be had. It was nominated the BAFTA Children's Award for Best Feature Film. Okay! "},{"Title":"Overall, `Stuart Little 2' is better than the original; I'll give it 3/5 stars &#150;","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Stuart Little 2`Stuart Little 2' it the follow-up to the 1999 hit `Stuart Little,' which had, at the time, made the most money for a non-Disney computer-animated film. Well, `Stuart Little,' based on the good children's book by E.B. White, was unfortunately nothing good or great &#150; at all. M. Night Shyamalan, who brought us `The Sixth Sense' and `Signs,' surprisingly wrote it; needless to say `Stuart Little' was his worst film. Now, a few months back, in 2002, `Stuart Little 2' came out, and I caught it at a free theater. It deals with the continuation of the Little family and their `son' Stuart (a little white mouse), who is voiced by Michael J. Fox. Hugh Laurie plays Stuart's father, Gena Davis his mother, and a REALLY annoying kid plays his brother (he's whiny).Along with the voice cast is Nathan Lane as Snowbell the cat &#150; Stuart's nemesis-turned-friend from the first film &#150; Jennifer Tilly as a bird, and James Woods as a killer hawk.`Stuart Little 2' is better than the first mainly because it is more fun. However, it is still not a great film by any standards. First, I'll point out some things I didn't like about the firstNo one seems to think it is odd that Stuart is a mouse &#150; I know it's a children's film and it's supposed to be like that, but a BIT of credibility would have been nice.The whole thing with him being a mouse &#150; it was trying to give us a preachy message that looks don't count and what's on the inside does. This is true, but the film preaches it the whole way through and it gets old.Now, `II' carries a lot of those traits, but not as much. It is more of an adventure, not a sappy film with an underlying message. That is why I enjoyed it more.I think it's a bit sad that Michael J. Fox has not been in a single live-action film since his leave from `Spin City' (save a cameo in an independent film). I feel sorry for him because I have always enjoyed his performances &#150; he was perfect for `Back to the Future,' and he even made horrible films like `Teen Wolf' fun to watch. That is why I am sad that the only thing I can hear from him nowadays is his voice coming out of the mouth of a mouse. Not only that, but all the animated films he's been in are AWFUL (`Atlantis' was one of the worst of 2001).Nathan Lane is an enjoyable actor, and he fits Snowbell quite well. I think that he was definitely the perfect choice for the fluffy cat.And as for James Woods&#133;he was great. I have always enjoyed his performances in film as well, and seeing him as a hawk was a bit more than odd; but at the same time it was refreshingly fun.Overall, `Stuart Little 2' is better than the original; I'll give it 3/5 stars &#150;John Ulmer "}]