[{"Title":"If Aki Kaurismaki had made Rocky Horror...","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... you'd have got something like The American Astronaut.Writer/actor/director/musician Cory McAbee's ultra-low-budget indie The American Astronaut is something that almost defies description. Shot in black-and-white, it hearkens back to the science fiction of the 1900s and its description of the universe as consisting of a series of 'themed' worlds. Venus is inhabited solely by Southern Belles; Saturn by lonely miners; and there's a bar with an all-male dancing contest in the asteroid belt. Space cowboy Samuel Curtis wends his way through this dreamlike universe with a blase charm, like Han Solo if he'd suggested to Greedo that they don't fight, but instead go bass fishing. Pursued by a deranged Pee-Wee Herman-esque mad scientist (played by noted character actor and HBO regular Rocco Sisto), he has to take The Boy Who Once Saw A Woman's Breast and exchange him for a corpse, which he can then take back to Earth, along with the stinking hydraulic gimp that he picks up along the way.If this all sounds confusing, that's because you're over-thinking it. McAbee's fourth movie and his full-length debut is a collection of oddball moments and weird incidents, told with a certain sweetness of tone. Early David Lynch is a good sign post, but then so are the Quay brothers. Yet neither has McAbee's well-intentioned sense of humor. There are no overt jokes, but somehow he catches that mood of security that pervades the oddest of dreams. No matter how bizarre, it never becomes terrifying. This is, of course, helped by the occasional song and dance number, with music provided by the director's day job in his band The Billy Nayer Show.If McAbee has made any mistake, it's that this is almost too relentlessly and resiliently oddball. Conventional audiences will have no truck with this, and those looking for subversive cinema may find that it almost tries too hard to be off-kilter. However, while McAbee does feel like he's pushing his own personal envelope, it's undeniable that he is has unique and perverse cinematic vision. Most importantly, his vision allows him to make a true creative virtue of his low-to-zero budget. Primitive space cowboys who managed to launch their barn into the solar void use tin cans as oxygen filters space travel is represented through flash cards and bizarre alien cultures are summed up by raiding the prop cupboard of the local amateur dramatics society. In less talented hands, this would be abortive. Yet McAbee thinks around all the problems out of which so many other directors just buy themselves. "},{"Title":"Instant Cult Classic","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The American Astronaut is like a 60s sci-fi on acid. It's warped and doesn't make much sense. It doesn't have a strong plot and definitely isn't for everyone. But, I did find myself laughing at certain points and I enjoyed it.There is a scene where the main character is on the toilet in the bathroom and two guys follow him in there. You're certain they're about to beat him up....until they plug in their record player and start singing to him. It's like West Side Story in another dimension. The Ceres jumping (their version of moon walking) in sync with the music makes for another great scene. This movie was born a cult classic. "},{"Title":"The DVD is fantastic","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw the film at the Toronto Film Festival in 2001 and loved it. Just rented the DVD and it's a treat. Not only did I enjoy the film even more than the first viewing, but I immediately rewatched it via the Director's Commentary. The commentary makes you love the film exponentially more if only because it's done in a unique way Cory McAbee narrates at a live screening, taking questions from the audience. McAbee is uniquely eloquent in his commentary. I've heard many commentaries that simply leave me numb, praying for narcolepsy to strike. Instead, the heart and mind of a true Renaissance man were revealed, imbuing the film (and the music) with new life (just when you thought you couldn't love a film more). There are some perfect cinematic scenes in this film. I watch literally hundreds of films a year and it's rare that I'm surprised by some narrative trope but to my joy, Hey Boy! is there to give me new faith in cinema. However impressed I was with Cory McAbee before, now I'm awestruck. And it's always a treat to hear Brian Eno's name a few times in a commentary. Wow. Congratulations. "},{"Title":"Weird, good, has a few problems.","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A low budget B&W film. The look is modeled after old Sci-Fi films like Flash Gordon. Including drawings for the spaceship exterior with camera zooms and pans. The cinematography is more film noir and is interesting in parts and just contrasty in others.The acting is very good in this campy storyline. There isn't a plot or character development worth mentioning the campy wierdness and design is what drives this film.Overall it is an interesting venture with some good jokes and situations but is very quirky for the general public.As for the ending all I can describe is that it does.If you have an interest in film, this is an interesting venture. If you are looking for mainstream films, this ain't it. "},{"Title":"THIS is what I'm talkin' about!","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A true original. I loved this film and the wild wonderful universe that McAbee was able to create on what must have been a $1.80 budget. It has a hypnotic quality, off beat characters, and even a touching father /son relationship.. what more could you want? There is a rousing scene at the beginning when the astronaut walks from his ship to the space bar. His walk goes for some time while a wonderful instrumental plays. If you don't enjoy this part for its simplicity, you probably won't like the rest of the flick. While it dosn't look like this film will get a major distributer ( I got to see it at the Washington DC Film fest with McAbee there to discuss it!) the soundtrack album is available at americanastronaut.com. I'm listening to it as I write this! This is the fist movie in a long time that I have seen that I didn't want it to end.. McAbee knows the first rule of showbusiness Always leave them wanting more! "},{"Title":"Hilarious and unique","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Probably one of the best films I have ever seen, this film is a strange science fiction tale about a man who arrives to a space bar, meets an old friend and embarks on a strange mission. Oh, and it's a rockabilly musical. Yes, it's very strange, but not in an incomprehensible or artsy-fartsy way. It is simply put utterly hilarious and wonderful, and the music is incredibly good. I loved every second of it. Please release this film on DVD! "},{"Title":"A Crazy Silly Musical Space Western","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you like the silly and/or absurd, see this film! It is definitely one of the most enjoyable things I have seen in quite a while.Bon appetit.P.S. If you can't suspend your disbelief and just have a good time with it, you will probably not like it. "},{"Title":"A very original and virtually unique film","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is billed as a sci-fi, musical-western comedy. Sounds both original and strange doesn't it? The American Astronaut proves to be both of these (and strange definitely in a good way, believe me).The story is centred around space trader Samuel Curtis (played by writer and director Cory McAbee), who we find in a bar on an asteroid belt, landing in order to make a deal. The scene in the bar is extremely funny, and introduces us to the fact that this is partly a musical. In the bar, unbeknownst to Curtis, is his intermittently-reoccurring nemesis, Professor Hess. Hess, a psychotic killer, pursues Curtis throughout his subsequent journey, in which he performs a number of deals, culminating in travelling to Venus to provide a suitable male to the women of Venus, in order that they release the body of their late suitor, Johnny R), and the dialogue between the two is one of the highlights of the film.This film is stylishly shot in black and white, and Cory McAbee manages to convey the idea of outer space extraordinarily well with some simple direction. Especially impressive is the collage of still photographs showing Curtis explaining why Professor Hess is in his pursuit - it is funny, original, and ingeniously simple. Shot on a low budget, this film does not suffer from the fact in any way. McAbee's use of light and shadows is reminiscent of Orson Welles' direction in Citizen Kane - simple, but astonishingly effective.With a superb soundtrack from McAbee's band The Billy Nayer Show, and the script as impressive as the direction, the film's slightly abrupt ending is the only chink in this otherwise flawless masterpiece; although even that has an upside, in that it leaves you wishing to hear more of Samuel Curtis, and the others.Hopefully more from the same director will do. "},{"Title":"Independent film that combines the old style of both science fiction and western movies","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie originally as part of the Southern Film Circuit Series in the Fall of 2003, I was instantly amazed by the entire film, but unfortunately because I had to view at a separate time from the viewing at the theater I did not get a chance to talk with the filmmaker who made it, which I now incredibly regret. During the beginning of the movie when the words are uttered but it's my birthday got me immediately interested in the film and its weird quirkiness is definitely held during the entirety of the film. The movie hold an odd mixture between old western and old science fiction movies that give the film a certain nostalgia. The movie is odd, which I love, so if you are looking for a regular run of the mill film, this is most definitely not it. But if you give the film a chance, you just may be able to recognize the various references made throughout the film and the beauty that is this rare gem. "},{"Title":"Where have I been?","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Why didn't anyone ever say anything about this movie to me? For shame, all of you. This is the best semi-gay, black and white, sci-fi, indy musical I've ever partially seen. I'm going home to finish it right now.McAbee's other work can be found on YouTube. Short films with a lot of spunk and conviction. The Ketchup and Mustard Man (1994), The Man on the Moon (1993), and Billy Nayer (1992) prove to me this is a person who finds the term 'filmmaker' fits him like a glove. How does this guy put off that vibe like he's been doing this forever? The American Astronaut, his 2001 feature film couldn't be more original. Featuring choreography, costuming and musical numbers that at first come out of left field and soon become eagerly anticipated surprises. The fact that there is no budget for this sci-fi space adventure does not seem to get in the way at all. I had seen Billy Nayer before watching this film, so I was prepared to see a film with a firm foothold in the music video world. Not that anything could really prepare you for viewing The American Astronaut. "}{"Title":"i'm at a loss....","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" ..................all the artsyness/stylish directing and off-beat humor in the world couldn't can't save this extremily slow, irritating, and pointless flick. The scene where the main character is in the bathroom and the guys are dancing outside of his stall had me laughing hard, but that was the first and last time I laughed. I just can't believe there was only one other negative review on this site. ...................WARNING! I would think this would be a shockingly unwatchable film to most people... "},{"Title":"The best film I've seen in years.","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Entirely absurd, filled with a degree of joyous creativity that I would never have expected, this is the best film I've seen in years.  Although the storyline is utterly surreal, it's presented so matter-of-factly that one feels like to doubt the story would hurt someone's feelings.  I have real trouble summarizing my reaction to this film except to say that I walked out of the theatre in happy amazement, a smile on my face.  In fact, I had the same sensation of light-headed wonderment I felt the first time I saw True Stories, making this literally the best movie I've seen in at least a decade.In terms of comparisons, think of this as the light-hearted kid brother of True Stories or the farcical, silly, prankster cousin of Twin Peaks. "},{"Title":"doesn't live up to the hype","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'The American Astronaut' promises much more than it delivers, I'm sorry to say. It has all the hallmarks of a cult movie - comedy musical western with a rock score - but falls short of what it could have been.Cory McAbee (director, writer, star), who doesn't come across as particularly interesting as himself - guesting at a screening of this recently - plays Curtis, the astronaut of the title who wins a dance contest on Ceres, gets given a job to do, and - well, it's downhill from there, really.As Professor Heiss, Rocco Sisto comes across as very Ed Wood, moaning about everyone ignoring his birthday, reducing people in his wake to piles of sand. Greg Russell Cook is 'the boy who actually saw a woman's breasts', a bored cutie in a Greek God uniform; while Tom Aldredge is a bitter old man in the pub on Ceres who tells the long-winded, and rather silly 'hertz doughnut' joke.The main premise of this messy film is to showcase the real-life band (made up from McAbee, the producer, and the Ceres house musicians) who wrote and perform the score. There's a lot of promise in the musical numbers - one performed in the men's room (now, that was funny); one performed in silhouette in a shed floating in space; one performed by 'the Boy' on stage; one performed by Professor Heiss after a murderous spree, one performed by fat dull Eddie the barman on Ceres, etc. etc.The photography, when it isn't being 'look how low budget we are' (any of the shots with the space ship), is pretty good. The film appears in black and white and uses minimal sets and cheap costume to move its (limited) story along. But it could have been a lot more far-out and wacky. I came away feeling just a bit disappointed and felt that the film-makers themselves lost interest a fair way from the end. Pity. "},{"Title":"McAbee is a Genius","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The American Astronaut is the purest of pure examples of how great independent cinema can be. This SciFi-comedy-musical is one of the most cinematically luscious films shot in B&W 35mm by any independent film to my knowledge. The characters are without parallel, especially the genius of Tom Aldredge who delivers one of THE BEST monologue jokes ever captured on film. Cory McAbee not only wrote it and directs it, but also stars in it and co-wrote all the music which is performed by his band The Billy Nayer Show (don't know them? shame shame) Everyone I've ever recommended this film to or who I have known to have seen it raves about this film... except for one guy I know, but his favorite film is Hard Rain with Christian Slater... not sure if that should count.Space is a lonely town. There are some pretty deep concepts to this story that are cleverly interwoven into the comedy of the script. Also notable is how much like an elementary schoolyard the interactions and ethics of this film are. Brilliant, entertaining... pure genius. "},{"Title":"An original off-the-wall indie for the ages.","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the best quirky indie original off-the-wall comedies to see over and over again. I've seen some indie original stuff and The American Astronaut delivers with unexpected results. Why explain the unexplained? I liked it. You will like it. You won't be able to rationally explain it, but who can explain a Fun-house anyways? It's a Saturday Matinée kind of film. A fun film. An alternative universe where the men grow up on one planet and the women grow up on another. Thus goes the plot of a space cowboy who has to transport a girl in a box, a cat, and a boy who has actually seen a woman's breast. Did I mention that it is also a musical? Well, it is and you don't see that everyday. "},{"Title":"Quirk and an awesome soundtrack","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I took a chance on American Astronaut... an even riskier one when you consider I watched it for the first time with my 3 daughters (albeit with my finger on the pause button for the first half of the movie). Not rated by the MPAA (perhaps a good thing?) I'd give this a PG with the caveat that there's a few f* words in some of the songs. With no trailer, I put this in my queue solely base on the fact I had rated all the movies in the ENJOYED BY MEMBERS WHO ENJOYED section with 4 and 5 stars. This is what I love about movie services like IMDb and the flix&#133; unearthing gems that'd otherwise go undiscovered.American Astronaut is as indie as indie gets. The word quirky comes to mind&#133; black and white with a lot of shadows reminded me of early Jarmusch (only played at 5 fold the speed) and with characters busting out into song and dance unexpectedly (loved the bathroom hit scene). I don't usually care for musicals (this is a long way away from that genre) but the Tom Waitsish (only you can understand the lyrics) soundtrack was awesome and led us to another cool discovery&#133; We Googled The Billy Nayer Show and fell in love with their music and now have some great new CD's to listen to. "},{"Title":"a musical about cowboys that takes place in space - yes!!!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an insanely good movie.  It is a musical (without being cheezy) it is a comedy (without being stupid) it is art (without being artsy) and it has depth (without being completly subjective).  If you saw this movie and couldn't figure out what the hell was going on then you weren't thinking hard enough, this is a hilarious, hip, comedy about a cowboy that takes place in space, and it rules. "},{"Title":"The movie is tenacious in its originality, but has flaws.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  American Astronaut is the first feature length film written and directed by Cory McAbee and stocked with music from the band The Billy Nayer Show (BNS), of which McAbee is the frontman. BNS is a crass, satirical rock group described as a cabaret punk band with enjoyable lyrics floating between quirky and non sequitur. BNS production's first feature length film fits the band's music to a T and it should, as the band's unique music fills the movie.American Astronaut defies convention so often, you can be sure the person sitting next to you won't lean over and say, I knew that was going to happen. For example, en route to Venus, our hero receives a call from his nemesis, Professor Hess. Wanting to lay low for a bit, our hero parks his spaceship in a barn. When asked about the barn, writer/director McAbee said, I always wanted to use the spaceship in the barn cliche. That statement perfectly describes the mood and driving force behind America Astronaut.American Astronaut creates a funny, surreal vision with a love it or leave it attitude. There's a lot to love, too. The visual fusion of 50's noir with a rocket ship Flash Gordon could love tossed together with sprinklings of the Wild West all bundled up in a musical. The sets extend the surreal motif, too. The bar on the asteroid Ceres could be anywhere in the U.S.; Jupiter looks like a warehouse and Venus is a woodland setting in New York. The surrealism keeps right on going, too. Our hero walks into the bathroom, sits on the toilet and the movie breaks into a song and dance number. The plot's foil, Professor Hess rants and raves about his birthday, but don't expect to discover why, it is just more window dressing for the surreal motif.The film's strength lies in its brief comedic moments, beautiful visuals and exceptional music. The characters, atmosphere, and plot drew me in but dropped me indelicately with an unsatisfying ending. The good part is, I was unsatisfied because I wanted more. The bad part is, the plot that was present merely as a vehicle for the films strengths, just like the plot in porn movies is a line to connect the sex scenes. To me, the story was a weak link in an otherwise strong chain.Still, if asked, I'd say American Astronaut isn't for everyone but should be seen because it's tenaciously original and parts expose genius I hope we see more of in the future.  "},{"Title":"Slow burning brilliance","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a triumph of so many genres and ideas. I felt the black and white style was pretentious at first, but this movie just destroyed my prejudices one after another. This is one of those movies you MUST give 10 minutes to, and you'll be hooked. At first it seems silly and a little too given to retro b&w slavishness. Give the stand-up comedian an opportunity for the longest ever joke and the communist-style hero worshipping auditorium scene a chance and you will forever be hooked. Don't listen to me. Just go watch. what did your father teach you? kill a sunflower.This is imaginative cinema in the best possible style. I could happily go for a year of such style in cinema. Brilliant. Refreshing. "},{"Title":"Obnoxious...and Just Too Queer","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alternative Cinema is like an alternative lifestyle. Not for everyone. What we have here is an obnoxious, impotent, and gross exercise in unbridled Movie making. There is witless and juvenile dialog with embarrassing antics by ugly, unappealing characters. This Movie is just too Queer. There is an attempt at creative, though self-conscious, composition. This ego-maniacal film is shameful and pretentious. There are some slightly interesting Musical Numbers that have a modern trend of Retro appeal. There is a talented Cinema-Photographer at work and it was this that can make the viewing experience not a wretched waste of time. On the other hand, let us applaud anyone, (Ed Wood), that has the temerity and chutzpah to Write, Produce and Direct a Film and get it on the Screen and in front of People. "}{"Title":"Not the best, but better anyway . . . so there!","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After a series of ridiculously amusing shorts, Cory Mcabee made this amazing movie. Not the best film ever made by any means but my personal and eternal favorite. Terry Gilliam had once been my favorite directer. His entire catalog has been trumped by this single film and my own wiry anticipation of what Cory Mcabee might do next. This was the only 100% blind buy I've ever made on a DVD. I bought this based on nothing but stills accidentally found in a Google image search and the synopsis on Amazon.com. It's the best blind buy I've ever made. I've shown it to as many friends as possible. I'm sure the DVD has been in the hands of my friends as much as it has been in my own. All of my friends have grown fond of it. Some have bought it. For me, this movie comes with a higher recommendation than any other I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"American Astronaut","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you're lucky perhaps one out of a hundred movies will change the way you look at film making - for me The American Astronaut was such a movie. From the very first scene your already thinking What the hell is this? Now this question doesn't necessarily dictate that the viewer is enjoying themselves, but once that thought occurs it is undeniable that they have just stepped into a completely unique world.The only way for me to describe what this movie is like is to say it is as if the director Cory McAbee - hell bent on making a stew that had never been tasted before - went into his kitchen - went through his cupboard pulled out a cup of musical honey for an unexpected sweetness, some robust western beef, a very carefully measured amount of comedic spices, a thick film noiry broth and put them all together in a pot. Not everyone will like this stew - while your eating it you may find that one moment you absolutely love it and nothing before or after has or will taste as good, then you take another spoon full and you wish you'd never started eating in the first place, but when you take yet another you can't imagine what it was you disliked.I for one loved the movie - It was the dancing cowboy in the beginning that got me. That image really hammered down what this movie was going to be - and that is exactly what you don't expect it to be.As for direction - I absolutely loved the way it was shot. It's very minimal as far as lighting goes, you can almost actually see where the lights have been set up. I remember in the bathroom scene when the two cronies are dancing you can blatantly tell how the light kit has been arranged because of the obvious shadows. We accept this very obvious lighting, because, though it seems very rushed and in your face, you know it's actually very carefully planned and stylistically consistent.Over all the editing didn't bother me and flowed quite nicely. There was one particular cut when they flash to the workers that bothered me. It was very quick and such a specific moment that I almost feel silly mentioning it, but it didn't seem to have any flow with the other cuts and seemed unnecessarily disjointed. It reminded me almost of one of my first editing projects I did on I Movie - just one of those moments that makes you go - Ooh ouch. But other then that moment, the editing didn't faze me.The music is so unusual - I have to comment on it. Sometimes it just doesn't match the action at all. There may be vague hints like in The Girl with the Glass Vagina you think Okay I'll accept that he's singing about Vaginas- it's Venus the planet of women - there's lots of those there. but by that point your brain is pretty much mashed potatoes anyway, having sat through nearly the entire thing. I love that the songs take you out of the absurdity for a moment only to bring you to a level even more surreal then before.Over all I really enjoyed the American Astronaut. It was like falling down the long dark halls of my subconscious with a faulty flashlight, and I loved almost every flicker. "},{"Title":"An antidote to crap","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Lynch meets Fellinni and Salvador Dali in a bar and they form a rockabilly band, and that band then decides to do a musical western comedy as a small noir Indy film.That's the pitch - if this movie was ever even remotely pitchable.I just saw it and was completely blown away. Not since Eraserhead and the earliest days of MST3K has someone so messed with my mind in a mere 91 minutes.5 stars. The director's commentary was also quite amusing. You're watching bits of the film being projected on a small screen in a bar while the director does Q&A. Lots of where the hell did THAT come from? stuff followed by, well, there were some things going on in my life... that actually add to the surreal quality of the film. Also, one of those rare Indy films where the quintuple threat one-man vision approach actually pays some real dividends.My only wish is that there were more of this director's work to catch up on. And should the director read this;Produce! Produce! For the long night is coming wherein no man can work!- Barney Dannelke "},{"Title":"Secure Opinion","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I viewed this film as part of the Midnight Series at the theater I work for, and it looks destined to be a cult hit. It's crowd pleasing, hilarious, and silly. Also very beautifully made for the budget. Many films I find myself ambivalent about; I'm not sure whether I really like them or not. That's likely a result of thinking too much about what I see. But I can safely say that I was grinning throughout virtually the entire film. I was indeed very impressed, and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys film.The soundtrack is also upwards of keen, it being a musical and all. We were selling them after the show, and I bought one myself.I hope the Billy Nayer Show has plans to release this on DVD, for it shouldn't be limited to Midnight Showings. It's something to be enjoyed with friends, anytime.   "},{"Title":"Weird!","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the weirdest films I've ever seen. The humor is as black and white as the screen.It seemed to me as almost a DEAD MAN in space, with humor and song.The story you'll have to figure out for yourself. And why the guy who follows the Astronaut starts singing Let's have a party after he just turned a whole colony to sand.3½/5 "},{"Title":"An imaginative story, brilliantly realized","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's become so cliche to complain about the quality of Hollywood films, always written and directed to appease the lowest common denominator, afraid of adventurous or experimental scripts and storylines, etc, etc.  Plus, who wants to be the whiny art-house boy who only thinks a movie is good if no one else has never seen it? Well, occasionally, I do.  This is one such occasion.  The American Astronaut is a bizarre little film that worked perfectly for me, and I hope that a lot of people will go see it, not just because I liked it, but because I want to encourage other people to make movies like it. It's hard to explain what the movie is about.  It takes place in what would seem to be the turn of the twentieth century, based on wardrobe and technology.  Yet it's a world where  all the planets are inhabited and space travel is common.  The protagonist (Cory McAbee, who also wrote and directed the movie) is an astronaut from Nevada who makes a living smuggling precious cargo from planet to planet (in this movie, it happens to be cats and children, but one gets the impression that these are special circumstances). He's friends with Larry Blueberry, an intergalactic fresh fruit thief. If that gives you any idea.  Basically, the plot's premise is simple  He has to go to Jupiter, pick up the Boy Who Actually Saw a Woman's Breast, take the Boy to Venus, give him to the women in exchange for the body of their dead king, bring the body to Earth to his family and collect his reward, all while trying not to be killed by his arch-nemesis, Professor Hess.  See what I mean? It's also in black and white, though according to the director (who we had a Q&A with on Saturday), it's not in high contrast film it's just shot with a superwide aperture.  Which gives it a very cool old-school look with lots of shadows.  The movie is dominated by the soundtrack, which is very cool. But the soundtrack is very modern avant-garde rock, and yet somehow fits perfectly.  It's hard to imagine how they imagined the movie the way they did, but it all gels nicely. The movie is very light-hearted.  Although the villian is a murderer who kills everyone who comes in contact with the Astronaut, he's so childish and silly that you have to like him.  I won't spoil the story of why he's after the Astronaut, but it's clever. Speaking of cleverness, McAbee claims the clever way in which the film was shot was all visionary rather than budgetary, which I believe.  All of the exterior space shots of his spaceship are stills of paintings, yet they work really nicely.  He was talking about thoughts of using CGI or perhaps underwater models and was struck with the idea of simple stills. Throughout this movie, one can tell that simplicity in storytelling and design are the best way to go.  I don't mean to say that the story is simple in the sense of being unsophisticated.  One of the premises of the film is that there are no women in space (except on Venus, where they can breed without men and only one man is allowed to live there), and without openly commenting on this at all certain scenes make rather biting comments about gender roles. As an example. But the film isn't about biting comments, it's about having a great time at the movies with an new and imaginative story.  You have to be prepared for an unconventional film, but if you don't laugh at the dance contest between astronauts at a bar on Ceres, you must be dead. "},{"Title":"The movie I always wanted to make...","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...and still do.Sure, this is at least partially a vehicle for the music of the Billy Nayer Show, but so what?  If that is all it is, it is still the best music video I've ever seen.  But it is much more.  You can read many other reviews about the genre combining efforts, but even beyond that, the genre it becomes is something that I believe has been dreamed of but never done before with this much success.  While not stooping to the lowest common denominator, it does have something for everybody, if one is patient with its refusal to engage in conventional entertainment trappings.  After sitting in a screening class for a student run film festival for two years in a row, and seeing the often failed attempts at surrealism, humor, post-modern poetics, and just basic storytelling from the many entries from around the world, I have to applaud the successes in all of the above here.  I look forward to more works from this talented crew, and I also recommend their early works.  You can get them on this nifty DVD I just bought, which you can get on their website (no, I am not a promotor for the movie or the band... otherwise this review would be even more glowing, and probably unbelievable).  The two and a half minute animated musical simply titled Billy Nayer is possibly my favorite, but the Ketchup and Mustard Man is quite an accomplishment, and stylistically anticipates American Astronaut, while The Man on the Moon could almost be its prequel.Thanks for existing, McAbee and co.  And hurry up with that DVD release of this movie!! "},{"Title":"Ersatz David Lynch Musical","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just didn't find its idiosyncrasies all that compelling/endearing. I just didn't find its non- sequiturs all that amusing. It was ambitious in some ways, and I admire its lo-tech adventure into the sci-fi genre. On the whole, it was sort of bad though. It has a strong resemblance to Cannibal! the Musical an all-male cast with a song in its heart on a mission in the far reaches of the known world; both films have homoerotic-ish moments/themes. The big difference was that the songs and dialogue in Cannibal! the Musical were actually pretty funny. American Astronaut isn't really so funny. You have to want to try to laugh at some of the absurd stuff, the film doesn't ever really force a laugh out of me. I give it three stars because it was innovative and aesthetically cool sometimes. Minus seven stars because of everything else about the movie. "},{"Title":"Not the worst film I've ever seen ...","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... simply the worst film I can think of at the moment.Comparisons to David Lynch's early work are unfair blemishes on his reputation. Surely the only ways in which this film resembles 'Eraserhead' are that it's low-budget and shot in B&W.There is no content or depth in this film, it is just a long set of scenes loosely strung together, held together by one running joke. What is that joke? Others have commented on it here -- professor Hess's birthday.There is nothing else. Period.Note that the lack of special effects isn't an issue. Tarkovsky's 'Solaris' and Godard's 'Alphaville' both satisfactorily represented space travel with limited technology, as does 'The American Astronaut'. The problem is that there's nothing for the space travel scenes to bind together -- the film is empty.It was difficult to believe that the film was *only* an hour and a half long. It felt like an eternity. There was a constant trickle of audience members leaving all through the session. Well, that was at MIFF, maybe the viewers were a little more discerning than the usual crowd. I stayed because I felt that there must be at least an attempt at redemption at the end. Sadly, no. Just a continuation of that joke.Maybe I'm just spoiled by the likes of Bela Tarr, Wim Wenders, Mike Figgis, Jim Jarmusch, Terrence Malick and other mind-alteringly talented directors.Then again, maybe there's a simpler answer -- that this film really is devoid of all worth. "},{"Title":"A wild ride that almost goes somewhere","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film at the International Film Series in Boulder, Colorado, and was initially bowled over by its inventiveness.  Even though this appears it's his first film, Cory McAbee plunges us into a bizarre world with supreme confidence.  The budget is low but it doesn't seem like the filmmakers sweated it - they spent the money on production design and great costumes rather than trying to do convincing spaceships-flying-through-asteroids shots.  It reminded me of Eraserhead more than any other movie - using lighting, props and sound effects to set the tone.  But, ultimately, what is this movie other than a showcase for the band's music?  The musical interludes occasionally drive the whole film to a grinding halt.  They brought me out of the movie and I got very conscious of sitting in a movie theater restlessly waiting.  The songs are funny but they frequently have very little to do with the action of the movie.  I wonder if all of them were written for the film or if the band just wanted to put in some of their regular songs.  And, the ending was very unsatisfying.  I mean, I definitely feel like I got my money's worth but after sitting through an amazingly creative patchwork of sci-fi serial/western/off-off-Broadway musical you'd think they could have summed it up with one more setpiece.  There seems to be a totally-unforeseen mini-revival of the musical going on nowadays and if you ask me, Hedwig and the Angry Inch is the only film that's really pushed the genre forward into new territory. "}{"Title":"Deep Hurting.","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most of the other reviews read like they were written by friends of the band. That being said, the music was sorta catchy. I find myself every now and then singing Hey Boy! to myself. Then I'm reminded of the Lynch-wannabe tripe I sat through.Maybe go see the band, get mp3s of the soundtrack (minus the Vagina Made of Glass song), but don't see this movie. Not that you're likely to get the chance... "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst film of the year","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Went to an advance screening of this, figuring it would be something different.  Instead I was confronted with a black & white outer-space drama full of 5th grade humor (lots of jokes about body parts & bathrooms), which made only sporadic sense, and in which characters broke into songs that sound like they were written to be intentionally annoying (like a song about a party, where the guy just keeps screaming party for most of it).  What is the point?  The film looks original, and has some original concepts, but they're sabotaged by the incredible inanity and (what seems intentional) incoherence of the script.  EW said it was like a Laurel & Hardy movie directed by Dali but what it really is is a David Lynch movie directed by Tom Green. (saw at least 6-7 people walk out, too).  "},{"Title":"brilliant black and white, no-budget, space western musical","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't like musicals and I'm not a huge fan of space movies but I loved this film. This black and white, no-budget, space western musical is quirky and full of humor. The music, though beyond any description I can think of, comes from the talented Billy Nayer Show (who made the film as well). Treat yourself to this film. It's not Hollywood, thankfully.This film is character driven with many of the lead rolls played by the band members. To the best of my knowledge, the space backgrounds where also painted by the band. Not meant to be believable (I don't think), they are more real than real.If you ever have a chance to see Billy Nayer Show live you are in for a treat. But I was first turned onto this art collect through this movie. See it. "},{"Title":"The western is alive and well in outer space!","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a fun way to spend a few hours.  Corey McAbee is innovative in his thinking and creates a fun piece of film.  What do you do when you travel from outpost to outpost.  You stop in at your favorite bar, see a few old friends, listen to some music and pick up hitchhikers.  When you finally get on some solid ground where you can relax you have some strange adventures. Space travel, traditional western film styling of good guy v. bad guy and musical numbers.  What more could one want.  Loved it! Loved it! Loved it!  "},{"Title":"The most original film in years","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a uniquely bizarre film. It is shot beautifully, similar to film noir.  The visual style is something to be commended each and every frame seems like something I could stare at for hours.  The music of the Billy Naylor Show compliments the film, and it's really great to see someone making musicals again.  The film like a taking a handful of unlikely genres and mashing them together to see in what comes of it. The film makers really take risks in this film and it proves to be something you've never seen before.  It is truly one of the most original films I've ever seen.  I urge everyone, if you get a chance to see it go now!!   Don't let interesting, dynamic, creative, innovative, original films like this die!  Go see it now.  "},{"Title":"I laughed and laughed and laughed!","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film at the day-time showing of the Midnight Madness feature at the Toronto Film Festival. Being a former midnight Midnight Madness attendee, I still try to see at least one B-movie during the festival. This was the one I picked this year, and I was not disappointed! What a fun film! I laughed and laughed and laughed! I still laugh at the old guy's joke at the bar! I can't wait to find this film on video!! I will definitely be looking for it wherever I can! "},{"Title":"The true feel-good movie","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had the luck of getting to see this little gem of a film at the Stockholm film-festival in November 2001. Everyone with a taste for the bizarre and really good music should go out of their way to catch this - it will get you high for weeks. Filmed in gloriously crisp b/w and set i steam/punk/western space, American Astronaut not only boasts a terrific soundtrack by the Billy Nayer Show but a well written script (sick in a good way) and some great acting. Hey Boy... "},{"Title":"Dreamy spacewestern w/ images of Jules Verne and early sci-fi","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  American Astronaut imagines space travel in the style of late 1800's writer Jules Verne, and imagines space as a vast old-west style frontier with touches of 1920's-1950's sci-fi (Women on Venus/ Disintegrating rayguns). The whole style of American Astronaut is an engaging past vision of the future. The stellar dialogue, inventive costuming and sets, gorgeous black and white cinematography and terrific acting make for one of the most original and creative films I've seen in a long time. At the end of the screening I walked out of the theatre elated and feeling fortunate for having seen such a great film.  "},{"Title":"it Straight up Rocks","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is so very good, delicious, demented and right.  What more could you want than a low budget perfectly executed black and white sci fi musical comedy.  A whole butt load of new terrain is opened up with this one. See It,  "},{"Title":"atmospheric, bizarre, hilarious","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie reminds me of those old Buck Roger's movie serials as reinterpreted by someone with the visual sensibilities of David Lynch and the musical innovation of a Frank Zappa / King Missile hybrid.  I loved the low budget approach to science fiction. The still paintings of the spaceship (spacebus?) and sparsely lit scenes created a sense of atmosphere that the big budget Hollywood pictures smother in obnoxiously realistic special effects.  I was far more affected by this presentation of outerspace than anything George Lucas and ILM has ever offered. It's also an absolutely hilarious film.     "}{"Title":"This film is meant for a midnight showing","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film at Toronto Film Fest's Midnight Madness.  This is exactly where it belonged.  I laughed myself silly and I LOVED the music, but ONLY at 2AM!  If I had seen this movie at 9AM before breakfast, I would have been in awe of it's uselessness.  Rent/Buy/See this movie in the wee hours of the giddy night and it is a guaranteed pleaser.  A low-budget gem. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Best not to categorise this masterpiece. It's the kind of film that can only be seen, not described. It may be the best film I've seen. It certainly deserves to be a huge cult hit - it could be the 'Rocky horror' for this generation, if the media could ever deal with a non-plastic soundtrack. Just see the film and remember that not all visions of the future will be the same.  "},{"Title":"A short review","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the best movie I have ever seen.  The Billy Nayer Show soundtrack is magnificent, and a completely perfect match for the film. "},{"Title":"Should Have Been A Cult Hit","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cory McAbee plays Samuel Curtis an astronaut on a mission. His mission is to take a cat to a bar on an asteroid to trade it for the clone of a woman and then to take the clone to Jupiter and trade it for the boy who once saw a woman's breast, and then take him.... Ah, don't worry about the rest. It doesn't matter, because in this movie, as is usually the case in life itself, the destination isn't as important as the journey.This ingenious black and white musical gem restored my waning faith in independent film. Over the years, independent film, of the Sundance variety, has become too pious, too bland, too self-important and too formulaic. (How many times can you watch a group of quirky misfits and loners form themselves into an impromptu family? Okay, okay, there's an element of that here too, but the setting and the execution make it fresh and diverting.) Writer/Director McAbee populates the film with unique and interesting characters, and he doesn't care if they are really relevant to the resolution of the story. Take, for example, Tom Aldredge, who tells the Hertz DoNut joke. It doesn't go anywhere -- literally -- not even all the way to the punchline, but it is hilarious. The film careens from one amusing episode after another. From the Hey Boy showdown in the mens room, to everything Lee Vinsky has to say, to the Woman With The Vagina Made of Glass. Not everything works completely, but I found myself either laughing, or with a goofy smile on my face throughout.I can't help but think that had this film been released in a more adventuresome cinematic time like the mid-80s, this film would have been a massive cult hit and McAbee would be hailed as the next David Lynch or Jim Jarmusch. I had the good fortune to see this film at a screening in DC that featured a Q&A with the director after-wards. He seemed to take the film's -- how can I put this discreetly -- lack of success in stride. I didn't. It's a shame to see such an original and entertaining film limp out onto the market with so little exposure. I hope this film finds it's market. It's too cool to dwell in obscurity.You owe it to yourself to see it. "},{"Title":"Space Travel from the Couch","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, I saw the movie at the Red Vic in the Haight/Ashbury of San Francisco...a perfect setting for an off-beat film where movie-goers can watch a flik from a flea-bitten (j/k) couch while eating' good and cheap confection. Maybe this sounds like an ad for the movie theater, but I find such a setting perfect for how I would categorize American Astronaut as a couch swallowing, camp/cult SCI FI flik.With its punkish music, it is a caricature of solar system space travel reminding me of Rocky Horror; but yes, it had the disconcert of Eraserhead. It all began on a f'd up bar on an asteroid. And while the ending was perhaps unsatisfying, it ended when I needed it to end...kind of like a Phillip K. Dick novel.I'm giving the movie a very high grade because it was made on the cheap. It made me laugh hard. It left a lot of room for personal interpretation. It is a social commentary. And it was quite disturbing, especially in its view of men and women existing separately.Oh yeah, it definitely had some commonality with The Queen of Outer Space...though crasser. For some reason, I was wondering if SCI-FI had a category called Kitsch SCI-FI. I looked up kitsch and must say that there is nothing kitsch about American Astronaut, especially the low budget spaceship because we really don't yet inhabit the solar system and glossy Star Trek space boats are extreme imitations of truth while even an Einstein cho cho train elaboration is more relativistic to our Earth...or at least way REALer than than captialistic star boat Enterprise.Ultimately, it all felt gay no matter which way you look at it...Not because he wants to wear it, but because he gets to wear it. It's one of our pseudo hero's funniest lines as I remember it from the movie. I'd own this film if I could find it. "},{"Title":"Space is a rocking town","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The American Astronaut is the kind of film that no right-thinking development body, media council or production company would dream of supporting. Good. In their hands, what a nightmare it would become. Instead you might wonder if Cory McAbee and BNS Productions were dropped on their collective brain once upon a time. In a good way.TAA embraces the low budget and turns it into its strongest feature. Black and white makes every grimy detail somehow gorgeous. The brass fittings and real wood interiors are reminiscent of the rickety technology that fired a rocket into the eye of the moon decades ago. It is not at all like Eraserhead, but that is exactly what it reminds you of. Alternatively, imagine Steptoe And Son in space, with one Harry H. Corbett and a near infinite number of dirty old men.In the same way that Alien gave a convincing glimpse at the distant future of long-haul space travel (ignoring the parasites for a moment) TAA points out that the first steps are likely to be sweaty, spotty, lonely little head trips which only serve to emphasise our humanity when we reach our destination, even if by that point our humanity is disturbed. But there is a real depth of feeling throughout.To say nothing of the great soundtrack, the cracked sense of humour, the striking artistic style and the excellent effect of the death ray.It isn't perfect. It feels like there should be more when it finishes, but only because every sensible film tends to tie up its loose ends and provide a recognisable conclusion or resolution at all costs. TAA isn't sensible and has no costs, so what can you expect? "},{"Title":"An American Original","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" After some constant nagging by a friend to see The American Astronaut, I finally sat down and screened the DVD. Initially, I wasn't sure if I liked it. I thought... LAME... sorta. I then ran the Director's Commentary on the DVD and began to grow a slow appreciation for the film. I thought about its unique style and the many challenges of producing a low-budget film (I should know). I then replayed the movie, taking into consideration what the filmmakers were trying to accomplish, and low and behold... IT WORKED! It works on many levels, including originality, and was made the way the filmmakers intended, without compromise to their original vision. To me it was like watching Eraserhead in Outer Space -- and that's a good thing! If you love independent film and are not quite sure about this one, watch the Director's Commentary on the DVD and then give the movie a second chance. You may be pleasantly surprised because the more you see it, the more it grows on you.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED VIEWING! "},{"Title":"great visual style, entertaining","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A space cowboy is on a job to deliver a girl in a case for a handsome boy to trade to a planet of Venusian women in exchange for their former king, whose remains are wanted back on Earth by his wealthy family.  Not a problem.  Except a psychopathic old friend is trying to kill him. It's a 1930's type of space setting where women and men live on different planets, individual pioneers make their name with hard work, and the law has a short reach.This is a fun one.  Very low budget, music plays a big part, and it has a very consistent visual style old school black and white space movie.   Think Flash Gordon.  People call it a spoof, but it's not, not in the way that a high dollar spoof comedy uses intentionally bad special effects to make fun of old movies for a laugh, like Amazon Women on the Moon did.  It does have low budget effects, and it is very funny, but they're not part of the joke.  They're there to create the dark and lonely drifter feel of the story, and also probably because the film did have a very low budget.The closest movie I can think of to compare it to would be Six String Samurai.  If you liked that, you'd like this, provided you also like the type of music in The American Astronaut, and I do.  There are musical scenes with an original score, and a bit of action, but mostly just the entertainment of seeing how the whole 1930's space thing works.  "},{"Title":"Perhaps the all-time worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A local newspaper capsule review claimed that this was a slapstick sci-fi musical comedy spoof.I would say that there were no discernable elements of slapstick or comedy and it barely rates as sci-fi (bad sci-fi).  Perhaps that's where the spoof comes in -- it is a spoof of sci-fi.  The height of the special effects was the cardboard ray gun, which the guy waved around, and then a camera cut was used to show sand being tossed onto the stage (supposedly all that was left of the person).The space ship was apparently deliberately made to look like a freight train engine, and as the 2D drawing of it was moved across the view of the camera, it even made a sound similar to a freight train as it moved through the vacuum of space.Rather than sci-fi, I would say that it was closer to the worst imaginable spaghetti western, with a half-dozen space-like elements thrown in to weakly suggest sci-fi.  (Infinitely worse than the infamous Shane episode of the Battlestar Galactica TV show.)The plot was weak and pointless to the degree of being unfathomable, and of course, no logical consistency, no acting that stood out in the least. Come on guys, a skilled movie maker might be able to get away with black and white film, or cheesy special effects, but there has to be *something* of redeeming value in the production to make it worthwhile!The movie didn't really come to a conclusion; rather, after the longest ninety minutes of my life, it sort of ground to a halt, having said nothing, gone nowhere, and left me with no memorable emotions other than boredom and wonder that it could have ever made it into any theater, even an art theater.I suspect that the movie merely exists as a vehicle to show off the music of some San Francisco band.  And unfortunately for me, I didn't like the music, so that left absolutely nothing of value to show for my time expended.My primary regret is that the local newspaper movie critic didn't give me fair warning, but I also regret not simply getting up and leaving early on (I was with friends and I was afraid that one of them might actually be seeing something of value in the mess since they seemed to be paying attention -- but afterwards I learned that we were all as stupefied as me). "},{"Title":"In a just world...","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a just world, this film would have the cult status of (the far inferior) 'Rocky Horror.' (This bit of information has been left out of the synopsis, but those interested in the film should know that, like 'Rocky Horror,' 'American Astronaut' is a musical... sort of). The music is original and (unlike 'Rocky's') good, the acting is often great, the sets and costumes do wonders with a small budget, and while I see what the writer of the synopsis meant about the film not having a strong plot in the traditional sense, it does, in fact, have a plot and a shape that is sensible and aesthetically satisfying. Strongly recommended for those up for something different, but who don't want 'different' to be synonymous with either 'crappy' or 'pretentious.' "}{"Title":"a waste of 2 hours.","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...or was it longer?  It seemed longer.  I wonder if anyone was really trying to make a movie, or if (judging from other comments) this was just a front for a San Francisco area band.So many regrets - that I did not get up, that I did not ask for my money back, that the film did not break, that I will *never* get my 2 hours back.oh - and I did not like the band, either. "},{"Title":"No message, no point, and very little logic. Refreshing.","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Eraserhead meets Dark Star meets Jarmusch meets alternative rock. And that doesn't even begin to describe this utterly original little flick. The soundtrack is entertaining, weird. How do I even label it? Happy psychedelic rock? I have no clue what it is, but that's never a bad thing when it comes to music. I wasn't too crazy about the vocals, but the rest is well above average.AA (and the initials do have fitting implications), is the most bizarre, nonsensical movie I'd seen in many years. It is a movie without a point, without a message, without logic, without a real beginning, and with an ending that might as well have been in the middle, as far as I'm concerned. In other words, very very refreshing. An inter-planetary road movie? And that's one of its more normal aspects.No left-wing baloney, no mindless/boring tackling of social issues, no asinine preaching, or a pathetic anti-war message right out of Gandhi's left hip. In fact, this is the most purely apolitical movie that one can make, not a trace of Hollywood baloney in it. It is obvious that McAbee intended to make a movie that went totally against the grain, and wanted it to be experienced rather than intellectualized over.AA lacks logic, so don't even bother. Curtis fails to notice his nemesis in the bar. The evil professor kills everyone with great ease, seems to be the only armed person in the Solar System. Etc. In fact, I get the sense that McAbee is even proud of his movie's non-logic, this being best exemplified in Curtis's comical explanation of why the professor kills people whom he has no reason to kill, while refusing to kill those whom he has a reason to kill. It's buffoonish anti-logic par excellance. It reminded me of Python at their best.You will never find a sci-fi film with this type of visual slant. Spaceships look like run-down log-cabins, the interiors look like they hadn't been lived in for decades, and if they have then only by serial killers or winos.At the start I was thrown back a bit by the very deliberate weird for the sake of it attitude that relentlessly pervades from start to finish, because some of those films can be embarrassingly awful. So it does take a little while to get into the groove of AA. It does grown on you, though. Just as George Lucas yelled faster, faster! at his actors during the making of Star Wars, I could easily imagine McAbee shouting weirder, weirder! at his actors during the shooting.I've rarely seen a movie this well acted and cast. Nowadays that's a rarity. But then again, AA is already 10 years old, belongs to the turn of the millennium era when the last droplets of quality dripped from America's dying indie scene. That scene is pretty much dead now. It's all about making left-wing political commercials that will win awards now.The only real flaw, however, is the villain, the dull middle-aged geezer who kills everyone in sight. I neither found this actor nor the character he played all that interesting, nor funny.It's nice to see that there are still filmmakers out there who get the urge to do something completely new, instead of dishing out the same old useless crap, over and over again.But then again, this film is ten years old, as I said. Originality and lack of pretentiousness almost seem to have been banned in American film recently. "}]