[{"Title":"Charm that grows on you","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit, after the first few minutes I was wondering if I'd even manage to finish the whole thing.  Also, as this was the first Dogme film I'd seen, I was also really questioning the whole concept.  The opening scenes seemed amateurish in both filming and acting, with jerky editing and camera movements, and seemingly one-dimensional characters.  But it really grew on me as I kept watching.  The more the characters revealed themselves, the more sympathetic and complex they became.  It actually became quite engrossing as the film progressed.  There were just so many moments of geniune warmth and humor.  In fact, what really struck me about this film after it was all over was its geniuneness.  I haven't seen anything so heartwarming in a long time.  8/10. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable and totally devoid of Hollywood-style contrivance","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had the pleasure of seeing Italiensk for begyndere in a pretty small, intimiate cinema, which set the audience up beautifully for this movie.The characters really drive this story, rather than the film pushing the characters around. What results is a movie that takes its own time to say what it needs to say, and that allows us to gain insight on what really is a broad spectrum of very human, very diverse personalities.Romantic comedies-dramas, by and large, are pretty hit-and-miss, though more miss than hit if they come from Hollywood. They're bogged down in clichés, saccarine melodrama and characters that don't at all behave like real people. Italiensk for begyndere avoids all that, giving us characters that could just as well be the person sitting three seats from you in the cinema, that's how human they are.I didn't feel at all cheated with this film, and left the cinema feeling like I saw a film that speaks to people. Superb. "},{"Title":"Bravo!","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very intimate and enjoyable film. It shows every day characters in their own surroundings interacting in a manner that is very naturalistic and true. Director Lone Scherfig has directed with a sure hand and the situation is believable.The ensemble cast plays well, as it is with the majority of the Dogme95 films. At times, they make us forget that we are watching a film, as it struck me, that I was just intruding in the life of a bunch of people in that town in Denmark. What is amazing is that the film doesn't become an Italian travelogue  as it would have been the case had this story been done by a non-Scandinavian director with pressures from studio heads. It has the right amount ingredients and it makes a delicious minestrone for all to enjoy.Bravi a tutti! "},{"Title":"One fine romantic comedy","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the most enjoyable and rewarding romantic comedies at the beginning of the decade. A Dogma 95 film, this movie exemplifies the challenges put up by the group of film makers that created Dogma 95 in Copenhagen. DOGMA 95 counters the individual film by the principle of presenting an indisputable set of rules known as THE VOW OF CHASTITY. The rules (10 in all) include principles such as shooting must be done on location (scenes in Venezia) and on a sound stage used to rehearse Sound of Music--an auditorium where the Italian classes are held. Music should not be used unless it occurs where hte scene is being shot (how refreshing not to have Hollywood scores interrupting the natural sound). Hand-held camera-- this produces a feeling that you are doing the filming yourself. I felt that when Andreas was swimming in the hotel pool. Special lighting is not acceptable -- again the auditorium and the lights. Or the restaurant lighting. The characters in this movie are so real one feels you have met them before. You can read the plot elsewhere if you haven't seen this movie. There are pairings in this movie that show romance at its best -- forgiveness for the foible (Olympia was probably born with fetal alcohol syndrome-- Andreas understands this and near the end when he suggests she sing in the church choir, he suggests they prepare for her falling over into the pews. Giulia's budding love for Jorgen Mortensen is a treat -- little prayers in the kitchen -- and rehearsal for the big moments. This movie even treats impotence with the gentleness and humor and understanding that the best of life can deal. Perhaps most erotic is the scene where Karen washes Hal-Finn's hair in her salon -- ummmm! Not enough can be said about this movie. So to cut it short -- go see it -- watch it several times. A magical experience awaits -- where real people with real foibles find real connection. "},{"Title":"Nine Lovely People, No Villains!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a pleasure Italian for Beginners is.  Each character is appealing as well as complex and recognizable. A new pastor, bereft after his wife's death, interacts with an assortment of people who by accident or stumbling and fumbling intent come together in overlapping relationships.  Romance is in the air, deaths dislocate several of the characters' lives, comedic movements help all to cope with the vagaries of life.Taking place mostly in Denmark (with a restaurant manager whose style convinces me that he must have done an internship in a New York City eatery), the story revolves around the central goal of learning Italian. Only one of the main characters is from Italy, a beautiful waitress with the clearest agenda of anyone in the film.  After wrestling through a non-Berlitz approach to the language all head for Venice where hearts meet and fun reigns.Dogma 95 certificate or not, this is a convincing, endearing, excellent film.  By intent or otherwise, many scenes are shot with a slight jerkiness that adds to a viewer's sense of inclusion.Unfortunately this film won't screen in many theatres and rentals and sales will be the path to a wider audience.  And this film merits a very big following. "},{"Title":"Another dogme hit.","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At the time of writing, Italian for beginners is a big hit on the Berlin Film Festival. The reason may be that it´s another film made under the Dogme 95 certificate, but it can easily stand on its own, without comparison to The Celebration, The Idiots and Mifune. Basically it´s a comedy-drama (although one of the Dogme rules prohibits genre definition) telling several interwoven stories connected by the Italian-for-beginners-class. There are a whole variety of characters the young pastor, the hothead short order cook from the sports restaurant, the clumsy girl from the bakery etc. All very recognizable everyday types, but beautifully realized by its talented cast, with special kudos to Peter Gantzler, cast against type and hilariously underplaying as the nerdish impotent hotel clerk. Lars Kaalund is also very funny, sporting a very authentic sounding Italian.Director Lone Scherfig has made a very endearing, romantic film that is very universal in its tone, which is probably why it has performed so well at the Berlin film festival. For a feel-good movie experience, you should definitely go see Italian for beginners.  "},{"Title":"Dogma For Beginners","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a pleasant and entertaining little movie and it was fun seeing new faces and styles.  The story is interesting and relevant.  The people believable and charming.  I enjoyed getting to know them as they got to know each other.  the film employs a delicate approach to such topics as death, impotence, God and loneliness.  I wasn't always enthralled.  A couple of scenes dragged a bit and my attention began to wander.  The woes and goals of some characters lacked originality.  The situations have been depicted many times in many movies.  None the less, I was never bored, never annoyed and did not feel slighted as the viewer.An impressive cast and tight direction keep the show moving efficiently and provide a dependable vehicle for the delivery of the intended results in a satisfying manner.What surprised me was the number of cinematic conventions incorporated into a project that reportedly meant to avoid them.  I claim no authority on the Dogma 95 movement, but I understand they aspire to strip a movie of as many mainstream cliches as possible.  Standard story elements and cinematography are not what the filmmakers wish to present.One of the conventions they frown on is the artificial insertion of background music.  Yet this movie does use such incidental music in one scene, in a very traditional format.  It's even an old, familiar tune.  Like Rock Of Ages at a funeral or Take Me Out To The Ballgame when we see Yankee Stadium.  And for an approach expected to break with tradition, there is an awful lot of happily ever after in the resolutions to the various conflicts.  The average looking actors and the less than beautiful scenery add greatly to the believability.  The fun they, and in turn, we have with it offsets any flaws in the production.  But it's going to take more than a hand held camera and a Scandinavian accent to overcome 100 years of accepted film technique.  But I enjoyed the show and if they keep trying, I'll keep watching. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Romance in Dogma 95","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Denmark, six lonely persons are having Italian classes sponsored by the City Hall. Jørgen Mortensen (Peter Gabtzler) is a shy hotel manager who has a crush on Giulia (Sara Indrio Jensen), a young Italian woman who works in an Italian restaurant and is secretly in love with him. Olympia (Anette Støvelbæk) is a clumsy clerk of a candy shop, who lives with her sullen father and is in love with Andreas (Anders W. Berthelsen), a young widow priest recently arrived in town. And the hairdresser Karen (Ann Eleonora Jørgensen), whose mother is an alcoholic woman, who loves Hal-Finn (Lars Kaalund), an incompetent and aggressive bar manager of the hotel where his best friend Jørgen Mortensen works. I am not a fan of Dogma 95 movies (the movement which uses handheld camera, natural light and sound and no special effects), but in this delightful romance the actors are so spontaneous that indeed it works. This unconventional love story, with euthanasia, common people, losers in general, Danish persons speaking Italian, is actually a great romance. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) ` Italiano Para Principiantes' (`Italian For Beginners')  "},{"Title":"Proof that budget doesn't matter","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A clever film, with low production values but a witty script and great cast. The characters are so real and vivid.  You sympathize with them, want them to succeed.  There are so many tiny little things that make it leap from the screen.  As you become caught up in the story you forget that the camera is a little shaky, the video not always perfectly focused.  The scenes in Italy are absolutly beautiful.  The director uses colors well, the color of the characters clothes reflects their emotions.  Never heavy handed or pushy, just a sweet little film.  "},{"Title":"More is Less. . . and Less can be More","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Slightly too fast paced for the extensive subtitles, Italiensk for begyndere can be watched and enjoyed even if you do not understand a word of the dialog.  In an audience of English only speakers over two thirds of those present were unable to keep up with the subtitles-- but all present enjoyed it.  The writing was superb, the acting wonderful, and the overall product well suited to the dogme95 concept.  Even so, it would have worked as well (if not better) as a standard production.  I'm almost afraid to say it, but I expect an American remake before long-- in spirit if not in word for word translation.See it in the theater, then enjoy talking it over with the rest of the audience, or wait until it comes out on DVD and invite a least a dozen people over for critical mass viewing. "}{"Title":"feelings protagonists","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The true protagonists of this movie are not the characters, but their feelings. In particular, I admired the skills of the director in entering into the desire of the Danish for the warmth and liveliness that Italians exhibit. If you can not stand the the fact that the camera is constantly moving and nobody has any make up, then, do not watch it. However, you would miss a funny and heartwarming movie with no frills and enjoyable hidden messages, for example that friendship and love can bring the sun of Italy into one's heart, or that life can always take unexpected turns.  "},{"Title":"I had much fun watching this movie","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What an evening well spent watching this film. It's poignant, touching, funny. It explores themes that are not always easy to talk about on the big screen euthanasia for one, impotence for another. It also touches the tragedy of losing someone close to you. The cast is very good, all six of them, but especially Anette Stovelbaeck, Ann Eleonara Jorgensen and Peter Gantzler. And Sara Indrio Jensen is superb! Too bad she hasn't played in another movie. The dogme style goes well with this story. But one must get pass the first 10 minutes or so during which the hand-held camera can make you a bit dizzy! Seen at home, in Toronto, on March 25th, 2006.80/100 (***) "},{"Title":"A Most Unusual Movie","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Had the chance to watch this on DVD last night and was completely taken by surprise. First,the most obvious unusual thing,the movie is on video-tape.Much like a PBS documentary or one of those more serious reality shows. Maybe a slight touch of foreign country soap-opera's as well.It should be no surprise that I thought,As a film this can't possibly work in terms of drama or humor,since it's not on standard celluloid used in almost all films. Happy to say I was wrong. Every main character is very well fleshed out and very engaging. The females are fair to very strong characters and the men are very differing in character but none are caricatures or stereotypical movie males,thankfully. I felt the idea of all coming together because of a class in learning Italian was a fresh idea as well,including their eventual trip to Vienna itself. Quite simply,ten stars..... and I know I may just check this out more than once. (END) "},{"Title":"An ensemble film with sincerity and a clever twist, but very basic filming","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Italian for Beginners (2000)A very sweet, romantic, warm movie about a bunch of slightly lonely, slightly misfit Danes who meet through an Italian class. There is a dysfunctional church (probably not uncommon in Denmark), a quaint bakery, a hairdresser's, and so on, adding to a kind of small town reality where everything has conviction.As much as this is all good--and it is good, if not great--it's also decided low budget in a kind of clunky way. The acting is fine--people are themselves, I suppose, or like fairly normal people--and the story line is cute and clever. But the filming and direction borders on a really good home movie. It's a 97 minute affair of course, and doesn't feel thrown together or amateurish, merely so simple and plain, visually, it becomes conspicuous.But if you can just enjoy the interpersonal lives, and some budding love affairs (and who can't), and a final section in Venice, you might find it a sweet joy. "},{"Title":"Love can be learned, say Amore!","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Italian for Beginners is a superbly directed film in the stylistic tradition of Dogma 95 productions; an anonymous director, the on location sets, and the natural acting create a bare cinematography where the story begins in the very routine lives of six individuals from a small town in Denmark, whose lives intersect at church, in the restaurant, at the hotel and in school. The film quietly plucks these characters off the streets- out of their disparaged mundane environments- into a classroom in hopes of learning something new.Love begins in a neglected classroom, where the couples gather to learn Italian and experience a hope of something greater than their own misfortune. The comical harshness of the over-zealous Finn as their instructor foreshadow their determination to find something from these lessons as they repeat lines together about love and how to be in love. Finally the streets of Venice offer a rich reward for the couples who now have the opportunity to practice what they've learned. A low-lit restaurant in Venice offers new beginnings for the couples that share a very common meal but with a new hope for their lives together. The mundane, disparate, somber tone of the dogma is lifted into a beautiful cannon of what love can be. "},{"Title":"Feel Bad, Feel Good Fantasy","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first part of this film portrays very grim reality with a forthrightness not often experienced in a non-documentary film. It is a relentless cavalcade of death, either shown or described. Spoken, about wives who have died in terrible ways; shown, parents who die in miserable circumstances. And a teacher dying in front of his students. All in the first half-hour. And, to be sure, extremely powerfully and expertly filmed. And then a fairy god-mother shows up, a nurse who conspires and covers up the euthanasia killing of one of our main character's mother. And this leads to revelations and relationships that transform the stories of our characters to the never-land of movie happily-ever-after. It is all extremely well written and performed; contrary to other critiques, the so-called low production values work very well throughout. The euthansia-girl, Karen, is especially well acted and believable throughout. And attractive, in a very real sense, with a blemished face and all. The happy-ever-after fantasy of the last part of the film can be looked upon as a catharsis, or just candy for the masses, or the way lives can be pulled up from the depths. It all can work, if a viewer wishes. But it is the unrelenting and honest depiction of real-life misery in the first part of the film that gives the film its real quality and qualifies the film as an important achievement. "},{"Title":"Dogma for beginners","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If there is one thing originating from Denmark that the world can be thankful for, it's the Dogma 95. Although the rules are more or less constantly broken by the directors, it has served it's purpose well - inspiring the creativity to new levels. The Dogma provides the movies with an injection of reality. Through (e.g.) the hand-held camera, the more or less nonexistent soundtrack, the lack of special lightning and the fact that the actors actually carry their own clothes, you get a feeling of authenticity that very seldomly (if ever) appears in the standard big-budget-movie.To the film It's a story about friendship, about finding someone to trust or even love. Most of the main characters have different emotional problems, giving them problems with normal social relations - something that we all can relate to in times of crisis. They all use the Italian language course as a way to meet someone, nurturing a hope for closeness. The different Christian symbols and themes also give the film depths that might not be so easily seen, watching the movie for the first time. One might be a bit disappointed that the main story is a bit simple - but take another look, and think a step further. It will give you a rarely experienced insight into man and religion. "},{"Title":"Subtle humour","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An excellent movie with a very good plot and a quite subtle humour. I had already seen danish movies before, well, von Triers' movies (whose movies I really like), but this one was a very pleasent surprise.Northern Europe's humour isn't the most famous one, but I must confess that this feature is very well exploited in the movie. "},{"Title":"Real People (really)","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The thing I appreciated about this flick were the actors. Here I saw real people acting the way folks like you and me act in similar situations. None of the silly fresh faced cuteness that one sees on local programming of the 'Friends' genre. Here were people we could all relate with, people we know and have interacted with. After watching the various romances unfold I left the theater with the good feeling of, 'yep, that's the way it really happens.' "},{"Title":"Theme of loss and rebirth","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Italian for Beginners, Danish with subtitles, has the premise of an Italian class along with a temporary pastor in the town as the starting point for a series of funerals and romances between a disparate group of people in a small village outside Copenhagen.The scenes are set realistically in the Dogma 95 model which has been endlessly written about and which can detract from this simple film if one gets caught up in the methodology. I chose not to.The movie takes a gentle hold after about fifteen minutes of dither, I never knew where it was going and why everything (plot, acting, script) was so murky -one aspect of Dogma philosophy is to shoot everything on video. But after that stretch of settling in, it charms and captivates.The characters are well drawn and reveal a complexity over the course of the film that is not evident in the beginning.I found myself smiling at the ending, shot in Venice, where the unhokey multiple romances get a gentle baptism with some nice little surprises laid along the way and a lot of funny, tender moments. 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Neat Movie... just right...","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Its not a very serious movie with great names so don't expect oscars for this one... but for reasonably light and romantic viewing this is great. You leave the theatre happy and very satisfied. It begins somewhat slow... but sure enough picks up a little. Characters are very very likeable if not exactly believable some of them. Neat movie and somehow gets everything quite right in the end. "},{"Title":"A slice of fun and bittersweet joy","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For those who prefer the formulaic Hollywood blockbuster, the Danish film Italian for Beginners won't be for you. Why? When you see that most of the actors are not perfect physical specimens with salon-like hairdos, you'll be running for the doors.Fortunately, for those of us who like a little reality in our films, Italian for Beginners is a little slice of fun and bittersweet joy.Set in a small Copenhagen town, its clear from the start that this film is about the ensemble, not their surroundings. A widowed pastor, ditzy shopgirl, shy desk clerk, boorish waiter and isolated waitress are a few of the characters. They somehow end up together learning Italian, but learning a lot more about life and death together. Each character has his/her unique flavor but the one who seems to draw them together most is the pastor Andreas, new to town. His simple demeanor seems to move each one to confess their secret fears and woes to him. Amid his own loneliness, Andreas starts to come out of his own shell and step into the sun. This movie won't bowl you over with big moral messages or deep emotional pathos. But I was very drawn to the simplicity of it and the humanity of each character. Each one seems to learn something about themselves that ripples through the others.  "},{"Title":"A interesting look at the language of love","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Danish cinema tends to get a bit of flak from the critics, that is,when it's not being ignored in favor of some of its European peerslike England, France and Italy. So it's rather amusing that one ofthe latest Danish imports contains almost as much Italiandialogue as Danish, yet retaining all that is endearing aboutScandinavian films.Written and directed by Lone Scherfig, Italian for Beginners followsthe lives of six unique and diverse individuals in a small Danishtown, who are brought together when they take a class to learnhow to speak Italian. While the six characters featured are fairlyarchetypal, they each are given their own unique twist. We haveOlympia, the klutzy baker; Jorgen, the impotent hotel receptionist;Finn, the unruly, soccer-loving restaurant manager; Giulia, theItalian waitress who doesn't speak Danish, Karen the lonelyhairdresser and Andreas, an unconfident junior pastor, whoseinduction into the local chapel plays catalyst to many of thesituations.For the most part, the Italian class is used almost as aeuphemism throughout the film-possibly for love or sex-and itgives the characters a chance to express themselves and theirfeelings, something they can't always do in their native language.It's interesting to see how love and death and some of the simplerthings in life brings them together.In some ways, this concept is similar to the recent Monster's Ball.Like in that movie, there is a bit of a credibility problem in believingthat these people are all living in the same small town withoutreally knowing each other, especially since there are so manyconnections between them. On the other hand, some of  contradictions help to differentiate between life in a small town inScandinavia and that in the Deep South, and the people in thistown seem a lot more secluded and private despite interactingregularly. The interaction between them seems more believable,and the humor tempers the sad moments, whereas Forster'smovie just depresses and confounds the viewer.If there's one thing learned from Italian for Beginners, it's that theDanish have a very strange sense of humor. Surprisingly, thoselaughs translate well into the English subtitles. The comedyranges from the outlandish to the more subdued, but it alwaysseems spontaneous. Most of the laughs come from each  character's distinctive personality quirk, and the tone of the humoris similar to that of Christopher Guest's Waiting for Guffman.The sad truth is that if this film were British, it would beimmediately embraced by an American audience. The pacing andstorytelling is similar to movies like The Full Monty and WakingNed Devine, and it also shows how repressed small town folkdeal with changes in their lives, and how something ratherminor-in this case Italian lessons-can turn their lives around.Unfortunately, none of these characters really seem to redeemthemselves or change by the movie's end.Still, Scherfig has found some untapped potential and created aninteresting story, which is a nice change of pace than some ofthose awful movies about dating in New York City. There are manyrecurring themes in the movie too, such as the power of prayer,something that is realized both by the pastor and the waitress. Italian for Beginners was filmed using the tenets of Dogme 95'sVow of Chastity, a manifesto created by a group of Danishdirectors&#150;most notably, Dancer in the Dark's Lars Von Trier&#150;inwhich movies are shot on handheld cameras using only naturallighting, sound and settings. Lone Scherfig has managed tosurpass what many other directors have managed using thesame formula. One quickly learns to overlook and forget the low budgetproduction values, as they get ensconced in the personalities andeach character's story. There are many talented Danish actors andactresses in this movie, none of whom I'm familiar with but allwhom are equally entertaining. Their emotions always seem realand Scherfig uses the Dogme 95 system well to insure that thefocus is always on the actors and the acting.This is a strange and heart-warming movie that is a bit slow attimes, but otherwise, it is thoroughly enjoyable and entertaining. Italso wins points for originality in that you never really know what toexpect from one moment to the next.With Italian for Beginners, Lone Scherfig has created a no-frillsfeel-good movie that takes a unique look at falling in love not toofar removed from France's recent export, Amelie. She is definitely adirector to keep an eye upon, and it will be interesting to see if shecan make the transition to mainstream American audiences ashas her Danish compatriot, Lars Von Trier.Rating 8 out of 10   "},{"Title":" How good to feel good","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Italian for Beginners What a charmer! To be able to see a film that you can laugh and cry and go on a real emotional merry-go-round all at the same time.The beauty of the movie was the six characters in search of themselves. All of them fine decent souls even though their personalities were far from flawless.How nice it is in today's world to walk out of a movie and feel really good. To be able to say,that maybe all this can really happen. On second thought, maybe it can.      "},{"Title":"Red Hair in Venice","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.You know, intelligent filmmakers are faced with all sorts of philosophical dilemmas, not the least of which are controversies over storytelling styles. Let's call them the North and South.The Northern style is a matter of creating a world whose fabric is a bit wrinkled and in the niches and loops collect people and situations. A fate drives their action. Actors respond. The `dogma' of filmmaking in this style is that the camera doesn't create, nor do the actors really. It just discovers these wrinkles.The Southern style has it the other way around the world flows out of beings. Characters exist and interact and by breathing breath life into all that surrounds. The threads themselves have life and weave the world. In this world of storytelling and film, actors matter. They create. Artificial situations matter.Now, one can imagine a young Danish filmmaker sitting down, full of these ideas and determined to meld the two. I am sure the whole project began with this notion of a redhaired Danish woman making love to an Italian on the streets of Venice. All evolves from that idea. The Danes come from a dogma, actually one dogma expressed in multiple ways - in the church, in the `rules of Dogma,' in the various petty social contrivances of their society. Naturally, they all seek to `learn' Italian. They are all beginners.In true Nordic fashion, the one woman becomes three, with perfect, clockworks symmetries. Our redhead's eminence is underscored by her role as hairdresser, with the others as reflection. The men either move or are moved depending how close to the dogma they are. Things move in various ways from North to South.See this. It isn't a great film by any means, but the idea behind it is both clever and intelligent. It is more about itself and film than about them. If you can see this (with a little work), its precious.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Excellent, may be first good Dogma 95 film","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We have been waiting for a good comedy for some time, something that adults could watch without squirming. There is not a single joke about seminal fluid in food, in people's hair or anywhere else. The performances are all good Anders Berthelsen is better here than he was in Mifune, Ann Eleonora Jorgensen and Anette Stovelbaek are very effective as two women who find out they are sisters and aren't very happy about it, and Lars Kaalund is the most anti-social waiter you could imagine.I want to single out Kaalund for praise here. He has inherited the crown of the late Patrick Dewaere who could be both charming and sinister; able to seduce women with a smile and a wink then destroy them with a few well-chosen words, or play Iago to somebody's Othello. Dewaere's relationship with Depardieu in Les valseuses was one of the great suppressed homosexual couplings in modern film. I thought too of Matt Damon's Mr. Ripley as I watched Kaalund skulking around the other characters, sizing them up, seeing how far he could go.  "},{"Title":"Contrived romantic comedy still manages to make one smile","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stereotypes of European nationalities are quite relevant here. A half-dozen somewhat buttoned-down Danes gather for Italian lessons, and the lessons, aided by encounters in a church, a hairdresser's, a restaurant, get the members to think about latin romance, free themselves from inhibitions, loosen up a bit. A half-dozen or so Danes and one or two Italians interact in four or five settings in an unnamed Danish city. This is a very small world the characters inhabit...when we see a mass attended by perhaps one hundred people late in the movie, we are surprised, because until then we are hardly ever shown anyone other than the handful of central characters. This is a measure of the contrived artificiality of the film, which only gets worse in the last third of the movie. Even so, I found myself smiling. These people are right for each other--why not have them get together in the end? Just because it's a Dogma film from Denmark doesn't mean perforce it has to be mired in doom and gloom.You can tell the director loves the characters...she makes sure we understand them all well enough to be able to understand their past hardships and handicaps, and so forgive them their present foibles.  "},{"Title":"Good low budget type movie","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was very pleasantly surprised with this movie. It is filmed in such a unique way that it feels almost as if you are a part of the show, a spectator following a group of fatefully connected individuals on a small but very important part of their lives.The movie explores each unique character and relationship independently and offers us a good perspective on the relevant situations they find themselves in. A little more character development for the smaller roles, back story and information about how things came to be, and what will be in the end would have been nice for me, and could have been added while subtracting from some of the less meaningful scenes. This is the Dogme 95 style of film, and is my first introduction to the type. It makes for a more personal realistic style of film making but it seems clear why the style has been formally abandoned.This was an excellent film. It is entirely dialogue driven, so know what you are getting into and you are sure to enjoy this film. I think all of us can relate in some way or another to one of the main characters in this movie. "},{"Title":"Italian for Beginners","Date":"24 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In a small Danish town six lonely people are brought together by a beginners' course of Italian language Andreas (Anders W. Berthelsen) is a recently graduated minister who moves in the town to temporarily replace the erratically behaving previous minister; Finn (Lars Kaalund) works in a restaurant with an Italian woman named Giulia (Sara Indrio Jensen); Jørgen Mortensen (Peter Gantzler) is a quiet hotel clerk and Karen and Olympia (Ann Eleonora Jørgensen and Anette Støvelbæk) work as a barber-hairdresser and a bakery worker respectively. Despite initial setbacks on the course, the group eventually learns to approach each other, and relationships of different kinds are formed.The Dogme influence is most notably evident in the use of hand-held cameras and natural lighting, but over all Italian for Beginners is much softer and accessible in tone than the other films of the Dogme school that I've seen. A major theme is overcoming feelings of insecurity, as all of the characters have their own reasons to keep other people at arm's length at first. In the case of Karen and Olympia it is a difficult relationship to a parent, but for example Finn tends to hide his real feelings under tough and rash behaviour. All of the main characters feel rather polished and even exaggerated at first, but as the movie's empathic style becomes more obvious, the way of presenting their personalities becomes more understandable and very sympathetic.At the end of the day, Italian for Beginners belongs among the better romantic dramas I've seen. The actors fit in their roles well, especially Lars Kaalund as the aggressive Finn and Peter Gantzler as the humble and mild-mannered Jørgen. The quiet, oppressed women Karen and Olympia are also excellently portrayed by Jørgensen and Støvelbæk. Even though the sparse Dogme stylization initially creates a bleak and discomforting atmosphere, the dark aura soon makes way for a down-to-earth feel-good movie that concerns itself with realism on technical aspects only, not so much plotwise. As a result, I would recommend the film to any drama fan who likes a change from the bright world of many traditional screen romances. "},{"Title":"It flows beautifully!","Date":"13 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A movie for the soul, where every character is built carefully and has it's own sensibility. The dialog and the story are well constructed, i did not knew were the time went. In some moment in the movie you know how it is going to end but it's a joy to watch, you grow fond for the characters one scene more beautiful than the other. I personally like best Jørgen Mortensen and Giulia couple because it creates the essence of love it's filling it's beauty it's power to overlook anything. It's a romance movie a story of hope centered on people, on the power of friendship as a family where by the presence of another being who listen to you and value you makes you feel important. "}{"Title":"Though I missed the Dogme era 95-2000  This is a great film.","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Italian for Beginners-2000 Italiensk for Begyndere. A film from Denmark. An unforgettable romantic comedy that's earned overwhelming acclaim, Italian FOR BEGINNERS is a warm & playful story about seven perfect strangers & the shared journey of discovery that changes each of their lives! In a small, rainy suburb, a mismatched collection of opposites have signed up for an Italian class in hopes of spicing up their lives! Then, as they realize the class offers them more than just language lessons, they join together on a quest to Italy with the renewed desire to pursue the romances of their lives! Once there, these world-weary students who thought there was nothing left to learn from life will get an education that will change everything they know about love! Hal-Finn (Lars Kaalund) who is in love with an Italian woman but is afraid to tell her, Olympia (Anette Stovelaek) who uses the class as excuse to get away from her demanding mother, & Carmen (Ann Eleonora Jorgensen) who has a similar problem with her alcoholic mom. Not your usual lighthearted romance, Lone Sherfig's heartwarming comedy warms the usually chilly Dogme 95 world of prickly eccentrics & damaged souls with a glowing sense of hope & passion. A belligerent restaurant manager, a repressed hotelier, a lonely hairdresser, & a clumsy, childlike bakery clerk are among the lonely thirty something's who escape the social disasters & comic chaos of their unfulfilled lives in an Italian-language evening course. It becomes a place to dream & to heal emotional wounds (& they have more than their fair share of scars). Sherfig manages to turn the familiar social landscape of films as The Celebration & The King Is Alive--fractured families, abusive parents, tragic pasts-into a backdrop for romantic comedy. If not exactly profound, Italian for Beginners remains a sweet, hopeful, & affirming tale of eccentrics who find friendship, family, & romance while learning the language of love. I liked this movie a lot! I don't know why the National TV Broadcase companies and Movie Productions companies don't try using to Dogme idea to make one hour real drama mini movies. ( even full length 2 hours movies) this film is a success. 5 stars "},{"Title":"Dogme-lite? No worse for it!","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A lovely, feelgood film that manages to avoid being twee through several flashes of that dry, dark, Danish sense of humour; as well as a willingness to look at life's realities square on, without overt sentimentality, but with a tentative optimism.For those familiar with Dogme '95 this is proof that it doesn't always have to be vaguely disturbing or downright shocking truths that the medium wrings out of its characters and situations - life isn't always that bleak. For those not familiar with Dogme, this film presents a warm and inviting pool in which one may dip one's toe comfortably.The six lead characters are three-dimensional and likable, including Lars Kaalund's Ramseyan restaurateur Halvfinn. The support is a little more exaggeratedly drawn, but still sympathetic for the most part. The plot is uncomplicated (no prizes for guessing the minor twists) but none the worse for that - part of the Dogme vow of chastity is to avoid the horrendously contrived plot twists favoured by Hollywood today over proper character development or story (you know the usual suspects).One to watch with (teenage) offspring, parents, partners, business partners, potential clients, complete strangers... in fact, just about anyone who's around. "},{"Title":"A complete charmer","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watching this superlative film from Denmark I kept thinking just how awful the American remake would be, (unless, of course, it was directed by someone like Thomas McCarthy or Tamara Jenkins). It's about a handful of lonely people in what, presumably, is a small community and whose lives intersect on a daily basis but who come to know each other more much intimately through the Italian class they attend every week. They are also linked by love and death; the death of parents and loved ones and the love which they find with each other. It's very funny and it's genuinely charming. If a major Hollywood studio were to do this I doubt if it would be either. But it is also honest and fairly uncompromising and it treats all the characters on screen with affection and with respect, something Hollywood seldom does.It's also superbly acted. This is a brilliant ensemble and there isn't a dud performance in sight; impossible, then, to single out one performance but these people live on long after the movie ends. It is also so well directed by Lone Scherfig that you simply forget there's someone behind the camera telling the actors what to do. Perhaps that's the real achievement of Dogme 95; you forget you're watching a movie and feel instead like you're visiting old friends. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming and true","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Dogme 95 manifesto was a call for a return to a naturalistic style of film-making; but the first film made according to its principles, Lars von Trier's 'The Idiots', was a playful attack on every convention of film in spite of its basic technical nature. 'Italian for Beginners' is more like what one might expect a Dogme film to resemble, if one hadn't seen 'The Idiots' first a portrait of everyday life, told without artificial over-embellishment. And it works. On one had, this is a story of the misery of lonely people living in a grey northern town; on the other, the shape of a potential happy ending is visible quite early on. And yet there's something believable in the performances, as well as a sly sense of humour, that enables the movie to transcend its modest proposition and genuinely warm the heart, a story of ordinary people regaining their confidence in life after hard times. If every film was like this one, you might find yourself longing for a bit more ambition; but in a world full of empty noise, it's nice to see a movie whose director seemed to care about making his film ring true. "},{"Title":"An exemplary Dogme 95 Film","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the 1990's a group of Danish film makers developed protocols for a new style of filming which was intended to give a more natural looking product than most large studio productions. These films are now listed as following the Dogme 95 franchise. It encourages filming exclusively on location with hand held cameras. If a studio is used, the lighting must be simple and natural. The most distinctive feature is however that all background music not required by the story is excluded, this can provide a very refreshing change after watching films where the mood has to be established through the soundtrack before every sequence. Italian for Beginners is one of the later Dogme productions and is a classic feel good film which most viewers may not remember as memorable, but the vast majority will regard as enjoyable viewing. I recommend it strongly to anyone not familiar with any of the Dogme films, both as a film and as a good introduction to this franchise.The story is of a group of rather drab and depressed individuals who decide to learn a little Italian to enable them to better follow the program of the Venice film festival. Gradually the challenge of undertaking a difficult task together brings colour into their lives and they become both more interesting people and more interested in each other. (The most serious criticism of this film is that, in order to highlight the extent of the change they experience, they appear so uninteresting in the early sequences it is initially very hard for a viewer to become involved in the story which is being unfolded.) Ultimately romances bloom, other important changes in their lives can be seen developing; and the film conveys the clear message that everybody has to contribute something before they can get anything back.Forget the Dogme protocols - they are useful to know but not very relevant. Personally I love the simplicity of the sound track in a Dogme movie, but I hate an over-shaky camera; neither are critical aspects of this film. Essentially, this is a film about ordinary people - not one with a gripping story or overwhelming spectacle; but one which nevertheless has won many awards. If they last out the early sequences, most viewers find it very rewarding to watch. My IMDb rating is 7 stars. "},{"Title":"Not the best Dogme-movie, but I had a good time with it.","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm a fan of the Scandinavian cinema and especially of the Dogme-films. I like their way of filming an honest story in a believable way without too much extra's. I'm sure that the average viewer will not like it at all, because they just don't understand what it is all about. You don't get one murder after the other, no big car chases, no extreme violence, no gore... It's the characters and the story around them that has to save the movie, and that's something most people don't seem to get. But when you are like me, you watch several movies a week and keep an open mind towards all kinds of movies, other than the average Hollywood blockbusters, than this is definitely a form of cinema that you have to try.The story in Italiensk for begyndere or Italian for Beginners as the movie is called in English, evolves around the lives of several inhabitants of a quiet community somewhere in Denmark. All characters meet each other during a beginner's course in Italian and use it as a way to meet new people in the hope to forget about their own personal problems, to find new friends and - when possible - to find love.If I'm honest, than I must say that I didn't like the movie all that much at first. I'm already familiar with Dogme-films, but this one really looked very amateurish and awfully edited and filmed, even for a Dogme film. It even made me doubt if I would be able to keep watching it until the end. But I decided to stay with it it and I must say that I'm glad that I did. The movie has some other qualities that only show when you stay with it long enough. The story for instance is nice. It combines some humor with good drama and with heartwarming romance. And no, it never gets syrupy or over-the-top. It all feels genuine. Another positive aspect, next to the interesting story, is the acting. Even though I've never heard of most of them, all actors did a very nice job, making me wish to see more of their work.In the end this is a nice and heartwarming movie, but I wouldn't call it the best Dogme-movie ever. That certainly doesn't mean that it isn't worth a watch, but I'm convinced that even the fans of Dogme will have to agree with me that it looked quite amateurish. That's also the reason why I believe this isn't the best movie for people who aren't familiar with this kind of movies. If this is the first Dogme-movie that they will see, chances are big that they will never try another one. Still, I had a good time with this movie and that's why I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Three weddings and two funerals.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although this film won't win any awards for technical achievements (it was probably filmed with one camera), it is certain to win your heart.The film excels in its simplicity, indeed, its' simplicity accents the entire plot and its' settings. The entire cast impressed me as performing straight from the heart and not a contract. The combination of Danish mixed with Italian and English subtitles will make this a little difficult to follow. I don't know if there is a dubbed version; if there is, get that.One strange thing you might notice. Throughout the entire film, I only saw one scene where a person carried a computer keyboard, let alone see a desktop or even a cell phone for that fact. 21st century technology was conspicuous by its' absence. I actually began to wonder when this was film was made!There's a little 'foul' language, at least by subtitled translation, and a sex scene, which needs no subtitle, nor translation.All in all, I can only say Bravo!     "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie, even if a bit fairy tale","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That's a beautiful movie&#133; `in spite of ` the Dogma 95&#133; The astonishment of the characters regarding the death impressed me very much.On sex relations it's a bit `fairy tale', but I can forgive the director taking in account the good time I had seeing the film.  "},{"Title":"a charmer","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A charming treat, with excellent performances all round, especially from Peter Gantzler as the impotent Jørgen Mortensen, and all the female characters. A witty romantic comedy that today's Hollywood would be entirely incapable of making. "},{"Title":"Extremely funny","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie, I watched it in an outdoor theater. I have never seen a dogma movie before, so I cannot compare it to the others. Thus the 9/10 might be a bit high compared to the previous dogma movies, but I don't care, it was great anyway.9/10 "}{"Title":"It's like Mike Leigh Does Dogma","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   An ensemble gem. Reminds of Mike Leigh (of High Hopes and Life Is Sweet) in the writing but strictly Danish Dogma in the execution. Laugh-Out-Loud funny enough to show the Danish Dogmatist actually can have a sense of humor. The women are outstanding--much more fully realized characters than the men, who are pretty much stereotypes. But everyone turns in a superb performance. Anette Støvelbæk and Ann Eleonora Jørgensen are extraordinary and Carlo Barsotti, whose time is short, is a pleasure to watch. Top marks. "},{"Title":"Handheld camera - beware","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'd like to be able to say how wonderful this movie was, with fully developed characters, insightful comments on the human condition, and a mesmerizing plot.  Unfortunately, the unending gyrations of the handheld camera left me feeling so nauseous and motion sick 1/3 of the way through that I had to close my eyes for the rest.  Well, my wife quite liked it.  Which means you probably will too.So if you're a fellow sufferer of Buena Vista Social Club Disorientation Syndrome, beware this film may cause symptoms to worsen.  "},{"Title":"A well crafted entertaining romance/tragicomedy","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Again the Scandinavians come through with a movie of depth, intelligence, and subtle humor that is rarely found in Hollywood's wasteland.  Great cast, nice plot, clever dialogue and heartwarming character development make this a movie not to miss. "},{"Title":"Lovelorn Learning","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How do you turn half-dozen losers into lovers? There is only a one-letter difference between them after all. Some think that taking Italian language lessons might make a difference. This premise engages a collection of characters that might be familiar to you socially challenged suburbanites seeking to fill a void but not sure what it is. And this romantic comedy, with touches of human tragedy, entertains as it challenges the audience to explore their own lives for that same effort.Halfvinn (Lars Kaalund) is going to lose his job because he mistreats his sports bar customers as if they were his kids eating in his kitchen. Olympia (Annette Stovelbaek) stumbles around her bakery and her home to be mistreated by her customers and her dad. Jorgen (Peter Gantzler) can't stand up to his boss, co-workers or his impotency and Andreas (Anders Berthelsen) is dealing with the loss of his wife and the gain of a congregation over the unsubtle ravings of the former pastor. There's more but you should see this one and meet the rest. You might not expect a film with this title to be set in Denmark and the three Italian grandmothers behind us were certainly surprised to learn that most of the dialogue is Danish. The subtitling was rather crude but the script was entertaining and the tempo gave this film an upbeat feel.Ever feel down about your life? Like you're a geek and really have no prospects? If not you won't relate to a mix of Danes who seek out human connection in a continuing ed class. If so, take consolation in these characters whose lives are joined through this connection.Consider the Danish culture. Do you imagine a vibrant, expressive, outgoing style? I think of the Danish extravert who, when he talks to you, looks at your shoes. So somehow when we learn the language of a more vibrant culture, we will be drawn out by their national ethic. And why not?If it works for them they strengthen their outgoing side, get out of their own heads and into the hearts of others. And that's, mostly, a good thing. "},{"Title":"An unexpected treat","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Disappointed that the Cacoyannis production of The Cherry Orchard was not being shown as scheduled one evening, my friend and I were at odds at what to see.  The two films I was interested in seeing, she had already seen. Neither of us had seen any reviews for this film, but my instincts to go for it were  on the mark. Literate, romantic and tremendously amusing, this is a film with heart that can be recommended in spades to any filmgoer. "},{"Title":"Who is Jorgen Mortenson?","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the first Dogme 95 film I've seen and it's fun to watch to see if the crew (because there is no creditted director) follows all the rules.  Besides a little music  at the end, I think this one passes.  More importantly, it uses the covenants to help tell the story of a bunch of realistic characters very accurately.  The themes of love, death, family bonds, impotency, and friendship are written and acted superbly.One weird sidenote  as much as I liked this film, halfway through, I couldn't help seeing a resemblance to Waiting for Guffman and Best in Show.  Maybe it's just that I thought Fred Willard was playing Jorgen Mortenson. "},{"Title":"a great film!","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a great movie I recommend to all of you. First, it could seem as hard as lots of the dogme films, but then it goes better and better.I loved the plot, so simple but well worked, I loved the characters with its pros and cons, with its peculiarities; people who feel alone and find a place in an italian course, people who meet other people seeking friendship, love, etc. With a light touch of humour this film becomes a movie to spend a good time and when it ends, you want more, you want to know more about the lifes of these simple but charming people.  "},{"Title":"simply human","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very nice movie with a very human touch. No hero, no looser, no winner (except the audience).  Only draw back, I saw the German version and it's very badly dubbed. "},{"Title":"the greatest light romantic comedy, has brains too","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  the greatest light romantic comedy, make sure you don't miss this feast. Unbelievably subtle/funny and just a truly great movie. Similar in talent to The Dinner GameDon't watch it if you can't live without Jim Carrey, or loved Collateral Damage. "},{"Title":"A Danish Shakespearean Comedy!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a delightful bittersweet comedy. The six main characters have very little in common except that they are all taking a beginning Italian language course as an adult education class. It may appear surprising that these particular Danish people want to learn Italian, but it works well enough in the context of the film. Despite the fact that this film deals with some heavy subjects-- drug addiction, alcoholism, old age and death, loss of religious faith --it manages to move forward in a manner that I found charming and entertaining. All six actors are excellent, the ensemble is well balanced, and the movie, if somewhat predictable, was never boring. I loved it! "}{"Title":"Sweet!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a cute little film!  Sort of like a Danish version of Amelie crossed w/Six Degrees of Separation.  It's refreshing to see a film that deals specifically w/thirty-somethings who are not married with kids (I can relate).  Good character development (presented in an attention-maintaining fashion) and nice flow.  Refreshing, light finish.  Great date movie!  But man, can someone send a shipment of hair combs to Denmark?  My friend and I joked that we are no longer going to say we are having a bad hair day. Instead, we'll say, My hair looks like I'm from Denmark, or I'm having a Denmark hair day.  Sorry for rambling, it's a nice film w/an original plot and creative ending.  Definitely worth seeing.   "},{"Title":" a fun movie","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this film. It was easy to watch, nice story of simple romances, had a good feeling to it.  The characters are all well done with different personalities yet all fitting together. See it, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Great Valentine movie","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not your ordinary Hollywood blockbuster feel good movie, but a very intimately, cosy film about people trying to discover their way on that lonely exciting path towards a love relationship.Go see it if you have the chance !  "},{"Title":"Great Valentine movie","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not your ordinary Hollywood blockbuster feelgoodmovie, but a very intimitely, cosy film about people trying to discover their way on that lonely exciting path towards a love relationship.Go see it if you have the chance !  "},{"Title":"Funny, Endearing Movie","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Excellent film that not only respects the limitations of Dogme, but also show us that they don't have to be seen as limitations.  The simplicity of the film does not take away the brilliant character development that takes place and the sweet, funny and real interplay that grows between them.Nothing elaborate, but a glimpse at ordinary people's lives and the unifying search for love.  Take the time to see it.Note I saw both the French subtitled and the English subtitled versions and the French one is much better.  Not so much for the translation, but because the English version has a different editing that omits important parts in character development and presents things out of order.  It does not draw the audience to the characters as well.  So if you understand French, see the French version instead. "},{"Title":"A Class Everyone Should Take","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I say that I'm not a big fan of the Dogma 95 movement, I look back and notice that some of the best movies of the past years are indeed Dogma productions, namely Dancer in the Dark, Breaking the Waves, and The Celebration.  While Italian for Beginners is not in the same caliber as the aforementioned greats, it is an emotionally engrossing film with some of the most real characters you'll see this year.  It's a story of tough love, harrowing loss, and ultimately the power of unity in overcoming life's greatest challenges.  The comedic overtones are matched seamlessly with the dramatic undertones to provide a very cathartic experience.  The most amazing performance stems from Lene Tiemroth, who plays a bit role as the mother of the hairdresser, Karen.  This is a very unassuming picture that seems so basic on the outside, but as you continue to dig deeper, real pearls of wisdom are there for the taking.  Take note that the jumpy camera work, natural lighting, production sound, and choppy editing are not easy to swallow at times, but Italian for Beginners is still a class that everyone should take.    "},{"Title":"One of the bets films I've seen","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is dogma at it's best. A wonderful script, which is so cleverly done and plays with you expectation of what's coming next. The character are flawed and truly human. The plot twists are unexpected. The true miracle for me is that you can make such an intriguing film with so little high drama. Refreshing! It might not be everybody's cup of tea but it's definitely mine! "},{"Title":"will make you like human race a little bit more after you see it.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is beautifully acted and directed. Its characters will not make you want to run to plastic surgeon's office or to go live on deserted island. No gimmicks or cheap thrills - it is about real life and people, and it will give you good feeling and put a smile on your face for at least few days.  "},{"Title":"See `Italian for Beginners' if you feel like a beginner in the language of love.","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" `Kate and Leopold' and `Charlotte Gray' put me in the mood for romance without cynicism, a rarity in the 21st century.  But on Valentine's Day I discovered the love story of the year so tender and tentative I was annoyed when one of the loving couples went at it rather than talk about it.`Italian for Beginners' has the simplicity of the beginning Italian class that sets up the multiple romances the future lovers are unsure of each other the way they are about learning the language, the best learner in the class is the best sexual lover, and the slowest learners are the slowest to fulfill their loves but the deepest when they do. Does it sound as complicated as learning Italian? well, yes, but it makes great melodrama and mirth.The film follows no cliches until the end the grieving temporary pastor has a Maserati but difficulty asking for a date; a hairdresser massages a head with unsurpassed sensuality, yet can't complete a haircut or romance with her object of desire; an impotent older man finds love in a younger Catholic Italian girl, with whom he can't even prove his cure until after marriage.Audiences need to accept the jerky handheld camera and lack of special effects required in the Dogma 95 rules of a few European directors, but then audiences have to accept the subtitles of foreign films (none in this Danish production). Once into the rhythm of realism, the movie sweeps into the authenticity of flawed human beings pursuing flawed love affairs.  You may not accept the romantic fantasy of Venice at the film's conclusion, but then if you've been to Venice you know that fantasy can be right for the right lovers. See `Italian for Beginners' if you feel like a beginner in the language of love. "},{"Title":"Poignant Slice-of-Life of a Danish Town of Misfits","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Italian for Beginners (Italiensk for begyndere) is yet another of the 2001 movies for grown-ups about adults dealing with death. It shows how death in the family leads to loneliness, though not as light-hearted as indicated by the preview trailer.It is a poignant slice-of-life of a Danish town of misfits, in the earthy, gritty manner of The Full Monty or Billy Elliott.Proudly flashing its minimalist Dogme 95 certificate (hence the lack of illustrative soundtrack songs), it has a warm-hearted understanding of the spectrum of human foibles.Here the woe-be-gone come together, improbably enough, at an Italian class in a local community center, with all that learning a romance language implies. At least that's what I could get out of it despite the older ladies behind me out for a matinée who decided that a sub-titled movie entitled them to talk loudly throughout, as well as kick my seat.(originally written 2/24/2002) "}{"Title":"Best danish film since Festen","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Usually i can't stand romance movies, they always tend to exaggerate everything about love and relationships in a way that i just plain stupid. But this movie manages to keep a nice pace and great cinematography. The movie built up my expectations for every minute and manages to fulfill them, and this is just incredible.This is the best danish film i have seen since Festen (The Celebration), i have seen a lot of danish movies but Festen and Italiensk for begyndere stand out in a remarkable way.If you liked this movie a would like to recommend movies from from Swedish director Lukas Moodysson, movies like Fucking Åmal and Tillsammans for example. "},{"Title":"A Dogme '95 movie right out of the box","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Lone Scherfig has proved that she's able to direct a movie based on the Dogme '95 concept first originated by Lars Von Trier and Thomas Vinterberg in 1995. It's a simple story told through the eyes of 6 lonely persons in a small town on the rural coast of Jutland. What binds them together is the common interest for the Italian language they all participate during an evening course.One might think that it's a common love story, but the character building clearly proves that it's not uncommon for all age groups to have all kinds of personally burdens such as the reverend Wredmann who has lost his belief in God as he has lost his wife to God. Another such character would be Olympia who has almost given up all hope of ever being able to function as human being because of fetus damages.The primary reason for watching a picture like this one the developing of characters and how they bond together even though personalities of Karen and Hal-Finn are quite disturbing with Hal-Finn being a really imbecile. This is the only place where Italiensk for begyndere starts to lack some ingenuity but in the end it's only minor complain. In the end if you're into foreign pictures and especially endearing dramas then go and see Italiensk for begyndere if you got some time to spare.7/10 "},{"Title":"Very cute and heart-warming","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I agree there might have been some technical flaws in the shooting process of this film, but they don't really bite the eye too hard. You're caught in the screen throughout the film, and the plot is really light. The story in general is very cute and heart-warming and has everything to remind us we are humans and we need to give and receive love. It would be 200% truthful to say the film has some obvious exaggerations, but it's European style (i.e. no crap like all the phone numbers starting with 555) so it's not very heavy and it just melts into the scenario. The film in general is not outrageously sentimental, but sensitive viewers would definitely have a good time watching it. The only thing worth mentioning as for the negative sides, the cast could have been stronger. But it's good enough the way it is. Italiensk For Begyndere is not quite the art film itself,(don't expect anything Tarkovsky style) though excellent for those who want to have a little fun but are bored of the stereotype Hollywood productions.  "},{"Title":"Family dogma","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a sort of family dogma, a fairy-tale dogma. Quite predictable, and not as good as the best the best dogma films, but still charming and sweet. Sara Indrio Jensen é belissima.8/10 "},{"Title":"Great danish movie","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the best danish movie I´ve ever seen it was superb.I liked the plot but it was a pitty that it was a dogma film. The camera was never steady and that should normaly bring down the points but not this time and it was all thanks to the wonderful Giulia. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie about everyday people","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summary Several complex characters cross paths in a small Danish town, helped by a beginner's course in Italian. Things happen in their life, both caused by and unrelated to the course.Never mind the Dogma certificate it is not really important, except that the technique it entails makes the movie more believable since the style becomes less glossy.What makes this movie so restful is that the actors and their characters are very everyday and believable.  None of the american style with silicon-stuffed young females and world-travelling executives or big heroes. People do not need to be exasperatingly successful or sexy or whatever to be interesting for a movie they can be just like you and me!The story begins rather tragically but develops towards a rather comic and happy ending.  With many nice turns on the way, some unexpected, some rather expected.This is a not deep or artsy movie, just entertainment that is a little less shallow than Hollywood fare.  "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though this is a danish movie I am sure that other people will find it very funny too.IN HAL-FINN'S RESTAURANT - DAY. Hal-Finn sees a woman take a spoon from her cup and put it on the table.Hal-Finn Excuse me, do you also put wet spoons on the table at home, you dirty bitch?IN HAL-FINNS RESTAURANT - DAY.Customer Excuse me, can I have a piece of bread with raisins?Hal-Finn Do I look like a guy who makes bread with raisins to a grown up man?  "},{"Title":"Quirky romantic comedy","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Italian for Beginners is an odd comedy. The characters are mostly inexpressive, their joy and their despair equally muted - well, maybe the despair isn't because most of the movie seems soaked in a fatalism that would mortally wound the film if it wasn't for a tension that keeps the viewer involved with the characters. I wondered, as I watched, if this is a good example of Danish comedy. But in the end, it didn't matter because I found the characters sympathetic, their situations worth caring about, and the resolution of the various plotlines quite satisfactory. I was moved without feeling manipulated. This film has a Dogme 95 certificate, which says all that needs to be said regarding technical issues. "},{"Title":"Bad hair days","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is about irritating relatives dying in order to set people free -- and about bad hair.  I don't believe for a second that Karen ever actually cuts peoples hair.  She can barely wash it.  Also, all the characters in this film, with the possible exception of Jorgen, have bad hair.  Maybe Dogme's new resolution is to make bad hair films?  At least Halvfinn gets his fixed at the end -- but, significantly, not by Karen.I understand that the Dogme series of films is supposed to be original and artistic and all that other commendable stuff. But this film, whilst enjoyable, is a mixture of Amelie and any American feelgood film where coincidences are (a) expected, and (b) happen just as expected.Previous examples of the Dogme style (Festen etc), were noticeably raw at the edges.  Italian for Beginner could have been made in Hollywood -- except for the handheld camera and lack of lighting.Sorry and all that, but I give this a regular 7 out of 10 for enjoyable but not exceptional. "},{"Title":"A funny feel-good film with great characters!!","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A good script,great acting and very funny. It´s filmed with a digital camera(and that does not bother me at all). This is a romantic-comedy that has many funny points but it´s also a bit dramatic and touching. The best about it is the lovely characters that makes this film very entertaining and funny. Really worth watching.8/10 "}{"Title":"Dogma at its worst","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning not every dogma-film is worth seeing. Take, for instance, Italian for Beginners. It's a story without pace or any good moments. Characters are boring and have absolutely nothing to say. The film goes on and on and on, without getting better. Worse it's predictable and annoying. Let's hope that Thomas Vinterberg (Festen) makes another movie soon. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Strangely good for Dogme95","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I went to see Lars Von Trier's Breaking the waves years ago I coined a new film-genre the Guilt-Flick. Since then, I only watched Dogme95 films to analyse their technique, because I have researched how to apply their 10 commandments in depth at university. I am a micro-budget filmmaker myself - although I now Dogme95 isn't about budget. It can take a lot of money to look that cheap! Some of my Scandinavian friend attribute the grim atmosphere of the Dogme95 guilt-flick to the Puritanical influence. I can relate to the desire to show life as it is as a rebellion against special effects-laden Hollywood films, but the amount of unhappiness shown in the first half of this film nearly puts you off watching the rest of it. It is still a very gentle, beautifully edited and shot story (especially compared to the atrocious Kingdom), and the actors are talented and obviously well directed. (SPOILER COMING UP!) When the Italian classes lose their teacher, the local council gives the job to Halvfinn, who likes football so much he doesn't even know that Penalty in Italian is Punizione and not Punire. What really baffles me is that there is an Italian girl in the village, Giulia, whose Italian is genuine (I know, I am Italian myself!), but she won't get the teaching job!!!! My partner objected that she couldn't get the job because she spoke little Danish, but so did the old Italian teacher. He is only on screen for a few minutes but would still drive you mad with stereotypes he is trying it on with anything remotely female, his name is Marcello (yeah, like Mastroianni in La Dolce Vita and his surname is Mercoledi', Wednesday! Is this a clever pun on Robinson Crusoe or they couldn't be bothered looking up a more realistic-sounding Italian name? And Giulia - this is 2000, and she is praying (praying!!!!) that the man she fancies will like her new hair. That's ridiculous, and offensive for Italian girls in general and all the more so for the ones that chose to be religious. Giulia's character is some leftover from a 1950s romance, and should have no place in a story that strives so hard to be true to life. And as for Catholics not having sex before they're married... see 1950s romance above! It is still a beautiful film, that manages to combine tragedy and comic moments in true melodrama style (the character of the old Pastor is fantastic!) and I recommend it to anyone who doesn't like the exploding cars film genre (you all know what I mean). "},{"Title":"A Real Romantic Film","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie surprised me with how powerful yet funny it could be. The writing and the acting are both top-rate and the characters (even with their little quirks)seemed so real. I enjoyed the mixture of pain,grief and loss with sex, love and flirting. Ive read comments where people felt the two didn't mix but to me that's what made it like real life. Yes, there is a nice wrap-up at the end, but what is wrong with some lonely characters finding some happiness in their lives? Ive enjoyed some Dogma 95 films (Celebration, Dancer In The Dark)and disliked some (Idiots, Mifune) but I felt that this movie worked on almost every level. Enjoyable, funny and even sweet. "},{"Title":"It is not funny at all.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this DVD, because I thought that this is a comedy. However, it did not make me laugh at all. There is nothing funny about this movie at all.And the cameraman should be fired for doing such a bad job. It does not look like a movie, rather, it feels as if you are watching a documentary. The camera constantly moves, jumps, and twists.  With its pictures, it does not entitle for a big screen viewing. A tiny TV screen would be sufficient enough. The movie did not start with a good beginning. It did not show all those usual credits at the start. You would feel the need to check to see if you are actually watching the chapter 1 of the movie. On the other hand, the story is not too bad. Those actors are also authentic. Nevertheless, I suggest that you watch this movie only if you are bored, and can not find anything else to do. It does not elicit your emotion, your attention. It is just a story for several common people. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I went to see this film after having read reviews which made me expect an insightful comedy, light-hearted but not superficial.In all fairness, I was disappointed.This film is really nothing to write home about. I'd say it's pretty dull but for the strange sense of humour which makes it a bit amusing.It's reminded me also of Amélie a bit. Like Amélie, it's pretty sweetish.I've been very surprised to learn that it was awarded the Silver Bear in the Berlin Film Festival.However, the thing I've found most irritating is the way in which us Italians are depicted, a way which is deeply stereotypical and misleading. I know that the film isn't about Italy and Italians, and that the Italian language course is just a pretext in order to tell the story of six people who learn to break the ice that surrounds their everyday lives. Despite that, I can't help judging this film also for the image that conveys of us Italians.By the way, I've never heard of someone whose surname was Mercoledì (Wednesday), like the rather ridiculous teacher who features in the film. I can also assure you that it would be very unusual of a girl these days to pray to the Virgin Mary for her love to notice her, and that no, it's no longer true that Catholics (even Italian Catholics) only have sex after marriage.Quite frankly, I'm tired of foreign film depicting Italy and us Italians in a way which would be nearly offensive if it weren't, more simply, just absurd.6/10 "},{"Title":"Something different from Hollywood fare.","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Italian for Beginners is an interesting study of characters learning a language from another country by understanding themselves and people in the class. The film is unique because, I think there is not another movie like it in the world. The film is slow moving, but it give an idea of each character point of view in the plot in the film. I have enjoyed this film. If you are in a talking feature without no violence or car chases, then this your film.  "},{"Title":"Nice movie from Denmark","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Italian for Beginners is a nice movie, with a funny story even though the first part of the film is a little lethargic... Six mid thirties in  the middle of a life crisis meet in publicly held Italian lessons. The story evolves in a funny happy end, where almost every one finds his beloved one... Not on the same level as Festen but still worth looking! "},{"Title":"overacted, overwritten, underwritten, Italian for fools, whatever...","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OMFG i've seen some good dogma films before and i think the dogma films are just normal films trying to be different, but this one is bad enough to make me post a comment. IFB is like the regular romantic films but much more embarrassing, with all those poker faces and people looking for true love. The actors seemed to be doing the same scene again and again, the bakery girl should have end up tired throwing things in the floor in her real life, after taking about impotency that much that actor should be gay rigth now, the pastor looks so confused you get tired of waiting for him to do something. The characters are so shortlined and shortwritten that you only need one scene to know how they are and what they will do, so cliché. There's not a single one touching scene like in the other dogma films, here scenes are so fake that you can only laugh (or cry), for example the father of the stupid bakery girl, he said two phrases Your mother left me and you are like her a b1tch, and he repeated this again and again till he died. This film ranks Meg Ryans hits but with dizzy camera of course. "},{"Title":"Maeve Binchy","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Am I the only one who thinks that this film is extremely close to Maeve Binchy's novel, Evening Class??? How can Lone Scherfig be allowed to make this film and come up with this story when it's so obvious that she didn't think of the initial idea herself??? Good film, apart from that!!! "},{"Title":"Ultra low budget whimsical world cinema that only just keeps you watching","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Life in a dull Danish provincial town is only partly enlivened by an Italian night class.This is one of these newfangled  movies (Dogma for those in the know) where the whole thing is captured on video camera, lighting is natural-and-available  and all music has to come from a visible source on screen.Here we have camera work so wobbly that it looks like the cameraman has been taken by surprise by some of the action - either that for the director (Lone Sherfig) doesn't know the Danish phrases for cut or let's go again - the cameraman wasn't ready!We are in a Mike Leigh world of small people with flaws trying to make a life in difficult circumstances. There seems a lot of deaths, but in this grey world you can almost call them mercy killings!Finn is the marginal lead character (just ahead of the young new pastor) as he is both the coffee shop manager - for a while at least - and the stand-in Italian teacher after the original teacher has a heart attack in class. Given that he is fluent in Italian already you wonder why he needs to attend in the first place, but maybe it is the social scene that interest him?While you may knock the grade Z production values it tells a lot of truths. The main one is that life is nothing but a string of embarrassing moments played off against small moments of pleasure or diversion. "}{"Title":"4 Funerals and it Really Sucked","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen --- first of all, it was filmed on crappy videotape instead of film and the entire movie jumped up and down (hear of a tripod??? it doesn't move up and down...)Let's see .... four morose funerals, eternal talk of impotency, about 3 minutes in Italy, drunken fights, non-stop talk of death, and the cover is total false advertising (I expected a lush, romantic comedy set in Italy and I got a sucky morose drag set in a 2 cent set in Denmark!).AVOID AT ALL COSTS!  "},{"Title":"Filmmaking for Beginners?","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Back in the early &#145;90s, when I was tooling about making home movies as a lark, and NEVER taking any of it seriously, I had NO idea that I had actually stumbled upon a method of filmmaking that very soon would be touted as THE method of the true, bona fide `auteur' (or, more accurately according to the tenets of the `method' used in this film, the `ANTI-auteur'), and that one day I would be watching `Italian for Beginners,' directed by (well, credit for the directing cannot be given, as it would be against the `rules,' which I will get to in a moment) and filmed in much the same-- in fact, the EXACT same-- style that I had employed back in what I now know were MY `auteur' (excuse me; my `ANTI-auteur') days.  But having watched this film, the evidence is irrefutable; I know, because I've just finished watching the movies I shot back then with my trusty camcorder to get a comparison.  And all I can say now is  `STAND ASIDE AND GIVE ME ROOM-- I'M ON MY WAY TO SUNDANCE!'In 1995, Danish filmmakers Lars Von Trier and Thomas Vinterberg developed a new (?) filmmaking technique, for which they co-wrote a back-to-basics guide entitled `Dogma 95,' a manifesto for filmmakers who, by adhering to the rules set forth in the text, would become a part of the `newest' new wave to hit the industry, subsequently referred to as the `Cinema of Poverty,' and with good reason.If you're thinking of giving this film a go, before you watch it you MUST know something about Dogma 95 to have a chance in the hot place of making it through to the end.  There are ten `rules' set forth in the manifesto, as well as an addendum, a handful of items tacked on (afterthoughts?), such as `I am no longer an artist' (which after watching this film I fully understand and agree with).  But the main things (rules) you must know going in are these  The movie must be filmed on location, with only a hand-held camera and using only whatever light is naturally available.  And `music must not be used unless it occurs where the scene is being shot.'  (Somewhat contradictorily, two of Von Trier's subsequent films were musicals; his disclaimer  `The rules are not meant to &#145;limit' creativity, but to &#145;spur it on').  Rule #10 states  `The director must not be credited.'  In retrospect, the wisdom of THIS rule is beyond reproach.There IS some substance to this story, imbued as it is with elements of classic Bergman as it examines `loss' on a number of levels through the lives of a small, diverse group of individuals in various stages of disenfranchisement.  Their common denominator is the class in, well...Italian for beginners, to which they seemingly gravitate, each with their own specific reasons and motivations.  The class becomes a kind of focal point for them; it is here that relationships are formed or honed, and their lives begin to intersect.  Now, had only Bergman been on hand to direct them.These are everyday folks, just going about the business of living; and quite frankly, they aren't all that interesting, nor are their respective stories.  The group includes Hal-Finn (Lars Kaalund), an obnoxious restaurant employee who hasn't as yet caught on to the `customer/employee' dynamic-- he's self-absorbed, rude and insufferable; Jorgen (Peter Gantzler) lacks self confidence; Karen (Ann Eleonora Jorgensen) a hairdresser who never seems to be able to finish a client (Hal-Finn is in her chair at least three times, but never gets past the hair-wetting phase before some crisis or other calls Karen away, sending poor Hal-Finn away each time with a wet head and no haircut); Olympia (Anette Stovelbaek) who works in a bakery, where no doubt she sells danish (pun intended; I have nothing to lose at this point); and Andreas (Anders W. Berthelsen), a pastor who has taken a temporary assignment six months after the death of his wife.  But listening to the thoughts (and I intentionally do not use the term `ideas' here) of a randomly selected group of postal employees on the dock at 3 a.m. at the post office would be intrinsically more interesting than anything that occurs in this film.  Berthelsen, especially, spends the entire movie looking confused, like he's a contestant on Jeopardy! but can't figure out why Alex keeps giving him the answers instead of the questions.  Or maybe he's just trying to understand what he's doing in this film to begin with.  Where, oh where, is Ingmar when you need him?On a positive note, the performances here are for the most part quite natural, if not engaging.  Kaalund, at least, makes a lasting impression with a character reminiscent of Rutger Hauer's Eric Vonk in `Turkish Delight' (aka `Turk's Fruit'), from 1973; perhaps that's why Hal-Finn is always getting in `Dutch' with his boss (again, pun intended).The supporting cast includes Sara Indrio Jensen (Giulia), Jesper Christensen (Olympia's Father), Lene Tiemroth (Karen's Mother) and Carlo Barsotti (Marcello).  There are those who are going to like, even applaud, this film; personally, I'd rather watch paint dry.  To connect with this film one has to be able to embrace, or at least get beyond, the whole Dogma 95 thing.  I couldn't.  Okay, perhaps I just don't `get' it; to this day I still don't get the Andy Warhol `soup can' deal, either.  Just know that `Italian for Beginners' is definitely NOT going to be for everyone.  I do find it interesting that the `rules' are also referred to as the filmmakers `Vows of chastity,' and that in reviews of Dogma 95 films the terms `chaste,' `austere' and `pure' always seem to surface.  In the great scheme of things I know it means something; what it is, I don't know.  But bear in mind that the manifesto also states, `Furthermore I swear as a director to refrain from personal taste!'  And with that, I rest my case.   "},{"Title":"Terrible and poorly produced","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After reading the main review posted on this movie's page I was forced to register and write a more realistic review. This film seems from both the quality of presentation and acting, to have been made on a shoe-string budget by amateurs. The writing, acting, and overall feel of the movie left so much to be desired. Don't waste your time or money on this crappy movie. The characters were pretty difficult to relate to, not because of geography but largely due to the moronic nature of the script. The story was not believable and too many coincidences took place, making the whole thing more farcical than I'm sure the director/producer intended. The sex scenes were weak, poorly placed and simply not believable again. Too many things are wrong with this movie. The main thing they got right was hyping the movie well enough to ambush people like me into seeing it. Next time instead of waiting for a crappy movie to improve, I'll simply just turn it off. "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie on DVD, and couldn't stand more than 20 minutes of it. It looks like a bad home video--shaky camera (enough to make you dizzy), bad lighting, bad editing between scenes, and bad acting.  By the end of 20 minutes, there were too many characters, and you still didn't know or care about any of them.  Don't waste your time or money on this one. "},{"Title":"It should be called film made by beginners","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film makes the Blair Witch Project look like a major Hollywood production.  The constant quick scene changes and tilted viewing angles are reminiscent of film school in the early 70's.  If you can make it through more than 15 minutes of this torture you will need major medication. "},{"Title":"What a piece of crap","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that wannabee snobs pretend to love.  It's impossible to watch.  Awful, awful, awful.  The 'acting' is non-existent, the low production value is extremely disconcerting.  If I can save one person from suffering through this misery, perhaps the time I spent will not have been wasted in vain.1/10. "},{"Title":"Good try but badly done it","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good try but badly done it looked like a rehearsal for a movie.  I gave it a 4 just for good intentions.  I was disappointed but most foreign movies that get to the USA are so much better.  Lets hope every one that had anything to do with this film will get the experience from it to do better next time. "}]