[{"Title":"A Great, Funny Feel-Good Movie","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"43 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Anyone who dismisses foreign films as too abstract or intellectual should see this one; it functions no differently than any American comedy. (By American comedy, I'm speaking of movies like the better Coen Brothers or Woody Allen comedies and not mass-produced garbage like White Chicks.) Many times I completely forgot it was in French and that I was reading subtitles.Daniel Auteuil is great in this charming film. His sad-sack loser is reminiscent of William H. Macy's most famous roles, or perhaps Jack Lemmon in The Apartment.Everything goes wrong for François Mignon. Neither his wife, who left him two years before, nor his teenage son will have anything to do with him. He is ignored at work, and finds out through the grapevine that he has been fired.His next-door neighbor talks him out of suicide and comes up with a plan to save his job if Mignon pretends to be gay, the company will not want to look homophobic by firing him.This plan works perfectly, and Mignon is thrown into a number of increasingly ridiculous situations, now that he is reputed to be gay.The film wraps up quickly and ties together almost too neatly, but the ending fits the fast paced comic style of everything before it. Overall, this is an entertaining and heartwarming film. "},{"Title":"a touching astute film masquerading as a farce","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"36 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a delightful character study and social commentary masquerading as a broad farce.  It is very, very funny.  They avoid cheap queer jokes and cheap homophobe jokes even as they bluntly portray attitudes about homosexuals.  Even though they use very real language to illustrate the attitudes.  There is some great acting throughout.  Each of the characters is a study in itself.  The homophobic character (Depardieu) emerges as intriguing and sympathetic, where it could have been two dimensional.  The relationship between Auteil and Aumont almost brought me to tears.  The transformation of the lead character is believable, despite the improbable context that the film creates.  The final scene with his ex-wife is powerful.  Others have pointed out that the lead character never changes, the perceptions of others change.  This makes his actual transformation that much more effective.  This movie is a real find.   "},{"Title":"Anything can happen in a condom factory!","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"31 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This amiable and amusing film is delightful as it plays around with political correctness, homophobia, machismo, and business management.The dull-witted and just plain dull main character keeps his job by pretending to be gay -- at the suggestion of a neighbor who is an industrial psychologist that once lost his own job BECAUSE he is gay. With that premise, the film is off to a wonderful series of misunderstandings and revelations as our hero discovers a great deal about life, people around him, and most of all, himself. The fact that all of this takes place is a very prim, high-tech condom factory makes the comedy all the more lively.I wasn't expecting the lift that the film gave me. It has a flimsy giddiness about it lacking in most comedies about being gay or straight or anything else. See it if you get a chance. "},{"Title":"An excellent way to spend a couple of hours","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Faced with a choice of American look-alike movies, I watched this little gem on the basis of the cast alone.  What an excellent choice!This is a brilliantly funny movie, with some unforgettable moments - particularly the testing department sequence in the condom factory. The story is amusing, the cast are perfect, particularly Gerard Depardieu's hilarious, touching, crazy mixed up macho/gay guy. The premise, that in order to keep his job a colourless little accountant has to pretend that he is gay (a very tongue in cheek comment on prejudice here) - the can of worms that he opens up has many aspects, both good and bad. And they gave us a happy ending - what more can one ask for? Recommended. "},{"Title":"Take a look in The Closet.....","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Anti-discrimination laws are given a tweaking in this light, amusing French comedy.  Auteuil plays an unassuming, rather colorless, 20-year employee of a condom factory.  When, one day, he is told that he will be let go due to corporate downsizing, he is suicidally despondent.  However, a caring neighbor (Aumont) devises a scheme that will possibly save Auteuil's job.  He decides to out Auteuil as gay so that the dismissal will look like discrimination, thus panicking the company into keeping him on staff.  This act sets into motion a number of comical complications, much of which involve the company macho man/bully (Depardieu) and Auteuil's boss Laroque.  The film is pretty superficial and doesn't really delve into all the ramifications of it's storyline situation, but it does provide some easy laughs and some strong performances throughout.  Auteuil is properly average, yet eventually ingratiating.  Depardieu shows why he's one of France's top actors with a right-on, finely nuanced portrayal.  His is probably one of the most complicated characters in the film and he handles it well.  Laroque is an attractive and solid presence as well.  Aside from a host of good actors, the film also boasts a gorgeous production design.  All of the costumes, sets and color schemes come together to create a distinctive and pleasing look.  The plot is almost paper thin and characters don't often act as real people would, but this is a farce and, as such,  it delivers some amusement and interest.  One disconcerting thing is the level of cruelty in some cases.  One character is savagely beaten and another has his life virtually destroyed all in the name of fun.  This could be due to a different perspective between a U.S. viewpoint and a French one.  It tarnishes the goodwill and fun of the film, but only slightly.  Mostly, it is a pretty and frothy concoction (complete with one of the most adorable kittens ever seen on screen) that shouldn't offend or upset any of it's target audience. "},{"Title":"witty and funny","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i had no idea what to expect from this film when my friend dragged me to see it, saying that it had been a huge success in france when she was living there. it started out well enough but i thought it was just going to be about how funny it is that this guy who isnt gay pretends he is....however, the film is self- referential enough that it turns on itself and makes fun of all the prejudices and hangups that we all carry around with us. it is a funny, unpretentious film and for that, well worth seeing. the main actor is excellent.  "},{"Title":"One of France's Classics","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is so funny that it will probably be purchased by an American film company for a remake. The company will pay not attention to the brilliance of the actors who made it such a hit and will replace the entire film and the primarly stars with our American stars, thus reducing this incredible piece of work to an average comedy. Please tell me I'm wrong. "},{"Title":"Delightful French Farce","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Frances Verber has a sharp eye and ear in capturing contemporary French attitudes and lingo for his charming screenplay, Le Placard.  Further, he's gone on to direct this comedy of mores with great aplomb.The cast he's garnered, headed by Daniel Auteuil, is a joy to watch, each member displaying nice comic timing, and making this lightweight romp a treat.  When one has the good fortune to see this film in a full theatre with a sophisticated audience, one can enjoy a fun event that really takes off.A toast to you, M. Verber, and all of your jolly cast and crew of Le Placard. "},{"Title":"Great comedy! Its parts fit together like a Chinese wood block puzzle","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" English The ClosetThis reminded me in some ways of M. Hulot (Le Vacance de M. Hulot, the greatest comedy I've ever seen), in others of some of the best of the Alec Guiness comedies. Not for style but for quality. It's at their level. There were fine performances by all the main characters but I was fascinated by the unfolding of the plot. All the pieces fit together so intricately and well and so few liberties were taken of normal human reactions -- almost everything was within comfortable bonds of believability. Well, there were a couple of minor stretches -- the catalyzing role of a sexual encounter in finally transforming M. Pignon's personality was one, but wouldn't that be quaintly Gallic? And the transformation of his son was another, but then -- teenagers can sometimes be unpredictable, can't they? And it had only one broad sterotype, Mr. Santini (Gerard Depardieu). I left the theater amazed at how well the various facets of the plot fit so well together that it reminded me then of a Chinese wood block puzzle; now, a week later, that still seems most fitting.This is _not_ a movie about being gay; that's only the gas that fuels the car that takes the people on that trip. It _is_ an observant, droll film about office politics and the way people's views of others can be distorted by labels. I'm sure -- within a few years -- this will be considered a classic and deservedly so. "},{"Title":"A breath of fresh air","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was recently released in Paris and involved a substantial number of French comedians - Auteuil, Rochefort, Laroque, Derpardieu Lhermitte, Aumont et alia. The acting of Auteil, Depardieu and Rocherfort above all is very amusing and good. I found Thierry Lhermitte's role in this film of less importance than in others, e.g. Le Diner de Cons and  Le Père Noël es une Ordure. The situation (probleme of homosexuality being or not being used as a way of firing or not firing someone )relates very much to today and the average spectator will be able to relate to the scenes of the film especially if he or she works in an office. I found the film most amusing, much better than 'Diner de Cons' (which had a bitter side to it). I think this film should better stand the test of time like some of Veber's previous servings ( La Chèvre, Compères Fugitifs ). The other thing is that is is not typically French and should be able to have a truly international appeal. Veber has this gift, I think of being able to be creative outside the French carcan and many of his works are remade internationally. Well worth seeing, wherever you come from and especially of you are feeling down in th mouth !!!!! "}{"Title":"A nicely comic film &#150; a little slight and lacking in any big laughs but it is interesting as well as consistently amusing","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Francois Pignon is a shy, unassuming accountant in a French rubber manufacturing firm. With redundancies on the way, he knows that, because he is not respected by his boss or colleagues, that he will be the first one out the door. After a discussion with his new neighbour, Pignon fabricates photographs that make himself look undeniably gay &#150; thus preventing his employers from sacking him without making it look like they did it due to his sexuality. When he 'comes out', the rumours start but his job is safe &#150; in fact, the management move to clamp down on the behaviour of one of the management team who is homophobic. Worried for his own job due to his warning, Felix Santini is convinced that, in order to fit with the company line on homosexuality, he must be especially nice to Pignon and show how modern he is. However this only serves to create more misunderstandings within the workplace.With the natural American remake surely only a matter of years away, I was glad that I had the chance to see this film before the remake rather that afterwards. Able to view it as an original piece of work without any other spin, I found it to be a rather charming little film &#150; slight and lacking real bite but still providing gentle laughs and subtle comment. The plot allows for the film to look at the way that homosexuality has changed over the decades to the point now where it is acceptable and yet still looked down upon (but not openly in public &#150; that is not PC!). It also manages to bring in other threads involving Felix's homophobia, a thread that starts out being very funny but later becomes quite touching and delicate. It never really gets very convincing as a serious plot or a real sharp commentary but it is a light comedy &#150; I didn't expect it to. A heavier plot would have spoilt the enjoyable light mood the film had which does manage to turn a little more serious towards the end without losing the comic spirit it had early on.Veber is a good comic direction and I have liked several of his films that I have seen. Here he brings together a good cast to build on his witty script. Auteuil is, as he often is, very good. A comic little fool that grows on the audience and develops as a person over the duration of the film, he plays it well and is nicely understated &#150; I hate to think how Hollywood will deal with a character pretending to be gay terrible camp clichés (Will & Grace, Birdcage) will be much more likely than anything else. Depardieu was a surprise find but he was also very good &#150; starting out in a very comic role at first but skilfully making more of it and making the changes to his character pretty convincing. Support from Lhermitte, Laroque, Aumont and others are all good but the film is easily stolen by Auteuil and Depardieu.Overall a very enjoyable little film that has a good comic tone as well as an interesting story. Never consistently hilarious or going too much the other way to be pointed and political, it judges the mood just right and has a bit of both, producing a balanced film that, despite being a little slight in several regards, is enjoyable and interesting &#150; I hope the inevitable remake can do it justice.  "},{"Title":"Don't ever listen to the American over-dub","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A great film; witty and original. From the writer/director of 'Le Dîner de cons/The Dinner Game.'The main reason i'm posting this however is as a warning to anyone who is thinking about watching the English over-dub; you'll be watching a different film if you do.  "},{"Title":"very humanistic film","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie was really sweet. One of the films where i walk away feeling happy about the world, and that everyone is essentially good, and worthy. It offers a very positive moral framework - each character is given a sympathetic structure that keeps the audience moving back and forth between their different perspectives. In dealing with issues like sexuality and persona, this is the ideal form. And everyone, finally, is lovable. How often do you see a comedy that deals so directly with people's self-image/self-esteem, and with such a light, generous hand? Kudos to the director and screenwriter. And the actors also turn in performances that suggest they had a very easy, loving time making this film.  "},{"Title":"Well made, warm, thoughtful, if unexceptional comedy...great fun!","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Closet (2000)Cute, quaint, well done, and a French feel good comedy. This is nothing brilliant, but it's the equal of lots of American comedies in creating a situation that is filled with built-in laughs. And the leading man, Daniel Auteuil, is funny and sympathetic.The setting for this all is an office of the most preposterous kind--a condom factory. This is meant to be funnier than it is, actually, but it's a colorful backdrop to the opening salvo--our leading man is not the best accountant and he gets fired. Back home, where his life has left him and his son has stopped talking to him, his neighbor stops him from jumping off the balcony to his death. And concocts a simple plan to keep his job pretend he is gay.The hook here is that by being openly gay the man would be able to claim he was fired by the gay bashers at the factory. This doesn't quite hold up, but the key basher is played with nice complexity by Gerard Depardieu, who himself begins to show some latent something or other. There is plenty of sympathy and warmth to go around here, and lots of appropriate laughs as you empathize with the main guy. Eventually, of course, people discover the ruse and that starts some new jokes. All in all enjoyable and fun, without a dull moment. And that's all you expect or need from this kind of movie. "},{"Title":"You're asking me to come out of a closet I've never been in!","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Poor François Pignon is boring. When a staff reduction becomes necessary, he will be let go. Pignon is played by Daniel Auteuil, who I really liked in The Valet. He is one of the top French actors, having won a BAFTA and two Césars out of 12 nominations.He is commiserating when his meets his neighbor Belone, played by Michel Aumont, who has three César nominations himself for supporting roles, and was also in The Valet. He has a solution to Pignon's problem.Belone does some digital magic and sends photos to Pignon's office to make everyone think he is gay. The head of the company, played by Jean Rochefort, who has two Césars himself is afraid to fire him now, especially since they make condoms and don't want to offend some of their customers. Gérard Depardieu, who has an Oscar nomination, two BAFTA nominations, and an incredible 14 César nominations, with two wins, is the office homophobic, who must befriend Pignon out of fear of being fired himself for political incorrectness.Four of France's finest actors in one film is a real pleasure and a guarantee that it will be interesting.It really doesn't get into gay jokes. It is more about how people change. Depardieu is hilarious showing how sensitive he can be as his coworkers prod him to be more accepting.The film gets funnier, as his female co-workers believe the photos are fake and try to prove it.The company decides to use him and they put him on a float in the Gay Pride parade wearing a condom hat.Pignon may not be gay, but he turned into an interesting man after everyone's expectations of him changed. he even connected with his son. It was so funny. "},{"Title":"one of the only times that I've seen Gerard Depardieu speak his native language","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" So often, we think that French cinema likes to be purely artistic that it seems like they can't do comedy. Well, I've seen two French movies that made me nearly die laughing Les Visiteurs/The Visitors and Le Placard/The Closet. This one portrays a man (Daniel Auteuil) about to get fired, but he makes himself look gay so that it could come across as job discrimination. It leads to a series of unexpected consequences, natch.A lot of the movie seems like it's just an excuse to be silly. But watching the movie, one can definitely feel the European flavor strong women, sexual humor coming in surprising places, and other such things. And of course, this flick affirms that Daniel Auteuil and Gerard Depardieu are two of the greatest actors of our time. Above all, I wish to assert that it's always great from time to time to see a movie not afraid to do anything it wants. Really funny.I swear, it seems like I've seen Gerard Depardieu in more English-speaking roles than French-speaking ones. Then again, I do live in the United States. "},{"Title":"funny and insightful","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a funny film about a bland man (Daniel Auteuil) who is about to be fired from his job. Contemplating suicide, his new next-door neighbor convinces him not to and comes up with a scheme to prevent the firing--pretend to be gay and then they will be afraid to fire him for fear they will be accused of discrimination. This is especially bad in the eyes of the company chairman because it is a condom factory and they do NOT want to scare away all their gay customers. The job is saved, but a long series of events (good and bad) result in major unforeseen changes--some of which are very funny (such as his being asked to ride on the condom float at the gay pride parade) and some are pretty poignant (his getting beaten up for being gay). As a result of this and good writing, the film isn't predictable and is a lot of fun. Be assured, though, that this movie is not campy and over the top, nor is it super preachy--a nice mix that will satisfy anyone.PS--Gerard Depardieu plays a VERY unusual role in the film--at first you hate him and then it becomes pretty weird--just watch and see. "},{"Title":"Excellent French farce, reminiscent of early (funny) English farce","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The whole film revolves around Daniel Auteuil who plays Francois Pignon (some may remember this as the name of the hapless individual in L'Emmedeur, also a man whose wife left him), a man who works for a condom manufacturer and whose wife has left him as she considers him very boring. He is also estranged from his teenage son who also considers him boring and too set in his ways. He is due for redundancy from his firm after 20 years service, but his next door neighbour (who is a homosexual cat lover) befriends him and shows him a way a way not to lose his job, by pretending to be gay. This is when the real fun starts with great moments from Gerard Depardieu as the homophobic bully from HR, who originally wants to hurt Francois but eventually begins to fall in love with him, as does his boss, his son and his wife (but it is too late for her). "},{"Title":"Sometimes the best way to find yourself is to pretend to be someone else...","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It is better to be hated for what one is, than to be loved for what one is not. So goes the old quote, but this picture examines that issue with some very surprising conclusions.Francois Pignon (Daniel Auteuil) is a very unhappy man. His wife, Christine (Alexandra Vandernoot), has left him. His son, Franck (Stanislas Crevillen), wants nothing to do with him. And while he is a competent accountant at a factory which produces condoms, he is as ignored at work as he is everywhere else, as evidenced by the fact that he is pushed out of the all staff picture when it is taken. In fact, almost all who know him consider him a dullard. So, when the factory staff needs to be downsized, he is, of course, first on the list. Distraught, and potentially suicidal over the loss of his job, he meets his new neighbor, Guillaume (Thierry Lhermitte), an old gay man, who has a few ideas as to how Francois may be able to hang onto his job. If it becomes known that Francois is gay, the factory won't fire him for fear of facing a discrimination suit. Francois uncomfortably agrees to go along with this in order to save his job, but he has no idea what is in store for him as he plays gay. At first, his deception merely saves his job, but does little to change things for him, but soon, he finds himself the grand marshal of a gay pride parade, his son begins to take an interest in spending time with him, and a homophobic co-worker (Gerard Depardieu) falls in love with him, leading to the co-worker's nervous breakdown. Francois' display of compassion in helping the man return to his job causes his boss, Mlle. Bertrand (Michele Laroque), to see him with new eyes, and to question whether or not he is really gay. Will she find out? What will happen to him if she does? This is a story told with considerable charm. Francois is very downtrodden at the beginning, but you can't help liking him. As his influence grows, he stays true to himself, and never takes unfair advantage of the situation. That integrity wins everyone over to him, and keeps you routing for him throughout the film. When he finally claims his power and tells off his ex-wife, you want to shout for joy at his liberation. Here is a man who has learned much by pretending to be what he is not, has found true happiness by claiming what he is, and has benefited from the experience.The acting is excellent. Daniel Auteuil turns in his usual masterful performance. Gerard Depardieu displays his genius for comedy in portraying Felix's disdain, and ultimate attraction to Francois, as well as his confusion over the whole incident. Michele Laroque does a wonderful job of portraying a woman who realizes that there is a lot more to this man she has dismissed as dullard than she thought, and in helping him realize this as well. The supporting performances are equally delightful.Overall, this movie is a gem, which should be viewed periodically simply for the joy of seeing it. It is guaranteed to uplift your spirits, and make you appreciate life. "},{"Title":"Ah, the French....","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really didn't expect this movie and was I surprised... I saw this on TV on a cold rainy Sunday night and hadn't even read the the TV guide when it stared. The actors soon had me was rolling between laughing and cringing in a way only the French know how. Its such a relief to get entertainment from script and acting, rather props, special effects and cgi. While this is a comedy from the masters of craft, it's also a sophisticated European take on contemporary issues of employment, sexuality and decorum. This is handled with such taste and respect that I wish that La Perouse had claimed the continent of Australia (where I live) before Cook just so to increase the chances of seeing movies like this.Le Placard, thank you for such a wonderful joyful evening, I salute you! "}{"Title":"Rubber, as in Eraser","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You know, if something makes you laugh as intended it succeeds. It is a great thing, especially if it avoids making you feel dirty afterwards.The basic story is only a device wimpy guy pretends to be gay to save his job. This makes him fascinating to others including his estranged son.The framework provides opportunity for jokes and endearments &#x97; even a kitten. Even, my gosh, the visiting Japanese delegation bit. It is pleasant enough. But woven around that framework is a metastory about the wonder of the power of story. Here we have a complete loser, not merely ignored but belittled. A tiny story fragment is planted and around it grows all sorts of power fed by the situations brought by the people surrounding him. He is baffled, but like the rest of us has to go along. When he finally gets back to truth, he gets extra points because of the THAT story.Dancing around in the background is the ever trustworthy Depardieu who has his own story- trick played on him.This is delicate and deep, worthy of laughing at, a tiny story fragment planted in us around which we will build with what we bring.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Challenging stereotypes","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i saw this subtitled film in a place where many viewers spoke french --- there were three waves of laughter at every line first by the francophons at the line then by the anglos at the subtitle in the blurb and then the third   wave by the french at the traduissation --- however you dice it this is the funniest movie ever produced --- excellent performance by  Daniel Auteuil as François Pignon and Gérard Depardieu as Félix Santini   "},{"Title":"Funny satire about perception of people","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was such a farce, with the plot being as out there as it can be, and it succeeds quite well.  It doesn't stop at a point in which it thinks it will start to offend people, but keeps on pushing that envelope.  It's underlying plot also mocks extreme examples of political correctness.The film is more than a satire, it also has a few tender moments, as the one with the Francois' (Daniel Auteuil) neighbor Belone (Michel Aumont), who originally came up with the idea to publish gay pictures of him in order to save his job.  But we eventually learn that Belone has suffered a life of discrimination as a gay himself. "},{"Title":"one of the best french films around","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this is a perfect example of how enjoyable french films are. this was almost as good  amelie and the dinner game (which i strongly recommend) even though it's in a differnt language, it's hilarious. it's cocky and it's worth the money. THE STORYLINE AND THE ACTING IS GREAT!!!! SEE IT SEE IT SEE IT! otherwise you're missing out. THE CLOSET (aka Le Placard) I SALUTE YOU. "},{"Title":"Interesting take on people's perceptions","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Closet is the story of how a boring man (be is called a drag all the way through the film) pretends to be gay in order to save himself from being made redundant. His neighbour (a former industrial psychologist) helps him achieve the deception (for mostly benevolent reasons) by manufacturing compromising photographs. The movie follows the misadventures that follow as the boring man finds others paying attention to him in ways he would never have expected.I didn't mind this film, but didn't find it as funny as I was lead to believe it would be. You do start cheering for the drag across the course of the film as he gains some self-respect and the narrative does neatly avoid some American cliches that would have ruined the movie. Overall, this is a light comedy worth seeing if you have an evening to kill and don't mind doing a bit of reading. "},{"Title":"He did it","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Francis Veber is a master of intelligent French comedy. For years, he make us laugh. It was hard for him to follow DÎNER DE CONS, a very unique movie and a big success. But Veber dit it very well with this one. Great cast from veterans French stars, funny situations and dialogues, and Veber shows us again his big quality  the film is fast. Just 1 hour 20 minutes. Never too long ! A good comedy is always fast! Let's hope nobody in Hollywood will think about a remake. French comedies are always funny when they stay French. "},{"Title":"Inconsequential","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Interesting premise, well-acted etc, and a farce which aims barbs at PC attitudes; but I cannot understand why so many critics have lauded this film. OK, it's mildly entertaining, but it's eminently forgettable.It seems humour can be lost crossing the Channel as well between the Atlantic. But the French seem to have cornered the market in films about the mundanity of office life/politics (Ressources Humane, Time Out)as well as using offices as settings for action (Sur Mes Levres) so that, to their credit, their protagonists are ordinary everyday figures rather than the gangsters with which British film has recently become preoccupied.  "},{"Title":"Extremely Funny","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I went to see this movie, I did not realize it was a French movie with English subtitles.  My first thought was...ugh!  I usually detest subtitled movies.  I was pleasantly surprised, however.After just a few minutes into the movie, I completely forgot the fact that it was subtitled.  My only problem was trying to read the subtitles through my tears of laughter!An excellent comedy...one of the best I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Pleasant comedy with inoffensive jokes about homophobia carried off better than it might have been.","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Amiable French comedy about a man who pretends to be gay to keep his job at a condom factory. Feelgood stuff, relatively unremarkable except that it would be cheesy as hell and totally ruined if it had been done by Brits or Americans. "},{"Title":"Get out of the closet and hang on to this one!","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hang on to one of the best foreign films of the year- `The Closet'. This so-called fairy tale (sorry it was too easy) is about a boring accountant who is about to get fired from his job, was deserted by his wife, and ignored by his son because of his dull personality. In order for him to save his job and spice up his ways, his neighbor comes up with a head strong idea. He manipulates a photograph of 2 gay lovers with our main character superimposed as one of the gay guys in the picture and sends it over to the company he works for. Now all the employees think that our accountant is gay (even though he is not) and are intrigued by the pseudo revelation. In other words, they think he is more interesting because he has perceivably changed from being a drag to being a drag queen. However, our protagonist does not demonstrate a gayish personality to others. Star Daniel Auteuils was very good and did not blow it at all. Gerard Depardieu was hilarious as a homophobic employee who is forced to kiss up to our protagonist so he could keep his job. The screenwriters wrote up a very creative screenplay, and demonstrated they are not a bunch of closet cases in the act of film-writing. So do not get a case of closetphobia and have a gay old time at the movies and see `The Closet.' **** Good  "}{"Title":"Another great funny film by Veber","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Francis Veber is one of the best comedy director in the game. Once again, he brings us François Pignon, the friendly con! In this one, Pignon's played by Daniel Auteuil, one of the best actors around these days. The lead role is well supported by the rest of the cast Thierry Lhermitte, Jean Rochefort and Michel Aumont. And to top it all, Gérard Depardieu! This is an actor that can play any role, he's so good!The story is simple Auteuil, an accountant, pretends to be gay, so he will not be fired by his boss. Funny to see how everything change from that point. A funny clin d'oeil to our society.Out of 100, I gave it 79. That's good for *** out of **** stars.Seen at home in Welland, on February 26th, 2002. "},{"Title":"or of the Relativeness of Life","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is a very pleasant movie showing in a Pirandellian way how life changes if we only change the perspective from which we observe it.The plot is very simple a man risks to loose his job, pretends to be gay just in order to avoid it, his life changes when everybody believes him a gay. Why? He has not changed, his attitude towards life is not changed, what has happened? The point of view has changed and people look at him in a different way, possibly understand him or listen to him. He himself has changed looks at his life in a different way, understands thinks that before he had not considered (the relationship with his ex wife, for example). As a matter of fact this new 'perspective' allows him to find himself and to behavior in a way more proximate to his real personality. "},{"Title":"or of the Relativeness of Life","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is a very pleasant movie showing in a Pirandellian way how life changes if we only change the perspective from which we observe it.The plot is very simple a man risks to loose his job, pretends to be gay just in order to avoid it, his life changes when everybody believes him a gay. Why? He has not changed, his attitude towards life is not changed, what has happened? The point of view has changed and people look at him in different way, possibly understand him or listen to him. He himself has changed looks at his life in a different way, understands thinks that before he had not considered (the relationship with his ex wife, for example. As a matter of fact this new 'perspective' allows him to find himself and to behaviour in a way more proximate to his real personality. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films I've seen in quite some time....","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ....first, it's not often that I can see a film starring....an accounting department (merci!). In addition, with the subject of gays and a condom factory - it would be easy for the humor to sink into the toilet. But it never does - it is adult, but tasteful. And it does say something about the human condition, about how we treat each other. Gerard Depardieu's transformation from an Archie Bunker-like character is....well, worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"You're just as gay as others think you are","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First of, a personal story I dated that very pretty girl from work one day (I know, it's not a good idea). I was surprised she accepted to date me so easily, as she was really pretty and I do not think I am that pretty myself.Towards the end of the evening I started to make my intentions a little clearer, to see where this would end, when she burst out laughing and told me she thought I was gay.Not only did she think I was gay, but the entire company did. Why that? The heck if I know. Maybe the way I act, the language I speak, the things that I like...What does it have to do with this film?Well, the character played by Auteuil in this movie, pretends he is gay to save his job as an accountant in a condom factory (!), following the advice from a neighbor, who tells him that, in order to truly be accepted as a gay guy, he just has to be himself.Why are people so fascinated by homosexuality, that they are so excited to find out that one of their coworkers might be coming out of the closet? So much that he becomes the new center of attention, and even becomes an important figure in his company?The narrative focuses on how his coworkers (including a very chauvinistic Depardieu, great as usual) accept or reject him.This is not too serious a movie, as it is a down to Earth French comedy, with some pretty good actors in it (Depardieu and Auteuil, who was in the Eighth Day). But it's pretty witty, and gives a good view on how company politics can be turned in ridicule.There is definitely not too serious a movie, about the place of gays and lesbians in our society, as this would bore everybody, including gays and lesbians.I do not know how gay people like this movie themselves. A lesbian friend of mine saw it and liked it, as she thought it was pretty hilarious to see how suddenly people think you are interesting when  you come out of the closet (I guess she also spoked for herself).  "},{"Title":"Surprising comedy about gay employment.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you have ever wondered if your employment situation would be more stable if you pretended to be gay then this movie is for you. This situation lends itself to serious questions and conflicts that are addressed by the story in surprisingly funny ways. You would think that a gay-bashing, macho, jock employment manager played by Gérard Depardieu (one of my favorite actors) could not be possibly funny but he is. This movie could be something for management to see in your company to make it more sensitive to Gay issues. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed this film from beginning to end.  What is so funny though is Gerard's lines as he perceives his co-worker teaching him how to be more open minded.  I laughed more at Gerard's impressions of what he was supposed to do and imagining what would come next then anything else.  Foreign movies are good anyway, because they are so down to earth and realistic.  None of the special effects of the American made stuff.  You feel like your sitting as a fly on the wall in someone's living room.  Daniel Auteuil is great as the unsuspecting, passive, do what you want with me guy, who is beginning to become a favorite of mine. Enjoy the movie! "},{"Title":"An intelligent comedy","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Francois Pignon,an humble accountant who works in a condom factory,finds out that the management is about to fired him.To avoid it a neighbor suggests him to pretend to be gay,and it works,the company will be afraid to be sued for sexual discrimination ,and decide to not fire Francois,but it will unchain a lot of embarrassing and unforeseeable situations for the poor employee. After Le diner de cons Francis Veber shoots another amusing and intelligent comedy,in this case it's not a parody of the gay world but rather of the politically correct that rules in our society ,either in the work relationships or in the personal ones.The result is surely remarkable,even thanks to a brilliant cast,Daniel Auteil as always offers a great performance,in this case he's perfectly comfortable playing the role of the shy accountant ,that only when considered gay is going to find his dignity of man.The rest of the crew is good too,and above all there is Gerard Depardieu in the role of the racist human resources exec. ..Highly recommended "},{"Title":"I laughed more than I have at a movie years","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Silly, stupid, impalusible premise, but a hilarious movie with wonderful performances from Depardieu and Auteuiel.  Depardieu is an outrageous comedian.  This is the kind of movie that makes me consider seeing only French movies... understaged, simple production values, but just plain funny... and ultimately sweet, poignant and uplifting. "},{"Title":"Light-hearted and funny","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a somewhat silly, but quite funny movie about a loser who finds out he is about to be fired from his job at a factory whose main product is condoms.  He is convinced by his neighbor to feign being gay so that his boss will be afraid of offending their biggest client base if he fires him. There is plenty of light, and sometimes malicious humor.  "}{"Title":"I laughed until I cried.","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  So wise, so funny, so touching. I laughed my way through two Kleenex and my stomach muscles still hurt 24 hours later. A wry commentary on how perception is far more important than reality. Also on how hatred and violence are usually the result of ignorance that leads to misperceptions. Yet, the ending is life-affirming, a real feel-good movie. (Even the cute kitten.)  "},{"Title":"...good sight gags and droll observations on how people perceive one another...","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An accountant at a condom factory (Daniel Auteuil) is about to be fired because his position has become redundant. He worries that he won't be able to keep up his alimony and child support payments to his cold-hearted ex-wife and indifferent teenage son. A new neighbor suggests he pretend to be gay, so that management will keep him on for fear of a discrimination lawsuit. Now that he has come out of the closet, some of his colleagues mischievously set out to broaden the mind of the company homophobe (Gérard Depardieu). This one has some good sight gags and droll observations on how people perceive one another through the distorting lense of their own prejudices and assumptions.  "},{"Title":"Funny, sweet, intelligent. Exactly the type of restrained, unpredictable touch absent in American comedies.","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Couldn't say it better than I did above Funny, sweet, intelligent. Exactly the type of restrained, unpredictable touch absent in American comedies.  Rent it. See it--for Depardieu's performance alone! "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A very good foreign comedy that should appeal to a wide audience.  At times it appeared the humor was a bit forced, but on a number of occasions it was laugh-out-loud funny.  The writer's and director's ability to balance humor with serious issues like, office politics, humanity and family issues was well executed.  It would not be much of a surprise to see Le Placard (The Closet) converted into a Hollywood picture sometime soon.  Definitely good fun.  Recommended.  "},{"Title":"Gentle humor with a point...business world meets real life.","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The sad, versatile face of Daniel Auteuil is perfect in his performance as Francois, a nebbishy accountant in a suburban French factory setting. He's not popular and fears he'll lose his job, as he's lost his wife and teenage son in a recent bitter divorce.  But a new neighbor provides a remarkable suggestion on how he can become impossible to fire -- let them think you're gay.  From this simple premise flows all of the fun -- the office politics, the wildly homophobic Gerard Depardieu (as a human resources exec) and the knowing women who assure one another, I always thought he was different... At the heart of this sweet little film is Auteuil, always bemused, always looking for a place to hide, yet always true to himself as well. He is loyal, persistent, kind -- a good friend. Certainly it's a fun movie for gay audiences, and everyone else who has survived in a modern office situation will enjoy it as well.  Bright and gentle, nary an explosion or an android in the whole show. "},{"Title":"a needed blast of relief","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched this film two days after the September 11 attacks and have never experienced such frequent, sustained, widespread laughter inside a movie theatre.  I believe we were all laughing more heartily than usual because of the unbelievable grief we've been subjected to this week.  It was a welcome, albeit brief, change of mood.  I have the feeling I will laugh almost as much when I see this movie again under different circumstances, though. What a witty, gorgeously-acted, tender gem.   "},{"Title":"Subtitles + silly premise = great movie","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went because of a friend's recommendation.  My expectations were low - French film, subtitles, silly premise.  The realization was great - somehow the story was believable, the jokes funny and the actors empathetic.  Best comedy I've seen in years. "},{"Title":"Sometimes I laughed; sometimes I just sat there waiting for more.","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  We live in Fresno. Most foreign films (art films, as we call them) don't show here at all.  It was a mild treat to see The Closet last night (Sept. 4, 2001  late coming to Fresno, but none-the-less).  The characters were well down-played; there were a few laughs, but none that came right out and attacked my funny bone, even though I couldn't help laughing out loud when the Japanese tour group, led by the CEO, came unexpectedly upon the condom testers. I most of the time kept waiting for lots of really good laughs, but they just weren't there.   "},{"Title":"Did you guys notice?","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  That the name of the main character in this movie (Francois Pignon) is the same as in three of Veber's previous movies (Le diner de cons, Les fugitifs and Les Comperes)? And the names of two of the main characters in Veber's Le Jaguar (Francois Perrin and Campana) are the same as in La Chevre (another really excellent comedy!) and Francois Perrin can also be found in Le Jouet (yet another great comedy). Somehow, is it always the same character surfacing from movie to movie, played by different actors? Not entirely! In any case, this is a fun movie, don't miss it!  "},{"Title":"In the tradition of Mr Hulot","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This little gem got here as part of the current film festival, and the audience certainly enjoyed it.  We don't get many opportunities to view French comedy and 'The Closet' made me realise what we're missing.It's a timely poke at PC and a good measure of subtle slapstick. It will be memorable for me.  I gave it a 9, I reserve my 10s for the likes of 'Blazing Saddles', 'The Producers (1968)' and 'Welcome to Woop Woop'. "}{"Title":"Excellent and hilarious","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The funniest movie I can recall in my long life. The only one I saw twice in a row in the last 60 years.Equally recommendable is a slightly older movie by the same director (Mr. Veber) called The Dinner Party which is a very funny movie and should not be missed by renting it. "},{"Title":"In the land of the blind...","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very cute, very clever farce that seems to be all the better because the film industry (especially in  USA) is unable to produce even the minimum level of intelligent comedy. Performances were mostly first rate and plot machinations serviceable. A diverting light film. "},{"Title":"Go see it!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this funny film last night. It's great to see a big actor like Depardieu in a supporting role without overstaging the main guy Auteuil. All cast was great, the dialogue funny and the characters are likable, even the bigot Santini, even though in the beginning he only tries to make friends because his job is at stake. It's a little ambivalent about Santini's true sexuality, but then that's not really who the movie is about. Daniel Auteuil does a great job changing from pushover to self-assured loverboy. It's credible. Go see it! "},{"Title":"a curious feelgood","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The other day I had read a review when passing through the globe's 'calendar' section but hadn't thought much of it.  However when it was decided that we would go to the movies the options did not seem especially enticing (planet of the apes and such recent films that I have seen were disappointing and though american pie two, rush hour two, and the others seemed worthy of a certain level of entertainment, I thought not very high) I was shot through with curiosity.  It's the smartest film I've seen since watching memento in june.  And the characters are actually likable!  I don't know.  I'm not a film critic, so this is not a hell of a lot of help to anyone, but 'the closet' is a film definitely worth viewing. "},{"Title":"finally, a good summer comedy","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen some awful movies in the theater this summer, from A.I. to Planet of the Apes, and from Made to Rush Hour 2.  I hadn't even heard of The Closet until a friend of mine said she wanted to see it.  Maybe that's the key maybe the only good movies this summer are the ones that don't have $20,000,000 promotional budgets.The Closet is a French comedy centered around homosexuality.  Within the first 20 minutes of this movie, I realized that it probably couldn't be made in America.  It seems that American comedies tend to fall into two categories sickly sweet or crude and mean.  If The Closet were made in America, I have a feeling that it would quickly degenerate into a series of mindless and insulting stereotypes or hollow Hollywood platitudes.  The Closet satirizes without preaching, and it is sweet without making you want to puke.  Every three minutes the film introduces a hilarious new wrinkle as the main character's feigned homosexual orientation creates more complications in his life and in the life of his family and colleagues. The comic timing is excellent, and the cast is perfect.For the first time this summer, I feel like I got my $8 worth.  Go see it.  "},{"Title":"A greatly enjoyable French film, different from so many of them I've viewed in the past","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a child, I grew up watching French movies with my father, a French teacher and francophile, and enjoyed very few of them due to the plots I found tedious and the endings I found depressing.  However, watching Le Placard was the first French movie I had seen with him in many years, and I enjoyed it thoroughly tonight, and I am sure that back in the day I would have enjoyed it as well due to its decidedly French flair with a plot that anyone could follow and enjoy, complemented by a fantastic cast.  All in all, Le Placard was a fantastic film in any language for anyone. "},{"Title":"Smiles for a summer evening","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you have an eye and ear for the foibles of human nature and corporate life in a politically correct environment, this well-paced sitcom will leave you chuckling and smiling. Director Veber does a great job at maintaining a steady pace and the superbly picked cast plays like a well-oiled machine. Depardieu shows again why he's one of the great all-around actors in any language (watch his finely nuanced facial expressions and body language) and Auteuil plays his role superbly, without a trace of camp or cant.  Michelle Laroque reveals herself as a finely tuned comedienne.  This is an unpretentious feel-good film, just as perfect for a summer evening as a crystal goblet filled with chilled sauvignon blanc. It focuses neatly on the French knack for finding humor without condescension in society's odd posturings --a lesson some of our ponderous directors might consider adopting. "},{"Title":"WHAT A DELIGHTFUL SURPRISE","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to the preview not knowing much about this French film and was pleasantly suprised.  The cast and the write handeled a touchy subject with humor and it was just a romp.  Outstanding in his part was Daniel Autevil who I have not seen before but hope to see much more of.  If you want an evening of laughter go see THE CLOSET. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully underplayed comedy","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a truly hilarious, wonderfully acted comedy. What makes it work is that all the characters are subtly realized, even Gerard Depardieu as the official gay-basher.I've been burned by French comedies before (i.e. the comedy doesn't translate well for Americans) but this is the exception. Very, very funny. I'm sure Hollywood will soon remake it in a bland, lifeless way, as they did Weber's La Cage aux Folles. "},{"Title":"Comes on strong but finishes weak.","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A rubber company that specializes in manufacturing condoms is downsizing, and Francois Pignon (Daniel Auteuil) is about to be laid off.  Pignon is an extremely ordinary and dull person, and no one can think of a good reason to keep him on.  Also, he is still in love with his ex-wife and tries to be a father to his estranged son, but neither of them return his affection.  Getting his pink slip sends Pignon into a short-lived depression, when his new neighbor hatches a scheme to help Pignon keep his job. Belone, the neighbor, doctors some photos of men in a gay bar--putting Pignon's face on one of the men--and sends them in an anonymous envelope to his employer.  He tells Pignon to not even worry about acting gay; just stay the same, he says, and everyone around you will alter *their* behavior.  The main objective is, of course, to scare a condom company out of firing a gay man, and as expected, all manner of hilarity ensues.Director and screenwriter Francis Veber's The Closet rides the wave of international success stirred by his 1998 film The Dinner Game without providing as well-structured or as consistent a story.  The first half of the film is every bit as funny as the setup to The Dinner Game, supplying nearly a dozen fascinating characters (all wonderfully acted by a superb ensemble cast), and promising much.  Part of concept of the film deals with shifting the focus from Pignon to the people around him.  Unfortunately, in a 80 minute film, Veber is unable to complete even a minimal story arc for each character--which leaves the film feeling somewhat disjointed in the end.Perhaps it is to Veber's detriment, in a film like this, that he writes such consistently fascinating characters; if the characters were less intriguing, the audience would not protest when one of them disappeared or suddenly and inexplicably turned into a simple caricature.  For example, Gerard Depardieu plays Santini, an office homophobe who must begin to play nice with Pignon or risk losing his own job.  For a while, this relationship promises the sort of intense character interaction at which Veber excels.  Soon, however, Santini undergoes a comic but inexplicable personality change and is marginalized from the film.  Santini's role in the story is replaced by a smattering of vignettes which show other office workers being alternately cruel and kind toward Pignon.Additionally, like Veber's previous film, The Closet obtains its comic premise from a social injustice.  This film, however, is slightly more blatant in its message-oriented nature.  In message films, an audience often has to endure forced dialogue--sometimes even entire forced scenes--which are not organic to the piece.  While The Closet is not as preachy as it might have been in the hands of another director, the occasional sermonizing does detract from the film. "}{"Title":"hold-your-sides funny","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If this film comes to your neighbourhood, make haste to see it.  Daniel Auteuil and Gerard Depardieu -- known in the United States, I think, mainly for costume dramas like La Reine Margot and the Man in the Iron Mask -- are perfect in this comedy of errors.This is a mostly cheerful movie -- dark overtones are smoothed over and villains mostly get their come-uppance -- and the sight gags are inspired. The presentation of the damage control efforts of the corporation -- including sudden sponsorship of a float in the local gay pride parade -- are wickedly funny. "},{"Title":"Well crafted, not as funny as The Dinner Game.","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  No doubt Francis Veber is a great scriptwriter. Here again, after the hilarious Diner de Cons, he gives us a solid story, always on the edge, avoiding both fat humour as french comedies usually are and intellectualism. Veber just has this ability to make every kind of people come see his movies and make them laugh. His writing is universal and popular without being stupid or corny. He does real comedies the clever way and he now has his unique style, even through his visual direction, maybe not always inspired but at least sober and efficient. In Le Placard, despite strong characters and a great rhythm, I didn't laugh enough. I liked the film though which has a great atmosphere the whole time and dives you in a good mood. But I regret the loud part Depardieu's character is simply not working and not funny.  "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I've seen in years!","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is everything that a light-hearted slice-of-life comedy should be. Auteiul and Depardieu turn in a respectable performances, but it's really the writing and directing that make this a class-one side-splitter. Granted, the storyline is a bit weak and filled with improbabilities and inconsistencies, but the gags are so brilliant and so well carried-off that it's tough to care. I can't remember when a movie has had me hee-hawing like this. It's certainly not for homophobes, francophobes or similar fascisti, but just about everyone else will be hard pressed not to fill a full year's laugh quotient in 90 minutes of Le Placard. "},{"Title":"Funny without being too straight","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As a person who works in HR I could relate to the many themes in this film. You don't have to be pro-gay to like this film. If you are someone who loathes political correctness you will probably like it even more. I really enjoyed Daniel's performance as the straight, average, dull man who is assumed to be gay, only to find the pretence actually works in his favour. I love how he regained his courage and in the end, unleashed the inner man. That line how he says being gay taught me more about being a man than anything else is a classic. Also when he puts in a sexual harassment complaint against his blonde, attractive supervisor, only to have the manager say to her any other man in this office would love you to harass them. I love how this film plays around with the ideas of Political correctness in a very tongue of cheek way, without resorting to luridness or cheap humour. "},{"Title":"funny!","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i laughed out loud a number of times during this movie. and i hardly ever do.maybe it was the subtitles or something (then i need to watch more subtitled comedies!) but i really loved this movie. it wasnt just the comedy, but the light way in which it dealt with homosexuals. they didnt take sides, which is a lot these days. i love how the neighbour is so rude and how the macho rugby co-worker talks about having showers with his nekkid buddies!dont skip this one if you get the chance to see it! "},{"Title":"Good movie!","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not really a fan of French movies, in fact, I don't think I would have rented this movie on my own, but today in french class we watched and I totally loved it!  it was funny, the dialogues were pretty clever and the characters were very well portrayed! "},{"Title":"Funny, and easy to watch.","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mild French farce in which a sad-sack office worker with a go-nowhere job in a condom factory (Daniel Auteuil) rises socially and professionally after his co-workers and boss mistakenly believe he's gay. Gerard Depardieu is hilarious as the office jerk who's forced to be nice to Auteuil once this homosexuality is discovered. Depardieu as a rugby-playing Neanderthal stuffed into a cheap, too-small business suit is a riot. His entire world is turned upside down by the PC mandate that he be nice to the gay guy. The film is predictable without being boring, and winkingly chastising without being pedantic. Don't worry about troublesome plot gaps--it's funny and charming and entertaining anyway.Not War and Peace, but definitely good for a laugh. "},{"Title":"Extremely Funny","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I went to see this movie, I did not realize it was a French movie with English subtitles.  My first thought was...ugh!  I usually detest subtitled movies.  I was pleasantly surprised, however.After just a few minutes into the movie, I completely forgot the fact that it was subtitled.  My only problem was trying to read the subtitles through my tears of laughter!An excellent comedy...one of the best I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"maybe the funniest movie I've ever seen","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I haven't enjoyed a movie so much in a long time---the premise was hilarious,the actors were all attractive and very effective in their roles. I've always liked Depardieu and he was great in a key part. I was amazed that the user rating was only 7.3---this was comparable to La cage Au Folles.  "},{"Title":"very great comedy movie","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this film is a very great french comedy movie with lots of hilarous scenes like 'the diner de cons (a movie of the same director). but this movie shows also the power of the rumor and the power of the other's mind in the job world i think that this new francis veber movie is the most emotional of his career "}{"Title":"Touching, amusing farce in the French tradition","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched this film on TV late one night, and I was glad I did.  A sweet, funny film that features a cast of well-rounded, well-acted, charming characters.  Touches on controversial subjects (the obvious) but in not too heavy a manner.  I laughed out loud with the dialogue between the two female co-workers concerning our protagonist, and I found the relationship with the next-door neighbor touching.  A film worthy of your time, and you'll be telling friends about it for sure. "},{"Title":"Room For More Skeletons In This Closet","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When the first six actors listed in the credits are all heavy hitters and the script and direction are down to Billy Wilder write-alike Francis Veber you know you are in for a treat. Ironically, the maestro Wilder's very last film 'Buddy, Buddy', was based on Veber's own 'L'emmerdeur' and it laid a kingsize egg in translation/transposition. Veber even extends his homage to Wilder (as well he, or anyone, for that matter, might) to multiple use of a character name - in Wilder's case it was Sheldrake, used first by Fred Clarke in Sunset Boulevard and reprised by Fred McMurray in The Apartment. With Veber it is Francois Pignon - the commenter who thought that Daniel Auteuil in THIS movie was the same Francois Pignon played by Jacques Villeret in 'Diner du Cons' was mistaken, they are totally different people, as are Wilder's pair of Sheldrakes - though only Diner du Cons and Le Placard have had a wide release outside France. Now that Wilder is not here to write scripts about guys pretending to be gay to avoid redundancy at a condom factory, who better to step in than one of the most talented writer/directors in the business. Veber seldom disappoints and here he is well up to snuff and also gives a wider audience a chance to appreciate Laroque, a gorgeous gal with a separate career as a stand-up comedienne in France. 8/10 "},{"Title":"no big laughs for me","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" François Pignon (Daniel Auteuil) is a meek accountant in a condom factory. He is divorced with a teen son who looks down on him. He is about to be downsized when his pushy neighbor suggests starting a false rumor of his homosexuality by spreading an explicit photo. Management is afraid to fire him. Homophobic co-worker Félix Santini (Gérard Depardieu) is forced to be friendly. Others see him in a different light. Before they saw him as dull but now he's exotic and interesting.The idea is similar to I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry. It's slightly better positioned. Daniel Auteuil is fractionally better but his meekness generates its own annoyance. It tries to dig at the social issue. I'm not sure I want to laugh at any of it. Some of the changes from the characters after the lie seem questionable. It's definitely better than the childish Adam Sandler movie but I don't find this that funny. "},{"Title":"Office politics and gay comedy RECOMMEND","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I liked this movie a lot. I like to say European movies often add 15 IQ points to American formulas--but this one adds about 20. There is just so much more depth to the good ones.The main character plays a Sad Sack Jack Lemon loser type who there is really nothing wrong with except he is boring and doesn't know how to play office politics. He is going to be laid off. Drowning in the failure of his marriage (and an estranged son among many other things) and now this happens! His attempt to jump from a building is thwarted by a neighbor who shows him how to turn the tables at work. Use of the kittens was great and a zillion other refinements Hollywood usually misses. It all comes to good writing and at a minimum competent directing. All else can be undone by bad scripts just tried to watch Meryl Streep! and Jack Nicholson in Heartburn---don't! What a waste of acting talent.This is good solid entertainment. How do you take PC office politics and especially the whole Gay thing and make a solid comedy that feels good---This one does it very very well.Depardieu looks good in this film he needs to limit the booze a little. Poor man. He is at his best here. Love him.RECOMMEND "},{"Title":"I expected something else to come off that closet&#x85;","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After the many pressures that forced Francis Veber to write a non-Latino villain in the American remake of The Goat (Pure Luck), the director, probably upset for having 'abdicated', embraced for a long time the idea of a pamphlet against political correctness. The Closet was his testimony and on the surface, the film has everything you'd expect from a Veber film. It has the wits, the mild-mannered average Joe, played by Daniel Auteuil portraying another François Pignon, AND the political and social commentary. What else could you expect? Unfortunately, what certainly looked promising on the paper didn't successfully pass the big-screen test, starting with the main character, François Pignon, a boring accountant (pleonasm?) in a rubber factory. The film opens with a very evocative photo where the poor Pignon is so meek and insignificant that he can't even get in the company picture. He's such a forgettable pawn, that it doesn't surprise us when we learn that he's to be fired. What's more, he's divorced and his son, a typical teenager, ignores him, just like his wife, played by Alexandra Vandernoot. This 'François Pignon' irritated me a little bit, I know he's supposed to be this way to become better at the end, but afterThe Dinner Game, no one could have played a more Pignon-esque character than Jacques Villeret, and any post-Dinner Pignon would pale in comparison. Pignons were all unwitting losers, and never lacked flamboyance and personality; the level of pathos injected in Auteuil's character was too big not to fall in the stereotypical trap.Naturally, it doesn't come as a surprise either that the man contemplates suicide; at that part, we still wait for some laughs to relax the atmosphere. Right before doing the big dive, he's approached by his neighbor who obviously sees a man in need for help. Michel Aumont, another Veber regular, is wonderfully natural and sympathetic and provides what I consider the greatest and most human scenes of the film. He comes up the next day, with THE idea, typically Veberian, to pass Pignon as a homosexual by sending an anonymous fake picture showing him in a gay club to the big boss, Mr. Kopel (Jean Rochefort). It would naturally serve as a warning, since the main product of the company is condoms. We accept the logic with even more enthusiasm that he's not supposed to act 'gay', it's all in the eyes of the employees. That was the cleverest touch of the film, but not a surprise, since Veber always respected the intelligence of the viewer.And it's remarkable how the reputation of one man precedes the perception, the first step succeeds as he's not fired, then he's seen in a different way, he's not dull anymore, but weird. His reluctance to be part of the rugby team becomes understandable, and any attempt to bully him can be a case of homophobia. The problem is that we can't go too far with that. Had the movie exaggerated a little bit, it would have been proved that being gay can somewhat help, which would have spoken a much wider statement about 'being part of a community'. And that's my problem with the film, while The Closet could have been a remarkable denunciation of the lobbying system, it remains a timid little comedy, a farce with no subtlety nonetheless especially when it tackles François' gay facade, homophobia-immune at work but not outside. It could have been more dramatic or more comedic, even if it flirted with the 'Birdcage' spirit (a much funnier film at the end, and no less written by Veber) As an attempt to compensate the shortness of the main story, Veber comes up with a rather unnecessary subplot involving Depardieu's character, Felix Santini, a guy who's warned by Thierry Lhermitte about his constant homophobic remarks. I know it was supposed to be funny, but it looked for me as a remake of the 'Dinner Game' where we're supposed to root for the plotters. I couldn't. When Felix was yelling racist remarks, I felt it was only Veber trying to make him look bad, and conveniently, when a black employee told Lhermitte that he was going too far with Felix, he changed his mind after learning about the racist remark. I still felt sorry for Felix, and I don't think it was a good idea to have Lhermitte, playing again a cunning mean-spirited guy (with the same bald sidekick). Felix is not a totally unlovable idiot but I wish the movie went farther with Pignon, rather than him.By the way, the presence of Lhermitte, Rochefort or other stars also annoyed me because they were not important enough to be important actors; even Lhermitte had nothing to do in the poster. It's like Veber wanted to exploit the commercial success of The Dinner Game for The Closet, but had it kept the same spirit, it would have worked. Not that the film is a failure, but it just can't be compared to its glorious predecessors if only in the characterization's department. Pignon gained more confidence but was it necessary to turn his wife into a sort of one-dimensional villain to make him feel good? Would the son be suddenly proud of him, just because he's in a gay pride? Apparently, being original is the key to popularity, although it's still guided by the others' perceptions, from his wife's shallowness to his son's superficiality, it seems that everything is guided by the way you're seen.The film could have been much better, had it had the guts to go further in its introspection, it's an interesting examination of the ways professional relationships are as undermined by general perceptions than in society, but it just lost too much time on the Depardieu-Lhermitte subplot to enrich the most interesting aspect in Pignon's life, making his metamorphosis too quick to be believable. A minor Veber film but still better than many comedies made today. "},{"Title":"Superb French comedy with sad undertones.","Date":"4 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's the eyes of the beholder. Yes, sure, but does it matter? François Pignon seems to be able to do nothing well in life. Until, by an accident of fate, and a bright neighbour, formerly an enterprise psychologist, they find out how to avoid the bad news, get to know who's who in his family and work colleagues, and get the reins of his own life, which seemed to be a robot's.Michel Aumont is a fantastic actor, so natural it makes you tremble. Without him, the film just wouldn't exist. Yes, Auteuil is also fine as a likable looser. When he squints like a gay, he really does something ... unusual. Like on a Rorschach test, it just takes an ambiguous image for us viewers to project who we really are. The envious co worker, the racist macho, the brainy one who plays with other people's feelings like if they were chess pieces, the bright beautiful competitive blonde which rightly suspects from the start, the boss who wields power but just doesn't want trouble, the bright African who also has mixed feelings about the white majority, his stunning but sour & selfish ex wife, their aloof frivolous teenager, in short, the human comedy. Balzac would be proud.Pignon, like his neighbour's kitten, is probably too grey to be distinguishable from most people we know. If there's something reassuring in this comedy that takes place at a fake condom factory is that we could all change. If only ...Veber, director of The dinner game and of lesser works, is at his best here. While stereotypes abound, they are probably forced upon us to make the clockwork orange of gags work relentlessly. At that it succeeds admirably.Pure enjoyment!PS Kudos to the nicest kittens I've seen on a film ). "},{"Title":"sweet film, though some of it makes you cringe","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Daniel Auteuil comes of it Le Placard (The Closet), or so everyone thinks, in this 2001 French film directed by Francis Veber and also starring Gerard Depardieu, Michele Laroque, Michel Aumont, and Thierry Lhermitte. When Francois Pignon (Auteuil) learns that he is about to be fired, his neighbor Belone (Aumont) suggests that he come out as gay. Then the company won't dare fire him. Belone photoshops some photos that show Pignon being fondled in a gay bar. Pignon, a rather colorless man, keeps his job, and in the process, learns who he is and what he wants.A truly lovely film, but some of the gay jokes, language, and attitudes related to homosexuality are really offensive. This, though, is part of the story, mostly involving a cruel co-worker, Santini (Depardieu) who thinks he has to be nice to Pignon in order to keep his job. In reality, his buddies are just having fun with him. It leads to Santini becoming very conflicted and depressed.The relationship between Pignon and his gay neighbor, Aumont, is very poignant.This isn't a laugh out loud movie for the most part - it's a very light, warm film that's very satisfying. Good viewing. "},{"Title":"not that big laugh funny but more of a clever funny","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Le Placard is funny, but its humor is not the physical humor like some treasured American comedies. The plot revolves around a boring accountant, François (Auteuil) who is about to get fired. Everyone finds him to be a terrible drag, including his ex-wife (who he still loves) and his teenage son. Distraught and determined to jump off his balcony, his new neighbor stops him and helps devise a plan to keep his job. All François has to do is allow his co-workers and boss to believe he is out of the closet. The plot itself is very humorous, but in a very clever way. It is not a film for audiences who expect comedies to revolve around outrageous situations that would normally never happen. Le Placard's humor lies in the silly, yet slightly understandable reactions of François' coworkers to his new identity. As a comedy, the film did its job and provides many laughs and snickers. The plot is universal in the sense that homosexuality is something people tend to tip toe around. Overall, Le Placard was a well made film and definitely a good French comedy to pick up. "},{"Title":"An entertaining satire","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is about a man trying to hang on to his job by pretending to be homosexual. Another colleague has to please him in order to avoid being viewed as homophobic.I watched this film a few years ago and I was thoroughly entertained. I watched it again recently, and I was still entertained. It takes the meaning of a satire to another level. It successfully creates a great comedy out of political correctness. What I find the most funny is that Félix is persuaded to please François all the time. The pink shirt scene is hilarious! Apart from the hilarious satirical plot, it also points out something important. It reminds us that people lost their jobs solely on the basis of their sexual orientation even in rather recent times. This film is a great piece of work. It is funny, entertaining and it spreads a message too. "},{"Title":"Nice and Light Comedy Drama","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Le placard features some of the best talent France has to offer. It is a superb comedy with muted undertones of drama. I never felt the Le Placard stooped low anywhere to get laughs. For me each and everyone of the jokes and farcical situations also had dramatic elements. Sometimes loneliness, sometimes love and sometimes our own prejudice.On surface it is an harmless comedy, but I have rarely seen comedy and drama mixed in such a subtle manner. Acting is just amazing. I hardly expect any less from Daniel Auteuil, Gérard Depardieu and Jean Rochefort.The plot seemed a little predictable in start but it keeps throwing surprises and the tone of the film is just right. A tightrope walk between comedy and drama.P.S. - I hope you don't read too much into the drama part from my review. Movie is designed as a comedy but I liked the underlying dramatic elements. It is not a black comedy but a comedy. "}{"Title":"Excuisite french humor, c'est magnifique!","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Like many of you, I sometimes grow tired of the same type of jokes found in Hollywood comedies that rely mostly on pop culture references or force-inducted awkward type situations. Sure it's funny, but after two decades or so of the same comedic styles I should want something more for the wits. And then the French come to the rescue I shall not ruin your surprise, but if you are a fan of comedies or at least a film buff that appreciates quality in directing and acting, you will absolutely adore The Closed. The biggest feat accomplished here is taking a subject trivial to some and almost perverse to others ( depending on the degree of one's social stiffness ) as the story of a condom factory employee, and making it extremely funny without resorting to low brow sexual or toilet humor. Upon watching this you will immediately remember of such classics as Louis de Funès's masterpieces or the 7eme Companie series. A straight-from-the-heart 9 from me, excellent! Also, give Tais Toi a try, it's a production in the same manner, with a great cast and also very original, it will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Exceptionally Strong Cast","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not many actors in this amusing film will be familiar to an American audience, aside from Gerard Depardieu and possibly Daniel Auteuil. But, as is frequently the case in British productions, the cast in The Closet is filled with actors who have played feature roles in many another movie. The story -- a colorless accountant pretends to be gay to keep his job with a company that manufactures condoms -- produces numerous complications. The funniest (and least probable) scene occurs when the accountant and his female boss (Michele Laroque), who has seen thru the scheme, make love on the factory floor just as the head of the company is leading a delegation of Japanese businessmen along a catwalk high above the scene. He explains they are our testers. Auteuil and Depardieu are certainly the stars but many of the other parts are so skillfully executed that the silly plot actually seems to make sense. "},{"Title":"Hiarious! but...","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Firstly, I think I should point out at the begninning that I'm English and I don't speak any French!Strangely enough, I saw this movie for the first time in a cinema in Barcelona, Spain. The movie was playing in its original French but with Spanish subtitles (which is another language I can't speak!). Despite the considerable language barriers that faced me, I thoroughly enjoyed watching the movie It was funny in places and totally hilarious in others!Some months later back in London, I saw that the movie was available in English on DVD (region 1 only), and so rushed to order it. However, when I watched the movie the second time round I found it far less funny.I think the main problem for me was that I had to concentrate so much on reading the subtitles that a lot of the humour passed me by. Much of the dialogue is funny because it is spoken in an ironic way or because of the expressions on the faces of the actors as they speak, so you get the humour best if you can watch the actors at the same time as hearing the words. The actors were speaking their native French quickly (as expected!) and the English subtitles flashed before my eyes too fast for me to have sufficient pauses to enjoy the movie's humour.Maybe I'm just slow? Possibly! But I'm sure I'm not alone with this particular criticsm. And I wondered why i enjoyed the movie so much more the first time in Spain...? Many of the people in that cinema in Barcelona could speak French, and I think that their well-timed laughter helped me to enjoy the movie more. You don't get that kind of enhanced experience when you're sitting at home in front of your DVD player!So in summary, i think this is a potentially hilarious movie, but I'm wary now of watching comedies with subtitles. In this case, I think that an overdubbed version of the movie would have made more sense for an English speaking audience (especially as most of the main actors speak perfect English in any case!). "},{"Title":"Fun stuff","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When a condom company's accountant, played by the versatile Daniel Auteuil, attempts to keep his job by falsely advertising himself as gay, the ramifications of his coming out reach into all aspects of his professional and personal life with unexpected and amusing results. A fun little French romp, The Closet is more subtle than obvious, more charming than crass, and more clever  than daring. An enjoyable watch for anyone who doesn't mind contending with subtitles now circulating on t.v. (B-) "},{"Title":"Cultural differences leave me lost and confused","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You know how entertaining it can be to turn the sound down on the television and invent your own dialogue? If you're imaginative enough, you can end up watching an entirely different film from the one being screened.Well it can be a similar experience watching a sub-titled foreign-language film. In this case, my rusty French was nowhere near good enough to catch more than a little of the slang-ridden heavily-accented dialogue, but it was good enough that I spotted a few discrepancies between the dialogue and the sub-titles. I'm in a quandary what am I actually trying to review here, the original French film or an Anglicisation? Sure, the undemanding plot about a man who pretends to be gay in order to avoid getting fired (because then his employers might appear to be homophobic) works well enough in either language, and indeed in either cultural setting; but I can't help feeling that it works *differently* in the two cultures, or rather that different nationalities of audience would put different emphasis on the various sub-plots and nuances. I'm sure too that there is more than a little oh it's in French so it must be artistically/stylishly/whimsically worth seeing (witness the pointless pseudo-porn of Catherine Breillat's 1999 film Romance which I probably wouldn't have bothered with if it had been in English - after all I haven't been to see Intimacy which covers very similar ground).Enough caveat; what was it actually like? Light-hearted, superficial, mildly entertaining, unobjectionable, fairly forgettable. Do you like vanilla ice-cream? I'd rather have chocolate, or strawberry. 6/10. Maybe I should get really fluent in French and watch it again. In France. "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Somewhat amusing French comedy about a quiet, zero-personality man who poses as gay to save his job.  Naturally, it turns his life upside down.  OK but nothing great and slightly insulting to gay men **SPOILERS AHEAD!!!**  For instance...an older gay man helps the straight gay become gay.  At the end the guy saves his job, gets a new wife, gets a personality, reunited with his son and tells off his horrible ex-wife...all by pretending to be gay.  Meanwhile, the REAL gay guy is left alone with two adorable kittens.  I find that a little offensive, but the film is too slight to get really angry at it...but haven't we advanced beyond this in 2001?  A few good genuine laughs but, overall, it left a slightly bad taste in my mouth. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A non-stop hilarious comedy about a guy that no one likes trying to become more popular.  Amazing acting by Auteuil and Depardieu.  A great confrontation of political correctness and over-compensating.  See this movie! "},{"Title":"Frequently Funny, Ultimately Unpleasant","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Warning - contains spoilersI haven't seen any of writer/director Francis Verber's other films, which apparently also feature the Francois Pignon character.  I thought this film had some very funny moments, but it left a bad taste in my mouth, and the humour is tv-sitcom level.Francois Pignon (Daniel Auteuil) is a 'dull accountant' who overhears some office gossip and learns that he is to be fired from his job of 20 years. A divorcé who pays an uncaring former wife alimony to support his estranged son, Pignon returns home contemplating suicide.  He is dissuaded by his new neighbor Belone (Michel Aumont), a retired corporate psychologist. Belone suggests that the company would not fire Pignon if he was thought to be a homosexual, for fear of being labeled homophobic.  Pignon replies that if he changes his mannerisms to act like a flaming gay, his coworkers wouldn't be fooled. Belone tells him that HE doesn't have to change - the change will be in how his coworkers percieve him!  So it proves...The main problem with this film is that Pignon is every bit as boring and predictable as his acquaintances believe him to be, right down to his spaghetti basilique.  His rigid non-performance as the condom king in a gay pride parade is an example of a wasted opportunity for him to 'loosen up'.  In fact, Pignon never shows any real signs of initiative, let alone self-development.  At first he is told what to do by Belone, later he is told what to do by Mlle. Bertrand (Michèle Laroque), his beautiful supervisor!  After Bertrand draws the hapless Pignon into a sexual encounter, he is able to displace his frustrated obsession with his ex-wife - apparently, in favor of Bertrand!The most interesting, and disturbing, part of the film involves the oafish personnel officer Félix Santini (Gerard Depardieu). Santini is prone to casually using offensive terms in referring to minorities, but there is nothing to suggest that there is any malice in his attitude, in fact rather the contrary.  However when fellow company officer Guillaume (Thierry Lhermitte) realizes the implications of the company's (superficial) embrace of diversity, he uses them to humiliate Santini, as a joke.  The confused Santini loses his wife and winds up in the madhouse.  Ha ha?In marked contrast to Santini are two brutish technicians who, convinced that homosexuality is synonymous with pederasty, mask themselves and beat up Pignon.  At the end of the film, Pignon 'accidentally' gives them a shove and they fall down, one complaining that he may have broken his collarbone. Ho ho?The film's only real message seems to be that diversity policies are tools for the unscrupulous!  Whether or not you agree with this implication, the film lacks the depth and cynicism to carry such a heavy message. "},{"Title":"French homophobia and sleaziness par excellence","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm sick and tired of French 'sex comedies' which for their humor really on tired stereotypes that are 'just jokes' for white, middle-class, straight Frenchies. This film is just one more example. Not only does it use a false 'reverse racism' storyline--that a minority will otherwise be kept in a job he is not qualified for--they also make light of some pretty serious contemporary anti-gay sentiments and actions, such as violent attacks. I don't like all of the stereotypes here that I have seen in so many French movies and comedies--the working-class homophobic buffoons, the not-very pretty secretary (as contrasted with the sexy one) who helps move the film forward. Maybe the fact that this film honestly was not that funny, even if you disregard the 'jokes', doesn't help. "},{"Title":"Do you know the last one about François Pignon?","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In France, we often can't wait to discover a new movie made by Francis Veber when this one's announcing the release of a new movie. Unfortunately, as far as I'm concerned, this movie disappointed me a lot. Le placard is a quite average movie spoiled by an accumulation of clichés linked to homosexuality. As a consequence, the movie works badly.There's also a problem as far as the performance is concerned Daniel Auteuil can't manage to make Jacques Villeret forget, irresistible and irreplaceable in François Pignon's role. As for Gérard Depardieu, he's absolutely ridiculous and Thierry Lhermitte is very colorless.Francis Veber also overlooked what made the success of the dîner de cons the aptness and the riches of dialogs.A real disappointment from a talented French director. When you think it's the same Francis Veber who prepared the delicious dîner de cons. "}{"Title":"It's just not funny","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  RATING  ** out of ****To be sure, Francis Verber has talent. With the wildly funny Dinner Game, he showed that he was able to weave hilarious situational comedy. Unfortunately, The Closet does not pick up where The Dinner Game left off. There's nothing awful about it, but in a failed attempt to put a new spin on Verber's creation Francois Pignon, The Closet never delivers.Francois Pignon (Daniel Auteuil) is considered an idiot by many who work with him at a condom factory and is on the verge of being fired. He gets word of this, and dismayed turns to his new neighbor Belone (Michel Aumont). Belone suggests a tricky scheme to save Pignon's job pretend that he is gay and the company will never fire him if they want to save their image. The scheme is working, and on the other side of the spectrum there is another prank being played. Homophobe Felix Santini (Gerard Depardieu) is being pressured to act nice to Pignon to save his job, and unexpected things begin to happen. Francois Pignon is one of the funnier characters I have encountered in recent years. In Verber's previous film he was a flat-out idiot, meaning well but always saying the wrong things and the wrong times. In The Closet, everyone calls him an idiot, but I don't buy it. He seems perfectly intelligent to me. Pignon is translated here as a boring punch line without the setup. Much to my surprise, I found that I couldn't care less what happens to him over the course of the film. One of the most valuable pieces of advice I could give to Verber from an audience member's perspective is if it ain't broke, don't fix it. Only partly because of Pignon's shortcomings does the film fall flat. Most of the jokes just aren't funny. They're the same sort of recycled gay jokes we get all the time in movies. The screenplay feels worn and tired, and what could've been a breath of fresh air becomes recycled and stale. Verber is merely taking an interesting idea and presenting the obvious What-ifs that immediately pop into one's mind when hearing a synopsis about the film.The acting was incredibly sub-par as well. Daniel Auteuil, who is on the whole a very good actor gives a performance as monotone and boring as Pignon is (see him in The Widow of Saint-Pierre if you really want to see what he's made of). Gerard Depardieu is fair, but doesn't show enough desperation that we are told Felix so obviously has. Michele Laroque breathes a little more life into her character Mlle Bertrand, Pignon's secretary; she is the highlight of an ensemble that is relatively uninteresting and never shows enough range. The Closet is a wasted opportunity. In situational comedy, we need to care about or at least understand the characters to a certain extent or it will be impossible to laugh when they get into trouble. While Verber seemed like he could handle that, in The Closet it doesn't seem he believes in his characters; as if he believes that the audience need only take them at face value. Unfortunately, The Closet ranks as one of the most disappointing ventures of the year. "},{"Title":"An hour and a half of my life I'll never get back and a whole lot of good anguish just vanished","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In a couple hundred years, history books on the twentieth century will doubtless remark with unwarranted amazement at the fact that, in Western countries, homosexual acts in went from criminal in the middle of the century to protected, lauded and even officially ordained by the end. I say unwarranted because sexual liberation had already been unleashed with the Marquis de Sade, and needed only the socially atomizing effects of high-speed transportation and communication to make its way into the consciousness of the general populace.No, in actuality, what is far more interesting about this whole affair is that the prejudice remains. The majority of people, even those living in tolerant societies, do not particularly want to know the intimate details of others' homosexual relationships, particularly children of their parents'.Even so, Le Placard actually expects us to believe that Daniel's son suddenly respects a father who's a lousy provider and a social dud because the latter now has a cool and interesting aspect. Hogwash! Any teenaged male would flip at his least tolerant or shrug and say, My old man has plenty of other problems at his most tolerant. It is not that turning stereotypes around is never good or valid; it is that the homophobic teenaged male stereotype is in fact intimately grounded in reality, and the movie loses a lot of its plausibility by jettisoning it.All the same, Le Placard willingly succumbs to the most tired and predictable stereotypes whenever it suits the filmmakers' agenda. For example, the bumbling homophobic buffoon, suddenly forced to be nice to his supposedly queer colleague in order to avoid being read out for insensitivity, ends up questioning his own sexuality. (It is interesting that homosexual activists can think of no worse insult for homophobes than to insinuate that the latter are themselves closeted homosexuals. Are they admitting that the worst thing in the world is to be called a sexual pervert?) Then, of course, there is the gender-bending sexual harassment subplot, which forces Daniel to choose between integrity and practicality and rise to the occasion. In fact, he chooses practicality&#x85; and yet nothing happens. When everyone&#x97;including the woman Daniel loves&#x97;finds out he's been lying to them all along, he is not chastised, not punished. Life goes on much as it did, and any potentially bruised relationships are patched right up. But hey! So long as a film portrays alternate life-styles in a positive manner, honesty and integrity don't count.The film reaches into the past and shows us an older male who was fired for the same reason Daniel is getting to keep his job. On the surface this appears a cross-generational comparison of just how drastically and rapidly times have changed, an indictment of politically correct nonsense. In actuality, however, Le Placard contains absolutely nothing that would offend a modern bien pensant the moral beacons of the movie are those who take the most warmly to the falsified news of Daniel's manly needs. The message is obviously that we still have a long way to go, and in fact should continue on the path, so that homosexuality becomes universally accepted, there is no longer any closet to come out of&#x85; so that the wheels of commerce can continue as usual.No wonder Le Placard&#x97;an offering jam-packed with offensive subplots, incompetent actors and insipid jokes&#x97;could meet with such recognition it is about as morally subversive, politically correct and commercially viable (due to its facilité) as a film can get, exactly the sort of stuff the studios jump to finance and to promote. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Quite an overrated and somewhat homophobic film","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a film with one laugh holding it up a straight man pretending to be gay. So, the film is not that funny to justify all its other problems and the plot ends up repeating the very homophobia that it allegedly seeks to decry. The clichés of gay men in cinema are numerous and Auteuil's interpretation of the camp gay man is just boring and problematic. Sure the actors are great, but this does not a good film make. What is troubling about films like this (ie. _Bird Cage_, _In and Out_, etc) are that they set up a premise of homosexuality between two men, place straight male actors in the role as if to show their versatility and ability to play gay (whatever this means?) and ultimately the intention of the film reifies gay identity as fixed, parodic and almost always funny. The comedy vehicle tends to sublate the seriousness of homophobia which goes far beyond the light, comic scenes here and ends up being a feel good movie for straight audiences around the world. Indeed comedy about gay men and women is possible, but it must be done with a sense of the community about which it deals, and this film is void of any real references to homosexuality that are not based on slap-stick humor and cliché. Essentially, this film is rather offensive in that all sexuality is in word only, no visible affection between men and ultimately this reads as homophobic when the film itself self-censures in not exposing the audience to what is the only expression of any sexuality sex or any type of physical demonstration of affection. We are left with a film full of references to gay men, no demonstration of any form of homosexuality, and a humour built entirely around this imaginary sexuality that, were it shown in any kind of real way, would have turned off many of the members of the audience from writing reviews like one of the best films about this subject. It is easy to like this subject when you don't ever have to see it or honestly engage it outside of parody. "},{"Title":"Lightweight comedy and appalling filming location","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Francis Veber wants to assure the follow up after blockbuster Le Diner de cons drew more than 9 millions to the French theatres. Thus the musical score you can hear as the credits are shown is as punchy as Georges Brassens' song 'Le temps ne fait rien à l'affaire'. But what is shown behind the credits is the poor main filming location a condom factory built with prefabricated parts in the middle of nowhere. That really makes the movie cheap at first glance.No appetite for something after The Dinner GameThen every character is not that interesting. Daniel Auteuil is nowhere miscast for François Pignon. But you hardly feel sympathy for the loser embodied. Let alone identification. Supporting actors such as Gerard Depardieu, Thierry Lhermitte or Jean Rochefort only assume the minimum performance demanded by their roles. So that they never become interesting either. Even Pignon's neighbour played by Michel Aumont is not very convincing when trying to bring in emotion on the footage.For Le diner de cons the comical thread had been trained on stage. Here no situation becomes wild comedy. Everything is rather down to earth as if the movie was only a tasteless transcription of the script. Which is what you can usually say about a movie not well written and not well directed.Doing bad with good actorsEventually the overwhelming impression is that movie lacks ambition as the average French production. You can focus on details such as an ugly filming location and you think 'amateurs'. American movies might be a bunch of clichés most of the time but they are made by true professionals. Not people pleased with their condition of fake artists and satisfied once they've hired good actors. The weaknesses of the French cinema are all the more evident in Le Placard as the cast would be sufficient to claim it's a potential blockbuster. But potential is not all that engaging. "},{"Title":"Crazy Offensive","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie had some funny moments but I just couldn't get over how incredibly OFFENSIVE it is.Basically a man is going to lose his job so in order to keep it, he pretend to be gay b/c apparently he won't get fired if he's gay b/c people will feel like if they fire him, it will look like it's because he's gay and to sell it, he acts stereotypically gay meaning as flamboyant as possible. There are also a bunch of characters that look down on him for being gay in a joking manner only it's never funny.Hmmm... what if instead of gay, we used black instead. Would that be funny or would this movie now magically be deemed racist. Hmm. a man is about to lose his job so he decides to pull the race card and pretend that he's 1/2 black or something and then in order to pull it off, 'acts black' to seal the deal. Heck, we could have a black man pretend to be his Father and of course this would save his job b/c a minority can't be fired! It will look like he's being fired for being a minority! Throw in racial slurs because he has to overcome adversity just like in the real movie, the fake gay character was met with gay jokes and gay offensive slurs...and we have a movie! I wonder how that would go over yet this movie seems to be a hit. Interesting... "}]