[{"Title":"Been there, done that...but never quite as bad.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This film was held up for release more than once and now it's apparent why. Dreck!!! This dressed up B oater is a sobering reminder of how really well done films used to be.  Even the bad ones were better than this.  While it aspires to something profound and hip, the overwrought and corny dialogue, the bombardment of cliches, and the horrid soundtrack and use of current music (Moby in 1865?  Puh-lease!!!) make it anything but.  The script smacks of something that might have been written for Audie Murphy or Jeffrey Hunter in 1964 and soundly rejected.  By comparison Young Guns looks like The Wild Bunch (Yikes!!!).  The filmmakers were apparently trying the outlaw as rock star motif but Peckinpah's Pat Garrett & Billy the Kid set a high water mark that handily drowns these guys.  But, like Billy in the earlier work, everybody, and I mean EVERYBODY, loves Jesse.  It's sometimes hard to tell who wants to sleep with him more; his brother Frank, partner Cole Younger, or Zee Mimms, the purty gal he aims tuh marry.  But fear not, bible thumpers, ain't no sinnin' goin' on here.  Just good old-fashion killin'. The only people sleeping together would be the audience.  The bad guys love him, too.  They must, because whether it be at point blank range with a pistol, or with a Gatling gun during a Civil War battle , they just can seem to want to hurt this guy.  Either that, or they're close to being the worst shots in film history.  And woe be to those that do shoot at him 'cause all Jesses's got to do is smile.  See him smile and it's a guarantee that these hombres ain't long for this world, by cracky.   Remember the smile, folks, it's integral to our hero's save-the-day and this one's fer Ma antics. Les is a usually competent director and a nice guy to boot (old classmate o' mine).  I hope he can recover from the savaging that the paid critics will give him.  If you want to see the James gang saga told in a good movie save your money, stay at home, and checkout The Great Northfield Minnesota Raid or The Long Riders.   "},{"Title":"A whitewashing of history","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"26 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This movie made me angry. Not just because it is a routine Western, filled with cliches, but because it is hard to imagine that in 2001, the writers of this embarrassment wouldn't give any regard to history. I realize it's just a movie, and there's a long tradition of glamorizing the murderers and psychopaths of the American west, but there has been enough research lately about Jesse James that makes this film's treatment of him as Robin Hood an outrage. Let's be clear Jesse James was in essence a terrorist. He rode with Bloody Bill Anderson and William Quantrill, who were Confederate raiders who performed unspeakable atrocities in the name of slavery. James was no Robin Hood. He was in it for the money. The gang is represented in this movie as good-hearted guys just doin' what's right and carin' bout their mamas. Horse-hockey! Read the new biography by T.J. Stiles to get the true story. A realistic movie about James would be fascinating, but is beyond the talent of the crew involved in this boil on the butt of cinema. And besides, didn't Young Guns make this unnecessary? "},{"Title":"Probably suit The Younger generation.","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" Many of today's younger viewers probably won't know too much about the James Boys, and The Youngers. So they can enjoy this for what it is, a funny, bullet dodging romp, through the wild west. . However the older generation should probably steer clear of this one. The Goodies are Baddies, and the Baddies are Goodies. Some of the one liners could have been written by the writers of Joey or Friends, with additional material by Mel Brooks, who might have called it Men in Strides I notice that the stunt men and special effects (which seem mandatory in today's films,) got all the awards. Figures about right. Jesse's escape from the train is strictly Van Damme. So, if you've never heard of Bob Ford, watch this, you'll probably enjoy it. However, if you are old enough to remember Bob, and Tyrone Power, I have a feeling that you won't. "},{"Title":"It's not Tombstone, but it'll do","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  There is just something about seeing a western that has real characters in it.  What is it about outlaws that peaks our interest?  What was it about Jesse James that made people love him so much?  Was he really as benevolent as he was made to be in this film?  Was he really as crazy and theological as he was in the Rob Lowe/Bill Paxton film Frank and Jesse?  I'm not really sure, I would probably have to guess he was somewhere in between.  In American Outlaws Jesse is played rather blandly by Colin Ferrel.  I can honestly say that I wasn't overly interested in Jesse James in this film the way I was in Frank and Jesse.  Rob Lowe had a much more complete interpretation of outlaw Jesse James.  But what may be lacking in the leads is more than made up for in some of the supporting characters, and for that I would say that American Outlaws is almost worth seeing.  Not quite, but if you have nothing better to do with $10.00, go see this film.Gabriel Macht plays Jesse's older brother Frank and Timothy Dalton, of James Bond fame plays Alan Pinkerton, the man responsible for hunting down the James gang.  Macht plays Frank James as the older and much wiser brother.  He calmly solves disputes, writes and plans many of the heists and robberies and helps Jesse court the love of his life.  Yet he is not there to take the spotlight away from his brother or from Cole Younger.  Frank is basically a peacemaker.  I enjoyed Macht's performance and when he was on screen the picture was a lot more interesting.  He adds some needed credibility to a somewhat lame film.  When you have great actresses like Kathy Bates looking disasterous in their small roles, you know you are in trouble.  I don't know if you can attribute all of this to the director, Les Mayfield, but it has to start somewhere.  The actors weren't really allowed to shine and maybe a few more takes should have been filmed before deciding on which one to use.Two other actors stood out as well and one of them was Timothy Dalton.  He seemed a little out of place in this film.  He just looked as though he was one step ahead of everyone else and just seemed to know something that we didn't.  He could make you think that just by a smirk, or a tone of voice or a tip of his black fedora.  He is evil, conniving and yet he has some admiration for the James/Younger gang.  He can empathize with their situation but his job is to hunt them down and kill them.  I would like to see Dalton in more roles like this, he was fun to watch in this film.  Also intriguing to watch is Will McCormack as Bob Younger.  He is unfamiliar to me but anyone who watches The Sopranos religiously will recognize him from a few episodes.  I thought he was believable in his smaller role as one of the Younger brothers.  At first he comes off as being a little slow, but his character builds towards the end and eventually he turns out to be one of the stronger characters.It's a shame that American Outlaws couldn't build a better script around these three characters because they seemed better than the script they were given.  American Outlaws isn't a bad film, it's not really a great one either but it is worth a look.  If anything, it will make you want to go home and pop in your copy of Tombstone and remember what it is like to have compelling Western characters.6 out of 10--could be better, could be worse.   "},{"Title":"don't waste your time unless...","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" ...you think Jesse James was a loser and should be portrayed that way on the big screen to set the record straight. ...you like knowing what's going to happen in the next scene because the screenplay was targeted for someone with the I.Q. of a mop. ...you like to be reassured that just in case the action of the movie isn't easy enough to follow along with, you can count on characters spelling out what is going to happen in the next BIG EXCITING SCENE. ...the only other movie playing is Pearl Harbor. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs!","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" Why did Colin Farrell make this movie? At his level of talent, he can't need the work so badly.Pitiful story that tries to romanticize a gang of violent criminals, putting 21st century people and attitudes in period costumes. It does not work.The action is so unbelievable from the first two minutes, it sets the tone for the entire film. A group of Confederates are ambushed by a vastly superior Union force, and the Jameses and Youngers manage to singlehandedly save the day, using John Cage style action tricks. Except that 200 incompetent guys with rifles would have turned them into hamburger.Skip it unless someone pays you to watch. "},{"Title":"lightweight, predictable waste of time","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" Don't bother watching this lightweight, predictable, boring waste of time. Like King Solomon's Mines was tepid rip-off of Indiana Jones, this movie is a rip-off of Young Guns. This movie belongs in the filing cabinet with The Apple Dumpling Gang, which would be more enjoyable to watch. It falls flat in it's attempt at bringing humor to the tale of the James-Younger gang. I cannot imagine the ruthless killers taking time to stand around in the middle of robbing a bank and discussing who is the better shot or who should receive more credit for their criminal activities. OK to watch if you have absolutely nothing better to do for a couple of hours, otherwise, skip it. "},{"Title":"It's not good, but it's good fun","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  The legend of Jesse James is one of those stories that people just never seem to get tired of.  Every few years, we see a new cinematic version of the life of James, a former Confederate raider who became a folk hero after he turned to banditry following the war.  The latest iteration of the story is American Outlaws, a red-blooded B-style shoot-'em-up that offers little in the way of historical accuracy and even less in the way of storytelling elegance, but does serve up plenty of action and lots of fun.Jesse (hot Irish newcomer Colin Farrell) makes a name for himself on the battlefields of the Civil War as an unpredictable live wire willing to do anything to get the Yankees.  After the war, he and his levelheaded sure-shot brother Frank (Gabriel Macht) return to their home in Liberty, Missouri, only to find the railroad coming through town.  The big rail money, backed up by hard-skulled detective Allen Pinkerton (a glowering Timothy Dalton), wants to buy the James farm, but the boys aren't selling.  They didn't shed their blood on the battlefields just to give their home over to a railroad.  Soon, however, it's back to war when a bomb destroys their farmhouse and the only way to get revenge is to strap on your guns and ride.  As they rob railroad payrolls and bedevil the authorities, Jesse, Frank, and their gang get something besides revenge  they become authentic American legends.It's a story every schoolboy knows.  Hell, Bobby Brady was a Jesse James aficionado.  Still, it's been a while since we've had a telling of the story, and this one does a fairly good job of keeping us entertained. Les Mayfield is not the obvious choice to direct a western (his most notable previous film was Encino Man with Pauly Shore), but he actually does a decent job.  He handles the action sequences with flair, particularly a crackerjack bank shootout and Jesse's escape from the rail baron's train.  The film's period accoutrements are all present and accounted for, the costumes and guns appropriately impressive, the cinematography by Russell Boyd all vibrant browns and golds.  There are also some nice performances from the mostly young cast.  Colin Farrell makes Jesse a likable, oddly sweet kid whose charm is just as deadly as his gun.  Scott Caan matches him as the hotheaded Cole Younger (more on him later), and Gabriel Macht is a sensible and solid Frank, his performance the best thing in the film.  Ali Larter is nice eye candy as Jesse's lady love, but the story really gives her nothing to do, and while Dalton growls impressively behind a grungy-looking beard, he doesn't really get the chance to do anything evil.  This is where American Outlaws starts shooting itself in the foot.  There is no real sense of a concrete enemy for the boys to battle, a true and implacable adversary.  Harris Yulin blusters and barks as the railroad baron, but he never truly emerges as a figure of loathing.  As a result, the film's finale is unfocused and confusing.  Pinkerton's final action in particular makes no sense to me at all.  Is he just giving a cocky young kid the benefit of the doubt?  Is he doing it because Jesse's wife is hot?  I don't get it.American Outlaws is a frustrating film in some ways because everything you like is balanced by something that rubs you the wrong way.  A great Civil War battle opening is marred by the sparseness of the Union ranks (Mayfield should have called for more extras that day).  An appropriately Coplandesque score by Trevor Rabin is almost wholly sabotaged by the inclusion of a Moby song (MOBY!) at both the beginning and the end of the film.  It almost makes you want to grab a six-gun yourself and blaze away at the troublemakers, leaving behind only those who are contributing admirably to the enterprise. Still, I've come to expect the good with the bad this summer, and American Outlaws joins Tomb Raider and The Mummy Returns as a piece of escapism that is better than the critics' comments indicate, but not as good as it probably should be.  Still, with these flouncy dull MTV teen comedies STILL dominating the marketplace, it's nice to see someone delivering a good old fashioned genre piece.  In these parlous cinematic times, even a problematic western is better than no western at all.I close with a bit of real history  after they stopped riding with the James boys, Cole Younger and his outlaws kept going, and one time even attempted to rob a farmhouse in their area.  The woman of the house got the drop on them, though; she slammed a window on a gang member's hand, costing him two of his fingers.  She survived to live a healthy long life, and have children and grandchildren of her own.  One of those grandchildren was my grandmother.  Someone should put THAT in a movie.  It would make me happy.    "},{"Title":"Perhaps the Worst movie ever made.","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Was this a joke? I am serious, was this a joke? Where are the Mystery Science Theater Boys when you need them? This is a Western about Jesse James. Of course, you might not have realized, Jesse wears Gucci clothing, has his teeth capped, a designer haircut and always hangs out in rooms that must be lit by 1,500 kerosene lamps. Of course, his gang consists of a number of male models that are just ahhh shucks funny. They really are some good ol' boys, that look real good. The dialog is quite refreshing as well. I never knew that they used the words suck and cool so often in the late 1800's. You see, this movie is educational. Silly me, I used to think James was a ruthless outlaw and racist. 0 out of **** "},{"Title":"A fun, fantasy, light hearted movie about Jesse James!","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" You know, it makes me laugh when I read other people's negative reviews on this movie. Yeah, this movie is riddled with historical inaccuracies and all the outlaws are so darn young and good looking, but hey, that's not the point. I don't think this movie was meant to be a serious study about Frank and Jesse James. This movie was made strictly to entertain and to make people laugh.One already knows from the first five minutes into the movie that this is a comedy/action movie. I enjoyed it for what it was, mindless entertainment! Yeah, Colin Farrell is HOT! As a matter of fact, the rest of the outlaws are all very young and cute. Even if the females audience do not care much for the plot or for the cartoon violence, I'm sure they would get some visceral thrill out of seeing all these good looking young guys together on the screen. The male audience will enjoy the humor and the fight scenes and big explosions and Ali Larter, the pretty blonde actress that plays Zee. Ali Larter reminds me of the models in the old 1970s' shampoo commercials, all shiny blonde hair and big smiles.This movie was fun to watch from beginning to end. I recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys a fun action comedy.By the way, now that the DVD is out, I hope everyone catches the deleted scenes from the movie. They are very good. It's a shame these scenes were not included into the movie, they would've showed a little more depth to the characters of Frank and Jesse James. "}{"Title":"More Than Anticipated!","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" This was a very cute story that while done on a tight budget kept my attention focused on what transpired. The acting was incredible when kept in mind that it was such a young main cast with the exception of the older well-knowns that came in to take on some of the other opposing heavy roles. I really like Ronny Cox and was glad to see him as a good guy in this even though he can portray a villain like none-other when called for. I also like Harris Yulin a lot so it was always a pleasure to see him as well. Colin Farrell seemed to actually live this role which is why he was perfect for it. I'd have to say that his acting talent has sagged to a lower level in his recent choices though. Maybe he became lazier or doesn't feel the need to try as hard anymore...who knows!? The action scenes were believable even if they were by no means near an epic-sized proportion. Ali Larter is pretty hot and is a decent actress! I'm really surprised she isn't in a lot more films because she definitely has my vote! She's realistic and is able to keep forming varying reactions to the different situations she encounters. Overall a much better movie than I thought and am glad I finally got a chance to enjoy it.Final TrailMovies Not worth the high ticket prices.DVD Purchase No, only for the reason that I'd only watch it a couple more times in this life.Rental Makes for a great adventure night! "},{"Title":"my applause to the cast & crew","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"22 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Smart, energetic, funny, exciting and underrated; these are just a few adjectives that describe American Outlaws; a western that will take everyone by surprise. Colin Farrell is a breath of fresh air and Gabriel Macht is a pure delight as they take the reigns in one of the funniest westerns I have seen.Farrell and Macht are joined by Scott Caan, Timothy Dalton, Kathy Bates and Ali Larter whose comedic, intelligence and intense talent to create a film that is rich in character driven performances.Most of the credit must be given to the writers of American Outlaws because they took the western genre and created one of the most unique westerns in recent years through the addition of humor. With action-packed sequences, strong performances and smart writing; the writers made the audience look at westerns in a whole new way; clever and stylish.Though I feel originality is important in any film I see, it is not always necessary for a film to succeed. American Outlaws contains many cliché ridden scenes, but the true genius of this film is the presentation of the film.Inspired by actual events, American Outlaws takes the audience on a comedic journey through the lives of the James-Younger gang and their battle with Allan Pinkerton and the railroad.The success of American Outlaws partially stems from the great ensemble performance provided by Farrell, Macht, Larter, Caan, Bates and Dalton. It was apparent from the start that the American Outlaws cast gave maximum effort was going to take me on a satisfying comedy thrill ride through the Old West. It was clear that the cast of American Outlaws had fun together making the film, so when this occurs everyone is guaranteed the film will bring satisfaction.Charisma, intensity and courage; these are the elements brought to the screen by the latest breakout star. I must admit it took me awhile to get over the shock of watching a charismatic, youthful looking actor steal the spotlight from his talented co-stars, but that is exactly what occurred with Farrell in American Outlaws. American Outlaws allows Farrell the opportunity to step out of the shadows into the limelight to take his place among the best young actors in Hollywood.It didn't take long to realize the discovery of the next big movie star would be found in American Outlaws with proof coming from Farrell's energetic and fun performance as Jesse James. I was smiling when I saw Farrell on screen because it meant the writers had created a character filled with imagination and ideas that made the movie a joy to watch.Aside from Farrell, another bright spot in American Outlaws shined with the emergence and second breakthrough performance turned in by his co-star, Gabriel Macht. With enormous screen presence and impact turned in by Macht, this is an actor who will soon hear his name called as a winner of the coveted academy award.Rounding out American Outlaws is the addition of Timothy Dalton and Kathy Bates. Commendations must given to Dalton for making the character of Allan Pinkerton a delight to watch. It didn't take me long to recognize that he was the right man for the job. With his look, demeanor and presence, Dalton confirmed my suspicions.A short appearance can sometimes be the most memorable as with the case of the actress who portrayed Ma James. Bates has always been a favorite of mine because she brings credibility to each film she stars in. With American Outlaws, Bates role is short, sweet and to the point.The bottom line is American Outlaws is an underrated film that will bring everyone pure satisfaction and serve as great entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Young Guns for the new millennium","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" Released in 2001, American Outlaws is yet another rendition of Jesse James, Cole Younger and their Gang. This one focuses on the end of the Civil War and the first year or so of the gang's activities (which lasted a whole decade in reality, from 1866-76).American Outlaws is highlighted by a great cast with great chemistry, including Colin Farrell as Jesse, Scott Caan (aka 'Danno') as Cole, the beautiful Ali Larter as Zee, Jesse's girlfriend/wife, and Timothy Dalton as the lead Pinkerton. The film plays it fairly serious accented by a fun, joie de vivre spirit, sorta like Indiana Jones in the wild West. This is the exact opposite of the grim The Long Riders from 1980 (which is arguably the best film about the James-Younger Gang). Anyway, You can tell the cast had a blast during filming. As far as historical accuracy goes, well, there was a group of outlaws in Missouri called the James-Younger Gang and they did ride horses, other than that the historicity is pretty butchered. See The Long Riders for a more austere and accurate version of the tale.BOTTOM LINE Even though American Outlaws loses points for inaccuracies and implausibilities, it scores high in overall entertainment value. It's a turn-off-your-brain-and-have-a-blast kind of Western. The movie performed poorly at the box office in 2001 and Roger Ebert gave it a scathing review. Ebert compared it to 1972's The Great Northfield Minnesota Raid, which he praised. This was strange because that film wasn't exactly realistic either; in fact, it's a veritable parody or black comedy. These movies shouldn't be compared in the first place since American Outlaws details the gang's first year in action and The Great Northfield Minnesota Raid the gang's final bank robbery, a whole decade later. Furthermore, the two films are expressly opposite in tone American Outlaws makes the wild West fun and larger-than-life while the other film de-glamorizes it, making it profane, ugly and idiotic. In any event, American Outlaws is seriously rollicking Western lore worthy of one's video library. The film was shot in Central-East Texas (great locations, by the way) and runs a short-but-sweet 94 minutes.GRADE B "},{"Title":"Fun but surely not historically accurate","Date":"29 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" I know Jesse James was no hero. I remember how Bobby Brady had to be convinced by everyone's kindly old grandfather Burt Mustin. And in a nightmare, a good-looking charmer had a deadly finger.Well, Colin Farrell is also a good-looking charmer, more like Uncle Jesse Katsopolis than a wanted criminal. He doesn't kill a single person in this movie, and he is never anything other than polite, with only the best of intentions. Take from the rich and give to the poor, and let people know what could happen if they didn't. It was the Youngers who were evil and scary, and if Jesse and Frank ever go straight we're all in trouble.And once the James boys and the Youngers start their crime spree, this movie quickly turns into wacky comedy. It's a lot of fun.Yes, if only those railroad barons hadn't been so ruthless, the James boys and the Youngers could have been decent farmers who led simple lives.The James brothers were raised right, and Kathy Bates gives a fine yet brief performance as a devoted Christian with a gun who wasn't afraid to use it. It was only the first of two performances by her I saw the same day, and this one may have been slightly better.In addition to being a charmer, Jesse is also an action hero with amazing abilities. Only in the movies! There's no way, especially on a Civil War battlefield. But it is fun to watch anyway.And Ali Larter is beautiful, from the very first time she turns around to show that gorgeous smile. But not merely gorgeous. She has brains too. Who knew that right after the Civil war a woman could be treated almost as an equal by tough hombres?Timothy Dalton stands out as the evil yet strangely likable Alan Pinkerton, the ruthless villain of the movie. Yes, this movie turns morals upside down and makes the hero into the villain. But after all, we're not rooting for those rich railroad tycoons.I do have two minor issues with this movie. I don't care for high-tech music to begin with, but in a Western? Music that won't be written for one hundred years by ZZ Top (Shanghai Noon) fits, while Moby most certainly doesn't. The live music performed for a dance was good but may also have been ahead of its time.I noticed at the end this movie was called fiction and no one depicted should be assumed to be based on anyone real. I get that now. This was not how it happened.But it's fun to watch anyway. "},{"Title":"Far better than expected.","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" If you liked Tombstone, The Postman, Braveheart, or Robin Hood PoT, you'll enjoy this one! What it shares is the lawless society where one (or a small band) of the targeted simple honest folks decides not to just lay down but to fight back against a seemingly undefeatable power-happy and -hungry foe. American Outlaws adds comedy and some great characters into the mix and comes up with a winner. Colin Farrell, Ali Larter and Scott Caan deliver solid performances.I don't know anything about Jesse James and I get the feeling after watching this movie, I still don't, but I do know that I'll be putting this one in my favourites pile.But that's just my two scents. ;) "},{"Title":"fun but far from great","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" American Outlaws (2001)American Outlaws is not historically accurate really at all except for a few small things, but that doesn't bother me at all, it is still a very fun movie. The film has a good blend of action, drama and comedy which makes it easy to watch. Its not as good as the remake of 310 to Yuma, as far as newer westerns go, but I still think it was well put together. Good western gun fights, and a good western storyline, blended with some funny one liners. The acting was decent as well. American Outlaws was the first film I saw Colin Farrell in and instantly became a fan, though now this is far from his best work. He does a good accent that would make you never guess he was Irish. The rest of the cast is a little hit and miss in my opinion. No one did terrible but even Kathy Bates didn't do that great. Timothy Dolton probably gave the best performance of the supporting cast. However, other supporting cast members like Scott Caan and Ali Larter didn't really give much of a performance at allI think the film is pretty fairly rated by most, because it's not great. The acting is OK, the story isn't that original, and it's not accurate, but it is fun and I still enjoy it. So overall, I can't guarantee anyone will like it. If you like westerns or you like Colin Farrell, I think you should at least give this film a try. Just remember it isn't a history lesson. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" The only thing about this movie is that it make the James , Younger gang into hero's. They were kind of Robin Hoods of their day , but this movie really glorifies what they did. They were fighting for their homes, against the enemy the railroad. They had fought for years for their homes against the the Northern army only to come home and find that there homes were in danger by another enemy. Don't get me wrong, I would have been mad too, but they killed lawmen and innocent townspeople when they robbed the trains and banks. I did like the human aspect of the movie that Jessie fell in love and that the family's, cousins were close. I believe that part was most likely true. "},{"Title":"American Outlaws","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" So it's not Cool Hand Luke or one of those so-called cool Westerns from the '40s, but it's still one of my favorite movies. It doesn't really follow the legend of Jesse James and didn't set out to. If you're looking for something historical, this is not your movie. If, however, you're looking for a movie that is fun all the way through, then this is something you should. The entire cast shines as one of the most talented group since Ocean's 11. Most people will see it because of Colin Farrell, but I hope you'll pay attention to Gregory Smith, who plays the youngest Younger brother, Jim. He's excellent in the role and will be a big star. Another one to watch is Will McCormack. He's truly comedic gold in the role of the middle Younger bro. Bob. All in all, this movie is worth checking out, because it's truly hilarious and the cast is dynamite. "},{"Title":"energetic yet thoughtful","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" It's a wonderful and skillful retelling of a legend that imaginatively shows another possible side of history. This movie creates an youthful, energetic yet thoughtful contemporary action-adventure without those epic-sized scenes.While other movies aim to be serious portrayals of the outlaws' lives and historical events, this picture just wants to have fun with bits & pieces of accuracy. It is not a docudrama nor should it be and It's funto root for the bad guys.The boys are buff good-looking Robin Hood-esque with a great sense of humor and some witty one-liners. Don't dismiss Ali Larter either as the strong believable Zee Mims and love interest of Jesse. Great soundtrack also, what more could you want from a light fun movie night out. "},{"Title":"Revisionist and contemporary study about   famous bandits   Jesse  , Frank  James and Younger brothers","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" This is a slight and plain biopic about Jesse James who ranks with Billy the Kid as the most famous of Western outlaws . Legend and folklore have cast him as a Robin Hood , a good boy forced by circumstances to follow a criminal life . The picture provides a simple portrait of Jesse and his band , as they move from Civil War to there territory becoming into demi-legends . Jesse (Colin Farrell) and Frank (Gabriel Match) joined the Confederate guerrillas of Quantrill and learned to kill in ruthless company . Jesse and Frank along with cousins Cole (Scott Caan) , Bob (Will McCormack) and Jim Younger return from War to find mommy (Kathy Bates) and family threatened by railroad . Then a Midwest town to be aware that mean railroad barons (Terry O'Quinn , Harris Yulin) have captured the deeds to their homesteads without their knowledge , as a group of young ranchers unite forces to take back what is rightfully theirs . As Pinkerton (Timothy Dalton) detectives were hired by the railroad company to hunt down Jesse and Frank . So James Brothers commence to robbin' banks and trains to help out the poor folks who been done wrong . In the course of their revenge , they will become the object of the biggest manhunt in the history of the Old West . Along the way , Jesse courts attractive young , filly Zee (Ali Later) . As their fame grows, so will the legend of their leader, a young outlaw by the name of Jesse James.A sophomoric wild bunch look-alike that ends up resembling a Western version of Bowery Boys . Features various passable acting by a popular group of today's known stars . This is an average look about the known story of the West's greatest bandit along with Frank , Cole Younger and brothers . Contemporary-style Western with acceptable performances and professional direction by Les Mayfield who creates some good action scenes . Jesse is middlingly played , though sometimes overacting , by Colin Farrel, he plays as a likable, sympathetic, attractive young and favourite with girls . This passable Western packs lots of action , shootouts, and explosive violence . Taut excitement throughout , beautifully photographed by Russell Boyd and with spectacular bloodletting but realized with some flaws . atmospheric and evocative musical score by Trevor Ravin . The story is similarly to ¨The young guns I and II¨ with loads of noisy action and violence . The film gets spectacular shoot em'up , thrills , exciting horse pursuits ; it's entertaining , although nothing new but displays an ordinary pace and with no originality . People have been writing the obituary for a few years now , but ¨American outlaws¨ cannot be the bullet in the genre's back .The picture was based on actual events , these are the following  At the war's end in 1865 , Jesse rode in to surrender and was shot and seriously wounded by a Union soldier . It is believed that Jesse took part in his first robbery in 1866 when a dozen men held up the bank in Liberty , Missouri . A bank cashier was killed in the raid and a reward was offered for each of the James brothers . In 1873 Jesse and his band derailed and robbed a train on the Rock Island line . Jesse married his cousin Zerelda , who bore him two children . Pinkerton detectives were contracted to chase Jesse and Frank , the agents surrounded the home , believing they to be there , tossed a bomb and the explosion killed Jesse's young half-brother . This outrage brought much sympathy for the brothers . On 1876 Jesse and Frank in company the three Younger Brothers , attempted a bank robbery at Northfield , Minnnesota , and walked in disaster . The alerted citizens opened fire on the raiders , of the eight bandits involved , three were killed and three Younger brothers were captured . On 3 April 1882 Bob Ford , a new member of the gang , treacherously shot Jesse dead in back of the head in his home at St Joseph , Missouri . "}{"Title":"laughably good natured","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" Supposedly when  Jesse James first opened back in the late thirties, one of his family members attended and was asked about the accuracy of the movie. She evidently said something to the effect of Well he was named Jesse and he rode a horse, other than that it was entirely fiction. Not an exact quote, but the gist.This movie is about the same, nothing exceptional and very,very silly. Guess what? If you don't take it too seriously, or rather if you understand that it is hardly meant to be taken seriously, you might actually have an enjoyable couple of hours.For real western movies, see just about anything else, just about anything with Wayne, Jimmy Stewart in his western phase, or Clint Eastwood. The pretty boy actors here don't have much talent, but they're funny in their own way. It's kind of like Dawson's Creek with horses and explosions.For a real movie about the James-Younger gang, take in The Long Riders, it's generally historically accurate and well done.It's nice to see westerns done in this day and age with computer generated effects and such, so if you take it for what it is, American Outlaws is a smile or two. "},{"Title":"Producers in Urgent Need of Mental Health Care.......","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" Atrocious insult to western movies, and maybe the worst cowboy film ever. The one who plays Jesse James has an Irish accent and in common with all the cast he cannot act.The script is awful and the story seems to be acted out by a bunch of 3rd class hams or amateurs.The players cannot make up their minds if this is a farce or a melodrama. The love interest is some whining screechy cow who is a total turn off. This nonsense glorifies the killer criminals and their gang but everyone else is either a villain or in awe of them.What special needs case created this film?! 1/10 "},{"Title":"Surprised","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"    I thought this movie would be awful, but I was surprised.  This film is not great, and done on a low budget, but has some entertainment value.  They have the James gang portrayed as good guys in this film, not a realistic version.  Timothy Dalton plays a good role as Pinkerton.  In the end this film is a little like Raiders of the Lost Ark. "},{"Title":"Dude, Where's My Horse","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Horrible insult to the tradition of westerns, 'American Outlaws' is worthwhile only as another stepping stone in the career of Colin Farrell.  He's horrible as much as anyone in the cast, but he'll be in much better movies as a rule, soon...For now, he can be forgiven this.James brothers are portrayed as nitwits who grimace when their 'WANTED' poster does not look like them..then later, when the poster has been improved (but the movie has not), they smile.  One of their group is old enough to order a milk shake so naturally he's the first to go.  He must have won the pool.  Kathy Bates and Timothy Dalton - one question..did you owe back taxes?Gabriel Macht is the only actor who has an clue what's going on, and he's also the only one who looks like he's from that period.  All the rest have designer haircuts and Scott Caan even got a tint job.  None of the dialogue is suited to the era, either; they all might as well be meeting at a rave. See 'The Long Riders', 'Tombstone', anything else.. 1/10. John Ford is weeping somewhere.  "},{"Title":"One of the All-Time Worst Westerns Ever Made.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" American Outlaws (2001) Dir Les Mayfield / Cast Colin Farrell, Scott Caan, Kathy Bates, Ali Larter, Timothy Dalton With the look of a western and feel of Degrassi High with outlaw characters living in America. Opens with one of many boring shootouts and introduces Colin Farrell as Jesse James who leads robbery sprees after his mother and farm are torched. Scott Caan plays his equally pig-headed cousin. Government seeks their land so a violent climax should surprise no one. Director Les Mayfield previously made such trash as Flubber and Blue Streak and this certainly hasn't improved him. Farrell and Caan have a disagreement and split but unfortunately they find their way not only back to each other, but also back to the set. They engage in gun fights like every two minutes. Kathy Bates is particularly disturbing using Christianity to advocate death. Ali Larter plays that brainless romantic interest to Farrell who will do nothing more than look pretty while they're out fighting their cause. Timothy Dalton plays the nasty villain forcing everyone off their land. He should be forcing everyone off the set of this film. This is easily one of the worst excuses for a western ever made. Everything looks either phoney or has been done countless times in far better westerns. There is no real reason to see it other than to witness bad filmmaking. It is pointless garbage that should be shot to pieces. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"It's JJ Jim, but not as we know it...","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" Funny... this film tells us the tale of an outlaw called Jesse James... but it doesn't bear any resemblance to the Jesse I'm familiar with. This Jesse is a hero of the people... he only steals from those who can afford it, uses violence sparingly in self-defense and can get out of ANY life-or-death situation... No matter how against the odds it is.What sets the tone is the opening sequence where, in a suicidal gambit, he rides directly in front of dozens of soldiers AND a gatling gun... just to distract them long enough so his friends can get away. In real life this would lead to instant death 10 times outta 10... but here he escapes with just a little nick. I don't care how much inspirational music and slow-mo you attach to scenes like this, (and there's quite a few) they feel like you're watching a cartoon. Serious Western fans should have a fit.So, we've already established that JJ is a FINE young man. He loves his Mama, wants to settle down with a good wife and is nigh-on indestructible. The gang he leads is mostly full of drunkards, try-hards and idiots... NOTHING can compare to the demi-god that is our Jesse. In fact, was the entire production bankrolled by his ancestors? I demand an investigation. NOW.Another interesting development is that almost every baddie has a moustache or a beard, where the goodies are mostly as smooth as a baby's bottom. Now, I dislike facial hair as much as the next dude... but isn't that a little... beardist? If you wanna avoid getting killed in this town, just invest in a razor. Simples.By the end, when Jesse James has survived (Of course) because his missus has blown up a train he was being held prisoner on, and loads and LOADS of men on horseback have appeared from nowhere to save the day (hope those extras got paid well), it was all I could do to stop myself from throwing my hands to the sky. In a film full of improbabilities and impossibilities this didn't just take the cake, but also emptied the entire dessert trolley.It isn't a boring film, but one stuffed with so many illogical moments and no imagination directing, the experience feels more like a cheap imitation of how a Western should be. Finally, if you're doing an exam on this period in history, don't bother trying to derive any knowledge from American Outlaws. You're likely to be the recipient of a nice juicy F, and have a seat reserved for you at the back of the class. Wearing a cap with D on it. You have been warned... 5/10 "},{"Title":"~~~~ Jesse James ~~~~","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" I am not sure if reviewing this tile after 12 years would help anyone, but I am&#x85;&#x85;here we gooTo start with honestly, I am writing this in the middle of the movie, because I could not take hearing the name Jesse James anymore. I am not sure if the outlaw named Jesse James ever existed or not but I am already irritated with him just because of this movie. Colin Farrell's performance as Jesse James is just lame and irritating always trying to buy his way out with what he might have thought is a charismatic smile but that didn't work out (for me at least).The only thing that stands out other than the name Jesse James in the movie is Gabriel Macht's performance as Frank James, he did a really good honest job. I am going to see the rest of the movie just for him.After writing all this, I am not trying to saying that it is a bad movie, it was a nice time pass flick with some other decent performances from Scott Caan and Timothy Dalton, it's just that the name Jesse James was used so much that it irritates you at one point. We all must have heard some names many times in movies i.e. James Bond, Indiana Jones, John Connor&#x85;...etc. etc. They never irritated me&#x85;&#x85;&#x85;but this Jesse James really did a good job in that department.Watch it, but be prepared for Jesse James. "},{"Title":"Good but NOT accurate","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Okay, I admit, Colin is cute. But that is not the ONLY reason why I like this movie. On its own it is good. It is not historically accurate. Jesse did not fight the railway, he was just a bad egg who liked robbing banks. So, watch this movie for the fun of it. If you want to watch it for its historical accuracy....? Well....you won't get it in this movie to extent you want.The action is good. The lines are good. Didn't think this was a drama and comedy. Sure, some lines were funny though it does not warrant it as being a comedy by any means.Think I may be the only one whose hormones did not rate this film. LOL. Not sure if it is more a chick flick because of Colin or a guy flick because of the gun action.Nonetheless, it is a good, entertaining movie.  "},{"Title":"Irreverent and fun","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This is more an action movie than western, and only thinly connected to the story of Jesse James, but it's a fun romp, the eye-candy is nice, the action is quick and constant. Drawbacks? The acting is either over-the-top or wooden. But the characters are likable and funny, and other than a truly painful job by Ali Larter as Zee Mimms, the acting is at least adequate. Timothy Dalton does a respectable Pinkerton, and he and Harris Yulin (Thaddeus Rains) chew the scenery in every scene they are in, in the best western-bad-buy style.The soundtrack is actually very good, too.  "},{"Title":"Loosely based on history with Hollywood antics.","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This movie was fun to watch only if for the fact that it was loosely based on factual events at the beginning and went to stupidity very quickly there after.  The actors were all good, but no academy awards. Much of the out door shots were north of my home near San Antonio, Texas so I recognized the scenery right away as not being in Kansas. And as I seem to recall, Jessie never retired to Tennessee as portrayed at the end of the movie. Lets admit it, this one was too fast and loose with historical fact to be considered anything other than a Hollywood fantasy, i.e. make believe.  Entertaining, but don't take it seriously.  "}{"Title":"trying to explain","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This film is one of those films that is easy to look at. you don't have to keep thinking about what is going on. it is incredibly funny, not in the way that there are jokes in it, just the script and how the lines are delivered. the actors are brilliant and the story is very simple. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all....","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I watched this last weekend, and suffice to say, it was good. I didn't really know what to think, but it turns out it was enjoyable. Colin Farrell, despite recently being the tabloid whipping boy, is a dynamic actor with a sufficient albeit narrow range of character. This is also the first film I've seen timothy Dalton in since his Bond stint. The story is effective, the action delivers classical western fun, and its a neat story all around.  "},{"Title":"Great Cast, Good Acting","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  While this movie may not be what some deem a true western, I liked it. Not just because of Colin, but because I just did. I either like a movie or don't. I give Colin major props for acting, the fact that he has done numerous movies without showing so much as a hair of his irish accent is something to be credited. He obviously works hard at it. This movie had a really good cast of up and coming actors as well as some that have already established themselves. I think if you want to watch a movie just for the fun of it then so be it. I watch movies to relax and have a good time, and that's just what this movie was to me a good time. "},{"Title":"Good Review","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I personally liked American Outlaws, I thought it was well acted and very well directed.  Colin Farrell and Gabriel Macht are two of my favorite actors and they play well in this film.  This film had a great story line and not just one of those movies you would wait to rent because you didn't want to spend so much money to see it in theaters.  This movie has a lot of action and is a superlative retelling of the original story of the bandit Jesse James.  Overall I liked this movie for just about anything you could like about a movie. "},{"Title":"rawhide lickin' good...","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Being a veteran watcher of Eastwood's Spaghetti Westerns and Wayne's spur and spit Westerns, American Outlaws keeps its place near the greats. True, that it sometimes veers off the path of written history to dabble about in the could have and would have world of Jesse James and his outlaw gang. But this is a movie, not a documentary, so people need to quit their belly aching. As a Gabriel Macht and Colin Farrell fan, i'm a little biased and admire the dividen of their time on screen, whether they're saying something or not. This movie has wonderful character development and if you listen all the way through the DVD with the commentary on from the director, writer, and editor; it's an even more particularly enjoyable movie because you get to hear what went on behind the scenes and how things came to be. If you go out and get this movie for the first time, remember that it's for fun. And western fans won't be disappointed in the least... - management -  "},{"Title":"American Outlaws is a fun western with an awesome cast of young actors!","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I loved this movie, I don't like regular boring old westerns.  I am a big fan of 'Young Guns' and 'American Outlaws' is just as good.  A gang of studly cowboys out for revenge and justice, cracking jokes along the way... Loved it! Loved Colin Farrell as Jesse James, loved whoever played Frank James and Bob Younger!  This movie is a ton of fun and Colin Farrell is so hot in cowboy garb!  Yee Haw!  "},{"Title":"Good Solid Movie","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I came upon this movie by accident while flipping channels one night. Colin Farrell of course caught my attention, but the movie kept it. Just the right blend of action and comedy. One of the best Jesse James stories  to date, right behind Young Guns 2 "},{"Title":"This was really good!!!","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Just wanted to add my applause for this movie. It was a fun, flowing movie. It was humorous and had wonderful stunts. I realize that it was not historically accurate, but it is cute to imagine the James' as  what if!!I am a huge fan of Kathy Bates and Timothy Dalton, and I thought their presence in the movie really added to it. It was not the sort of movie you might expect to see these actors in, yet, they really added to the quality and uniqueness of the film.   It is nice to see a feel-good, fun movie like this.  "},{"Title":"AKA Jesse James","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This movie was excellent......Colin Farrell did an great job portraying the legendary outlaw.  The casting was perfect, right down to Gregory Smith as Jim or Kathy Bates as Mama James.  I'm not a big fan of Westerns, but this movie is definitely a must see for those of you who haven't already!!! "},{"Title":"Moviegoing for the actors","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Ok...the storyline and plot-6/10 the actors-10/10.  If it wasn't for Colin Farrell and Scott Caan then I NEVER would have watched it...they are the only reason I loved this movie and bought it.  Scott Caan, Colin Farrell, Gabriel Macht and Will McCormack are THE ONLY reason I would reccomend this movie since they're so much fun to watch (and yes...half of the does have to do with looks).  So if your a fan of one of these boys...this movie is a must see...if you're looking for a modern western...then don't waste your time. "}{"Title":"Bad Boys of the South","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  In the movie `American Outlaws' we are confronted with the James Younger Gang.  They are seen as those who steal from the rich and give to the poor. The gang includes Jesse James, Frank James Cole Younger, Jim Younger, Bob Younger, Clell Miller and Lonnie Packwood.  The movie was good in story line as well as action sequences but was not historically accurate. The movie portrayed the gang as a bunch of comedians and wimps, but in real life they were not this way.  The whole gang fought in the civil war as Confederate guerrillas and did go to war with the railroad.  But the way they were portrayed is not the way they truly were.  Bob Younger was seen as a fast talker and a real smart mouth in the movie.  Yet in real life he was really a mute who could not say a word if he wanted to.  Cole Younger was not changed -- he was portrayed as a hot headed person.  But in the movie was a bit too nice compared to the real Cole Younger.  Jim really did not get to ride with the gang that long.  Frank was portrayed the way he should have been, and Jesse was not as comical as he was seen in the movie.  The James' mother was never killed in the explosion, but did lose her son as a result. Union soldiers shot her in the arm a year later.  Mr. Allan Pinkerton (Timothy Dalton) the secret service agent hired by the railroad to take out Jesse James, did a really good job on his part.  He brought the reality a bit more closely.  Mrs. James (Kathy Bates) was really good at her part, and she brought out the religious part of the family that was left out in past movies.  Jesse James (Collin Farrell) was not meant for his role. He is an Irish man, not a Missourian or a man of the south.  Nothing against him.  I did not enjoy his work that much.  Zerelda James (Ali Larter) portrayed the best Zee James I have ever seen.  It was like I was really there when I saw her and how involved she was in the movie.  In the movie they said that Jesse James was captured is a lie.  They knew that he would get out or could never be caught, so they wanted him dead.  It was the easiest thing to do so if he would have been caught.  They would have shot him immediately. This movie is fine for a western, but as a historical document is flawed. I enjoyed it, but hated the fact that the actors were not as they should have been.  "},{"Title":"It's what 21st century Westerns ought to be like","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Simply put, I loved this movie.Granted, it is not Academy Award material. But then it wasn't designed to be. It's a fun movie to watch, and that's its charm.Does it relate the true-life story of Jesse James and his gang of outlaws? Of course not. Does it depict how the rustics of the Old West actually lived? Probably not. Is it historically accurate? Not a chance.It's not supposed to be any of those things; it's entertainment, not a documentary. If you watch this movie expecting to see some clone of the old John Wayne or Clint Eastwood westerns, you'll be disappointed. The movie was meant to be pure fun - and in that it succeeds beautifully!I loved Ali Larter in this movie. She is beautiful. My favorite line of hers is when she's standing next to the railroad tracks after firing a cannon at a train, the gang compliments her on her accuracy. With a look of pure resolve on her face, she turns and says, Thanks. Now go get my husband.Colin Farrell plays his part well. Like I said, his character is not a true-life Jesse James, but a depiction of what he might be like if he were alive today but in a 19th century setting.Kathy Bates is memorable as Ma James. Her biggest thrill seems to be in knowing that her sons pray often and kill Yankees. And Timothy Dalton played the part of Allan Pinkerton very well. It was enjoyable the way Pinkerton and Jesse developed mutual respect, though neither would admit it. It was subtextual.I'm generally not a big fan of the Western genre. But this movie is definitely an exception. It was funny and it was lively, with lots of action. And the DVD surround sound was awesome.I definitely recommend this movie as part of your home library. I gave it a 10.  "},{"Title":"These outlaws have my applause","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Smart, energetic, funny, exciting and underrated; these are just a few adjectives that describe American Outlaws; a western that will take everyone by surprise and appease everybody's appetite for comedy. Colin Farrell is a breath of fresh air and Gabriel Macht is a pure delight as they take the reigns in one of the funniest westerns I have seen.Farrell and Macht are joined by Scott Caan, Timothy Dalton, Kathy Bates and Ali Larter whose comedic, intelligence and intense talent to create a film that is rich in character driven performances.Most of the credit must be given to the writers of American Outlaws because they took the western genre and created one of the most unique westerns in recent years through the addition of humor. With action-packed sequences, strong performances and smart writing; the writers made the audience look at westerns in a whole new way; clever and stylish.Though I feel originality is important in any film I see, it is not always necessary for a film to succeed. American Outlaws contains many cliché ridden scenes, but the true genius of this film is the presentation of the film.Inspired by actual events, American Outlaws takes the audience on a comedic journey through the lives of the James-Younger gang and their battle with Allan Pinkerton and the railroad.The success of American Outlaws partially stems from the great ensemble performance provided by Farrell, Macht, Larter, Caan, Bates and Dalton. It was apparent from the start that the American Outlaws cast gave maximum effort was going to take me on a satisfying comedy thrill ride through the Old West. It was clear that the cast of American Outlaws had fun together making the film, so when this occurs everyone is guaranteed the film will bring satisfaction.Charisma, intensity and courage; these are the elements brought to the screen by the latest breakout star. I must admit it took me awhile to get over the shock of watching a charismatic, youthful looking actor steal the spotlight from his talented co-stars, but that is exactly what occurred with Farrell in American Outlaws. American Outlaws allows Farrell the opportunity to step out of the shadows into the limelight to take his place among the best young actors in Hollywood.It didn't take long to realize the discovery of the next big movie star would be found in American Outlaws with proof coming from Farrell's energetic and fun performance as Jesse James. I was smiling when I saw Farrell on screen because it meant the writers had created a character filled with imagination and ideas that made the movie a joy to watch.Aside from Farrell, another bright spot in American Outlaws shined with the emergence and second breakthrough performance turned in by his co-star, Gabriel Macht. With enormous screen presence and impact turned in by Macht, this is an actor who will soon hear his name called as a winner of the coveted academy award.Rounding out American Outlaws is the addition of Timothy Dalton and Kathy Bates. Commendations must given to Dalton for making the character of Allan Pinkerton a delight to watch. It didn't take me long to recognize that he was the right man for the job. With his look, demeanor and presence, Dalton confirmed my suspicions.A short appearance can sometimes be the most memorable as with the case of the actress who portrayed Ma James. Bates has always been a favorite of mine because she brings credibility to each film she stars in. With American Outlaws, Bates role is short, sweet and to the point.The bottom line is American Outlaws is an underrated film that will bring everyone pure satisfaction and serve as great entertainment. "},{"Title":"Not to be cruel but not to be proud","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This movie is not at all your typical Western. Hollywood had some ideas of their own when writing this, but the basis is right. Jesse James was an outlaw from Missouri, he did a lot of riding, and had a wife named Zee. If you are a historical nit-picker, do NOT watch this movie. If you are a typical teenager or other movie lover, you will like it. It has good laughs, sad times, and lots of action.No matter how true the facts are, this is still a good movie. Good good guys against bad bad guys. The star gets the girl and the bad guys get what they deserve. For a evening of hard laughs and thrills during gunfights (don't worry Mommys, they aren't too gory), watch American Outlaws. It's worth the time. "},{"Title":"Gabriel Macht is awesome in this movie","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I recently purchased the DVD American Outlaws after hearing so much about it from other friends of mine.  I have to say this is one of the best westerns that I have ever seen.  I don't usually watch westerns but when I heard that one of my favorite actors, Gabriel Macht was in it, I knew I had to check it out.  I am so glad I did.  The humor in this movie is great.  The action is great and the emotions are real.  I can believe that some of the animosity that went on between Cole and Jesse in the movie probably really took place in real life.  The actors made this movie.  It was perfect casting on the parts of the director and the producer.  Gabriel Macht was perfect as Frank James.  He brought humor, intelligence and good looks to his character that could have easily been overshadowed by Jesse.  He actually stole a few scenes from Colin Farrell.   "},{"Title":"Entertaining!","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I admit, this movie caught my attention because of Colin Farrell. A long time fan of this actor, I was intrigued to see him as Jesse James. I had read good and bad reviews of this movie, but figuring I'd see for myself, I shelled out $3.00 at the local rental store and took it home to watch it.And after seeing it, decided I liked it. I can see why some people wouldn't, it being a rather cliched story and parts of it slow, but I appreciated the humor (mostly friendly camaraderie-style banter), the action sequences, and admittedly, Colin Farrell and Gregory Smith weren't bad to look at, either. Overall it was a good story, even if it is an unrealistic portrayal of the James gang (albeit a much better-looking one). ) "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This movie has everything one hopes for in a movie. Good Action,Funny Humor,and of course sexy women (granted only 1 woman was sexy in this one that of course being Ali Larter). I mean I have read some of the other reviews on this movie and frankly I think they are a bit harsh. Collin Farrell,Gabriel Macht are relative unknowns to me. I have only heard of them from this movie. Will McCormack I have seen before I just can't place him. And of course Scott Caan is from Gone in Sixty Seconds and is James Caan's son. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who likes kick ass movies. "},{"Title":"Nice Gun Action","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Hi peopleOne of the best Western, Action, and Comedy movie i have ever seen.The movie starts cool with some music from mobby guys ridden there horses. Bang action time machine gun fire kanonball flying, during the battle the comedy starts whoooohooo. Nice gun action, sniper action used and crazy dudes on horses (Jessy James). Realy loved the action with the guns! The movie isn't Young guns but it's funny as hell and Beautiful Ali larter play's in it ;)So what u waiting for, go go go and check out the movie )Quality 8/10 Entertainment 9/10 Replayable 10/10 "},{"Title":"Oh, Lord.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  When I first picked up the movie, I thought it would, frankly, suck. But I watched it and after enjoying the entire film, fell in love! This movie has everything every movie should have Bad guys, explosions, true love, hot guys, a cute sense of humor, and a satisfying ending.Plus, the movie is very, very clean. Families can watch without worrying about sex, or prominant language.I don't like to play with fancy words, or drag stuff out. So, in short... grab yerself a chair n some popcorn and git ready to saddle up, pardner! Yeehaw! "},{"Title":"Although not historically accurate, this movie proves, westerns are still alive!!","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  (Spoilers?)A note that follows the credits proclaims The story is ficticious.  None of the characters, places, events should be said as fact. After reading that, there's no real reason to bite at this movie for being wrong.  It's simply a legend.  Similar to what Arthurian fans do when someone writes a novel that goes against tradition.  If we followed the logic of some of the reviewers in here, there'd be no Merlin either.  Other than that, this movie is a ball of fun.  It has a slow start, but just about the middle of the movie, it flips from a rating of 4/10 to 6/10 and I'll stick with that.  Certainly not the smartest western, (Wyatt Earp & Sam Raimi's Quick & The Dead for starters are much better.) but hey... it's a freaking western.  I'll take it.So what if it's Young Guns Lite.Colin & Ali Larter are two to watch.6/10Quality 4/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable 10/10 "}{"Title":"the west is fun again","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"     Not the most historically accurate version of the Jesse James story ever told, but one of the most enjoyable.    Gabriel Macht as Frank James steals every scene he's in, but the entire cast does a great job. Especially the always underrated Terry O'Quinn as a railroad man responsible for the death of the James boys' mother.     Great action scenes, witty dialogue, and the end the story halfway through Jesses' life to get a happy ending. That dosen't really matter too much. we all know how jesse ended up.      So overlook the many anachronisms and enjoy yourself. "},{"Title":"An Exhilarating Adventure!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  The movie, had me hooked the first couple of minutes seeing it. And immediately recognizing Scott Caan, son of famous actor James Caan, I was intrigued. Then seeing newcomer Colin Farrell,which is now my favorite actor because of his amazing talent, I was blown away. The special effects were amazing and the plot was believable. It was more than a love story and more than an action story. It had depth and a real story line. I mean how often do you get to root for the bad guys.And you really got a taste of what they had to go through with their lives in the South after the Civil War. It proved a valuable lesson, that sometimes, when you're being threatened for your own lifestyle, you must take action. It was great fun watching it, and I can't get enough of it. I recommend this to everyone looking for good 'ol western fun with some little twists and turns. "},{"Title":"Hmmm, I didn't think it was that good...","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Reading the first summary for this film on imdb I thought this might turn out to be okay, but I wasn't that impressed.I think my biggest problem was that a lot of the content was very similar to Young Guns 1 & 2. You've got the Indian, the young one who shouldn't be there, the educated man, the fight for leadership of the gang and of course the main character getting well renowned with wanted posters everywhere. You even get other members being a bit peeved as they're not mentioned or that their pictures aren't that good.I can say no more as I'm not going to spoil the film for others, but there are things linked to the above that you just can't help getting a sense of deja vu watching this.It was a watchable film, I just don't think it was very original. You've got to admit that if you want to watch a decent Western, you need to go to the video shop and rent any of the old spaghetti westerns which truly are the classics and can seemingly never be out done.  "},{"Title":"Good view","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  American Outlaws, with Colin Farrell (rebel soldierboy of Tigerland) & Scott Caan (the favored badboy of Varsity Blues)is completely worth the rental fee for pure entertainment value. Clever and totally off-kilter, the film presents very romantic view of the James-Younger Gang.  "},{"Title":"8 and up out of 10 movie","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This was definitely an 8 out of ten movie. How could you give this movie a FIVE? It showed the friendship of the OUTLAWS who were humble Patriots(Actually the Patriot was a good movie too). But to sum it up, if you hated this movie, you probably just hate Western films and just want to give it a bad rating, or you hate comedy. You got to like this film though. It's just plain funny!  "},{"Title":"Comments","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  When I first began to watch this movie, I thought to myself, Oh, boy, just another stupid western movie, but I was oh so wrong.  I began to watch it with interest and thought it was pretty cool.  Especially the butt-kicking done by the wonderful actor, Colin Farrell as Jesse James.  I was blown away by how amazing it was, for a silly western movie.  Now I think of it not only as a western, but as a good movie.  I loved it, despite my opening thoughts. "},{"Title":"Ignore the critics-check this out if you like action","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Many, many critics have bashed this movie, but forget about them-they're always concerned first and foremost with Oscar buzz. This movie was made to be entertaining, and it didn't disappoint. The real Jesse James, after all, was a jovial, fun-loving guy. I think he would have been proud.The entire package is a bit of a too neat and tidy wrap-up of the gang's excursions, but that's Hollywood for you. Their job is to simplify history. I think that overall the movie captured the exact spirit it was supposed to, and I was especially impressed with the performance of Colin Farrell. Besides the fact that he can thoroughly hide that accent of his, he exudes sex appeal and perfectly captured the gentlemanly country boy side of Jesse James as well as the wilder side. I will now watch any movie of his and I think he'll be a star.I definitely recommend this movie. You'll be thoroughly entertained for an hour and a half or so, and when it's over you'll wish you could be half as cool as the James-Younger gang. "},{"Title":"you can watch it again and again....","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Love a good action film or a western?  it's BOTH... With serious artistic lic. American Outlaws is just a blast. Funny dialogue, great GREAT action seq. and just some gorgeous guys.. what more can you ask for? With such notable cast members like Kathy Bates and Timothy Dalton, this film also has some new actors with tons of talent.  Scott Caan continues his father's legacy... and all the James-Younger gang is just a perfect cast. I loved it in the theatre and i rented it to watch and played it about 4 times in one weekend *that i'll admit to*  so.. I bought it and it's one of the most used videos on the shelf! "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie & Cast","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I saw this movie when it came out in the theatres and loved it.  I recently bought the DVD edition and it is wonderful!  Colin Farrell is not only an excellent actor (he disguises his Irish accent amazingly), but he very nice to watch.  A total hottie that can act, what more could you ask for?  The rest of the cast is great and they act very well together.  I say that if you liked Young Guns then you will like this movie and vice versa!  What are you waiting for already, go out and buy this movie! "},{"Title":"An Awesome Piece of Historical Fiction","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I have seen this movie more times than I care to admit to, Its probably my favorite movie ever. I have done much research on the James-Younger gang, and I realize it is not accurate on many counts. Whether Jesse James Kept all the money or gave it away is still being debated and we may never know for sure. If you are not looking for a history lesson, but simply pulse-quickening action and a good laugh, this movie is for you.I give it 9/10! "}{"Title":"Very good...","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This is not an epic! It is a quite light hearted movie about Jesse james, and his gang. The acting varies from good to passable, but the gang has excellent chemistry. This is entertainment, pure and simple, and as such, it relies more heavily on it's characters than the story. The only character I really have a problem with was Jesse's love interrest; it just seemed as though they had tried sooo hard to create a strong female character that they ended up with an excessively lame female character. But fortunately she wasn't in the movie too much, so I never got too annoyed. The action was top notch! Although highly unusual for a western it seemed to work very well, and you just knew s*** was gonna happen whenever Jesse and the guys went into battle. And while it is true that there was very little killing, it really was the wisest choice for this movie. It light sense just wouldn't have worked as well with people dying all the time. In the end I guess all I can say is this I don't feel like I've just watched a great movie, but I do feel like I have been entertained for 1½ hour. Definately Saturday night movie material. "},{"Title":"Worth a second look","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  And a third, and a fourth. 15 minutes into this movie I was thinking to myself this is the worst western of all time but by the end I was a complete convert. Wasn't what I expected having grown up with the genre and this one breaks all the traditional rules but you won't care if you get the joke. One tried and true formula it does stick with is the hero/villain theme and of course there's a romantic twist but since it's Ali Larter you wont mind. Get the DVD and crank the volume as loud as the neighbors can stand. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Decent film good for Western or Billy the Kid fans","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I'm left with a made for TV feeling after watching this film.  Simply put a film like this just isn't believable without more blood and killing! Other than that it's an enjoyable story with some decent acting.  If you enjoy the old B&W Western/Cowboy movies or your a Billy the Kid fan, I'd would watch this movie, otherwise you're not missing anything. "},{"Title":"Joey Gladstone has a huge package","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  American Outlaws, also known as Varsity Blues 2 Tweeder the Cowboy, was one of the finest cinematic productions this writer has ever had the pleasure of viewing.  Seriously though, the script of this movie rivaled Summer Catch in itâ&#128;&#153;s accidental comedy.  First of all, I believe it was supposed to be about a young Jesse James, however, the movie would have been better had it been about a young Jesse Weiss, or perhaps a Young Jesse Cotsopolous, (John Stamosâ&#128;&#153; character in Full House).  The acting was comical, the script, although intended to be serious I believe, was comical, Ali Larter never got naked.  The movie was similar to a 2 hour episode of Duke of Hazard although without Boss Hog and the other strongly developed characters.  Now I saw this movie at Spencerâ&#128;&#153;s house and when we were at the video store Al picked it up and said, â&#128;&#156;this movie has to be good.â&#128;&#157;  I, of course agreed.  I mean, it has all the ingredients of a great film, great American actors like Tweeder and Ali Larter, and a suspect plot, what more could one hope for.  After a while trying to get Spencerâ&#128;&#153;s fly projection TV to work, (his dad who is half warlock had to step in and give Spencer the 411), we had found that this movie was nothing more than some 20 something running around in Leviâ&#128;&#153;s shooting cap guns at each other.  It was the kind of movie that when it was finished you were like â&#128;&#156;oh, I guess itâ&#128;&#153;s over, oh well.â&#128;&#157;  Not a complete waste of time by any means, as the movie was entertaining enough that it went by fast, but I gained nothing out of it.  Well, that is actually untrue, I did learn countless facts about American history.  For example, did you know that in the time of this filmâ&#128;&#153;s setting, date non-specified, all you had to do to rob a bank was walk in demand the money without exhibiting any force, and then walk out.  All in all I cannot recommend this movie unless your life is an utter waste of time like Spencerâ&#128;&#153;s. "},{"Title":"A western for the whole family!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  American Outlaws was a fast-paced, action-packed, witty western.  I loved it.  As a fan of the genre, I have to say this is one of the best. Everyone in my family loved it.  From the jokes to the shoot-outs, it keeps you fully entertained.And the cast was brilliant.  Take a handful of little know - but talented - actors and mix them with a few heavy-hitting veterans and viola!  A hit!Colin Farrell as Jesse James was so comfortable in his role.  And the others were allowed to play it big around him without fear of him being upstaged. Scott Caan was terrific as Cole Younger.  He was rough-edged and energetic. Gabriel Macht brought a refined dignity and humor to Frank James.  And Will McCormack as Bob Younger was hillarious!  Gregory Smith, Nathan Arcand, Joe Stevens and Ty O'Neal were wonderful, making the rest of the gang.And Kathy Baker!  Terrific actress and wonderfully funny as Ma James. Topping it off was Timothy Dalton as Alan Pinkerton.  Watching him chase the James-Younger gang was great!I recommend this movie highly.9/10 "},{"Title":"totally worth renting","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  well i just finished watching american outlaws and i must say that im surprised at just how much i liked it.  the movie was basically about jesse james and his gang of outlaws but it makes you sympathize with them and understand how they got branded as outlaws (well if you believe whats in the movie is true).  anyways, i thought all the actors and actresses did a wonderful job and were very believable, especially colin farrell (total hottie by the way).  so if you like westerns or just good movies in general i would recommend this one. "},{"Title":"An action packed, adrenaline rushing movie!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This flick is the perfect summer action movie, complete with gunfights galore, a hot babe, young, talented actors, fast paced excitement and a witty script.  First off, this is not by any mean historically accurate, and for all those whiny sissies out there who are crying and moaning about this movie not being historically accurate, all I have to say is, you're right, Jesse James never swung freely off of a moving locomotive while dispatching 5 or 6 guys in the process.  But honestly, folks, who cares?  This is a RETELLING of a story, even a legend of Jesse James, and for those out there who take movies like this too seriously and give horrible reviews on something so minute and trite are so ignorant to overlook a movie that is outstanding at what it is, 94 minutes of pure fun and dare I say...ENTERTAINMENT.This movie is definitely a Matrix lobby scene gunfight fan's ticket to a good time.  The acting is superb given the cast of talented, yet virtually no-name, yet up and coming actors.  It has everything in it, action, swift cinematography, comedy, even a dash of romance for your dates out there, but add all this up and this equals a movie that has everything in it for everybody.  It makes me sick when so many people, especially sold out, whiny, wish they were actors but instead are critics crusify films like this b\c, awww...they're not historically accurate!  Granted, the script isn't genius, but it is effective...a lot of reviews will bash this movie for what it lacks (which is very little I might add, especially compared to the crap Hollywood shoves in our faces every month), but what it lacks is exactly what makes it work!  I mean, who wants to go see a quick 90 minute action film that is all serious and sacrifices action, humor and excitement for character development and romance?  For crying out loud, people, it's just a movie!!  Those who say they don't like it can't honestly say, at least, that the action scenes were very cool and exciting are not telling the truth at all.  However, there is far more to the movie that just the bada$$ gunfights.Colin Farrell is definitely going to be a big star someday, he boasts a screen presence emulated by few in Hollywood nowadays.  I loved him in Tigerland, and I will now go see any flick he is in because of his suave and charismatic portrayal of Jesse James.  Also, Gabriel Macht, probably my favorite of the top notch cast did an incredible job as Frank James, the quiet and reserved, yet logical voice of reason in the gang.  Rounding out the cast is Scott Caan, still playing his young, hot tempered party machine character we all loved in Varsity Blues and the lovely Ali Larter as the wife of Jesse James.For those of you who love to have fun watching movies, I highly recommend American Outlaws.  For those of you who only watch 'big budget Hollywood films with big budget actors with scripts as creative as Webster's dictionary' or films that are 100% historically accurate (yeah right, good luck finding one) then continue to see the same old trash that comes out in theaters.  American Outlaws is a helluva good time!This was the first movie I have seen all year (besides Memento)that I actually had fun watching in the theater.  It so deserves the coveted 10/10 Stars. "},{"Title":"Great action comedy","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This is with out a doubt the most underated movie of 2001. It was full of really great action and a good mix of comedy relief. If you like fun popcorn movies then this movie will not dissapoint you and the main actor colin farrel is in a whole lot of movie coming out soon and he is a very good actor. "},{"Title":"Good Ol' Fashioned Horse Opera","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  There are lots of films about Jesse James out there.  While American Outlaws may not be classic modern cinema, it doesn't pretend to be.  It does deliver on being a simple, straight-forward good time.  The script is solid, blending in some humor without beating you over the head with it.  The acting is first rate from several younger stars (or soon to be) and a couple of pros who steel their respective scenes (Kathy Bates and Timothy Dalton). So sit back, relax, and have some fun.  "},{"Title":"A fast paced western action extravaganza - with lots of laughs.","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This film was a real sleeper at the theater.  For those that like western, action, or movies with lots of humor.... this is your film!The action sequences were fabulous, the stunts outstanding and the laughs a riot!  There was a reasonable storyline, excellent character development (especially for such a large ensemble cast), and some new and unique western stunts (like the train sequence).The acting was very good and it is just a plain, old fashioned, genuine western motion picture.  The best I've seen in years.  People compare it to Young Guns - personally, this kicks Young Guns butt!Its a truly wild ride! "}{"Title":"Surprised","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Honestly, I had low hopes for this film and basically only rented it because I was bored and needed something to watch. I figured I'd seen everything this movie had to offer a million times in other westerns, but I was surely surprised. This is an entertaining movie and I enjoyed it quite a bit, especially the humorous scenes like when Bob got mad that he wasn't being recognized, that was pretty funny. Most teens (and I speak personally) don't choose to watch old men in their 50's gunslinging, so it was pretty cool to see some younger actors. This was probably easy to shrug off and say it's just a young person's film, but even my mom liked it (she's 42 by the way). Anyway, I definitely recommend this, lots of neat stunts and big explosions equal fun. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fastest gunshooting in the Wild West!","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  American Outlaws was very enjoyable movie. It takes Jesse James from the Old West, and gives him a nowdays look, figure, and speech. Add a big splash of comedy and you've got one heck of a Western movie! If you're looking for a good time, a good laugh, and just a good getaway...check out American Outlaws, you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Finally, a film to take the family to.","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This movie is suitable for families with young teenagers.  There is some romance, but they keep it above the neck and very short and infrequent. Just enough for the story as NECESSARY.I enjoyed this.  It was like watching the old westerns but with some young blood.If you don't go to the matinee, rent this when it comes out.  Just being a clean movie makes you feel good when you leave. "},{"Title":"Don't Miss This","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I went to this movie with two of my friends who don't like Westerns not expecting anything.  In fact, I think we went just as an excuse to go for a drive somewhere after I got my driver's license.  Now having seen American Outlaws I have only one thing to say WOW!  This movie is everything a good western could possibly be.  Non-stop action, fire power, explosions and even your brief moments of romance.  And my friends who don't like Westerns?  They walked away gabbering about great this one was.  We were all wonderfully surprised and have recommended this flick to everyone since.  My advice forget the Jesse James story (which we didn't know at the time) and just enjoy.  My only complaint there were all those cowboys and not one of them was wearing a black hat with a long black coat!  A definite 10! "},{"Title":"The Best Movie I've Seen This Year!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I hadn't heard anything about this movie until some friends went to go see it, and after they enjoyed it so much, I went to go see it! And once wasn't enough! I've gotta go back before it's out of theaters! It was such a wonderful movie! This is a nice clean movie that I think the whole family could go see! I wasn't aware that anyone still remembered how to make those kinds of movies! This is definitely a #10! It's as good as the Patriot, just not near as sad. It's got some really funny lines in it too! It's a really heart lifting movie! I walked away from the theater feeling so good! I think anyone of any age would enjoy this movie!  "},{"Title":"A Rottem Shootem Hell of a Time!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  American Outlaws is one of the top films of the year, perhaps even the millenium!  Not since Tombstone, has a movie of this calliber been made. It rivals the likes of the Young Guns series & takes you on a rocking ride through the wild west.  Colin Farrell heats up the screen as Jesse James. I am a new fan for life.  -)  This new heartthrob is sure to make it big in hollywood.  The rest of the cast are mostly newcommers as well (with the exception of Timothy Dalton & Kathy Bates).  Yet they fit perfectly with the movie & each other.  With the perfect mix of action, romance, and comedy, this movie is an allround winner!  It's refreshing to see such a great movie without all the sex, nudity, profanity, and violence of many current films. American Outlaws is truly an all-american film.  Don't miss it!Toni (age 24) DFW, Texas "},{"Title":"Finally some eye-candy for the women!","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  The movie was mediocore.  Much of the acting was stilted and the story wasn't true to history.  Did I consider it a comedy?  A few funny quips doesn't make it a comedy.  So, no. But, ladies, if some guy begs you to go see it, GO!  Colin Farrell makes the movie.  Is his acting good?  Who cares! He's just great to look at.  Tom Cruise who?  (Actually though, he was one of the better actors in the movie.)  And, Timothy Dalton is quite scrumptious with the burly beard and his deep-voiced Scottish accent will melt most women.    "},{"Title":"The movie was surprisingly good . . . sort of like Chewy Sprees.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  My friend and I saw American Outlaws over Labor Day weekend and I was pleasantly surprised by how good it was. Not only were the guys in the movie good-looking, but the plot was interesting. Also, the comic element of the movie was a nice touch. It was also nice to see a relatively new cast of young actors.In summary I laughed, I cried, I had a good time overall. Go see it for a good time! "},{"Title":"Western Comedies are Back Jack!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  American Outlaws reawaken the western legends movies back up with this mild and comical look at one of the most terrible killer the late but great Jesse James. In my opinion chosing a small star to play a big part was a good choice so the movie will get feedback based on its own standards and not the actors standards. Colin Farrel gives a great performance of Jesse James for the guys and for the girls he has major sex-appeal which helps it out. Ari Larter does a great performance also from going to sweet and strong to blowing up a train this shows women that they were good too.Also being a teenager myself I think this movie is a great way to leave all those teen-flicks and be able to see a movie with depth and presentation based on an actual figure in history. Also I think the makers of American Outlaws did a great thing by casting rising star Gregory Smith as Jim Younger he did a fantastic part when he had to die that even I started to cry.All in All I think this movie is a must-see for all the western-comedy lovers. "},{"Title":"A fun, summer movie!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I love this movie! So I know that it's not the real Jesse James story- goodness, I've been studying Jesse James for like three weeks now, I do know that it's not the real story- but it's so much fun! It's a light, popcorn flick that entertains you and keeps you on your toes. It's not meant to change your life or make you think really hard. I don't think it deserves all of this slamming it's getting from the critics and such. This movie hits all the bases- comedy, action, western setting, romance, and drama. It's a very well-rounded movie, like Pearl Harbor was. I'm definitely going to buy this movie. Colin Farrell is cast PERFECTLY as Jesse James, and the Irish native has the Texan accent down pat (like he did in the hit Tigerland). If you didn't know he was a Dubliner, you never would've noticed that he was anything but an American in the movie. Scott Caan played his role terrifically. He was Cole Younger, and he has the look, persona, and masculine energy that you would expect from him. Will McCormack, Gabriel Macht, and Ty O'Neal were funny and great as well. Ali Larter, in a surprisingly wonderful performance, wowed us with her range. So far she has played a seductive teen in Varsity Blues, a jailed convict in Legally Blonde- and now the energetic, effervescent Zerelda Zee Mimms, love interest of Jesse. I loved their chemistry. They are one of my favorite couples now.A great, great movie! Definitely my fave summer flick!I give it a 9/10.  "}{"Title":"Best western since Tombstone","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Lots of action.  This movie keeps you interested from beginning to end. Not to sure why they are claiming it to be a comedy, it is a Western Drama with a flair of humor. Lots of movies since Tombstone have come and gone and not done much for reviving the publics interest in westerns.  I feel this one is a bit of a sleeper and would do much better if they would spend a little more money in advertising.  My only negative comment would be that they portray Jesse James as a western Robin Hood and a nice guy..... is that the Jesse James we know?  Anyway, recommend you go see this one while it is on the big screen.  Don't let this one slip by. "},{"Title":"good light summer entertainment","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I was really looking forward to seeing this film after seeing the preview a couple of weeks before, and I have to say I wasnt disappointed. I have read the other reviews and can honestly say that the historical accuracy , or lack of it, doesnt bother me in the slightest, as this film never presented itself as a bio of jesse james. Most other hollywood films based on real life events or people are only loosly based on fact and it didnt hurt them, like Pearl Harbour, The Patriot, Braveheart etc I think most of the performances were pretty well done, but Ali Larter could have been given a little more to do My particular favourite, and I am glad to see alot of others agree, was Gabriel Macht playing Frank James, who was not only one of the most likeable characters but also played well, he was a definite standout and I cant wait to see him in other movies. Another fave was Will McCormack as Bob Younger, he was very funny and improved practically every scene he was in One standout for the wrong reasons was Timothy Dalton, who is usually dependable in all roles but not this time since he was crippled by the worst accent i've ever heard what exactly was it can anyone tell me? It seemed to sway between welsh irish and scottish, and did it really matter that much - couldnt he have used his own accent, although if he had i wouldnt have laughed half as much during this movie! All in all American Outlaws is a summer popcorn film which i reckon is all it aimed to be, it brought a few new actors to light who i know i will look out for, and entertained me for a couple of hours.  "},{"Title":"Breezy entertainment","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I just saw American Outlaws last night, and I must say that I really enjoyed it a lot.  I'm sure it's all over the map as far as historical accuracy is concerned, but who cares?  This is a summer movie, light, breezy, and specifically designed to just entertain you, not make you think.  And that's okay! Filled with surprising plot twists and tongue-in-cheek dialogue, American Outlaws satisfied my expectations and, in a few instances, exceeded them.The movie's greatest asset is its casting-Colin Farrell in the lead role, along with a strong supporting cast, such as Scott Caan, Ali Larter, Timothy Dalton, and Kathy Bates, to name a few.  It seemed to me that the actors had good rapport among them, and they made you believe that they were really related.  To me, they were a convincing James-Younger Gang. Kudos also should go to the sound technicians, costume designers, and art directors.If you're looking for a classic Western, like High Noon or Unforgiven, this doesn't qualify.  But if you just want to turn off your brain for an hour and a half, American Outlaws will do just fine; like a cold glass of iced tea on a hot summer's day, this movie will definitely slake your thirst.   "},{"Title":"Genuine Western fun","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  American Outlaws is everything most Hollywood movies are afraid to be nowadays.  It is clean, good, fun.  There is no nudity, very little cowboy language, no graphic blood or gore and plenty of excitement.  Finally a western movie that I can enjoy as much as those made in the 70's, before it became vogue to put the f word in the 1800's.  Go see it; you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not worth the money!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I'm a huge western fan, so when I saw the trailer for 'American Outlaws' I was very excited. Not only was this a western, but it dealt with a favorite subject of mine, The Legend of Jesse James. I saw the movie the day it was released, I could not believe my disappointment. Not only was the acting terrible (especially Tim Dalton), but the story was so far from the truth it was difficult to  stay in the theater to finish the movie. This movie was actually worse then 'Frank and Jesse', starring Rob Lowe. The humor was borish and childish, the action scenes weren't very well done and the script was poorly written with no obvious attention paid to historic detail. An excellent example of the above is Tim Dalton's double liner It's going to be a long winter, then It's going to be a long spring !!! Is it me or did that kill the movie alone?!! Did the writers and director actually know this little about Jesse James' real life and could only come up with this trash? And I know Zerelda James did not fire a cannon to help her husband escape!! Nor was Jesse ever caught to begin with!! I could go on, but my advice to all who might read this review, don't spend the money on this movie. As a post script, to the other review of this movie, Frank is Jesse's older brother!  "},{"Title":"...zz..zzzzz...zzzz.","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  (A minor spoiler of two)Like my Princess Diaries review, the summary for this one says it all. American Outlaws has some decent, though almost cartoonish action sequences, villains that really aren't that menacing (Timothy Dalton suffers the worst of this, by being someone who instead of evil, respects Jesse James and his gang). This angle might have been interesting, if the rest of the cast were any good at all. Well, I guess I should mention that Colin Farrell is passable as the outlaw Jesse James, Scott Cann is okay as Jesse's cousin, Cole Younger, and Gabriel Macht is decent as Jesse's brother.The story has something to do with the James-Younger gang taking revenge on an evil railroad corporation, who wants to make a railroad through some farmland, but begins wreaking havoc on the farmers who won't sell their land.  It's obvious what going to happen from the get go, and nothing surprising occurs throughout the film's running time, which seems to be 2+ hours, but the movie barely clocks in at 100 mins. Not very good acting, and an even sillier story make American Outlaws a flick that will likely die a quick death at the box office and then never be heard from again. I give it 1/2 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"I liked it!  I was surprised, but I did.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I thought the movie was pretty damn good.  Just sit back...pretend you never heard anything about Jesse James except that he was an outlaw and you'll have a good time.  The shootouts, especially the one in the Hyperion bank, and on the last train were really amazing.  Nobody's going to win an Oscar, but it's a fun movie to just sit back and watch. "},{"Title":"This movie was really made for fun!!!!!!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I went to go see this movie not just for the actors in the film, but to see how good of a movie it really is.  And I have to say that I thought that it was a very good movie.  Many critics are slamming this movie because the script is not historically accurate.  Since when do the scripts have to tell the whole truth?  Pearl Harbor was not and that was a pretty good movie. Here's what I am saying...if we all start listening to the critics than many of the movies that come out are not going to get the recognition that they deserve.  I think that it is wrong for them to go around and slam every movie that does not fit there taste.  And why is there this race to be the #1 movie in America?  To me that is just putting more pressure on the stars, directors, writers, producers, and production companies to make the next big film!! Who gives a flip what the next #1 movie in America is?  I don't and I think that is unfair for the stars that are in the movies that do not do so well to have to try and redeem themselves with the next project that they do.So, I guess this is what I am saying.  I am saying that American Outlaws was a great movie and it was fun to watch.  Not many movies are as fun to watch as this one.  It has the comedy, drama, and the western feeling to it that makes it so fun to watch!  The whole cast did a great job with the story that they had to work with.  Nevertheless, it is still one of my favorite movies I have seen in a long time.  If you want to see a fun movie, I would recommend this one. 9/10.   "},{"Title":"A Fun Western!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I like Western movies.  I wished Hollywood made more Western movies.  So, when Hollywood does decide to quell the hunger of a Western flick fan by making one...how can one resist?I have to say I enjoyed American Outlaws.  It isn't hard-core Western but a fun, likeable summer movie.  I liked the cast of this film.  Colin Farrell was fun to watch as Jesse James but I absolutely loved Gabriel Macht as his older brother Frank.  Bill McCormack was funny as Bob Younger and even Scott Caan, whom you aren't sure if you should like or not gave a good performance as Cole Younger.I liked the twist this movie offers painting the James/Younger gang as the good guys and the Pinkerton's as the bad guys.  It was different and that's what made it fun.Sure this film isn't historically accurate but who cares??  Some have complained that the shooting scenes weren't realistic enough...who cares?? Do we really need so much violence to feel satisfied?  Do we need to see how a bullet ravages the human body to feel that a Western is worth while?  The point is made well enough without all the blood and gore.  Don't let these pointless anecdotes deter you from watching this movie.  You might be surprised!  I certainly was.American Outlaws is a fun, family movie.  We should thank Warner Bros. for making a film/Western that our kids can watch without all the other junk (bad language, nudity, sexual innuendos etc.) that inundates most movies today!  If you like Westerns and even if you don't, check this one out!  "},{"Title":"Fun Summer Movie","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  (light spoilers, nothing you probably didn't already know or expect)American Outlaws is an entertaining fluffy Western movie that has your typical villainous bad guys (Allan Pinkerton/Timothy Dalton) and your typical hero good guys, well not typical because in this case the good guys are Jesse James (Colin Farrell) and his outlaw gang.  I don't like westerns but i went to see this movie because the promos looked good and so i took a chance; i was glad that i did.  As one would expect there is plenty of gun play.  And of course there is the beautiful girl (Zee Mimms/Ali Larter) who is in love with Jesse James.  Jesse James is as handsome as his girl is pretty.  Scott Caan who plays his sidekick Cole Younger is also a heartthrob.  So this movie has something for men and something for women.  Action, violence, and plenty of eye candy. Jesse James and his outlaw gang are the Western version of Robin Hood and his Merry Men who help farmers that are being terrorized into selling their land in order for a railroad track to be built.  There are bank robbery scenes, action on top of a moving train scene, the guy who is about to be hanged getting saved at the last moment scene.  And even though this has all be done before, it was still fun to watch.I loved the Western feel of this movie, it was like a visit to the Ghost Town section at Knotts Berry Farm.  I've read criticism that the violence in this movie is too clean.  And I would have to agree with this.  The movie is practically cartoonish in its portrayal of guns and what guns do to a human body.   But in the end it is a summer flick, and in the end it did what it was supposed to do; kept me entertained inside of an air conditioned theater while the summer heat soared into the triple digits outside.  "}{"Title":"Better than anything else I've seen this summer!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This had a more absorbing plot than Planet of the Apes, better looking actors than in Legally Blonde, better stunts than Jurassic Park III, and was just all around the most original movie I have seen this summer.  Sure, the producers have used their artistic license, but this is one movie I'm going to be buying! "},{"Title":"A good fun movie that is not to be taken seriously","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I saw this movie for free during a sneak peak, and it was a good fun movie. If go to this movie expecting a classic modern Western you will be disappointed. If you compare this movie to Young guns or other young band of outlaw movies it will pale in comparison. But if you take this movie lightly it is a fun ride. Some parts are so badly done they are just plain silly, and our outlaws are actually hero's who although are breaking the law can do no wrong. I give this movie a 7 out of 10 because although it will never be a classic and it will be forgotten, it is fun while it lasts and one of the few new Westerns that has came out. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable popcorn flick","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" If you want a little mindless fun this flick will do the trick. It captures cliff notes version of the James gang story and gives some fun action sequences. For those wild west historians leave the books at home this film shows the good parts of the Jesse James and leaves out how he died to give the film a happy ending. As far as film geeks like myself are concerned the film is not cinematic genius. I felt the score was a little too overpowering. But I will say and I say this rarely the foley was really good adding to the film and not distracting from it. I felt the acting was good except for Tim Dalton who fell a little flat, but no surprise there. "},{"Title":"Yet ANOTHER Jesse James movie...","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Jump on the @#$%& Jesse James gravy train! Get a piece of that success! It's getting so you absolutely CANNOT make a Western movie these days without including some legend in it, especially an infamous outlaw. I think you could count the amount of Jesse James movies Hollywood has made on both hands and both feet, with 15 digits on each extremity! This movie is just tremendously unoriginal. And that commercial! That more than a mustache joke wasn't funny the first time, and it's a lot less funny the 50th time. Yeah, Bad Is Good Again, suuuure. Why did I ever doubt Orwell? People who talk in ReverseSpeak should be removed to another continent. What's worse, Big Brother arrived 18 years later than 1984, in the form of a stupid reality-TV program. Heck, who needs writers anymore? Just goes to show you that creativity and originality is being phased out in Hollywood. Don't waste your money, folks(unless you're paying $1.50 at a bargain theater). "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I must admit, when my friends and I walked into the movie theater, I wasn't expecting American Outlaws to be anything special. As the child of a Western Fanatic, I've seen my share of Western movies the good, the bad, and the ones that never should have been made. Within the first ten minutes of the movie, I began to think that maybe I was wrong. The casting for this movie was just incredible. By choosing a group of relatively unknown actors, the movie spent less time trying to make the stars look good and more time on the storyline. The storyline itself was a creative spin on the story of Jesse James. I've never seen the characters portrayed quite the same way before. Instead of the expected group of heartless murderers, the James-Younger (or Younger-James) gang was made up of former Confederate soldiers who were looking for a little vengeance. In a daring move for any western, Outlaws had a strong lead female character. Actress Ali Larter held her own in the testosterone enriched cast, proving that she's more than just a pretty face who looks good in period clothing. Overall, the movie had only one fault It seemed entirely too short. I left the theater wanting more. More of the movie that is. Perhaps I will see it again. "},{"Title":"Hum, what to think?","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I saw the movie about 1 hour ago. The script wasn't all that great, and Colin Farrell's acting was simply atrocious! He got so much acclaim for Tigerland, dude, what happened? Gabriel Macht was really good, he should have been cast as Jesse James, although Colin Farrell is hotter. And Scott Caan was good for his role as Cole Younger, but I was expecting him to be funny because he's so good at it! But if you are a fan of his simply based on his work in Varsity Blues and Gone in 60 Seconds, this is not the Scott Caan movie for you . Gregory Smith did a great job as Jim Younger, the typical naive young man. But he wasn't in it enough, you barely got introduced to him! It was the same type of role as his in The Patriot, small but very essential. Not much more to say about it. I had a great time (cause I Love Gregory Smith!), but if you are expecting a lot from this movie, you are setting yourself up for dissapointment. So all in allNot a great film, coulda done much better. Macht was great,Scott Caan will be more appreciated by those expecting serious acting, and woo-hoo you can never have enough Gregory Smith!   "},{"Title":"cool as hell","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  All though I doubt it depicted true history, the movie was in fact an -awesome experience.  Fighting scenes were quite powerful and the plot in fact kept me very awake throughout the movie.  The cast is pretty attractive and the movie was well worth it.  I suggest this movie to any person, even the whole family.   "},{"Title":"fun for most of the family","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I received free preview passes to this movie and thought what the heck, it's free. Not being a fan of westerns this movie was not on the high end of my to-see list. I was pleasantly surprised when I was became entranced during the first few minutes. I enjoyed this film from start to finish. It has the action to make it a guys film and the plot and character development ( plus hot guys) to make it a chick flick.Also, it should be noted that I took my siblings- one older (late 20's) brother, one younger (16 yrs old) brother, and one younger sister (12)-- and everyone enjoyed this movie. It was nice to be able to finally have a movie we could all see without worrying about the little one. And without the rest of us being bored. Thank you Warner Bros. "},{"Title":"A good new western with new faces.","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie.  I do really enjoy a good western.  This was a good western.  Maybe a bit goody to be realistic but I still enjoyed the movie. I really liked that fact that all the main characters were not played by big name actors/actress's.  New faces are always a treat especially when they are as fresh and attractive as these were. I enjoyed it, as did my teenage son, and my 9 and 3 year old daughters, so I would say this was a good family movie. "},{"Title":"Robin Hood with a Six-gun?","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I left the theatre wondering if I really enjoyed this film or not. And you should never have to ask yourself if you like something...it should be a clear yes or no answer.Aside from the great number of historical inaccuracies (allow the writers some degree of creative license here), I thought the film had an unfinished feel to it. The story ends just when things are getting interesting, in my opinion.The characters are unconvincing...Timothy Dalton's accent seems to fade in and out through the whole film, as one example. All of the supporting characters are stereotypically stupid or incompetent, while the main characters seem to belong in a different era altogether.To sum it all up, this is an action movie disguised as a western. It is also a very forgettable film, but you might enjoy it for the time it is on screen. "}{"Title":"Overall, well done","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Overall this was a movie that was well done-- pure fluff, perhaps, with a large dollop of post feminist womanhood (in the form of Ali Larter, an actor we should see more of in larger roles) and with large doses of violence that were far, far too clean.Perhaps the writers and directors should be compelled to learn a little more about the effects of a bullet impact on the human body, or how likely it is that a thin piece of wood might stop that bullet from plowing through the man cowering behind.  I cringe at the way motion picture tends to treat these rather dangerous items; demonizing them on one hand and pretending they are only mildly discomforting and slightly dangerous on the other hand.Is there a rule of motion picture that says physical laws must be disregarded when the protagonist is the subject of those laws?  Heroes are not bulletproof, and in real combat (or even western shoot outs) bullets tend to wander into people, and in so doing cause horrendous damage.  Guns recoil, bullets go through walls, and both combatants and the innocent are casualties.  In real life people don't recover from a rifle round in the chest in two weeks.  In real life people die unless they have exceptional modern medical care.Maybe this is just fluff, or maybe we are educating ourselves to act in a stupid and dangerous manner by remaining willing to accept the Hero runs around untouched in a gunfight style of film. "},{"Title":"Young Guns revisited!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This movie had all the same elements that made Young Guns such a popular hit in the 80's... humor, action, and strong characters. It does the same for Young Guns as Young Guns did for Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. It's the constant cycle of old ideas, with fresh faces at it's most blatant and obvious. Just replace Emilio Estevez with Colin Farrell, and Keifer Sutherland with Gabriel Macht. As an added bonus, we even have Terry Quinn and Craig Erickson from Young Guns making their appearances as the Deputy and as Rollin Parker. I actually wanted to hate the movie for it's appeal to pop-culture teen movies, but I actually was highly entertained. I love Ali Larter! ) "},{"Title":"One of th Best of Summer 2001!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I enjoyed this film more than I thought I would.  I am not a huge western fan, but this movie was the best western I've seen in a while.The ensemble cast was great!  They worked well together especially the gang of outlaws.  One of the reasons for wanting to see this movie was Colin Farrell.  He is quickly becoming one of my favorite actors even though he is a relative newcomer.The story was pretty tight although I am not up enough on western history to know how close it was to true history.  There was never really a slow moment in the movie.  Each character had his/her own storyline which was played out nicely for an ensemble cast.Go see this movie!  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Pure entertainment","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Going into this movie I wasn't sure what to expect. I was expecting action, but not a comedy. I laughed through out the entire movie. It was worth the seven dollars. Sometimes you need a break from all the epic dramas and stupid teen-flicks. It's pure entertainment. Colin Farrell is a great Jesse James, and if you love him in this, check out his amazing performance in Tigerland. "},{"Title":"Farrell Shines in Otherwise Bland Re-Interpretation of the James Gang","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" American Outlaws has a better historical sense than the Young Guns series. While its contemporary slang, haircuts, make-up and gleaming white teeth on the attractive stars are definitely non-period, I was surprised that this re-interpretation of the Jesse James myth actually worked as a story line. I don't remember seeing a Western, particularly none by John Ford, that made the link before between post-Civil War societal transformations, the railroad construction, federal government intervention and the James gang.With a lot less to work with dialog-wise than he had in Tigerland, Colin Farrell is still mesmerizing to the camera (even though his native Irish brogue occasionally slips out), helped by standing-out in comparison to his too bland co-stars. Of course, no visages can match the sets of actual brothers and relatives that Walter Hill used in The Long Riders to viscerally communicate the James/Younger gang's closeness.Timothy Dalton's Pinkerton hints at an interesting historical character.There's an odd credit at the end that some scenes were taken from the movie Maverick - scenery or something else?(originally written 8/21/2001) "},{"Title":"American Outlaws","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" A Western/Action/Comedy about Jesse James(Colin Farrell)and his brother Frank James(Gabriel Macht)come back from the war and find that the railroad is buying up all the farms.But they stand up against the railroad and raise a gang called the James Younger gang they rob all of the banks that the railroad has money in.So the railroad gets the famous Allan Pinkerton(Timothy Dalton)to hunt down the gang of outlaws.Colin Farrell(Jesse James)did not do that good of a job with his acting i was very disappointed as a mater of fact nobody in this movie accept Timothy Dalton(Allan Pinkerton)did a good job acting Ali Larter did a horrible job she was always overacting.The screenplay would have been better if they would have had different actors reading it.I loved the storyline it was very entertaining.the directing was boring nothing special about it.Best actor/actress-Timothy Dalton Had the chance to be great and nobody took it-Jake Hyden I gave this movie a 5 out of 10 Rated-(PG-13) for western violence.5/10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely horrible","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This movie was on HBO today and I foolishly wasted 2 hours watching it. It is quite possibly the most unrealistic Western I have ever seen.  I have trouble even calling this movie a Western since it is so ridiculous, but I guess if you have cowboys riding horses, it's a Western.Why Hollywood decided the real story of Jesse James wasn't interesting enough and had to add details is beyond me.  Heck, the 1939 classic Jesse James dances circles around this film and it was made over 60 years ago.I could comment on the horrific historical inaccuracies, but I see others have already covered that ground.  What disturbs me is that so many people are willing to blow these off and say, Well, it's a movie, it's supposed to entertain me, so therefore it's okay.  Well, no people.  If a movie is going to be based on historical events it has a responsibility to portray those events accurately.  Sure, some things in movies I can live with, such as changing hitting positions of Shoeless Joe in Field of Dreams, but to portray Jesse James and his gang as a bunch of fun-loving heroes doing the country a justice is wrong.  Yes, some people looked up to the gang since they stood up to the big bad railroad, but this was not a sentiment shared by the majority.  In truth, James and his gang were thieves and killers. When a movie blatantly ignores history like this, the problem that arises is that people actually believe this is what happened and don't seek out thetruth.    "},{"Title":"My sort of film","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I really love movies like this.  Three Musketeers, Lethal Weapon series, Robin Hood movies, A Knight's Tale - lots of action, tongue-in-cheek humour, bit of romance and the good guys win!  I've only recently 'discovered' this movie.  I wanted to see it because Colin Farrell was in it, and I've watched it twice already.  It's lots of fun, mostly because it's not a serious movie.  Those reviewers who don't like this movie because it's not realistic?  It's not meant to be!  Who really cares that Jesse James & gang weren't really like this, the actors certainly don't, they're just having fun.  So pull up a comfy seat, switch off your brain, sit back and prepare to enjoy the ride!   "},{"Title":"Not worth watching","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  As soon as the first scene ended, so did any desire to see this movie. The sheer amount of unrealistic action in the first scene is enough to make me feel nauseated, and the acting after the scene will finish the job.  If you want a western, go watch Clint Eastwood.  This movie fails miserably, it doesn't deserve another second of my time to review it. "},{"Title":"I hated this movie.","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  The movie although starring an excellent actor Colin Farrell fails in every category.  I thought it may have been one of the worst movies ever.  I actually have a friend that loves it, if it was legal I would kill him for that. "}{"Title":"Portraying Jesse James As A Hero","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  In the spirit of Young Guns - but more tongue in cheek and less interesting - American Outlaws is another chapter in Hollywood's inexplicable move to rehabilitate the reputations of the thugs of the Old West. In Young Guns it was Billy the Kid; in American Outlaws it's Jesse James.I don't know why but this type of historical revisionism really grates on me. Jesse James was a thug, a thief and a murderer. That about sums him up. But if anyone watching this movie took it seriously as history (and some will believe that Hollywood wouldn't lie) they'll get the impression that Jesse James was really a cool guy; fun-loving, even noble. Jesse's not the crook here. He's just out for justice against an evil oil baron. Even Pinkerton (who spends the movie pursuing him) ends up admiring him. Even the title gives it away Jesse James isn't just an outlaw; he's an AMERICAN outlaw. There's something patriotic about this guy. Whatever.OK. Enough ranting. There's some decent shoot out action here if you're into that sort of thing, a few amusing scenes and decent performances from Colin Farrell as Jesse and Timothy Dalton as Pinkerton. Stealing the show, however, was Gregory Smith as Jim Younger, jealous because he's been so invisible in the criminal exploits of the gang that witnesses can't even give a good description of him for his Wanted poster. So there are a few good things about this movie, but presenting Jesse James in this hero type way just doesn't sit well with me. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Horrible. This movie is so stupid it is hard to believe. The plot is a rip-off of other great westerns, and there for predictable for anyone who knows anything about the genre, or has seen any western made within the past 70 or so years. If you're thinking of seeing this piece of crap do yourself a favour a watch a good western like Unforgiven or something. Avoid this movie like the plague, probably just watching it has a detrimental effect on your I.Q. "},{"Title":"complete distortion of the legend of Jesse James","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"    A very short review on this very weak version of the Jesse James  legend. See the original 1938  Jesse James for a much more accurate portrayal. There is nothing to reccommend in this travesty. The comic  moments are downright stupid & inane, more fitting a Bowery Boys film. Wes Farrell (who resembles Tyrone Power---the 1938  Jesse.) tries but does not succeed, Only Timothy Dalton as the Pinkerton detective does well. This is  one of the weakest films about Jesse James an American Folk hero/villian.rating    **    52 points out of 100    IMDb  3 "},{"Title":"The only thing this movie has going for it...","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  is Colin Farrell, who is a major hottie. But, of course, people didn't look like that during the late 1800s, which is when this story is supposed to take place.  Most of this story is stupid.  The girl in the story does absolutely nothing. Why is she there?  And I didn't think anything was funny.FINAL VERDICT  It is easy to understand why this movie was such a failure at the box office.  Don't waste your time watching this unless you want to see how hot Colin Farrell is! "},{"Title":"rubbish","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This is a poor, teenage target audience, western. It's not badly acted, but the story line, Jesse James, is a waste of time. Other (practically any other) Jesse James films are 10 times better. Cliches abound, as does predictability. The noteworthy point to make is the great performance by Timothy Dalton, who always gives value for money. Though his accent in this film, ummm what was it?? Still, he is a top rate actor and why oh why does he do such mediocre films? Can't we please see him back in a starring role. Preferably as Bond, he is the Broccoli families first choice for the role. But even he does not make this film worth seeing. "},{"Title":"**SPOILER**   GARBAGE AND DISAPPOINTMENT PREVAILS","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Add  bad acting + bad writing + historical distortions + Out of touch with any kind of reality = this film.  Obviously, our Aussie friend who adored this mongrel dog of a film, is dancing to a different drummer.  I mean, c'mon gang  our wild west, in the case of the Missouri outlaws, the James and Younger brothers, was a fascinating piece of history and one in which some great legends were made.  This film appeals to none of that.  It dips into every sad sack of sensationalism, sentimentalism and sanctimony that Hollywood can muster.  The only acting we see is from the villain, ex-007, Timothy Dalton who seems ashamed at times in finding himself in such a limp-witted role.  Kathy Bates has the only credible line in the film when she sees Jesus at the point of her death and amazes he's shorter than she imagined.  The rest of the film reeks. The action, so dominated by the current Hollywood wannabe an Asian martial arts film, is actually boring. I'm afraid that it becomes clear that this kind of attempt to integrate modern teen crowd pleasers into a respected, American genre, the Western, does not please an old codger who was raised on the likes of Randolph Scott, John Wayne, Wild Bill Elliot, Dale Robertson, Henry Fonda, Glenn Ford..., the list goes on. More's the pity, this crop of kids can't even act. Save your money.  It wasn't even worth the cost of the video... and I got it for free! "},{"Title":"WHAT?","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This is the worst movie EVER. You have got to be kidding me. The script was by far the stupidest piece of garbage I have ever seen. Are these guys supposed to be cowboys? I'm surprised they even know what end of the gun to hold. These little fairy boy band rejects are the biggest slap in the face that the world could have given the James-Younger gang. If you like westerns, than don't bother with this one, or any other western that has come out since Unforgiven. (With the exception of Tombstone). See this movie if your a moron "},{"Title":"One of the WORST movies ever!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I have seen hundreds of movies and can say without the slightest hesitation that this is one of the absolute worst!  The acting from everyone involved is so incredibly stale and contrived that I found myself laughing harder during the serious moments of the film than I did during the parts intended to be funny.  The plot leaps around from place to place and time to time with no reasonable explanation of what has happened in between.In addition, there are crazy unexplained explosions and miraculous injury recoveries.  Another reviewer put it best when he said it has the feeling of Cliff's Notes to an already poor script.I am usually the type of person that finds the good points in a movie and enjoys it for them but I can not say a single positive thing about this awful piece of trash!  Not worth buying, renting, or even seeing for free!!!!  Anyone who compares this movie's quality to Tombstone is either clinically insane or one of the film's cast members (or possibly both)!Would have given it a 0/10 if possible!  Stink, stink, stink, stink, stink! "},{"Title":"American Sad-laws","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  To say this movie is crap, is well, being too nice.  Most of my complaints come from the microphones.  Now, if you've never seen a hollywood studio microphone they use to film scenes, well this movie gives you ample shots of different ones.  We came in I'd say maybe 5 minutes late so we probably missed 2 or 3 shots, but in the first 10 minutes we were watching, microphones bobbed in and out of many shots.  The best was one was hands down the campfire scene.  In the middle of the screen for the entire scene is a giant fuzzy microphone.  I mean come on people, we're paying $7.25 for this crap.  Not to mention we counted 25 microphone shots in all.  Also, how a house explodes and magically a woman appears with a blackened face.  It was I dream of Genie all over again.  She just mysteriously pops into the shot.  And last and least....Jesse James.  He gets injured.  Several scenes later, his injuries are mysteriously in a different place.  How odd......that I payed to see this. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Well, well, well! Where to start? American Outlaws has a story that is utterly puerile, the acting was sophomoric at best, and the pace of this movie had the feel of the Cliff's notes version of an already awful script. Even the editing was bad (CAUTION the next line deals with a specific scene from the movie)--at one point, we see a house explode and in the very next frame the sole occupant is magically outside, showing no injury except a blackened face (recall form Wiley E. Coyote's many catastrophic mishaps with acme products that this is indeed what happens when one explodes).The biggest disappointment has to be Colin Farrell. He was so good in Tigerland that I braved the many bad reviews of this movie to see it. Big mistake. Here he showed all the charm of a bobbing-head doll. The supporting cast came off as wooden, and what was up with Timothy Dalton? Did the director demand that he act in every scene as if in the throes of constipation?Save your money. Do not bother with this movie. American Outlaws makes Young Guns 2 look like a classic in comparison. "}{"Title":"Lethal Weapon on a horse","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  American Outlaws is a typical Hollywood Movie. It was a weak plot full of cliches and whitewashed political correctness.  While I enjoyed Collin Farrel's performance, a Jessie James story shouldn't have a happy ending. "},{"Title":"Can I give it a ZERO?","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  The worst film Ive seen in a while. Unmotivated, boring and I couldnt even come close to caring about the heroes. The film is suppose to make you feel for the heroes becase the big bad rail road is coming to town. Sorry I cant sympathise for cold blooded killers who dont think twice about killing US Army soldiers. Take my advice, miss this one kiddies. "},{"Title":"Colin Farrel... playing a sweet guy?","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I have seen this movie several times, and it is just a good, fun movie. The movie deals with Jesse James and his gang of outlaws as they rob banks of money belonging to a railroad developer who wants to put train tracks right through Jesse's hometown. There are many good looking guys in this movie... Colin Farrel, Gabriel Macht, Scott Caan... but they perform well in their roles as good ole' boys trying to save their town. The one thing I didn't really like about this movie was Ali Larter... who in my opinion, looks and sounds like a man.  She is just mannish. Aaanyway... Timothy Dalton was good, and not over the top as villain Allen Pinkerton. There were some good action sequences in this movie, a lot of comedy, and a decent plot. I give it an 8/10.  You should see it! "},{"Title":"The dialogue was worse than a WWF post-match interview.","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I think they got the writers for this movie from the WB.  I can't think of a more corny, more predictable movie.  The action was not without merit, but the acting was weak except for Ferrel, and i had to put my hands over my ears at points to quell my nausea.  Other than that it was a great movie. "},{"Title":"completely and utterly lifeless","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I knew not to expect much from AMERICAN OUTLAWS. The glory days of westerns are long gone, and the new ones can't all be SILVERADOs and WYATT EARPs. But I was expecting to at least have a fun time, even if it was another film that portrayed real-life bad guys as the heroes of the movie.Even on just a level of pure entertainment, AMERICAN OUTLAWS didn't score that well. I'm not sure why, but this film was just bland most of the time, and the actors (despite some talented ones in the parts) just seemed to walk through the performances, as if they were simply trying to just get the whole thing over with. Even the versatile Timothy Dalton seemed to be at a lost as to what to do.And the characters themselves were terrible. By the end of the film, we still knew nothing about any of them. I like to have at least some understanding of the characters in a film. Whether they're the good guys or the bad guys, at least give me something about them to understand, sympathize with, or relate to. Sure, Frank and Jessie wanted revenge for a personal tragedy, but the depiction of that tragedy is handled so lazily we often forget about it for the rest of the film. The other characters tagging along with the brothers do so to make a stand against the railroad tycoon (Harris Yulin), but again, we don't get anything from them personally to make us root for their success.A couple of the action scenes are nicely-executed, if sometimes over the top. The Hyperion job is the standout sequence of the entire film, as the James-Younger gang must fight their way out of a trap while attempting to rob a bank. And Trevor Rabin's exciting score (which I had already bought a few months ago and really enjoyed) helped make some of the boring parts seem more important.Perhaps if the script had treated the material seriously and if the director had stayed awake during the shoot, it might have at least passed as a good time-waster for a dull Saturday night. "},{"Title":"The first Western film of the millennium is adouble-shooter!","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  After what seemed to be a dearth of good Western films in the past 10 years, AMERICAN OUTLAWS may just be the film to give the genre exactly what it needs - an injection of flair transfused with an updated story line that will appeal to this generation while keeping its Western roots intact.The last decent Western film was 1993's TOMBSTONE. Both a critical and financial disappointment, too many duds followed in its steps. Kevin Costner's lavish and way over-long WYATT EARP, Sharon Stone's turkey THE QUICK AND THE DEAD, 1997's hit-and-miss THE NEWTON BOYS, 1999's big budget extravaganza WILD WILD WEST and last year's goof ball comedy SHANGHAI NOON, are just some of the examples that come to mind. None of these films stayed true to the Western genre, in fact, they seem only to have been made in the hope of generating big box office dollars by pitting big named actors against a Western backdrop.And then there's AMERICAN OUTLAWS. A new Western film with little known actors and a smaller budget than most films. I must admit, the idea of Colin Farrell playing a young Jesse James was rather interesting. After seeing him in last year's indie-smash TIGERLAND (which I thought was one of 2000's best films), I have become an avid fan and I will now see anything with him in it. Also being a big fan of Western films, this movie was a MUST for me.After a town discovers that a railroad baron has taken the Deeds to their homesteads without their knowledge, a group of young men decide to band together and take him on to set things right. Our unlikely heroes consist of the Younger brothers, headed by Cole (played by Scott Caan of VARSITY BLUES fame) and the James brothers, led by Jesse himself and his younger brother Frank. Both Cole and Jesse butt heads over leadership of the gang which will ultimately lead to bitter rivalry. Ali Larter (of FINAL DESTINATION) plays Jesse James' girlfriend, Zee.When their adventure starts, they will ultimately become wanted outlaws after they start robbing banks. Timothy Dalton plays Allan Pinkerton, a man vowed to bringing them to justice. There is also a surprise cameo by Kathy Bates as the mother of the James brothers. This film will certainly deliver enough thrills and action to keep you interested the whole way through.Colin Farrell yet again pins down his role by displaying his wide range of talents and again, mastering the US accent perfectly. He somehow carries the flair and likeability of Brad Pitt without being 'too' pretty, while also having the ability to take on the difficult role of making us like a character who is actually a wrong-doer.I was most surprised by Ali Larter. Most recently she has a small role in LEGALLY BLONDE, but it is her role in FINAL DESTINATION that first caught my attention. In that particular film, she played a meek and quiet girl with long brown hair who had serious issues to deal with. Here, she is a stunning gutsy blonde babe who has gumption and flair, which goes to show that she is more than two-dimensional when it comes to portraying different characters. I admired her in both of these movies and I predict that this is only the beginning of better things that will eventually come to her.Fortunately, this film is not overly violent as such classics like THE WILD BUNCH or THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN which took pride in examining bloodshed and portraying the West as a dirty bloody landscape that leaves no soul left unharmed. Another bright point is the fact that this film contains next to no foul language at all (which these days is quite a relief!). So this movie really isn't just a guy's flick because of all the shooting action, and it isn't just a chick's flick because it stars two attractive up-and-coming actors, Farrell and Caan. This is a movie that I think will appeal to everyone.I was quite amazed at how much I enjoyed this movie. It is certainly a fresh alternative to all those teen-flicks and gross-out comedies that seem to be crowding our local mega-plexes as of late.I highly recommend this to everyone.8/10  "},{"Title":"movie for kids","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" i think this is one of the worst western movie i have ever seen.The whole story and acting were ultimately joke.JesseJames gang was seemingly very happy in the whole movie,no tension,no sorrow,no climax even touched them.When jesse's mom was killed they didn't even look like sad.Also it was not clear what their ultimate goal to rob banks randomly.When jesse renounce the gang,its seems like lack of emotions and drama.The action was like hegemony,seemed like jesse james would win forever.And the negative characters were looking so stupid that they failed to make any scary impression in the whole movie.The ending was also very funny.So, i can tell that this movie is for kids,they would enjoy it for its meaningless fighting and for no byzantine drama. "},{"Title":"A fun action flick that shouldn't be taken too seriously.","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" ... Im gonna make this short. If historical inaccuracy and bad accents bother you than you will probably hate this movie. Those of us who don't have a stick up our tush, however, can enjoy a fun action flick. This is a romanticized fictional story about Jessie James and his war personal war on the railroad.This isn't like the dark and gritty westerns that all the liberal critics rave about. This wont leave you walking way considering jumping off a bridge because your so disgusted or depressed. It's a fun and exciting action movie.In reality I'd probably only give it 6 or 7 stars but I wanted to offset the 1 star reviews as much as possible. "},{"Title":"Best western since Tombstone!","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" First off I don't care if this movie doesn't represent Jesse James, or the real Jesse James at least it was the most entertaining western to come along since Tombstone. The soundtrack was great, the actors were amazingly awesome! And the humor made my day. What makes me sad is when people expect a history lesson from a movie, thats not why I go see a movie. American Outlaws is on my top five list ranking number 1 or 2 thats how good this movie was. The director did an awesome job there was so much action and just enough drama. A must see for sure, if any reviews give a bad rating because it was not the real Jesse James get over it it wasn't on the History Channel! Sorry its just I read a post that someone got angry over it not representing the real Jesse James, I actually signed up just to defend the movie. Its a really good movie and worth renting for a couple of days was one of those kind of movies that when ever there was a sale of movies I was always looking for it.  ) MUST SEE!!! "},{"Title":"What?","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" I am not sure what this movie was aiming for. Entertainment? Fail. A historical expose? Fail. Plot? Fail. Acting? Hahaha.....Lame does not adequately describe this Hollywood trash. Comparing this movie to other movies of the same genre (eg. Young Guns) just insults the other movies. All of rave reviews here come across as if they are written by 12 year old girls, and even then it's a bit shocking for me to see them gushing and fawning over this poor excuse for a movie. It's hard to imagine how anyone with even a single brain cell kicking would find this trash to be enjoyable. This film receives one star from me because I can't give half-stars on IMDb. "}{"Title":"The Outlaw as Superhero/Supermodel.....................","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" This is fun and never a Western in exactly the same way as Butch Cassidy was fun and never a Western.Moby's music is just as anachronistic as Burt Bacharach's.American Outlaws presents Jesse James as a Dark Knightif you like,a Batman but without the brooding self - pity,a superhero with a sense of fun,immortal yet vulnerable.In all likelihood of course,Mr James was a grungy amoral killer but Mr Colin Farrel plays him like a guy in a Calvin Klein ad.And do you know what?It doesn't matter.From the opening sequence when the nascent James/ Younger gang destroy half the Union Army it is plain that this is not a movie that takes itself seriously. I have never seen so many bleached teeth outside of a California Teen movie,Mr Ronny Cox as the inevitable Doc is particularly well - endowed in that department,although Miss Ali Larter as his daughter and Jesse's squeeze runs him close.But it's easy to be picky. There's a lot of shootin' but very little killin',much stylised balletic action and a brilliantly bad performance from Mr Timothy Dalton as the founder of the Pinkerton Detective Agency whom I believe to have been of Scottish extraction,and Mr Dalton does what I can only assume to be his level best to reflect that fact. American Outlaws is great entertainment in a Mouseketeer kind of way and only the grumpiest of purists will begrudge it. "},{"Title":"A lot of cheese and ridiculously good-looking men .... whats not to like","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" Yes I'm sure you could pick at the dialogue for not being 'authentic' but who cares when you get to stare at Colin Farrell for an hour and a half. There is some bad acting at moments and i was never quite brought to tears at moments i felt i should be, but if you don't take this movie too seriously you'll love it. For what its supposed to be which is a fun, aesthetically pleasing updated western it does the job excellently. All the actors deliver the comedy well but its not too overdone you feel your hearing a cliché a second. The plot is easy to sit through without hurting your head, and whilst its never 'edge of your seat' stuff, i still was uncertain as to how it would end, and i found it a rather good ending actually. Watch this with an open mind when your looking for a light-hearted, easy on the eyes kind of movie and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"American Outlaw Jesse James","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" American Outlaws (2001) Colin Farrell, Scott Caan, Gabriel Macht, Gregory Smith, Kathy Bates, Timothy Dalton, Al Larter, Harris Yulin, Will McCormack, Ronny Cox, Terry O'Quinn, Nathaniel Arcand, Joe Stevens, Ty O'Neal, Barry Tub, Tom Schuster, Robin Christian McNair, Brad Leland, Brady Coleman, Richard Jones, Jerry Cotton, Muse Watson, Ron Hayden, Riley Flynn, Shawn Patrick Nash, Kirk Hunter, David Jachin Kelley, Phillip Olivas, Frank Matthews, Chris Warner...Director Les Mayfield, Screenplay Roderic Taylor, John Rogers.American Outlaws from Director Les Mayfield, released in 2001, starred Colin Farrell, a rising star, as Jesse James. Essentially, this was about how Jesse James became the famed outlaw and it looks back at his youth in a sort of pre-quel to all subsequent Jesse James movies. Westerns on film have long enjoyed immense success. This film followed in the tradition of great Western-themed movies like Young Guns and Tombstone, though it did not do very well at the box office, possibly because this film uses humor to counter the action, in much the same way that Maverick with Mel Gibson did. Colin Farrell stars as a young Jesse James, who returns to his quiet home and mother (Kathy Bates) only to discover that a corrupt baron (Timothy Dalton) intends to buy the deeds to various homes and properties in order to build a railroad over them. It's up to Jesse and his band of brothers to fight off the bad guys and save his home. The film co-stars handsome Scott Caan, son of actor James Caan, in one of his better movies and roles as Cole, Jesse's brother. Gabriel Macht and Gregory Smith are the other brothers. Timothy Dalton, used to doing some cruel guy roles, is able to play the villain with natural ease. The music by Trevor Rabin is exhilarating and pulsating, the cinematography by Russell Boyd is larger-than-life, with vast town scenes and desert scenes. The writing/script is well done, with humorous touches here and there that provide relief from all the action. Because the film has some violence, it has either an R rating or PG-13 rating. It's one of the few Western films in recent years that I've enjoyed. Check out American Outlaws. "},{"Title":"its good","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" i thought the movie's really good. there's funny stuff, dramatic stuff, and everything in between. i really don't know what's missing from it. there's lots of good acting; Colin's performance is terrific. sure there's some wrong historical context, but it's not like i'm going to use it as a history book for my next project or something. this is one of those movies that you cant take too seriously; just watch it, and have fun. if you go too deep and analyze everything, then you'll miss on the little things that make this movie so incredible. overall, this is a movie you will enjoy if you are just looking for a fun way to kill hour and a half of time. "},{"Title":"Comedy packed Action not Action packed Comedy","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" I generally watch movies before going to sleep i.e mostly in the night, but this case was different. I started watching in the morning and felt the move very fresh and amusing.I donno why is action before comedy in the genre list because this movie sure has more comedy in it than i ever expected. Nothing much is in the movie as far as the story is concerned. The portrayal of the characters is excellent, especially that of Jesse james. He is considered the god of the outlaws and turns out notorious to some and famous to some. Every time this band goes for a bank loot i was ready for some action packed scenes but most in fact all of them turn out to be comedy pack scenes with not much fuss. All in all a nice movie worth spending 90 mins. "},{"Title":"This was an excellent movie","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" This movie was my all-time favorite. Although not very famous, the movie was one of the greats. American Outlaws depicts great history with great actors. Colin Farrell was unbelievable. He is very believable, not to mention cute. All the actors and actress' were great. To think that this movie was not great, is unthinkable. It should definitely be rated higher. I will always recommend this to people especially if they like Jessy James. American Outlaws was very extraordinary. Everyone that I know who has seen it has loved it without a doubt. I would definitely buy this movie, in fact I own it. No matter what, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Smart, energetic, funny, exciting and underrated; these are just a few adjectives that describe American Outlaws; a western that will take everyone by surprise. Colin Farrell is a breath of fresh air and Gabriel Macht is a pure delight as they take the reigns in one of the funniest westerns I have seen.Farrell and Macht are joined by Scott Caan, Timothy Dalton, Kathy Bates and Ali Larter whose comedic, intelligence and intense talent to create a film that is rich in character driven performances.Most of the credit must be given to the writers of American Outlaws because they took the western genre and created one of the most unique westerns in recent years through the addition of humor. With action-packed sequences, strong performances and smart writing; the writers made the audience look at westerns in a whole new way; clever and stylish.Though I feel originality is important in any film I see, it is not always necessary for a film to succeed. American Outlaws contains many cliche ridden scenes, but the true genius of this film is the presentation of the film.Inspired by actual events, American Outlaws takes the audience on a comedic journey through the lives of the James-Younger gang and their battle with Allan Pinkerton and the railroad.The success of American Outlaws partially stems from the great ensemble performance provided by Farrell, Macht, Larter, Caan, Bates and Dalton. It was apparent from the start that the American Outlaws cast gave maximum effort was going to take me on a satisfying comedy thrill ride through the Old West. It was clear that the cast of American Outlaws had fun together making the film, so when this occurs everyone is guaranteed the film will bring satisfaction.Charisma, intensity and courage; these are the elements brought to the screen by the latest breakout star. I must admit it took me awhile to get over the shock of watching a charismatic, youthful looking actor steal the spotlight from his talented co-stars, but that is exactly what occurred with Farrell in American Outlaws. American Outlaws allows Farrell the opportunity to step out of the shadows into the limelight to take his place among the best young actors in Hollywood.It didn't take long to realize the discovery of the next big movie star would be found in American Outlaws with proof coming from Farrell's energetic and fun performance as Jesse James. I was smiling when I saw Farrell on screen because it meant the writers had created a character filled with imagination and ideas that made the movie a joy to watch.Aside from Farrell, another bright spot in American Outlaws shined with the emergence and second breakthrough performance turned in by his co-star, Gabriel Macht. With enormous screen presence and impact turned in by Macht, this is an actor who will soon hear his name called as a winner of the coveted academy award.Rounding out American Outlaws is the addition of Timothy Dalton and Kathy Bates. Commendations must given to Dalton for making the character of Allan Pinkerton a delight to watch. It didn't take me long to recognize that he was the right man for the job. With his look, demeanor and presence, Dalton confirmed my suspicions.A short appearance can sometimes be the most memorable as with the case of the actress who portrayed Ma James. Bates has always been a favorite of mine because she brings credibility to each film she stars in. With American Outlaws, Bates role is short, sweet and to the point.The bottom line is American Outlaws is an underrated film that will bring everyone pure satisfaction and serve as great entertainment.  "},{"Title":"perfection at his finest.","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  this movie is definitely something special!! for one Colin Farrell is simply the hottest thing since sliced bread, not to mention his startling good looks, and i feel this movie has definitely done him his justice. the witty, smart and hilarious scenes and antics of the james younger gang just add to the excellence of this film. not to mention the all star cast who just add to the brilliant and funny comiedic talent i the movie, such as Colin Farrell, Gabriel Macht, Ali larter, Gregory Smith, Wil McCormack and Timothy Dalton. And i feel that all those who disagree are right to their opinion yes, but i think they who find something to complain about during this film obviously haven't seen it enough times to notice the sheer brilliance of the acting, or they were not smart enough to pick up on the charming and excitable plot line of American outlaws. This is a fabulous film and i suggest all to see it, be they a Colin Farrell fan or not.  "},{"Title":"Very corny; bad acting and costume","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I thought this movie was quite corny as the characters seem to excel perfectly without a single challenge. Also, the parts of the movie that were intended to be funny turned out to be very stupid. The costumes were terrible. They were not authentic at all to the intended time period. A lot of the haircuts were modern. It seemed more like what you would see at a modern rodeo. (Didn't know they had hair gel in the 1800's.) I didn't really get to like any of the characters. I would normally think that a guy who robbed banks and stole from innocent people would be considered a bad guy, but not in this movie. Despite the action, I was very bored. Not a family movie. I don't recommend the movie. "},{"Title":"Anachronistic Disaster","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This is one of those made-for-TV films like A Knight's Tale that's full of a bunch of pretty-boy Hollywood children with no gravitas, no life experience beyond partying in LA, pretending to be tough guys for the ladies. The speech, the dialog, the manners, the hair, the cleanliness, the storyline, all are strictly modern, adding to the feeling of watching actors at play. And I use the term actor loosely.There are some good actors but they are generally wasted. Kathy Bates was probably happy to be killed off early in the story. Terry O'Quinn, so enigmatic in Millenium is just goofy in this film. I guess that's okay if that's what you're shooting for. The costumes and sets are alright. But the lighting is mostly way overdone, bordering on hacky. So many little things have to come together just so to make a run-of-the-mill film into a good one, but you usually only notice it when it doesn't come together, as in American Outlaws. The cinematography is largely static and pedestrian. It's a good film to watch to find out how not to make a good movie.Still, I give it 3 out of 10 because some of the dialog is mildly humorous.If you want to see a really excellent film about the same people, take a look at The Long Riders. Only five minutes longer, but a much richer experience. The cool thing about this film is that all the brothers are actually brothers, and even though the Carradines are Hollywood progeny, they lived such checkered lives they were able to pull it off. "}{"Title":"Hollywood stampedes over Western genre","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*My Dad and I went to see this one. If I had any doubt as to what to expect from this movie, the trailers set me straight. Usually before an action flick, the theater will put up other action/thriller trailers in anticipation of a certain audience. Imagine my horror when the first trailer to come up was Summer Catch about heartbreak and baseball. Other teen heartthrob trailers followed. My Dad and I looked down with shame. Suckered again.So a boy band decides to put on western clothes and pretend to be cowboys. They're a fun loving bank robbing gang. The name of this game was cheese. Modern rock tunes are blasting over the action. Everybody's hair was perfect. A scene near the end sums it up perfectly*SPOILER ON ENDING*So the lawmen have captured the head outlaw. They are transporting him on a train. All of a sudden, in the middle of the track, stands the outlaws supermodel wife with a cannon! She lights the fuse and blasts the train. She then turns to the other members of the gang and says, Now go and git my husband. If that level of cheese is within your tolerance limit, you might like this movie. As for me, all I could see was Hollywood running rampage over the Western genre with their pretty faces and inane dialogue. "},{"Title":"What a movie should be...","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  As soon as i saw this movie previewed on another video i wanted to see it. It does what a movie should it entertains, i was going to make the same comment as a lot of other people have, That it is not historically accurate, makes no attempt to tell the whole story of the james gang etc... but then movies are not supposed to. If you want accuracy watch a doco, or read a history book, if you want to be entertained watch a movie. I have several friends who will not enjoy this movie because of their misconception that a movie should be historically accurate (thats their bad luck) because they will miss seeing a fun movie that does what a movie should... ENTERTAIN THE VIEWER.  "},{"Title":"Good western.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Not many wester action films come out now-a-days, and since the previews made this look good, I decided to get AMERICAN OUTLAWS. And it's a good thing I did. Because the movie is pretty good! I know some people have a problem with idolizing Jesse James as if he were some kind of a Robin Hood or as if he were a good guy, but you do need to remember that this is just a movie.The acting is mediocre, the story is cliched, yes we know all this. Who cares? If the movie is entertaining, who cares? The action sequences are very exciting. Unbelivable, yes. Exciting, very. The movie is slightly slow at certain times, but if you are into the story, you will have no problem with this. I was interested in seeing Colin Farrell in a different role than what he normally plays. I have been seeing a lot of him lately with MINORITY REPORT and he will soon be playing in THE RECRUIT, PHONE BOOTH and DAREDEVIL. He is just being heard from an awful lot. My biggest problem is that Kathy Bates hardly has a part in the film!! She is only in the movie for more than five minutes and she is listed as a central character!! Why is she only in the movie for such a short time? This sucks!!AMERICAN OUTLAWS is a must for anyone who likes a good western or if you like action movies. AMERICAN OUTLAWS gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"Jimmy Crack CORN...","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Sloppy.  That's the best I can say about this stinker.  An ultimately over-used Western yarn about a bunch of rough 'n' tumble brothers who are oh-so-good at heart, but bad boys in the eyes of the corrupt law, yadda, yadda, yadda...  The usually good Colin Farrell and Scott Caan mosey through the pic like they just finished a big ole' dinner at the local Montana's (TM), and Ali Larter is soooo horrible that the best I can offer is that she was nice to look at (and I actually go to see an actress ACT in a film!).  Not to mention that I saw shots where the boom-mike actually hung in the top of the frame, on more than a couple occasions, for the entire length of the shot!4/10.  Y'all STEER-clear ah this'n, pard'ners! "},{"Title":"The Mod Squad meets the Old West","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Several young actors (including Scott Caan, son of James Caan) fail to do justice to this 2001 Warner Brothers release, an obvious rehash and rip off of the Brat Pack's box office smash, Young Guns. The action scenes, supporting cast and direction are all weak and do nothing to resurrect the western film genre. "},{"Title":"Forget the Critics American Outlaws rocks.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Though I've heard so many negative things from critics about this movie it still remains one of my favorites of all time. In the movie the bad guys are the good guys. Not a totally unheard of thing in the film industry but one I'd like to see more often. Maybe it's people's lack of knowledge for the western time period that has turned them against this one but its always interested me. The cast is phenominal (gah! can't spell) Colin Farrel in particular starring as the charismatic sharpshooter Jesse James. I've bought the DVD and watched it over and over sadly enough I can also quote the flick in its entirety. For the perfect mix of action/comedy/and romance with a wild west flare, go see American Outlaws. "},{"Title":"Not historically accurate","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I suppose the real story of Jesse James wasn't exciting enough so some Hollywood yea-hoos had to fancy it up a bit.The first bit that caught my attention was that Jesse's mother died when their home was blown to bits.  This isn't true at all, his mother was wounded, in fact, she made sure he was buried on the family farm in Kearney, Mo so she OUTLIVED him.  This fact messed up the rest of the movie for me. Further, Zee married Jesse in Kentucky, not Florida.I thought Colin Farrell was cute and portrayed the role well despite the bad writing and I thought Ali Larter was equally as charming.I give this movie a 2/10 mostly for its embellishments.  They made the film difficult to watch. "},{"Title":"One of the best portrayals of Jesse James and his gang from the people's point of view instead of the government.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  While not the most accurate account of the story of Jesse James and his gang, it is by far the most entertaining with awesome stunts from blowing up a small town to evade the nemesis Pinkerton and his lackeys to escaping from a train bound for DC where he awaits an unfair trial with the help of his cousins and wife. Colin Farrel is at his best as Jesse James; even if you don't know anything about the James-Younger gang or the Old West, you will love the story of American Outlaws! "},{"Title":"An invented biography for Jesse James","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  There has been several versions of Jesse James life, but this perhaps is the best technical one and the worse in its plot, far away to be true. James was a soldier of the Southern army during the secession war, and he together with his brother Frank and Young brothers started a kind of revolution, which at the end finished with bank robbery and other assaults. They were simply the Southern FARC in then new USA. It is true that Jesse after some difficulties and heavy fights decided to quit and to live peacefully, but was finally killed, something that in this film is not shown. It has, unfortunately and unexplicably, the Happy Hollywood end. Jesse went away happily with his wife after been rescued by Frank and Young brothers, a very big lie and tergiversation of the reality. If you want to entertain yourself you may look at it, but remember that this is an invented story far away from the reality.       "},{"Title":"Pretty good film.","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I am not a fan of westerns, but there is one scene in particular in the preview for this movie that made me want to see it.  The scene I'm talking about it where Colin Farrell is swinging on the rope along the side of the train and shooting his gun as he swings.  That shot alone got me to see the movie.All in all, I would say the movie was a good western, pretty much exactly what I expected.  I thought all the actors did a fine job with their roles, the story was good, in that it kept me interested, and I really liked the comedy throughout the film, it was very funny and very effective.If you like westerns, I would hope that you like this film, but I wouldn't be terribly surprised if you didn't.  I'm not really sure who would and wouldn't like this film.  Just give it a chance and make up your own mind.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "}{"Title":"American Epic of Epic Proportions","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Sergio Leone who?  Thats right.  The recently updated verion of this long-forgotten western genre is back in a big way.  American Outlaws, an updated version of the story of Jesse James and his gang beautifies what we already thought was a perfect genre.  In this American epic, many stars from struggling WB shows since moved to the UPN come together in a Woody Allen type cast which gels beautifully.  Thier scrupulous study of the characters and time period truly help bring out an already excellent performance by such actors as Collin Farrel and Scott Caan.  Although many may disagree, I will state what too many are afraid to say  films like The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly, Tombstone, and A Fistfull of Dollars cannot hold a candle to the masterpiece that is American Outlaws.  This reviewer would be perfectly happy to make these Outlaws, my inlaws. "},{"Title":"A western that stays true to the genre.","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  American Outlaws was a real pleasure to watch. Growing up on westerns, I really enjoyed this one for a number of reasons. First, the writer wove together a western true to its form and created characters that kept us interested. I was pleased it gave a different story to Jesse James than has been done over and over. The historical facts were there (the Civil War), the railroad stealing the land, forming an outlaw band to fight the railroad), but then it followed its own story. Second, the cast was great. From old-timers like Timothy Dalton, Harris Yulin, Kathy Bates, Ronny Cox and Terry O'Quinn to the younger folks including Colin Farrell, Scott Caan, Ali Larter, Gabriel Macht (whose dad Stephen was also a good actor), Will McCormick and Gregory Smith. They all did fine. Some films when younger actors are placed in a western they don't seem to know how to act in that genre of film. In this case they knew and did good. This has been my favorite western since Ed Harris' Riders of the Purple Sage (although I also enjoyed Tom Selleck's Crossfire Creek and Sam Elliott's You Know My Name.) And this is a film that you can enjoy if you are not a western fan. Once again, well written, directed, photographed and acted. A scene involving a raid on a train is fabulous. Do yourself a favor and go see this one.  "},{"Title":"The Best Western To Date!!!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  I saw American Outlaws in the theater, and it was a great movie!!! Colin Farrel, Ali Larter, Scott Caan, Gregory Smith, and Kathy Bates are brillaint!! This is a great and exciting film for everyone!! This is a brillaint film cleverly directed by Les Mayfield. This is the best western of the year! Well, they haven't been making too many westerns these days, but this is a terrific western! I give it a great 10 out of 10!!!! ) "},{"Title":"An excellent telling of the Jesse James story!","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" AMERICAN OUTLAWS   ***_   Western Colin Farrell, Scott Caan, Ali LarterFollowing the US Civil War, Frank and Jesse James return home to Missouri to find the Railroad employing very rough means to force ranchers into selling their property. When Frank & Jesse's mother is killed, they vow to make the Railroad pay. Using tactics they learned in the military, the James-Younger gang attacks the Railroad's supply lines -- its payroll.It's the same story as CAT BALLOU, though OUTLAWS tells it mostly straight, rather than for laughs. And it's told very well. Whether or not AMERICAN OUTLAWS is true to historical fact, it rings true. The petty squabbles by the various gang members flesh out their human side. I found it not only believable but well paced and entertaining. Several explosions; no car chases. Recommended.Dave "},{"Title":"one of the best movies I've seen in a while","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  Wow was this movie great or what! I wasn't expecting too much since I'm not crazy about westerns but this was great much better than I expected. It has a great story, decent acting, likeable characters for the most part, and the action is just amazing the stunt men should be given some kind of award for this movie. Everybody should see this movie I can't believe it flopped in the box office some people are just really stupid. I guess a story about a group of Southern Men who go around robbing banks and doing their best to stop the evil yankees from taking farmer's lands to build a railroad and having great shoot outs and huge explosions isn't as good as watching some man hold up a hospital or some dumb teenage girl travel around with her friends, man when it comes to movies it amazes me how dumb people are cause I see no way how someone couldn't like this film I'd give it a 9! And it makes me proud to be from the south cause you see what people from the north are really like. "},{"Title":"lite hearted western","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" this isn't too bad a movie.i would say it is mildly enjoyable.it's not exactly fast paced,but it's not quite boring either.i think it would have been better as a comedy,since it was such a lite hearted movie.the acting was OK,but nothing spectacular.it's about The James/Younger gang of the old west,led by Jesse James(Colin Farrel)it's just one interpretation of James's life,and i don't think it tries too hard to be accurate.either way,it is an interesting interpretation and it has some fun moments scattered throughout.i'd probably watch again,but it's not something i would watch over and over.for me,American Outlaws is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"An above-average horse opera that knows when to giddy-yap and when to giddy-up","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" As westerns go, American Outlaws amounts to an above-average horse opera that knows when to giddy-yap and when to giddy-up. Les Mayfield, who directed Flubber and Blue Streak, stages several exhilarating but bloodless gunfights that owe their epic grandeur to Hong Kong action maestro John Woo of Face/Off fame as much as traditional cowboy classics like Clint Eastwood's The Outlaw Josey Wales. While this blatantly romanticized account of the notorious Jesse James-Cole Younger gang lacks the authenticity of either The Great Northfield, Minnesota Raid (1972) or The Long Riders (1980), Mayfield keeps the action going at a gallop. Moreover, writers Roderick Taylor and John Rogers have juggled the chronological order of events to heighten dramatic impact. Clearly, American Outlaws duplicates the surefire Young Guns formula, portraying Jesse as a saintly Robin Hood bandit. While Irish heartthrob Colin Farrell resembles actor Tyrone Power, who starred as Jesse James in the prototypical 1939 Technicolor version Jesse James, he looks nothing like the real-life Jesse Woodson James. Nevertheless,western aficionados should applaud the way that Mayfield has kept the conventions of the genre intact while adding enough fresh touches to enhance this superficial but stimulating shoot'em-up.American Outlaws covers the early years of James-Younger gang. The upbeat Taylor & Rogers script doesn't depict the tragic demise Jesse met at the hands of the double-crossing sidewinder who bushwhacked him for the bounty. This flavorful variation unfolds as the Civil War concludes. Federal troops have pinned down Frank James (Gabriel Macht of Simply Irresistible), Cole Younger (Scott Caan of Varsity Blues), and Bob Younger (Gregory Smith of Boiler Room) with cannon fire when Jesse (Colin Farrell of Tigerland) rides to their rescue. Mayfield establishes Jesse's hell-bent-for-leather audacity when our impetuous protagonist launches a fearless charge against an army of Yankees. Farrell imitates John Wayne in True Grit as he rides full-tilt into battle, blazing away with two six-shooters while he keeps his horses' reins clenched between his teeth.After surviving this fracas, our heroes return to Missouri to resume farming. Along come villainous railroad baron Thaddeus Rains (Harris Yulin of Rush Hour 2) and henchman Rollin Parker (Terry O'Quinn of The Stepfather) who are stealing property at two dollars-per-acre. When they approach Ma James (Kathy Bates of Misery), she wants her sons to gun them down. Frank convinces Ma to hold off. Rains' chief troubleshooter, Allan Pinkerton (Timothy Dalton of License to Kill), warns them that was Rains' only offer. Parker retaliates after the James refuse to sell and sends his ruffians to dynamite their farm. Ma James dies in the explosion, and Jesse and Frank saddle up with the Youngers to wreck vengeance on the railroad.While American Outlaws doesn't qualify as a classic, this better-than-average sagebrusher provides a glimpse of the old West we haven't seen in many moons. As Jesse's stalwart wife Zee Mimms, Ali Larter of Final Destination has a way with stopping trains dead in their tracks. A crackerjack supporting cast, especially Dalton as Pinkerton, makes American Outlaws fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Do you dig spaghetti Westerns? Look no further","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" From the commercials for this film, it didn't look like much... a pretty entertaining Western, and that's about it. Well... my predictions were true. An entertaining film, not much else. But dang... is it entertaining! Gun fights, chases, etc. So much spaghetti Western action in one movie. The plot is well-written and keeps your interest. Making the gang be the good guys was an interesting twist, anti-heroes are always fun to watch. The acting is very good all-round, no performances seemed weak or unsatisfying. Farrell, Smith and Bates are particularly fun to watch. The characters are well-written, human and credible. The dialog has its moments, but is often contrived. It's mostly nicely delivered, at the very least. Few lines are quotable and fewer scenes are memorable, but it's still a fun and entertaining film while it lasted. I found the cinematography to be quite good, and the overall stylish feel to the film was effective and a welcome addition. The action is all very nicely set up, and well shot and quite intense, not to mention involving. It was hard to look away for a second during the action scenes. The humor is pretty good, though at times somewhat forced. By no means a great film, but a sufficiently entertaining one. I recommend this to any fan of any of the actors involved as well as fans of Westerns, spaghetti Westerns in particular. If you're into that kind of film, don't miss this one. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The best Western ever!","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" Here is one of my all-time favourite movies, definitely my favourite Western American Outlaws, about the Jesse James gang. Tag line for the movie Sometimes the wrong side of the law is the right place to be. Now, I know that Jesse James was probably in fact a violent psychopath and not a very nice guy, but that wouldn't make a very good Western, would it? You have to have a sympathetic hero, and the script delivers with Jesse James. It's a classic Western, James as the good guy hero, undertaking violence only to save poor, helpless farmers from the greedy clutches of the rapacious railroad corporations. Darn corporations.This film has fantastic stunts, intelligent, witty dialogue, understated costuming and sets, good pacing, and a reasonable romance. I enjoyed every minute of it. (Except for one or two hokey lines when Jesse is talking to his amour.) This is one of Colin Farrell's best performances as a classic Hollywood hero -- handsome, daring, a little dangerous, but ready to settle down with a good woman in the end. Jesse's brother, Frank James (Gabriel Macht), is even more charming than Jesse &#150; his character has a great wit, and a bit of the poet, quoting Shakespeare, not just a rough outlaw. One of my favourite performances by Gabriel Macht. All the actors in the gang work well as an ensemble.We do have a romantic idea of the outlaw in America. We admire people who keep to their principles and go outside the system. This is an interesting one to compare to Ned Kelly to see Australia's romantic idea of the outlaw. James and Kelly were contemporaries, robbing banks around the same time, and each standing up for some principle against the system. James' career lasted a lot longer, though. The events that take place in this movie in fact were spread out over about 13 or more years of James' life.Throughout the nineties and this decade, corporations have become the new villains in Hollywood films, and it's true in this film as well. I wonder for how many decades our culture will have to keep telling ourselves stories that corporations are the villains before we finally take action and put some legal restrictions on them? As with 90% of Hollywood's movies, this film is completely male-centered. It flunks the 3 criteria there have to be 2 women in the film, they have to talk to each other, about something other than a man. This one flunks 2 & 3. "},{"Title":"Now how do I say this properly...","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":"  This movie is trash.  There, I think that sums it up.  American Outlaws, the first Western of this year, is a pretty big dissapointment (not that I had high expectations anyway).  My problems, well I can start off with this- people from the west aren't ment to look like Backstreet Boys and N-f***ing-SYNC, OK.  If you were to look at some real pictures of people from the west, or just watch some of the old westerns from the old days of yore, you'd realize a lot of the men were rather unpleasant looking (inbreeding I'd think some of the time).  And some people might say, well what about John Wayne and Clint Eastwood.  Let's just say they're in a whole other league than this movie.American Outlaws signals the death (for the moment) of the B Western I believe, and while it sometimes stays to the fact (James-Younger gang I think was correct), most of the time the film goes to please it's stupid little teenie bopper audience who care more about the looks of Colin Farrel and Scott Caan, than they do about the actual movie itself.If you wanna know how stinkin awful this movie is, I'll finish my review with this- Kathy Bates has a small part, and even that was poor (sadly, considering she is such a great actress).  A mess of acting, writing and directing overall.  F+ (for an So-so civil war start) "}{"Title":"excellent film","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Western","Review":" Smart, energetic, funny, exciting and underrated; these are just a few adjectives that describe American Outlaws; a western that will take everyone by surprise. Colin Farrell is a breath of fresh air and Gabriel Macht is a pure delight as they take the reigns in one of the funniest westerns I have seen.Farrell and Macht are joined by Scott Caan, Timothy Dalton, Kathy Bates and Ali Larter whose comedic, intelligence and intense talent to create a film that is rich in character driven performances.Most of the credit must be given to the writers of American Outlaws because they took the western genre and created one of the most unique westerns in recent years through the addition of humor. With action-packed sequences, strong performances and smart writing; the writers made the audience look at westerns in a whole new clever and stylish way.Though I feel originality is important in any film I see, it is not always necessary for a film to succeed. American Outlaws contains many cliché ridden scenes, but the true genius of this film is the presentation of the film.The success of American Outlaws partially stems from the great ensemble performance provided by Farrell, Macht, Larter, Caan, Bates and Dalton. It was clear that the cast of American Outlaws had fun together making the film, so when this occurs everyone is guaranteed the film will bring satisfaction.I must admit it took me awhile to get over the shock of watching a charismatic, youthful looking actor steal the spotlight from his talented co-stars, but that is exactly what occurred with Farrell in American Outlaws. American Outlaws allows Farrell the opportunity to step out of the shadows into the limelight to take his place among the best young actors in Hollywood.It didn't take long to realize the discovery of the next big movie star would be found in American Outlaws with proof coming from Farrell's energetic and fun performance as Jesse James. I was smiling when I saw Farrell on screen because it meant the writers had created a character filled with imagination and ideas that made the movie a joy to watch.Aside from Farrell, another bright spot in American Outlaws shined with the emergence and second breakthrough performance turned in by his co-star, Gabriel Macht. With enormous screen presence and impact turned in by Macht, this is an actor who will soon hear his name called as a winner of the coveted academy award.Rounding out American Outlaws is the addition of Timothy Dalton and Kathy Bates. Commendations must given to Dalton for making the character of Allan Pinkerton a delight to watch. It didn't take me long to recognize that he was the right man for the job. With his look, demeanor and presence, Dalton confirmed my suspicions.Bates has always been a favorite of mine because she brings credibility to each film she stars in. With American Outlaws, Bates role is short, sweet and to the point.The bottom line is American Outlaws is an underrated film that will bring everyone pure satisfaction and serve as great entertainment. "}]