[{"Title":"History you never find in books","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"61 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" In addition to being a drama, this film gives a rather nice account of the Czech struggle against both Nazi Germany and the Stalinist Soviet Union. Having read The Big Show by Pierre Clostermann, and having had an Polish acquaintance who escaped Poland after the Nazi onslaught and made it to England, I found the main story line to be reasonably in line historical fact. Thanks to a combination of computer imagery and some surviving Spitfires of the era, the flying scenes are very convincing. The detail in the Spitfire attack on the German train is consistent with real life events of the time.The dramatic aspects of the story are entirely believable also. Lonely men far from home and facing death on a daily basis behave very much like the characters in this story. The turns of events also reflect a very believable story line. The directors do a creditable job of blending three different time periods so that there is enough continuity to make the drama of this story manageable.This film held my interest from the start for several reasons I'm a retired military flier; I'm a student of history, especially the history of WWII; I'm way past being tired of the trashy Hollywood versions of world events. This film is a top notch product in every respect. "},{"Title":"The film is a gem","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"40 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" Centres on Czech WW2 pilots &#150; the older Frantisek, the boyish impulsive Karel and in the background the quiet piano-playing Honza. As the film opens, it is 1950, the war is over and Frantisek and Honza are imprisoned in a former monastery. In their now Soviet-controlled native country they are 'enemy of the people'. Honza is severely maltreated by his Communist countrymen and dies.In 1939 many pilots manage to escape German-occupied Europe and make their way to England where they join the RAF. Notwithstanding their high motivation and experience they face RAF reluctance and British stiff upper lip. Finally they fight gallantly in the Battle of Britain. However, Frantisek and Karel find their friendship severely tested when they both fall for the same woman.In terms of romantic sub-plot, this is very similar to the Hollywood production Pearl Harbour. However, given the context of the film and Frantisek's eventual fate, it is also possible to read the English woman's treatment of the two men as symbolic of British treatment of the Czech and Polish RAF pilots conveniently forgetting them once the war is over.In addition, the film is a lot less cliché than Pearl Harbour and the characters are more fully realised. Dark Blue World also scores in terms of its stunning aerial dogfights, which were seamlessly created using a mixture of models, actual live-action aerial filming and out-takes from the 1969 epic The Battle of Britain.In short, Dark Blue World is a well-made, moving, thought-provoking and exciting drama that puts the likes of Pearl Harbour to shame. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Take a chance and see this low key WW2 story...","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"41 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" I absolutely loved this movie. Great, realistic looking combat footage for one thing and a touching, genuine story also. The calm, understated manner of the lead character, Franta, makes him very likable. The human relationships in the story seemed so very typical and possible of what you could expect in war time. The bond between Franta and Carel shows the loyalty wartime comrades can have for each other and that is often described in books and interviews with veterans. The subtitles do not detract from the story at all and actually serve to underline the problems the Czech pilots had in the RAF. The postwar storyline is a great reminder that for many the suffering of WW2 did not end in 1945, especially in Russian occupied countries. The cinematography was also very good. Wish I could have seen it on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Good, very good...","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"36 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I'm Czech and soldiers (not only pilots) who escaped Czechoslovakia after Nazi's invasion in 1939 and fought against them abroad are true heroes and bravest men in our history for me. This movie from director of Academy Award winner Kolya (1996) is a tribute to these men. It's first big-screen movie about Czechoslovak WWII soldiers since Nebesti jezdci (1968). I think Dark Blue World is a good movie - good acting, good special effects, nice music etc. Movie is half in English and some actors are Britons. But greatest thing about this movie is it's pure existence. It's great chance to show people all around the world (and to many people in Czech Republic too...) that Czechoslovak role in WWII was not only as occupied country but as an active member of allied campaign.Leading characters are older and wiser Frantisek and young Karel. They escaped together from Czechoslovakia, they are flying in the same squadron and they fell in love with the same woman... Maybe it's a cliché but fortunately this storyline is not so aggressive and is in good balance with other scenes (including great dogfights). I don't want to compare Dark Blue World with Pearl Harbor, someone will like PH more and someone will like DBW. But if you like happy ends, DBW is not for you. So, I think it's very good movie for everyone who likes this type of stories and very good movie who wants to get to know something about this chapter of Czechoslovak history.BTW, main theme Dark Blue World is from Czech 30's and 40's composer Jaroslav Jezek. He wrote this theme when he lost his eyes...  "},{"Title":"Best Battle of Britain film so far","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"29 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  This is a brilliant, lavish Czech film from the Sverak father and son team, all about two Czech pilots who flee to England to help the RAF in the Battle of Britain but who also fall out over a woman (the beautiful Tara Fitzgerald).  Features some excellent and incredibly realistic aerial combat scenes &#150; probably the best ever and much better than Pearl Harbour or even the film Battle of Britain - and a number of interesting general themes such as love, war, romance, comradeship, loss and servitude.  Also, the trials and tribulations of moving abroad and learning a foreign language (though made easier here with the great stalwart Anna Massey).The film has some great little motifs such as the world famous RAF bullseye device, shown throughout and at one point nicely reflected in the black vinyl record, spinning around cutely (music is another theme of the film, of course).  Plus, all of the traditional icons of English life dimpled beer glasses (unlike the post-war straight glasses used in Pearl Harbour), tea in a nice china tea set in an English country garden (though shot in the Czech Republic?), the mascot dog, a vintage bottle of HP sauce, even a darts board!Of course, the airfield and surrounding countryside is ridiculously unlike anywhere in the south of England, though the virtuouso aerial sequences make up for this, showing Eastbourne and the Seven Sisters, always synonomous with southern England and the Battle of Britain.  But best of all is the sensational musical score from Ondrej Soukup, as good as anything from Hans Zimmer yet all in the tradition of the late, excellent Ron Goodwin who scored the original Battle of Britain film amongst other classic English war films.  There's even a nice little cameo role for the &#150; apparently &#150; famous Czech musician and actor (and Kevin Kline lookalike) Oldrich Kaiser, who plays on the piano the title theme song, Dark Blue Sky.  Excellent!It's got a few smutty yet funny little Freudian devices too, such as always showing an inflated condom floating by the ceiling whenever Karel (the callow but brilliant Krystof Hadek) is stuck at the airfield while his love rival and fellow pilot Frantisek (Ondrej Vetchy) is with Susan.Another great English actor in this film!  Charles Dance is of course fine as Wing Commander Bentley.Highly recommended and well worth watching/hiring &#150; get the DVD with special features (stuff like how they created the dog fights and stuff).  Probably the only film ever to combine subtitles with characters speaking English, German, French and Czech all at once.  "},{"Title":"A must see for any pilot","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" I was turned on to this movie by my flight instructor and now I wonder how the heck it was out there for nearly five years before I finally discovered it. If you have any love of flying at all, especially an attachment to the planes of WWII, this is an absolute must see, vastly superior to the pathetic Pearl Harbor and up there in rivalry with the famed Battle of Britain filmed more than thirty years ago. There are moments when you feel as if you are flying wingman, literally dodging the shell casings of your leader as you roll in on a Me 109 or He 111. As an historian this film deeply touched me as well for it is about the plight endured by tens of thousands of gallant Poles, Hungarians, Slovaks and Czechs who in 1939-1940 fled their homelands, made it to England, fought with utmost bravery for the survival of western civilization, and then were so callously abandoned by us after the war when they were arrested by the communists upon their return to their native lands. I have stood atop Monte Cassino in Italy and was moved to tears by the cemetery for the Polish troops that stormed that mountain that British and Americans could not take. I have traveled as well to Prague (the most beautiful of cities) and studied their history. Their story of abandonment, I believe, should be a lesson to us even today about obligations to gallant allies. But back to the film. If you love flying, see this. If you are interested in the aircraft of WWII most definitely see it. Without doubt the most brutal, direct, and frightfully swift air combat scenes ever replicated for film. And yes, if you even are seeking a touching romance, there is that as well in heartbreaking detail.Bill Forstchen Professor of History Co-owner of a WWII replica warbird P-51 Mustang Gloria Ann "},{"Title":"Superior To Pearl Harbor","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" This film is 99% historically accurate unlike the many obvious misreprentations in Pearl Harbor. DBW makes use of real aircraft filmed for the purpose plus some bits from the film Battle Of Britain. The flying sequences are far superior to anything in Pearl Harbor.Unlike Pearl Harbor there are no dyslexic or stammering pilots. The love interest is central to the plot and Tara Fitzgerald is very convincing in her role.My only gripe is that the officers and sergeants share the same mess hall. This is something that could easily have been avoided by making both of the main characters officers which would not have affected the sory line in any way.In short, if you like comic strip type stuff you will prefer Pearl Harbor but for quality and accuracy, Dark Blue World wins hands down. "},{"Title":"Sparse realism","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I've been a devoted IMDB visitor for a few years. This is the movie that finally compelled me to write in a review.I caught this movie by chance (the opening credits happened to be scrolling past when I turned my TV on one morning).  I thoroughly enjoyed the film for many reasons, all of which have been well covered by other reviewers -- the moodiness, the forgotten history of the Czech pilots, the subtle charm of the supporting characters, the fatalism of the main characters, and the first person view during the battle scenes.But the element of Dark Blue World that really stood out was the lack of dramatic effects, especially during combat (and this is a good thing!). While the pilots were flying in battle no musical score accompanied them, no manipulative shots of worried spouses/girlfriends were interwoven, every little aerial maneuver did not elicit trite patriotic cheers, and viewers weren't asked to swallow unbelievable James Bond-esque pilot heroics. Instead the audience is allowed to feel the melancholy, fear and isolation of these single pilot fighters while they try to stay aloft during combat. As comrades are shot down we are spared tearful howls and the typical (but audience pleasing) revenge based heroics.  Instead the other pilots sadly and quietly observe their fellow pilot's fate -- in reality they still need to remain intensely focused on their own safety and objectives at that very moment.  We only briefly experience the pilot's breathing and the background roar of the engines as we, the audience, witness a friend spiral quietly down to his death.  And then immediately 'we' need to jump back into combat mode and focus on survival.Too often in Hollywood we're spoon-fed the emotions we're supposed to feel and no room is left for the viewer's imagination.  Dark Blue World maintains a sparseness that captivates and involves the viewer, allowing us to invest in the movie and fill in the gaps and spaces using our own thoughts and feelings.Excellent film, well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"One of the best films I´ve seen this year","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I missed it at the cinema and have rented it on DVD. If you get the chance I would recommend it as it´s better than nearly everything I´ve seen at the cinema or on DVd this year. That isn´t to say it´s one of the best films ever or anything, it´s just I´ve seen a lot of rubbish )Can´t really add to what´s already been said except 8/10 "},{"Title":"Tear jerker","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" A beautiful film, cleverly shot with an eye to war-era detail, and (considering it is set during WWII) minimal violence.A small cast weaves an emotive journey through the occupation of Czechoslovakia, the separation from loved ones as the pilots depart for England (the separation from the spaniel will touch hearts), spitfire scenes, love, friendship and betrayal. The theme of betrayal runs deep through the movie, from betrayal of love, to betrayal of friendship, and finally the betrayal shown by the communist regime to former RAF pilots post-war.A desperately sad film, all the more so because it is so factually accurate. I would recommend it to everyone. "}{"Title":"A cinematic poem","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  This is a gem - a charming step back in time and a testament to marrying the image to the period. You know you have been touched by a film when it resonates long after leaving your seat. A movie will be gone from your thoughts if it has no layers to its storytelling and this film still lingers in the mind and begs to be revisited. A fundamental error made by film-makers is not allowing the audience to participate in the film by insulting their ability to work things out for themselves. Dark Blue World is poetic, exciting and ultimately a most rewarding cinema experience. If only Pearl Harbor and its ilk could learn something of this art for their particular brand. I cannot wait for the follow-up to this special team. 8/10. "},{"Title":"supreme action, real emotion","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" This is a beautifully-made film, finely balancing the fragile human stories (both before and after 1945) and the indiscriminating combat of war. The use of outtakes from Battle of Britain (a film that does not nearly so well portray the 1940s!) enhances, rather than detracts from the whole. A deeply impressive work, this lived in my memory for the 2 years since I saw it, and I have just bought it to explore the making-of extras.I highly recommend this film (movie). Like Aces High, it alternates between viscerally exciting (or scary) air combat sequences, where the viewer might experience actual loss of characters they'd come to care about, but also unpredictable interactions on the ground, where skillful writers and real-life experiences inform some involving and moving events. This also underlines the fact that for many people, 1945 marked not just the end of one conflict but the beginning of another, and even today we still don't recognise the loss, bravery and sacrifice of so many nameless heroes, or even worse we venerate them from a distance without allowing them to be human beings with all the emotional weaknesses that entails - making their sacrifices all the more valiant.Watching this movie is an experience which will take you from the heights of friendship to the depths of jealousy, and back to love that endures even beyond death. If all war films were like this, we'd never have to fight again.Did I mention it's worth watching? ;-)10/10 "},{"Title":"Cool blue world","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" Being advertised as the most expensive movie ever made in the Czech Republic, it automatically makes the you think it will be over glorified and clichéd (out of fear of the budget). However with a budget of 8 Million and half the movie in English it was not exactly a big budget, high risk movie.What we have a grand epic tale centered around the friendship of two people, the younger Karel and the older Frantisek . As pilots in the Czech air force when the Germans invade before the beginning of world war II they escape the country to England to joined the RAF.Their friendship becomes strained through the love of the same woman. However there is a bond of friendship that goes beyond merely being friendly. Their friendship is an elegant metaphor for the attitude of the Czech people and their country. Remember they were not the winners, the defeated the Germans only to be invaded by the Russians.Funny, exciting, intriguing, beautiful, sad and illuminating this movie is one of my favourite war movies. Most of all I like the way they make fun of the British in a way that is amazingly affectionate and gives an amazing insight into the way the British military fought WWII.Forget the recent American efforts (Peal Harbour, Saving Private Ryan), this is the best WWII movie for a long time. "},{"Title":"Brief overview and opinion","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  What a movie! It is worth watching just for the images of Spitfires flying low over the verdant hills of England, but moreso for the marvellous story of a man who loses everything for his beliefs. From the outset you can identify with the characters as they live life to the full, love and laugh, and then watch it all taken away from them by the Nazi invasion of their homeland. Their frustrations as the British insist upon continued training while they feel they are ready for battle from the outset becomes obvious. When they finally do go into battle their numbers are gradually reduced and their relationships become strained, not only due to the pressures of war but also to jealousies that come to the fore over a woman that none of them can ever have. When the war is finally over the hero makes it home to find everything has changed forever. His friends have all been lost, his girl married and even his dog taken from him. The ironic theme of the movie is that it is told from the perspective of a political prisoner who has lost it all by simply doing what everyone thought was right. The way the Nazi doctor proclaims his righteousness to the downtrodden Czech is a classical piece of perverted hypocrisy. A must see movie, not only about flying and adventure, but also about the indomitable human spirit.  "},{"Title":"Beware, this movie will make you cry your eyes out!","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" If you want to see the true, vile nature of Communism, watch the movie DARK BLUE WORLD. (Tvamomodrý Svet) It recounts how the brave Czech pilots who refused to surrender fled to England to join the fight against the Nazis. After the war, the Communists feared they had picked up dangerous Western ideas about freedom. So, they had these heroic Czech pilots thrown into a nightmarish prison, where some of the guards were the same Nazis they risked their lives to defeat.If Hollywood wants to understand why so many of their movies fall flat, they should compare the character drama portions of Pearl Harbor with this movie. In Dark Blue World, you really make a connection to all the characters. In Pearl Harbor, everyone is like some slick cartoon version of a real person.There are innumerable instances of brilliant writing in this movie. One funny scene that sticks in my mind is when the character Karel is being taught English by a rather formal Englishwoman. When he can't pronounce a word, he ridicules the lesson. In typical stoic English fashion, the teacher calmly but forcefully confronts Karel, and shames him into behaving.The aerial battle sequences in this movie are amazing, and they help to keep the movie lively. I read that it cost $11,000 an hour to rent the planes, but it was worth every penny.Ladies, you are expected to cry at sad movies, but guys.... beware! This movie would make General Patton weep. And if you are a dog lover, you'll use up half a box of Kleenex. Don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"This is best movie I ever saw in my life...I seen a lot of great movies!!!","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Since growing up in Czechoslovakia I was following history of RAF pilots and crews in WWII Great Britain, their stories and tragic ending either in the combat or in communist prisons and camps. This is without any doubt more than dark chapter in our history, although the fact that those brave men we're able to go through all this and recover afterward is amazing. To all people who want to see great movie...this is the one! During recent visit of Czech Republic I saw this movie three times in three days (they we're just playing it for three days...otherwise I will go to see it even few more times!!! It's worth of it!) I hope you will enjoy it, although it requires a little more thinking and knowledge of background information behind the story, pretty much same way that the movie Kolya was. It's not a simple movie because of it's deep story, and the way its told will most likely make you crying...it did to me three times in row... Zdenek Sverak did as always a great script, his son Jan made a great movie and the cast? Without doubt all of them did great job, I was amazed by Ondrej Vetchy, by great role played by Oldrich Kaiser and all other actors which made this movie simply GREAT!!! If this is not an Oscar nomination I think that I will be on strike in Holywood.  "},{"Title":"Good, conventional telling of war story with a twist","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  The twist is that the W.W.II pilots are Czechs - flying in the RAF - this naturally affects their War - and even more their return from War.The movie definitely holds your interest, is nicely photographed, acted, appealingly understated in tone, good action, and has that interesting twist -- particularly the post-war period. (Finally, for men, there is an achingly beautiful woman playing the lead while film takes place in Czechoslovakia).It's well acted. A note directors should give Charles Dance more to do! He's wonderful in everything.However, it's also true that the center of the movie is archly conventional - the story of two comrades at war in love with the same woman - this is about the 100th telling in movies of such a story. (It's true that the writing is ok - less committee-type work than Hanover Street or the atrociously written Pearl Harbor - but somewhat similar to the underrated War Lover in its romance. One wonders if the wonderful book Goodbye Mickey Mouse by Len Deighton (yes, the usual situation - RAF pilots in W.W.II England in love with the same woman - but as well done as I could imagine) will ever make it to American movie or television screens).I felt much more could have been done with the post-war period. It was far less familiar, and somewhat more interesting, territory to western audiences - and the movie jumps in time so much that you long to see the way the protagonist wound up where he is. Similarly, the relationship among the post-war characters seemed odd - the story odd and under-written.By the way, the scene at the train station as the protagonist returns from the War is the best scene in the movie - and absolutely heartbreaking. In being heartbreaking, it reminds me of the (even better) scene in flashback at the conclusion of Plenty when Susan Traherne (Meryl Streep in movie, Kate Nelligan on stage) speaks to a French farmer at the conclusion of W.W.II.So this is well worth it - just don't expect to see a stunning original work. "},{"Title":"Czech Pilots in the RAF.","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" I bought this DVD after merely glancing at its cover -- I love Spitfires -- and expected it to be a black-and-white British flag waver with everyone showing a stiff upper lip and much stock newsreel footage. Maybe there would be good-natured competition over some succulent beauty, as in A Yank in the RAF or The Immortal Sergeant. But, no. It's not that at all.It's a modern Czech movie finely photographed in color. There are combat scenes, to be sure, but the RAF seems to lose as many planes as it shoots down -- and without any facile justification. The acting is good and the characters not stereotyped. Although there are two Czech pilots wooing the same supernal babe, the rivalry is hardly good natured, and in the end they both lose her. Friends die, of course, but when they do, the sentiment is not laid on with a trowel. I even like the title -- Dark Blue World. Dark blue, as in an RAF uniform, or under the surface of the English channel or ten thousand feet in the air at sunrise. Excuse me if I have trouble with the names. Some of them seem to be all consonants and no vowels. I hope my Czech grandmother forgives me. Anyway, the story centers around two pilots -- the baby-faced and naive Karyl and the less emotional senior officer Frantisek. Both fliers manage to escape from Czechoslovakia after the Germans take over. The Germans, by the way, are for the most part treated reasonably. One officer smirks and is and insulting; the German doctor is generous and fatalistic. When they reach an England desperate for pilots, there are some comic scenes of their having to learn English -- the difference, for instance, between borrow and lend. Then there are the scenes of aerial combat. Back to the Spitfires. Everybody in the movie flies Spitfires -- beautiful, nimble, graceful airplanes. Nobody flies Hurricanes. We don't even see any other airplanes, except a B-25 and a couple of anachronistic Bf-109 models cribbed from The Battle of Britain. (One shot is an exact duplicate.) The visual and sound effects are much improved over The Battle of Britain.The neotenic Karyl is shot down somewhere in England and spends the night at a farmhouse. He's young, horny, and blunt, and the woman is married to someone who has gone missing in the Navy. She sleeps with him partly out of hunger and partly out of pity for his childish need. Her allegiance later switches to Franisek and it gets complicated, but it's all handled delicately, even Karyl's thinking he's deeply in love while swimming in endorphins.Structurally, there are some flash forwards and you have to look out for them at first otherwise you'll find them confusing, but you adapt after you realize what's going on.The ending, when Franisek returns to Czechoslovakia and his early love, isn't a particularly happy one. The Allies have won, of course, and Czechoslovakia is once again free for a few years, but, as in real life, the cost has been monumental on everyone's part. "},{"Title":"The Film That Pearl Harbor Tried To Be","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  This film has something for everyone, (except young children).  I enjoyed the best air battle scenes between real British and German planes since Battle of Britain was released nearly 40 years ago, while my girlfriend liked the love stories and the dog. We both found the  cinematography to be outstanding. Unlike Pearl Harbor, the parts of the movie blend seamlessly and the natural transition from Czech to English language make this more of an international film rather than a foreign film.  I am not a big fan of foreign films and this is the first review I ever posted. It's one of my all time favorites. "},{"Title":"A sad story with enjoyable recollecting segments - a worthwhile film to see","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I came out of Dark Blue World feeling (sigh) 'so sad' yet it was definitely a film needed to be made, and it's truly well done from Czech Republic. It's entertaining in spite of the 'sad' premise. It is full of feelings, the bonding and undeniably true friendship between the two lead characters - one mature lieutenant pilot (Ondrej Vetchý as Franta) and the young & ever-so-eager budding pilot (Krystof Hádek as Karel), the inevitable love triangle, and the now and then reminders of the grim prison situations in Czechoslovakia in the '50s. It's all in one film put together, by the father screenwriter and son director team Zdenek and Jan Sverák (previous achievement being the lovable Kolya).It's not as long as East-West (French Est-Ouest) 1999, which was heart wrenching, multi-layered story about a returning Russian doctor and French wife's ill-fates after WWII in Russia. The plot of Tmavomodrý svet (title in Czech) is quite straightforward and has sprinkles of light humor. Music, songs of WWII England sung in Czech, modest special effects of pilots and air crafts in the sky - not elaborate like Hollywood - there's no need to be bing, bang, boom all the time when showing air battle scenes. The sadness was explained up front in the beginning (two paragraphs in English) and wrap up with follow up paragraphs. The film is not totally subtitled, only when translating the Czech conversations - the rest are in English, be it very British or in Czech accents. (So it's a foreign film with English language and includes British actors.) The three lead performances, especially of the two Czech pilots, were wonderfully delivered. There are nuances between the two of them, even though it's the steadily mature vs. the eagerly young. I always appreciate Tara Fitzgerald yes, there's Brassed Off 1996 opposite Ewan McGregor and Pete Postlethwaite; remembered her from Hear My Song 1991 opposite Adrian Dunbar and Ned Beatty; opposite Hugh Grant in Sirens 1994 and The Englishman Who Went Up a Hill and Came Down a Mountain 1995, besides her appearances in PBS Masterpiece Theatre mini-series. 'So sad' - the fact that heroes defending one's country can be so ill fatedly treated and for so long (40 years). Thank goodness for worthwhile memories and the imprints of friendship unforgettable. Hence the pause for a ray of sunshine through a stain glass window (ironic or coincidental that it's of a church where the hard labor took place) - symbolic of hope, never give up&#133; Other recent films that have stories needed to be told Kandahar (with Nelofer Pazira as Nafas the Canadian from Afghanistan taking a journey to Kandahar with a personal 'mission' in mind) more than meets the eye behind a burqa by Iranian director Mohsen Makhmalbaf. Everything Put Together (with Radha Mitchell as a new mother facing SID - sudden infant death) insightful film by Swiss director Marc Forster, and his much talked about controversial film Monster's Ball (I've yet to catch) with Halle Berry, Billy Bob Thornton and Peter Boyle. See the films without prior expectations or comparisons to films before. Just see it.  "}{"Title":"A needed contribution to history","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  This is a Czech-German production with the dialogue half in Czech and half in English made by the Czech father and son, writer and director, team of Zdenek and Jan Sverak who brought us the delightful Oscar-winning `Kolya' in 1997. I had to wait for a full year after the film was shown in the Czech Republic before it secured a British release, but I was always determined to see it because it concerns a subject close to my family and my heart the war-time record of the Czechoslovak pilots who flew with the Royal Air Force.The film &#150; titled `'Tmavomodry svet' in Czech - focuses on two contrasting personalities Spitfire pilots Franta Slama (played by Ondrej Vetchy) and Karel Vojtisek (Krystof Hadek). I'm sure that it's not too much to assume that the names of these two characters are illusions to Josef Frantisek, who shot down 17 fighters in the Battle of Britain, and Karel Kuttelwascher (my wife's father), who shot down 15 bombers on night intruder raids plus three fighters.Like `Pearl Harbor', the war becomes a backdrop to a triangular love story involving two men besotted with the same woman. In this case, the rivals are the Czech airmen Franta and Karel fighting over a married English girl (Tara Fitzgerald) which rather dilutes the political messages of the movie. Most viewers will not have known that these heroes were imprisoned after the 1948 Communist take-over in Czechoslovakia and that it was not until the &#145;velvet revolution' of 1989 that many young Czechs knew about their countrymen's contribution to the allied victory.  The film is a well-researched piece, full of authentic detail, with some splendid Spifire flying and beautiful photography, but ultimately it is too slow and too sentimental to make the impact that it should for English-speaking viewers who are less interested than me. Although the film has been an enormous success in the Czech Republic, in the UK at least sadly it has played to tiny audiences.The script is loosely based on books by two Czech veterans, Frantisek Fajtl and Antonin Liska, both of whom I have met. One of the technical advisers on the film was my good Czech friend Zdenek Hurt and on the official Czech web site for the movie the Czech edition of my book `Night Hawk' is mentioned as source material. Most amazingly, pilot insignia (wings) worn by the two main stars belonged to Karel Kuttelwascher and his friend Gustav Pristupa and the leather pilot cap and gloves worn by Vetchy the principal hero belonged to Kuttelwascher. On the aircraft front, viewers might be surprised to learn that there were only two flying Spitfires in the movie Nigel Lamb flew Spitfire Mk Vb (BM597) from Duxford and Robs Lamplough flew Spitfire Mk.VIIIc (MV154) which he owns. All the other fighters were there due to the marvels of computer graphics and modelling plus some clever recycling of material from the 1969 film `The Battle Of Britain'. However, in a short scene, there is a lovely flying shot of a B-25 Mitchell bomber. Meanwhile on the ground, in an erotic opening scene, we see the pre-war Czechoslovak fighter the Avia B-534. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and breath-taking","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  That's how I'd describe Dark Blue World.I saw this for the first time on DVD last year, and it immediately went straight into my Top Ten Movies of all time!**Possible Minor Spoilers**Many people have compared it to Pearl Harbor, and vice versa, but this film has more than PH does.  It has the love-triangle, a storyline done to death in a thousand other movies, but that's about it.  Apart from that, two totally different movies altogether.The characters are more human, not one-dimensional comic-book types, and, I think, hit the spot.  Take Karel, for instance; he LOOKS like a typical young fighter pilot in the Battle of Britain (and the average age was about 19 or 20), while Franta looks the more level-headed and experienced leader. Their dilemma is handled better and a little deeper than PH's, and with more conviction.The film appears to be better researched, too - Czech (and Polish) squadrons were not used in the Battle of Britain until nearer the end, and were often angry at not being allowed to fight against their enemy.The fight sequences are marvellous, making little use of CGI and as much use of the Spitfires as the budget would allow - especially the train-attack sequence and the subsequent crash.  I won't reveal just how they do the excellent dogfights, but it's truly amazing what you can do with a limited budget and a couple of fighter planes!Despite the limited budget, Dark Blue World has a proper feel to it - it's not a churned-out movie that was rushed through shooting and released to make a ton of money as quickly as possible.  It's evident that the movie was very much a labour of love for its director and the crew.The DVD contains an excellent making of documentary, a special effects short and a brilliant aerial symphony, showing the old warbirds being put through their paces to the film's stirring theme tune.I give this movie 9.5 out of 10 - a very human, moving story about something from WW2 that is largely overlooked, and that is the contribution of the occupied nations to the Allies' war effort. "},{"Title":"Worth a Viewing","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" Engaging entry from Europe about Czech fighter pilots flying for the RAF during WW2. It's always interesting as an American to see a new point of view on familiar events in history. There's nothing terribly original or revolutionary about the style in which this is filmed or the romantic love triangle that anchors the narrative. Still, it is compelling all the way through. There is a good balance between drama, romance, humor, action, and symbolism that is understated beautifully by the director and cast. This is a breath of fresh air after sitting through overblown and boring Hollywood epics like Pearl Harbor. A solid production all around. This is definitely worth your time if you are a fan of foreign cinema. "},{"Title":"An excellent hidden gem.","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  My interest in Czechoslovakia started because my wife was adopted, - being born as a result of a one-night stand between a Czech Spitfire Pilot and a young English WAAF. My eldest son has now married a Czech girl which has resulted in my visits deep into the Czech countryside and developing a friendship for the people.This film is seamless and faultlessly captures both English and Czech personalities. Helped by exceptionally believable acting even in the smallest roles, I believe this film is a hidden treasure. In particular I would highlight the strict English teacher and humane Nazi Doctor for their performances.Although being able to speak Czech, German, French and English (which I can to some extent) is an advantage with this film, I still had to rely on the English sub-titles. This did not jar as I expected but unfortunately did result in this film never making it to cinemas in Britain.The film's central theme is about the close relationship that develops between flying instructor Slama and his junior protégée Karel, - mentor and mentee. A bond that even a shared woman fails to break.The British people as a whole do not know the debt we owe the Czechoslovak and Polish Spitfire Pilots during the War. For example it is not widely known that the Pilot who shot down the most enemy planes was a Czechoslovak.I finally managed to find this film on VHS video in the discard bucket of a rental shop. What a shame. In a fair world the two stars would be nominated for Oscars, but then the whole film is about the unfairness of the final treatment of the Czechoslovak heroes that went home after the war. "},{"Title":"Retelling forgotten history.","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" I read tedg's review & wondered why he missed the central message of this wonderful film? Persecuted men helped another country to fight the persecutors by doing the very dangerous task of flying fighter aircraft. At the end of hostilities they go home & are persecuted by their post-war government. In the telling we see them under stress, much relieved by alcohol & why not? & responding to a few women, plus the Spitfires & beautifully filmed aerial warfare. This is the sort of things they did!! Models & radio controlled ones too, had me fooled. This is a superb film about very very brave men. You will not see better & the huge plus is, it's not Hollywood. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Air War Movies","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" Compared to Battle of Britain, this is a real film, with real characters and a real plot. Battle of Britain is basically a documentary with the occasional Lawrence Olivier and Michael Caine, but the real protagonists are the Spits, the Hurricanes, etc. Here, on the other hand, you have two well-wrought characters (actually three) and a real plot. I strongly recommend it to anybody, even to those who are not particularly fond of war movies. It's well filmed, and I wonder what the director might do if he had the big capitals behind him. And I do not think that it's over-sentimental. It's only that in the fighters you have real people, with real feelings and a real life--as real as any fictional life in any great film. "},{"Title":"Unfortunately, did not get more exposure...","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" A nicely paced romantic war story that should have got more exposure. The Czech pilot who played piano gives a mellow touch to the story. The flying footage may not have been enough for aviation buffs like myself, but then again, this really isn't an action movie. Though it does not have anything in common with the James Salter novel The Hunters that became the movie about Korean War F86 Sabre pilots, Dark Blue World had a similar feel but with more of a romantic element to it. Better in some ways than Battle of Britain in that it doesn't rely on big name actors. Suggest viewing this movie with some Czech beer and some Czech dumplings called kneldniky(sp). "},{"Title":"Excellent movie about Czech pilots.","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  This is one of the best Czech movies I have ever seen. The director did excellent work, there is great camera and the actors are really great. I like war movies so I really liked this one. I would recommend it to anyone who wants to know something about Czech pilots during 2nd World War and their life after the war, in communism.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  This is such a beautiful movie! Not only does it portray war, it also has friendship & love. The life of Slama is filled with sadness, every aspect of his life fell apart. I can only imagine how he would feel when his friend make the ultimate sacrifice.I see a slight similarity to 'Pearl Harbor', which is also about two pilots falling in love with the same woman. However this film is much better made, because this does not portray the woman to be unfaithful & easy-going. The friendship between the two men is also much more convincing & well built-up. I definitely recommend this movie to all people. "},{"Title":"At the risk of being redundant, quite simply, beautiful...","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Nothing short of magnificent photography/cinematography in this film.  The fact that you keep seeking and hoping for more flying sequences, tells you that they have just enough.  The acting is fantastic, the stories are seamlessly woven together, and the dogs are splendid.............A must rent, view, or see.Don't be afraid of subtitles........its worth a little aversion therapy10/10 "}{"Title":"Nothing much to say, simply perfect.","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Along with having minor flaws to it, this film is a masterpiece, and most definitely the best war film I've seen. Not the mention it's one of the best films I've seen in all genres. I might have written this for No Man's Land before, but now I think this one's better. It's VERY sad in the ending, and I almost cried after the two shocking scenes that came within 5 minutes close to the film's final. Karel's performance as the main character was fascinating although he's supposed to be a rookie considering his age. This film makes you think a lot, makes you cry (or at least gets you close to it), and makes you hate any kind of war and political BS. The flashbacks to the prison-hospital make the film even more delicious. One tiny flaw about the film is the non-British accents of supposedly British people. Most of the British people on screen were actually British, but how about the ones who are supposed to be British and speak with a foreign accent? That really didn't fit into this adorable film. But it's pretty much the only flaw I've noticed. Effects could also be a bit better but then again, we all remember many films from one particular land that have tremendous FX and absolutely nothing else. Briefly, this film is a total masterpiece and every single individual should see it. If you want to travel to the Czechoslovakia of 40's, and if you want to virtually witness a tremendous amount of emotions at once, this film is for you. If you don't want to do those, this film will make you want to do so.  "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Yet another foreign war movie that puts hollywood to shame. Real in the same proportions that hollywood productions such as harts war and windtalkers are unreal. A moving story backed up by strong acting and great film making. "},{"Title":"Simply Beautiful","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  A surprisingly beautiful movie. Beautifully conceived, beautifully directed, beautifully acted, beautifully acted and most beautifully photographed.....the cinematography is nothing short of splendid. It is a war movie but is epic in it's scope and blends romance, tragedy and comedy into a story that is as harrowing as it is provoking. "},{"Title":"A powerful film on human courage - Contains Spoilers","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I saw this film in Wales in July.  It deals with the courage of Czech pilots who flew numerous missions for the RAF after their country had been occupied by the Nazis.  In this film, the action takes place both in the early 1950's when these pilots are being beaten in political prisons in Czeckoslavakia and during World War II in Britain.  They were imprisoned after their return to their homeland because the Communist regime viewed these warriors as a threat to their occupation of Czeckoslavakia.  The pilots maintain their dignity in prison and during numerous air battles against Nazi pilots.  This film contain a love sub-plot that does make sense because it helps us to understand that both civilians and soldiers made great sacrifices to preserve democracy.  The end of this film indicates that the heroism of these Czech pilots was finally recognized in the early 1990's after the restoration of democracy in the country then known as Czeckoslavakia.  This powerful and moving film was made with financial support from the Czech government.  I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Evocative Czech film shows Hollywood a thing or two...","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Comparisons are tricky things, however in the case of the Czech film `Dark Blue World', it is worth comparing it with another World War II aviation piece, `Pearl Harbor'. The reason is to show how squillions of production dollars do not a masterpiece make. `Dark Blue World' outshines the Hollywood blockbuster on every single level script; acting; direction; and, dare I say it, action sequences.And this is despite the fact that its budget is puny compared with the almost obscene dollars thrown at `Pearl Harbor'. `Dark Blue World' is the victory of the filmmaker's skill over a virtually unlimited budget.It is based around the story of the Czech airmen who fled their country upon its invasion to serve with the RAF during the Battle of Britain and the subsequent air war over Europe. The tale is actually set in 1950 and told mostly as a series of flashbacks by Franta, who is now a political prisoner of the communist Czech regime. It is a moving story and one which encapsulates a large range of emotions.Like `Pearl Harbor' it revolves around a love triangle which both connects and separates the main characters. However `Dark Blue World's' take is executed with a freshness and humanity which is genuinely moving.  By the end of the movie, the audience is sincerely torn between the two pilot protagonists, Karel and Franta.Director Jan Sverák (of Kolya fame) effectively gives his characters a breadth which is uncommon in the War genre.The flying sequences are jaw-droppingly good with a fantastic first person perspective used in some shots which gives the audience the actual feeling of being in the cockpit of a Spitfire. During dogfight scenes the realism is huge with pieces flying off of aircraft as they are raked by machinegun and cannon fire and spent shellcases streaming from beneath wings. And the train-strafing scene is well worth every second as well!Overall `Dark Blue World' is an evocative film which provides a little something for most people, drama, romance, action, humour.However it's real strength is its ability to tell an heroic, moving and human story without becoming a contrived, self important and cringe-worthy patriotic affair ala `Pearl Harbor'.I hope that people make the effort to see `Dark Blue World', not just because it's a great movie but so they can see a war film which doesn't revert to all the tired old clichés. "},{"Title":"They *do* make movies like they used to","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Why, oh why, does a film like this not get a broader audience?  In case you thought they don't make good old-fashioned war/romance movies anymore, check (Czech? -- sorry) this one out.  I won't go over plot points, because others here already have.  Suffice it to say that the father-and-son team of Zdenek and Jan Sverak (screenwriter and director, respectively), who gave us Kolya, one of the best movies of the last few years, have done it again, this time by recycling what could have been (you should pardon the expression) an old warhorse.  As in the far less successful and far more expensive Pearl Harbor, the basic plot here is a steal from the 1927 Oscar winner Wings; and as in that quite wonderful movie, aerial action sequences alternate with a love triangle in which two pilots fall for the same woman, though ultimately they love each other more.  Ondrej Vetchy was good in Kolya and is even better in the lead role here, and Tara Fitzgerald is just fine as the putative love interest; but the film belongs to Krystof Hadek, who is not only breathtakingly beautiful, but also manages to breathe life into what could easily have been a stock character, in the process becoming the heart and soul of the movie.  The supporting cast is great, too; I especially liked the contrast of the English vs. the Czech characters.  Charles Dance does his usual thing, and well, but my favorite cameo may have been Anna Massey's doughty English teacher, though I give points, too, to Thure Riefenstein for giving a more complex portrayal of a Nazi lieutenant that we are used to.  (That said, the film offers a clear indictment of totalitarian regimes, be they Nazi or Communist.)Added bonus American audiences especially may learn a thing or two about a piece of history we were never taught.  But see this flick for the best of reasons It's a good old movie-movie.    "},{"Title":"Visual treat; tough story; good flick!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"     Life isn't always fair, it would appear. Certainly the affairs of humans aren't always fair, particularly when they involve war. The message I got from this film was that going to fight in a war doesn't increase the odds of being treated fairly in life.    This film follows the experiences of one pilot and some of his friends through the Battle of Britain and beyond. The fact that they are Czechs fighting as a unit of the RAF  makes for a quite different perspective than is often seen  in films on this subject. But their heroics are met with a very tragic -- and unfair -- set of experiences. Its not a happy movie, but it is a good one. The characters are very nicely developed, the dialogue, even with sub-titles, is taut and credible. The cinematography is very fine and the action sequences are very believeable, though I doubt their budget for special effects was in the same league as minor Hollywood films. Despite that, it all works.    This is a fine film, deserving of a wider audience. "},{"Title":"Are the Dark metaphors & Blue ciphers intentional?","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  From Dark Blue World, and from its reviews which seem content to discuss the obvious without delving deeper into the film's subtext, I came away wondering if I'm the only reviewer to have discerned the film's dark metaphors and blue ciphers.At the outset, in prewar Czechoslovakia, Franta is in love with Hanicka who is already betrothed to a stolid tramcar factotum. The Nazi takeover of the Czech rump state, coming hard on the heels of the Anglo-French compelled Czechoslovak cession of the Sudetenland to the gobbling maws of Hitler's Germany, compels Franta and his young student pilot Karel (Matt Damon has nothing on you, Krystof Hadek!) to flee to Poland, and thence to Britain where a snobbish RAF sloughs these accomplished pilots off to train with comical devices representing fighter aeroplanes. It should be recalled that, in pursuit of appeasing Hitler, Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain expressed his prewar antipathy to Czechoslovakia as a people of whom we know nothing. Charles Dance serves well as the film's representative figure of begrudging British acceptance of, and disdainful authority over, the Czech Air Force pilots. It's interesting, perhaps significant, that the name of Franta's character alludes to the surname of the highest-scoring Battle of Britain fighter ace Czechoslovakia's Josef Frantisek.The supporting characters - the ill-fated, baby-faced Tom-Tom, and most strikingly Oldrich Kaiser as the world-wise Machaty, among others - lend the film healthy dimensions of depth.Young Karel becomes besotted with Susan, an Englishwoman whose Royal Navy husband is missing in action. But after their one carnal encounter Susan rejects Karel for the older Franta. Most reviewers have depicted this as a a trite love triangle. But I think Susan is a blue cipher for the Great Britain that ultimately, at war's end, rejects the Czech pilots (and those of other occupied nations) who had come to help Britain in her hour of need Susan's husband, an officer in the Senior Service (redolent of the hubris with which Britain treated Czechoslovakia and her warriors), returns and Susan, in the dark senior nation metaphor, coolly ends her opportunistic relationship with Franta. When Britain needed the Czechoslovak pilots it embraced them, just as when Susan needed a supportive lover she embraced Franta the metaphor plays out with Susan's MIA husband returning in a wheelchair as a cipher for postwar Britain bereft of empire and with its economy seriously crippled.Of course there are obvious elements in the plot Karel's hero-worship and male bonding with Franta; and the deliciously world-weary Machaty frames Karel's promise of maturation into a never-to-be-realized prime. Much of the dogfight footage is recycled from 1969's The Battle of Britain, but it's faithful to the storyline. Aviation history purists will note that during the Battle of Britain Czech squadrons exclusively flew the Hawker Hurricane, and not the Supermarine Spitfire - but the scarcity of flyable Hurricanes mooted their appearance in favor of more numerously available Spirfires; the same historians will also point out the filmmakers' necessary substitution of CASA-built, Merlin-engined, Spanish Bf.109 Messerschmitt fighters for the nowadays unavailable Daimler-Benz-powered, genuine Bf. 109E of 1940.Franta's postwar return to Czechoslovakia finds Hanicka long wedded to the tramcar factotum which I think is a metaphor for Czechoslovakia's postwar control by faceless communist bureaucrats Franta finds his woman/homeland in the arms of someone less bold, less deserving than those of the men who fought for her. Yet Franta leaves his prewar dog with Hanicka's children - a lovely simile for the sacrifice the Czechoslovak pilots made for their nation's future. Another tasty metaphor is Karel's in-cockpit fumbling attempt to cast his inflating rubber dinghy to the downed Franta, which causes Karel to crash to his death in the tragic sea in which his countryman (country?) is swimming for dear life.The flash-forwards to Franta and Machaty's postwar imprisonment are haloed by the prison shop scenes in what had been a church the ceiling frescoes seem to represent the heaven of the independent, revitalized Czechoslovakia the pilots had believed they'd fought to redeem from the war and which has, instead, been cruelly perverted into something much less than heavenly by Czechoslovak communist apparatchiks. Yet the frescoes' cherubim hearken to the flight of wishes, longings and dreams the pilots had naively entertained during their wartime absence from their homeland. Yet the angels, with their wings like those of the denounced and imprisoned pilots, symbolize the pilots' - and Czechoslovakia's - yearning for self-identity, and for material and spiritual self-possession.The screenplay achieves a lovely balance, that teeters on one's viscera, between the hard-edged war and prison scenes, and the tender scenes of carnal and fraternal love - and through them the metaphorical love of the pilots for their occupied homeland. again, Kaiser's performance as the salty Machaty deliciously seasons the meat of the central plot. Tara Fitzgerald was, I think, a bit young for her role as Susan (I'd loved to have seen Helen Mirren, or Francesca Annis, in the part - a more mature woman would have better served as the cipher for the ancient, archetypal Britain vis-a-vis the Versailles Treaty's teenaged Czechoslovakia).Dark Blue World is a powerfully appealing film, possessed of subtle and unsubtle metaphors, which has, I feel, from the pens of critics ignorant of Czechoslovakia's prewar and wartime relationship with Great Britain and, indeed, of Czechoslovakia's painful postwar maturation and eventual Velvet Divorce into the Czech and Slovak republics, suffered lack of recognition of its multilayered text and subtexts. In telling what appears to be a simple story director Sverak reveals his profound sensibilities, and he deserves a proper international salute, for brilliant prismatic richness of allusion, metaphor and meaning.  "},{"Title":"me liking a war movie with subtitles - who da thunk it?!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I had no idea what I was going to see (I saw this at the Toronto Film Festival in September). I was unaware that it was going to be subtitled and no idea that it was about WWII. I was pleasantly surprised seeing as how most foreign films, I don't have the patience to sit through and read.This movie got me completely absorbed into the story, the characters. The cinematography was excellent and I learned something new as well about WWII.This story was sad, poignant, with some good comic relief in there as well. I liked the fact that there seemed to be some character development which is so rare in films nowadays. It kept me interested, reading the dialogue and not really noticing it. Most foreign films never seem to keep my attention long enough for me to care about what is being said or done.The acting was great and the actor that played Karel was there to talk about the film. It was an excellent movie and I would suggest to anyone to go and see it. Hats off to Jan Sverak! "},{"Title":"Emotional realism on the ground, physical realism in the air","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Expectation is a terrible thing - and in cinema it can distort perception to such an extent, that a good film becomes a complete disappointment simply because one expects that it should be better.  The Czechoslovakian writing and directing team of Zdenek and Jan Sverak, the creative force behind the Academy Award winning Kolya, must have felt the terrible burden of expectation on their backs  The pressure to follow up one triumph with another has broken many a distinguished filmmaker, just ask Michael Cimino or Quentin Tarantino, but others have relished the challenge and delivered a second tour de force. So it is with Dark Blue World, the brilliant new Czech film from father and son team Zdenek and Jan Sverak. Like Kolya before it, Dark Blue World explores how humans bond under difficult and sometimes extreme circumstances using a crucial period of Czech history to frame the story. Where Kolya was set as the Communist's departed in 1991 and focused on the relationship between an old man and a young boy, this new film is set as the communists arrive, during and after the Second World War, using two young pilots of the Czech Air Force as its centre.  The opening scenes of Dark Blue World find Czech Air Force pilot Frantisek Slama (the remarkable actor Ondrej Vetchy) imprisoned in his homeland under the communist regime in 1950. A subtitle tells us that, after the Second World War, the communists imprisoned all pilots who had flown for the Allies against the Nazis lest they seek to fight for freedom once more.  Franta is forced to endure hard labour instead of enjoying the freedom he fought for in the war. Suffering fever in prison, Franta recounts his wartime exploits to his doctor, himself a former SS officer, as they both now suffer under a regime they indirectly fought to establish and destroy respectively. In 1939, Franta and a small band of Czech pilots, feeling betrayed by their government who have let Hitler take their country without a shot being fired, set off to Poland to take up the fight against the Nazis. Finally arriving in England at the time of the Battle of Britain in 1940, the pilots undergo humiliating training as the British fail to see their potential as combat pilots, and treat them like children. As Karel (Krystof Hadek) becomes frustrated and storms out of his English language training, the prim, bookish matron informs him I am fighting the Germans by teaching you English. I won't let you sabotage my war effort.  The pilots seem destined to fight the Royal Air Force's prejudices before they will ever get a chance to fight the Nazis who are daily bombarding the country. Indeed, when they are finally ordered to scramble and take off for their first action against the enemy, it's not before Franta shouts that's us, you idiots that they finally realise they are being ordered to take to the air and fight. Afterwards, shell shocked at losing two aircraft and one of his comrades in the frenetic fight, Karel is told by Wing Commander Bentley (a juicy cameo from Charles Dance) to move his Spitfire that he has only just managed to fly back in one piece because he's in England now, keep off the bloody grass! The movie follows the friendship of Karel and Franta as they fly together and, subsequently, fall in love with same woman, a young English widow called Susan (Tara Fitzgerald). These themes have been explored thousands of times in movies from all over the world and by now the emphasis lies in not showing the audience something new, but in showing the audience something real. Contrived Hollywood romances with this kind of love-triangle situation, the worst of which was seen this year in Pearl Harbor, are a dime a dozen, but films like Dark Blue World that offer emotional realism in situations like this are rare and as precious as diamonds. The aerial sequences in this film, some seamlessly lifted from the 1969 United Artists film The Battle of Britain and the 1990 film Memphis Belle, are as real as any I have seen committed to celluloid and make an absolute mockery of similar scenes in Pearl Harbor. They are thrilling, horrifying, and necessary all at the same time. They are also beautifully filmed - the Supermarine Spitfire has never looked so graceful, the Messerschmitt 109 never so menacing. In less capable hands, this film could have degenerated into sub-Meg Ryan fare, extolling all the clichés we have come to expect from World War Two set dramas, but the family Sverak have crafted a beautiful, intelligent, and thought provoking film. This is illustrated in a scene where the inmates of the prison in which Franta is imprisoned in 1950 notice their guard has fallen asleep. In an American film, Franta would have led his fellow captives in a daring escape attempt, but in this film, Franta leads his fellow inmates into a pool of sunlight that has infiltrated the dank workshop. For a moment at least, they are free as birds.  "}{"Title":"A Sumer Blockbuster Czech Style","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" In 1939 Nazi German troops marched into Czechoslovakia and the Czech armed forces were ordered not to resist. Thousands of Czech soldiers and airmen managed to escape and ended up joining French and British armies where they continued to fight for the allies. In 1948 the Communists took control of Czechoslovakia and the soldiers that had returned were rounded up and put in jail. This is a fascinating and dramatic piece of WW2 history of which I was unaware and to be honest, after watching Dark Blue World, still don't know much about. The film is told as a series of flashbacks from the point of view of Franta, one of the Czech pilots who fought with the RAF and ended up jailed without trial by the communists. The film begins with Franta deciding to leave for England with his junior officer Karel. I imagine that must have been an amazing journey. I'll have to just imagine it because the film doesn't even mention how they managed to get across to England. Once in England they do a bit of hanging around the RAF base and some magnificently choreographed fighting that looks good but lacks excitement &#150; perhaps because, with the exception of one pilot who gets sick before every mission, no one seems bothered by the fact that they have good odds of being killed every time they go up. There is also an extremely tedious romantic triangle between Franta, Karel and local girl Susan that takes up way too much time. The cinematography, in the style of a romantic epic, is gorgeous and the actors are all good looking and charismatic but the script is so sickly sentimental that the film feels emotionally plastic and I ended up feeling uninvolved. The romantic plot isn't helped by the fact that Karel is an irritating little drama-queen. The film looks fantastic but these brave soldiers deserve a film with a bit more substance. "},{"Title":"Heroism correctly displayed","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  For a Squadron Leader - normally the only guy trained and equipped for navigation in a squadron and very hard to replace - to risk an expensive plane and himself to pick up a crashed fellow pilot, no matter how close a friend he is, in the face of oncoming enemy troops, is hard to believe, especially when they both have to share a cramped Spitfire cockpit - two into a Skyraider, OK, but a Spit?! Come on, this part of the film is a Biggles adventure, not fitting a film that one is supposed to take seriously! as said by Tord S Eriksson (Gothenburg, Sweden) is rubbish. Not at all Biggles. One true story of the war comes to mind of two grounded spit pilots, who planned and flew (illegally) a strafing mission over France. One had to crash land and his friend landed his spit under fire, while German infantry was moving in on them, and flew them both out of there. In a spit. They were BOTH severely injured in former fights, one had an artificial leg from the knee down. Now that may sound like something out of Bigles, but it happened. Ill get sources if needed  "},{"Title":"Absolutely superb!","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  What a great un-hyped non-Hollywood movie that seems to have received little acclaim. It deserves all ten stars - twelve if possible.A romantic drama and a history lesson all in one without being sloppy or pretencious. The interest does not flag.The characters splendidly portray this untold story of how their type were treated in the dark times of oppression and war. A must see for everyone. "},{"Title":"good entertainment","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  This feels as if it is a Czech version of Pearl Harbor. It has a same story, both guys fall in love with the same woman. And add to the twist, the woman is actually a married one whose husband has been missing for a year. I don't think that the story line is too strong. The younger guy is quite naughty, that is cute. It kept me watching because of the emotional music, and the pleasing scenes one after another. It also has some strong visual special affects. Best of all, the love stories is seamlessly integrated with the story. I think that if it was in English, it would be such a big shot all across the states. It is too bad that not that many people are open for foreign movies.   "},{"Title":"What Pearl Harbor could have been","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Instead of watching the recycled history of Pearl Harbor with nothing new to reveal except for a couple of real events involving a few individuals thrown in so the makers of the film could say they contributed to the spread of history, along with nothing but CGI explosions filling in for a sappy romantic triangle.  One should go see Dark Blue World.This film takes place during the historic time in WWII which the Czech pilots left their homeland and went to fight for the RAF instead of laying down their arms and giving in to the Nazis.  It was a part of history that should at least be told once to the outside world.  A love triangle takes place between the main characters, but one of them does not die off conveniently like in Pearl Harbor, but through sacrifice for true friendship.  The movie is tragedy after tragedy, with not even a bittersweet ending, with our hero not enjoying glory of taking his country back, the return of love by his current lover, the return of love by his reunited lover, or even the return of unconditional love by his life long pet.  He is utterly heartbroken and feels no worse off in the Russian labor camp.  This kind of ending is something that Hollywood would probably change if it was their script.The movie does play on the sentimental sometimes, but it also shows the humanity of people.  Overall, a worthwhile movie. "},{"Title":"A story of war and peace, love and lovers lost.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  ----POSSIBLE SPOILER----Dark Blue World is a WW-II era story set mostly in the U.K., and the Czech Republic.  The time is 1951, but the story flashes back to 1940 and the Czech pilots flying in the British RAF Royal Air Force---for the nonbelligerent.  Frant and Karel are the young pilots learning to fly the `British way' and attached to a reserve fighter squadron.  A love triangle develops between Frant, Karel and Susan, a young lass with an MIA husband. Karel falls for her first, but it is Frant she ultimately calls upon to serve her.  Meanwhile back at the war, love cannot separate comrades in arms.  One friend must make the ultimate sacrifice for the other, and he does.  The story ends as it started; with a Czech hero interred in a Communist forced labor camp with other hero's and assorted former German SS soldiers.Dark Blue World is a story of war and peace, love and lovers lost. Mostly, this movie is a memorial to young Czech pilots who helped win WW-II only to have lost their country, family and friends.  The Communists, upon reentering Czechoslovakia in 1948+/-, interred Czechs fighters in forced labor camps where many died.  Their government in the 1990's finally recognized the heroism of these men.  The film is sprinkled with both humorous and serious moments.  The complexity of the English language can only be appreciated after watching the young Czech flyers struggle with the English tutor.  Then there's Susan, opening her home to a dozen children taking refuge from the German blitz of London.Dark Blue World is a first rate production that employs a clever context to retell the often told story of the air war over Europe.  This is done with stunning air combat sequences and action, and the obligatory love story. The film's producers employ Czech and British actors with dialogue moving between English and Czech with subtitles.  This could be distracting, but was not at least for me. "},{"Title":"Shows Hollywood how it should be done","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  This is one the finest films I've seen in a long time.Sverak is an oscar winning director and he has made a beautiful film here, full of action, hope, and tragedy. The way his characters interacted really touched me and showed up how different real people - English, Czechoslovakain and even German are from the Hollywood charicatures we've put up with for so long.The dog-fight and aerobatics sequences are handled with great skill and use CGI very effectively and seamlessly and there are many excellent innovative touches. I want to say so many things about this film but I don't want to spoil it for you.Go and see it, you will have to read a lot of Czech sub-titles but it's well worth the effort. "},{"Title":"Sex can never prevail over friendship in the long run","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  SPOILERS HEREINYet another film made by the only Czech director who is considered world class nowadays - Jan Sverak. Many people thought this would be Oscar flick, but now we already know it was not. But anyway this movie was not so overrated as some think it is. First I start with the good. Cinematography, music and effects are superb, especially when we consider the fact this movie is not made in Hollywood and the budget is rather limited in comparison with Pearl Harbor and other such films. Then acting, Ondrej Vetchy certainly did well on his part, as well as Tara Fitzgerald as female lead. Others were not so convincing, but I do not see anyone who acted really badly in the movie. Overall mood and style of the movie are excellent as well and even though many people thought the movie was far too sentimental I do not jump on this bandwagon. I am generally not against sentimentality and high emotions unless they are completely unnecessary, which is, I am sorry to say, the case of most American flicks nowadays. In this movie I think it fit pretty well into the story and after all it was believable with some (though major) exceptions about which I will talk later on.Then the bad - the story. I do not have degree in history but I do not think that everything in the movie was fine from historical point of view, but major points were probably OK. Germans really seized all Czech aircrafts in 1939 and many pilots really went to England and also took active part in famous Battle of England. But there is one thing I have major objection to and that is the ending. I think the ending (Karel kills himself to save Frantisek's life) is totally unnecessary and destroys the adequacy of the whole story. There are some aspects of the Susan's character that could be objectionable too, but all of them are rather minor. On the other hand I liked flashes to the prison, which show pretty well what communists that took power in 1948 did to pilots and other heroes that fought against nazi Germany and their only crime was that they did so on Western and not Soviet side. I especially liked the character of German doctor which shows nothing in the world is only black or white. So there are two most remarkable points on this movieFirst, it shows us that emotions are high and deep especially in times of war. Sex never prevails over friendship even though it may seem so in a short run. Second, it brings the story of Czech war pilots to Western audience and it does it very well, without major historical mishaps. It also points out what happen to some of them after communists came into power in late 40's, which is something all Czechs should be ashamed of.Final word - 8 but it is a solid one! "},{"Title":"Czechoslovakian pilots fly for the Brits in WWII","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  A fine history lesson for us in the U.S.A. and an excellent drama.   Made me ponder how fortunate we are in north American in 2002 because so many people's fought in WWII in the 1940's.  The film makes the pointed statement that the Soviet occupation of Czechoslovakia was thin  improvement over the German Nazi regime.A good chick flick, too.    "},{"Title":"Sweet and epic","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  The Czech cinema can well have its boost with this Dark Blue World, a film by oscar-winning director Jan Sverák about the role of the modest Czech air force and its pilots on World War II. The plot could have easily been driven towards the action-packed war movie or relied too much on the fabulously framed air sequences. But this is not Pearl Harbor, and everything about this movie is based on the love triangle that is formed in its core. Here we follow a story of friends, love and death that will touch everyone. Fabulously filmed, it's a high-budget movie with a low-budget intelligence. A great bet, I will buy it when I can. Congratulations, Sverák. The academy should not have overlooked this movie in its nominations... "}{"Title":"This is a beautiful film.  Very much like Pearl Harbor, but better!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Any one who enjoys foreign films will love this one, and any one who doesn't will be happy to know that half of the film is in English.  The fight scenes were awesome and the story was touching.  I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"You'll be amazed at the power of this film to evoke tears one moment and laughter the next moment.","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I hope that this movie receives the world-wide recognition it deserves. It sheds light on a little known group that sacrificed everything.Sverák has continued to impress with Kolya and Dark Blue World. I can't wait to see what's next. "},{"Title":"Magical.","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I had the honour of being able to watch the British Premiere of Dark Blue World at the Regus London Film Festival last night.Once again Svirak has managed to create a magical experience where the harsh reality of the troubled events of the time are expertley painted BEHIND the canvas upon which he created a wonderful set of totally human characters who displayed all the emotions and feelings that every human being would display if placed in the same situations.Personally, I think this is an important film for the people of the Czech Republic. As it emerges from it's infancy I think that this film will go a long way to help it's people come to terms with what happened pre-1989, during those dark years, and enable it to draw a line under those events and, after paying it's respects to all those who were oppressed by the communist regime, look only to the future. "},{"Title":"special","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" it is a special movie. not great, not only touching, not pure good. but special. because it remains a not very known chapter from WW II. because it change the image about a country and a people. because it presents, in inspired manner, two sides of same story - heroism and oppression, the love and the absurd of history. it is impressive for its delicate way to suggest. for the virtue to be a testimony. fragile, delicate, not comfortable but wise expression to discover the truth behind the verdicts. a courageous movie about the courage. that seems be all. and, after decades, picture from Mitteleuropa out of clichés circle. maybe, a history lesson. or only a good script and inspired actors. "},{"Title":"Dark Blue World's homage to the Czech fighter pilot heroes in WWII outshines Pearl Harbor in every way.","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  They do make movies the way they used to, only it's the Czechs who are doing it.First we had Kolya, which won director Jan Sverak an Academy Award in 1996; now we have Jan Hrebejk's Divided We Fall and Sverak's newest film, Dark Blue World.Gloriously photographed and set in the nostalgic days of WWII -an era that's all the rage this year- Dark Blue World is the story of a small group of Czech fighter pilots who flee to England in the wake of Hitler's invasion of their homeland.  Offering their services to the Royal Air Force, they end up, of course, being among the heroes of  the Battle of Britain.There's plenty of action in Dark Blue World, including many dramatically staged and photographed air battles every bit as good as anything in Pearl Harbor.  There's a touching love triangle that tests the friendship of two of the flyers -who happen to be in love with the same woman.  And there's skillfully integrated flash forwards in a Soviet prison camp where the pilots are sent when they return home, not as heroes but as men considered dangerous by their new  invaders, the Russians.Great photography.  Touching romances.  And tragic irony.  Dark Blue World is every bit as slick, and twice as convincing, as Pearl Harbor, but why do you suppose it will never get on the radar at the multiplexes?  Because, mainstream U.S. audiences just won't go to see subtitled films, no matter how good they are.Too bad for them, and too bad for us.  The whole world sees our movies, but we don't see theirs.  Perhaps it's time to include Reading Subtitles among the virtues taught in our public schools.  Ignorance can kill you these days. "},{"Title":"Romantic, and quite sad.  Worth seeing.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Young Czech pilots escape to 1939 England to fly fighters for the Allies, when Nazi Germany invade their own homeland.A beautiful recreation of wartime England, stunning flying scenes (and very realistic dogfights), interspersed with ground-scenes of friendship, boyish japes, courage, and a bittersweet love-triangle.Very touching, lots of lump-in-the-throat / tear-in-eye moments, male bonding for the boys, and gorgeous young heroes - particularly Karel - for the girls.I should mention, the story is the memories of one of the pilots - but his situation (which I won't go into) only makes the whole film more touching and poignant. "},{"Title":"A profoundly brilliant film, and an Oscar shoe-in!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Jan Sverák's masterfully crafted and brilliantly conceived film was at once powerful and light-hearted, then soft while poignant - Its messages played out on several levels while keeping the audience amused and enthralled. Rarely have I seen a film with such universal appeal!A Masterpiece )  "},{"Title":"Great truth film, nothing like americans...","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I recommend this film for all people in UK, its really truth about czechoslovakian RAF pilots in WW2. It nothing like american. See this a you'll be very surprised. Btw director Jan Sverak has an Oscar for his last film Kolya. "},{"Title":"The impression you get (from the movie) depends highly on what you expect from it","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday and have to admit it exceeded my expectations but... There are some parts of the film that will make it worse than excelent for Czech audience. History mentoring is unbearable, they say. But what is better than history re-telling if one part of this nation closes its eyes over the crimes of communism? We tend to forget our own history - Czech flyers' participation in the Battle of Britain is one of the very few moments when the Czechoslovak nation was praised by a whole country and being a member of the nation was a pride above all. Aviation fans may miss more action but this is not a movie on planes and air war - it is about the people who flew the planes. Therefore if there are any inacurracies in the details - omit them, please. The budget (however astronomic) was limited and the quaility of flying scenes does not suffer. This movie forces the viewer to think. It does not answer all questions raised and it is up to each of us to solve the main question How could we forget the effort and blood of people who had the courage and skill to do what others could only dream of and send them into liquidation camps. I am so sorry. "},{"Title":"Very good MOVIE . Really nice flight scenes ... But I have a little feeling Sverak played the ball into safety...","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I am a big AVIATION FAN so I bought the tickets for the PREMIERE on 17th of May and I wasn't disappointed ! The great flight scenes made with a relatively small budget  6 mil $ - compare it for example with PEARL HARBOR 100 mil + more  took the spectators breath away ! Nice  storyline with actors like Ondrej Vetchy - really a HERO prototype - and attractive ERA of history are the main ASSETS of this movie . In Czech it was revealed as a first BIGBUDGET sort of work ... The director wanted also to pay the DEBT we all have to our Western air force pilots . Their heroic efforts during the war was brutally burned by the February 1948 . I hate COMUNISM ... I think the MOVIE succeeded & helped to fill the gap in Czech movie history  along with Nebesti jezdci  . Great tribute to R.A.F. flyers...  Just a little safety passages - In my opinion Sverak didn't want to make big EXPERIMENTS... PS  As a big FLYING MOVIE fanatic I found only few tiny ... All the German bombers were Heinkells 111 but once in the movie the pilots attacked as JUNKERSes + Me109 are Spanish made Buchons  instead of ME109e but there is no possibility of obtaining real 109 - only few  of other than e versions left worldwide - mostly in USA . And about OSCARs will surely get at least a nomination . **********MY RATING - nice 8********* See you next time on IMDB Tom   "}{"Title":"How will Sverak top this excellent effort ?","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Tmavomodry svet (Dark Blue World) is a wonderful film on all sorts of plains (no pun intended, given its RAF tag). The real gem in the film is Oldrich Kaiser, I cannot understand why he hasn't made more films. Living in the Czech Republic as I do, and watching Czech TV I see him wasted often enough on low class comedy shows but his talent is immense. Another one to watch is Fr. William Faux.....perhaps the most entertaining (actual) priest in all of the Czech Republic, who plays the padre conducting the funeral service.Mr Sverak you and your boy have done it again.....I waited for something good to follow Kolja........I may have to wait a long time to see a more wonderful effort than this....make room to store another Oscar ! "},{"Title":"I bet you didn't think they made European films like this.....","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  As one of the few people in England lucky enough to see this film I feel it is only right that I should sing it's praises. Having loved Jan Svernak's Kolya, when I was given the opportunity to see his latest work at Cannes I jumped at the chance.  This is a European film with a difference - a love triangle combined with some all out action sequences, very different from Kolya! The story is about two Czech airmen who come to Britain to fight against Hitler during WW2.  They both meet and fall in love with the same woman, but one of them will be unlucky..... The performances are achingly good and there are some simply stunning sequences of dogfights during the Battle Of Britain when Spitfires took on Messerschmitts in the fight for freedom. This film is yet to be picked up by a UK distributor, hopefully this will happen very soon as it's subject matter combined with the inclusion of British actors Tara Fitzgerald and Charles Dance would make it a hit. I look forward to seeing it again and hope I don't have to wait too long........ "},{"Title":"An interesting story of soldiers in exile.","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" It seems that no matter how many films are made on the subject, there is no shortage of stories that emerge from the Second World War. It stands to reason that a conflict on such a scale as global warfare would capture the imagination of filmmakers everywhere and provide them with ample material on which to base a story. Heading in a different direction than most mainstream movies about the war is Dark Blue World, a film that does not deal with the traditional major battles of the war, does not tell the story of many of its major figures, and does not even focus on soldiers of any of the major allied or axis powers. Dark Blue World instead ventures into the world of refugee soldiers fighting in exile for their occupied nations.The film does a marvelous job of portraying the challenges faced by Czech pilots flying under the British Royal Air Force, expressing the frustration that they felt both at the language barrier between them and the other fliers, but also at being restrained from achieving vengeance against the Germans until being re-trained.Dark Blue World also works quite well outside the arena of the war film as being a story about human relationships. A love triangle develops between the two main characters and an English woman that complicates the teacher-mentor relationship of the two exiled soldiers. This relationship is extremely well acted throughout, developing into almost a father and son relationship at many points.The aerial combat in the film is among some of the best and is also very interesting in exploring the cultural challenges mentioned above as the men struggle to fly their machines, fight the enemy, and relay commands and replies in an unfamiliar language. The tension and struggle of these scenes continues the tension between the men on the ground, just as the tension on the ground continues that felt in the air.This may not be a film for everyone. The hardcore war film buff may find its exploration of relationships a bit off-putting, but it is on the whole an excellent film regardless of the bellicose element or not. "},{"Title":"Action movie, buddy movie, romantic movie, epic movie, it's even got a dog!","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" Absolutely one of the best aviation movies of all times on so many levels. Hardware junkies will drool over the largest single massing of flyable Spitfires outside of a Battle of Britain reenactment. No less than eight flying Spits are on hand for very accurate ground and air sequences.Those that marvel over the lore of flying and get misty-eyed reciting High Flight will identify with the central characters' reverence for the freedom of being fast, free and high in their Dark Blue World. Be warned romantics and even dog lovers are treated to a very emotional ride in this movie. The core message is one that is shared by many war vets, in that their finest hours, their period of life when they felt most alive, was in fact during the war when everything else is sad and gray.The plot concerns Czech pilots who escape from their country when the Nazis invade and join the RAF Free Czech Squadron. There are a few subplots, all of which are worth careful attention. This is just a plain old excellent movie that even the most ardent anti-hardware romantic will love (keep the Kleenex on hand). Beautiful photography, first-rate acting, accurate details of RAF life during the Battle Of Britain. Easily a candidate for any aviation enthusiast's personal DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Gently Moving, Yet Exciting","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" This is the movie that finally pushed me over the line into registering with IMDb so that I could vote for (and comment on) it. I've only recently come to appreciate well-produced war movies, and this is one of the most thoughtful I've seen.Stunning is the word that comes to mind when I think of this viewing experience. My husband and I watched this film last night for the first time. It is gently moving, yet exciting at the same time (not a contradiction). This story in the hands of Hollywood could have become just another smarmy, action-packed, Top Gun time-waster.The two lead actors playing Frantisek and Karel played off of each other marvelously well; and Krystof Hadek is a very pretty boy without seeming to exaggerate or exploit that fact. In terms of Hadek's acting ability and appearance, my husband said (tongue-in-cheek), Well, he's no Tom Cruise. I replied, Thank God! If you appreciate beautiful and understated acting, see this one. "},{"Title":"Too many side tracks","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  This film had all the ingredients of being a classic, but it isn't. The cast is excellent, the CGI is almost flawless, and so on, but it still it fails.First, the classic trick inserting a retrospective part in a film, so loved by European film makers, slows it down and cuts it up, unless handled with expert care, which evidently is beyond director Jan Sverak, whose film Kolya I love. This time it really doesn't work!Secondly, the pilots are all much too old to be realistic, except Karel, which makes him the sore thumb sticking out. A seasoned fighter pro in WWII was maybe 20, a Squadron Leader 22, while here the role of Squadron Leader is played by a guy about fourty, and the rest of the pilots seems to be about his age, except Karel. So to make it work, you have to use either an all old cast, or an all young cast, not pitch a 17 year old kid against an middle aged, if unmarried, man, who still has to sneak up to his loved one without her parents noticing anything - as believable as Steve McQueen at over 25 playing a 16 year old kid in the Blob!Thirdly, a big part of the film is the shooting up a train, Karel's crash landing in enemy territory and the subsquent rescue by his Squadron Leader, who is also (later in the story) his rival in an amorous affair with a married woman.For a Squadron Leader - normally the only guy trained and equipped for navigation in a squadron and very hard to replace - to risk an expensive plane and himself to pick up a crashed fellow pilot, no matter how close a friend he is, in the face of oncoming enemy troops, is hard to believe, especially when they both have to share a cramped Spitfire cockpit - two into a Skyraider, OK, but a Spit?! Come on, this part of the film is a Biggles adventure, not fitting a film that one is supposed to take seriously!For the drama between the woman and the two men is very serious indeed and sad in many ways, and treated seriously in the story, and so is the grim fate that befell these heroes when they returned to Czechoslovakia, being treated no better than many of those who had cooperated with the Nazis.I seriously think that if the film was re-edited, with the long scene mentioned above cut out (which Jan gleefully admitted cost as much as the entire Kolya film, to shoot, not to mention the CGI work involved), and the story line revised, so that we begin with the two friends at home in a Free Czechoslovakia and end with the prison life in Communist Czechoslovakia I am sure it would be a better film!Sadly, again it has happened that a good director has been unable to kill his darlings, or in this case his father's darling (the blowing up of the train) - as daddy, as usual, wrote the script!They could learn a lot from Steven Spielberg and his Saving Private Ryan, which is so much better, just by being concise and straight!The DVD was good, the extra material OK, but not great in any way - but it did disclose that Jan had wanted to skip the train scene, but daddy had insisted, or he wouldn't talk to his son no more - end of story!The CGI was next to perfect, the acting likewise (Tara Fitzgerald amazing as the woman), the flying scenes superb, but the whole less than satisfying - as with the film Enigma capable in every way, but not one I will voluntarily see again soon! Sad to say 6/10! "},{"Title":"Two Blue Worlds","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  That's how I saw the movie anyway. I suppose that the title refers to the sky, but it could also refer to the sea.It probably just means that the world we occupy is often dark and blue. It's a great title anyway. Having seen the film alone (totally, I mean; notjust that I went in on my own) it's difficult to judge when you are in an audience of one. I found myself willing away the plot but then it did get to me. This is a very likeable film, full of great cinema, especially the triple-whammy at the end. Don't worry, I'm not a 'spoiler' but suffice to say, there were three incidents in the closing half-hour which elevated the film above the average, for me anyway. The best thing about this was the way the action progressed so smoothly, the time lapses in the narrative well intertwined together. It just oozes well-made. Nice to see a film where I didn't know any of the cast, apart from Charles Dance, who seems confined to stuffy roles these days, having seen him do something similar in 'Gosford Park'. 7 out of 10 for being so cinematically interesting. Shame no one came! "},{"Title":"A nostalgic look at world war 11","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  This movie is about mateship, comradeship, sacrificing one's life for a friend.  It's about yearning for love and finding love in another country far away from home.  It's about memories and unfulfilled promises.  It's about war.  The dark blue world is the RAF personnel clad in their dark uniforms awaiting their next mission over war torn Europe.  The English officers are not particularly receptive to Czech pilots who have fled their country and ready to fight with the allies.Against this serious background there are some very amusing scenes giving much needed relief. Young Karel (Krystof Hadek) and Frantisek (Ondrej Vetchy) attend English language classes and try to learn the difference between lend and borrow.  I really enjoyed this scene as the new recruits struggled with the language.  As the film progresses one becomes aware that there are fewer sub-titles as the airmen become more proficient in English.  There is an hilarious scene where the airmen are forced to practise manoeuvres on bicycles fitted with wings.  They feel insulted but accept this peculiar drill as part of the training course.The highlight of the film is the splendid dog fight in the wide open sky (wonderful on the big screen) with the camera in the cockpit and pointed towards the gun sight, one seems to be in the middle of the action.  With planes diving and weaving in all directions, the machine guns chattering away, there is a dramatic urgency....either kill or be killed.  Wow! What bravery is here!There are some beautiful human touches.  Frantisek's lovely golden cocker refuses to let his master go to war.  And in England little children removed from blitzed London happily play in the garden of a country home.  Here they make firm friends with the airmen.The love interest is full of surprises....two men in love with the same girl.  Who will win her love? Fate has a strange way of resolving such situations.  Be ready to be surprised!The flash backs I found a bit confusing.  One moment we are in England and the next moment in a communist prison.  If you are squeamish about watching some flesh being stitched together with a needle, you might like to close your eyes just for a moment.  Life is pretty rough in the prison and there are frequent bashings of the inmates.A truly wonderful film that embraces all facets of life.  And if you are old enough to remember the drama of world war 11, there will be many nostalgic moments added to your enjoyment. "},{"Title":"A Czech Pearl Harbor, good movie but not for a difficult movie-watcher.","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I liked this movie. I can't say it was bad but the Czech has produced a lot better movies. But this is the first Hollywood movie produced in the Czech Republic, where the only factor is the earned money. If you have liked Titanic or Pearl Harbor watch it - you might love it - otherwise pick a better movie! "},{"Title":"the best Czech movie ever made !","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"    Words cannot do justice to this excellent movie. I am sure that many Czechs will bash Zdenek Sverak for his unabashed sentimentality just as they did with Kolya but somehow, Sverak gets away with it mainly because the feelings in his movies seem natural and never as obviously calculated and maudlin as, say, those in  Folger´s commercials. Actually, there is much more to it than that. Dark Blue World is, above all else, a film which celebrates close male friendships  and reveals the soul underneath them. The war setting is natural for this since it is traditional knowledge that nothing strengthens friendships between men as much as war. Some may say that the movie presents  these (platonic) friendships as superior to romantic heterosexual love (of which the movie actually paints a rather cynical picture) but it may merely show how war brings people together and tears them apart in the strangest ways. Therefore, there are many tearjerker scenes like the one where the feuding soldiers forgive each other, the ones where the individual soldiers discover that their girlfriends have other men, and especially the strange surprise ending which can be interpreted in various ways but convincingly sends out the message that true friends always stand by each other - even after death.   Just so that one does not get the idea that the movie is  just about sappy feelings, it has lots of other plusses. For a Czech movie, the budget and technical quality are very high. This is especially evident in the plane flight sequences which are so expertly filmed and exciting that a big budget airplane fest like Top Gun has nothing on them ! All the actors are perfectly cast even though most of them are unknowns even in the Czech Republic. Czech jazz from the 1930s provides a surprisingly fitting and sensitive  soundtrack. It is also worth mentioning that while the film touches the viewer´s heart, it makes him or her feel legitimately politically angry. How many movies (including Oliver Stone´s) can you honestly say that about ?   I love this movie and give it 10 stars out of 10 !      "}{"Title":"Almost there, but...","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I saw this film in Cambridge on the night of its release. I'd seen various excellent reviews, marvelled at the online trailer and walked past many posters and a stall at the recent Duxford airshow consequently my expectations were high.It wasn't a bad film but it was no where near as good as the reviews imply. I'd hoped for a film about WW2 flying that had a minor love story component and regrettably encountered the reverse. I'm not adverse to love storys and emotional content (I enjoyed 'Titanic', 'Truly Madly Deeply' and 'Cyrano De Bergerac' amongst many others) but this seemed bolted on as a plot device.The much vaunted flying sequences comprise a tiny fraction of the whole and are largely in the trailer. They are also not that impressive, much to my surprise. I had a real problem with the so called English airbase; surrounded by mountains and fir-trees. OK, so the crew had to film in Europe but they could have found somewhere a bit more realistic surely?! There's an implausibly lucky escape from a crashing Spitfire too a bit of plot worthy of Neighbours not Tolstoy!The real problem with 'Dark Blue World' is lack of emotional intensity. It tries hard to give an air of brooding menace and betrayal but achieves neither. I never felt engaged with the characters and was totally ambivalent when cast members were shot down.This would have made a reasonable ITV drama production and that about sums up the production values and impact. A shame because I'd wished for more.  "},{"Title":"naive screenplay and many absurd scenes","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Unbelievably naive screenplay and boring action scenes. All the actors were excellent but due to a weak plot the result is a disillusion.There are several absurd situations (eg. a Corporal sleeping in one room with a Squadron Leader, screening of a past mission on a projector, just to find that Vojtisek saved Slama's life - in reality there were only low quality photos with dark silhouettes of the airplanes).I looked forward to beautiful filmshots of Spitfires but there were none. And the everywhere-mentioned expensive scenes with an attack on a train or an airfield bombing? I do not think the result is worth the money spent by the producers.On the other hand, the character of a German doctor in the prison was interesting, as well as all the dialogues between the doctor and the two prisoners.I rated two films (Skrivanci na niti and Vesnicko ma strediskova) based on a screenplay by Zdenek Sverak both 10/10 and I gave 10/10 to Obecna skola, the first film made by Zdenek & Jan Sverak. So I do not think my vote of 5/10 to Dark Blue World is biased -(  "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" The best war movie from last time.. I saw this movie and Pearl Harbor in a short time distance and I have to say, that the contrast was huge. And Tmavomodry svet won by horse length. It's totally realistic and true in dog fights, the great plot and great acting. At the other hand Pearl Harbor is just mix of explosions, superheroes with bravery and impossible actions and on the top of that..of course happy ending. When you realize that most of the tricks (in Tmavomodry svet) were made by models and the film cost 6,5 mil. dollars. It's a masterpiece of Sverak and company. ( Pearl Harbor has 150 mil.) So I have to give 10 points for Tmavomodry svet. "},{"Title":"Decent WWII Film that could have told a lot more","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" I enjoyed Dark Blue World but felt there was a lot more we could have learned from this film. It's well acted and beautifully filmed. The air combat scenes are quite good. (Note I am almost certain that a number of the large scale air combat scenes and some of the single aircraft scenes were cut straight from The Battle of Britain.) I found the love story to be rather unconvincing. I think there was a lot more that could have been done to give you a better picture of what these guys went through. I mean, one minute two guys are riding a motorcycle down a road to flee from the German occupation. Then they immediately shift to England. It would have been a good part of the story to show what they went through to get there. (Spoiler)It also would have been very interesting to see how the transition to home, Soviet occupation, and ultimately prison camp worked out.So, this movie is very much worth seeing. But you may no learn as much about the experiences of the Czech fliers as you might want to. "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  Somewhat lacking in composition, but altogether very enjoyable! Jan Sverák can create moody films. No wonder this was a major hit in Czech Republic.Music video, eh? Also, comparing this one to Band of Brothers is plain silly - one is a TV-series (with a huge budget), other one a movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  This is an excellent film.  The aerial scenes were well-done.  It was also the right balance of war and love.  The film gives meaning to the phrase, Never in the history of human conflict has so much been owed by so many to so few. "},{"Title":"Decent film, but ultimately unsatisfying","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  This is a solid film, a decent way to spend a couple of hours, but I didn't feel it really lived up to its potential. The story of European pilots who came to fight with the RAF is a fascinating one and certainly needs to be told, but I came out feeling that this was an ultimately unsatisfying film that largely failed to tell a coherent story. And the military adviser slipped up a few times as well. "},{"Title":"next year's oscar is yours, sverak!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  An excellent, smart, witty and funny movie about czech pilots who fought against hitler during the second world war in great britain only to come back home to czechoslovakia where the communists were at power and sent them to prison and camps for the rest of their lives. sounds tragic and sad, but director jan sverak, who got the foreign movie oscar once already, tells the story with lightness and tenderness only he can create. everybody was waiting to see his new movie with great expectations and sverak, committed to extreme success with his last movie kolya, has not dissapointed. the story so deep and hurting, though helping to find hope and faith again, you'll walk out of the movies and won't be able to speak. "},{"Title":"Hypnotic -- What Pearl Harbor should've been","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I found the movie slightly depressing, as befits the subject matter, but also spellbinding. Loved the air combat sequences and the acting is top notch. Not sure the love triangle had to be there, but what the heck--at least it was handled with  adult, not juvenile sensibilities a la Pearl Harbor.  "},{"Title":"A tad slow but mostly professional, engaging and occasionally moving romantic tragedy","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" During WWII hundreds of Czechoslovakian pilots fought with the British against Nazi Germany after their country was invaded and their military prevented from resisting. Two such pilots are Frantisek and Karel, who both go to England to join the RAF, only to find themselves sidelined being taught English and flying skills that they already have. Once flying missions, they quickly lose friends but Karel meets the beautiful Susan after escaping a crash. Hitting it off with her, Karel brings his friend Frantisek to meet her as well however neither men could predict that he would fall in love with her as well. As we are told this story, we are also told the story of Frantisek's future when he returns home to the newly freed Czechoslovakia where the ruling Communists have jailed returning pilots for fear that they will continue their fight for the freedom that they have seen in England.I tuned in to watch this film sight unseen, by which I mean I didn't know what it was about, far less that it one of the most expensive films to come out of the Czech Republic at the time it was made. With the jazzy score and light opening I thought it was going to be a light romantic fantasy but quickly it moved to darker territory with the legend stating the fate of many of the pilots who came to England to fight with the RAF during WW2. With this thread continuing as a frame for the narration, the story stepped back into the personal story of Frantisek, Karel and the love that would threaten to tear them apart. In this regard it manages to work very well, even if it was a touch longer than I think it needed to be. The historical context is interesting as it is about a bunch of characters who, even in real life, not only failed to get recognition for their actions but were imprisoned and shunned as a result; this sat surprisingly well with the romantic/tragic main narrative and the whole thing was quite engaging and surprisingly touching.The aerial action was very effective; natural looking and professional throughout, as it should have been considering the budget (one scene apparently cost more than Kolja cost in total) although it is still small potatoes when you compare it to Hollywood prices. The cast help by delivering some very strong performances that help the characters rise above the clichés that they could easily have been. Specifically Vetchy is a great lead, providing humanity and an interesting character; Hadek is good and cannot help it if his material requires him to follow an obvious path. Fitzgerald is also pretty obvious but she is well understated and I thought that her doing that helped to keep the film from melodrama. Support is roundly good whether it is from English actors such as Dance or the Czech actors such as Kaiser, Novotny and Rybova.Overall this is a solid and enjoyable war film crossed with a tragic melodrama. Pearl Habour suggested that to cross a love story with a war story could only go wrong, with the former cheapening the latter, however it does work here and although it is a little slower than I would have liked, it is still a touch moving as well as being consistently entertaining and enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Pretty war movie","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  I find DARK BLUE WORLD explains very well the story of the Czech pilots role in the II World War. It is well packed in a love story à la Pearl Harbor which is by far better than DBW. It is perhaps very pretty seen for its low budget. On the other side I missed the real emotions which fail by the poor performance of the actors and characters involved in this romantic war movie. The air battles could have been developed with more suspense but they were realistic at least. The best thing I liked was the very fine picture.  PEARL HARBOR is much more spectacular. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Like watching a music video","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":"  After the excellent Band of Brothers this movie just doesn't stand a chance. The characters are thin, and their emotions simplified. They don't grow or evolve. Ok, so what about the flying sequences? The minimal amount of the film that actually involves flying is meaningless. Where is the ongoing air war? There are no objectives at all. People just fly around and run into some messerschmitts. Long dogfights are cut into few seconds so that even the director himself couldn't figure out who shot whom. Dark Blue World is neither an adequate love story nor a good war movie. Go watch Titanic and Das Boot instead. "},{"Title":"Boys do not belong to war","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" This movie is a disappointment. The Czech pilots here are all depicted as if they were not in the War- They behave like it is just a kind of game. Kind of a summer camp or so. Running around, drinking, singing... some shooting time to time... And the actors- I understand why all the British actors have this look like- I beg your pardon? Apart from Ondrej Vetchy (Slama)you just have to really use your imagination to understand why they did this or that. And the ending- I really did not find the way they showed communist prison accurate. I just feel sad because it dishonests the real war pilots. Those who went abroad and joined the free world in battle against evil. This movie just can not decide if it is parody or drama. I know that the Sverak tandem can do better films, so why did they make a bad version of Vesnicko ma strediskova? "},{"Title":"Too intimate to be considered 'epic'","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" DARK BLUE WORLD (Tmavomodrý Svet) Aspect ratio 2.391 (Hawk Scope)Sound format Dolby Digital Surround EX1939 Two Czech fighter pilots (Ondrej Vetchý and Krystof Hádek) flee the Nazi occupation of their homeland and travel to England, where they join the RAF and are torn apart by their mutual love of a lonely young woman (Tara Fitzgerald).Despite its ravishing widescreen visuals and glorious aerial combat sequences, Jan Sverák's wartime melodrama is a little too restrained for its own good, even when the two main characters become divided by Vetchý's unethical behavior. Performances are solid, but Sverák's intimate direction works against the film's epic sweep, and the result is neither one thing or another. Hádek looks like a Bel Ami porn beauty, which is a huge plus, and Charles Dance makes a brief appearance in the role of a pompous RAF commander.(Czech, German and English dialogue) "},{"Title":"Not Czech","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"War, Drama, Action","Review":" A nation cannot be a nation unless it has an identity. These days that identity is at least found in and often generated by movies, especially war movies.Also, if a nation has a mature identity, you will see it in the nature of the movie how it is constructed, what makes it unique to that land.That said, this is a huge disappointment. It is, in effect a British film from start to finish in its cinematic values, in its notion of the world, even the bag of clichés it draws from. Except it is partially set in the Czech Republic and features a few men from that land.If you go to Poland, you will see films that are uniquely Polish. The noir is closer to the human than anywhere else and the notion of intrinsic beauty is more pure.If you go to Scandinavia, Spain, France, Italy, Hong Kong, Japan you can see unique values in their native films even when they try to emulate each other. Even when &#151; especially when &#151; they are bad or hackneyed or distinctly genre films.Why not the Czech Republic? They have a heavy defeatism, a sort of fatal inferiority complex that has charm, sort of what Northern European Jews had before the war. Jan Svankmeijer captures this in his quirky shorts. This movie does insofar as the story. But stories don't matter. The tone of the thing is a chipper British buddy movie in every cinematic value.Much has been made about the authenticity of the aerial sequences. I guess they are accurate. But they don't thrill a bit, even when participating in a crash. Now here was a great opportunity for a unique vision, a way of shaping fate in three-D space to conform to Prague Gloom.But no. Cinema seems to have passed through Prague on its way elsewhere without stopping.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}]