[{"Title":"Absolutely Beautiful","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"106 out of 130 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sometimes I forget what kind of person I am because I interact with so many dull, selfish, and fearful people. This movie is about following your beliefs and living what you feel. It is about recognizing what you live for. going after it with all that you are, and righteously being destroyed if you do not succeed. I became more and more absorbed in the film as it progressed and was deeply moved by its climax. I think the acting was superb and the dialog terrific. I also was very affected by the accompanying music. The situational and dialectical drama strongly complimented each other and I felt the angst, disbelief, and compassion rise within. "},{"Title":"A moving story of first love","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"89 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie Lost and Delirious was without a doubt one of the best depictions of young love to hit the screen yet. This movie is a must see for anyone who has ever been in love. The story of two girls in love and the social pressures that surround them in an all girl boarding school. Most people would say, Why do we want to know this story? I say because it is heartfelt and a true telling of the emotions swirling around same sex relationships. As individuals we all long to belong somewhere, to know that someone loves us despite the horrors around us everyday. To Paulie, this is who Tory is to her. She knows that as long as she feels Tory's love for her, life is worth living. Their love is secret of course because so many don't understand what it means to just love. Into the secrecy of their relationship comes Mary B. or Mouse, who befriends them both and cares for them each as a friend despite knowing that they are a little more than friendly. Adding to the confusion of emotions Tory's little sister Alley bursts in one morning to find her sister in a precarious position...in bed with Paulie. From here out the relationship between the two girls is strained.Tory feels the pressure of her parents's dreams and expectations for her and is unable to acknowledge her love for Paulie fearing that her family will no longer love her and she will be forced to be seen as not normal by all her classmates. So in essence Tory chooses to shut out Paulie to avoid speculation and in doing so unwittingly causes Paulie to slowly descend into madness. Paulie of course takes the situation to heart, after all they are in love and that should be enough to overcome anything. But instead she finds herself alone...well except for Mary B. her loyal friend.I love how the story is so real especially in the connections of the schoolgirls. Let's face it we all went to high school, private or not and it's brutal. Mary B. is loyal. She sticks with Paulie even though the other girls begin to talk about her as if she is one of them. The classic scene is at the mail boxes, she responds with Paulie is my friend, so I guess it doesn't matter what everyone else says! However, she does witness Paulie falling apart and is torn with how to help. You see how hard it is for Tory to step away from Paulie, but the real heart breaker is in how Paulie deals with the rejection of her first real love. She feels as if the world has ended and the sun will no longer shine if there is no more Tory. She tries to win her back, but only causes embarrassment to Tory through her wooing.If you have ever loved someone and for whatever reason others saw that love as wrong, your heart will break when you see this movie and you will weep. Sadly, Paulie is unable to cope with the rejection of Tory, and Tory is not able to step beyond her own insecurities and prejudices of others to comfort Paulie. So Paulie gives into the madness...the overwhelming grief she feels from the loss leads to her undoing. In the end it is Tory who is left to deal with the love they once shared and all that could have been. Mary B. learns through Paulies' folly how to pull herself out of the madness that can swallow us all if we aren't careful. This movie is moving, your heart will not escape the pain, but perhaps it will teach you too how to pull out of the madness around us all and in turn show us how to love one another. For love just is. "},{"Title":"Good but depressing","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"78 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lost and Delirious is one of those movies that you may catch while flipping through channels late at night and end up loving.  That is exactly what happened to me when I first saw this film.  On the cover, I thought this would be another one of those feminist or lesbian type of movies but it isn't.  It's actually a beautiful, but tragic love story. Lost and Delirious stars Piper Perabo, Jessica Pare, and Mischa Barton as three teenage girls at an all-girl prep school.  Barton is Mary Bradford, a new girl to the school.  She doesn't have much trouble fitting in, as she makes quick friends with her two roommates Paulie Oster (Perabo) and Tori Miller (Pare).  One night, Mary, who can't sleep, walks over to her window and sees Paulie and Tori kissing.  At first, she doesn't think much of it, but as she continues watching, she begins to see that Paulie and Tori may be more than just close friends.This is truly a one of a kind film.  I'm not real familiar with any of the three leading actresses past films except for Piper Perabo, who I saw in 1999's Whiteboyz.  She gives the best performance out of the three.  I'm also not real familiar with director Lea Pool's past films either but I must say that her direction here is first rate.Lost and Delirious is a beautiful film, no doubt.  I've never seen a movie that has ever been more honest in carefully displaying its intentions, which is showing two people in love.  Throughout the course of the film, we see Paulie and Tori's romance blossom, but keep in mind that they are not lesbians, they are simply two people in love that just so happen to be girls.  Towards the middle of the film, we see their love for each other slowly begin to fade when they are both caught in bed by Tori's little sister after making love the night before.  It is at this point, that Tori decides to call it quits to their relationship.  Paulie, torn that the only person she ever loved, doesn't return the same feelings, soon begins to descend into jealousy, lust, and violence.  This is where the movie really starts to get depressing and the ending shows how far a person will go just to show their love for someone.Lost and Delirious is a very lovely film, in deed but is also very sad at the same time.  This is definitely a film that's not for everyone, and I give it a ten out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Plain Brilliant!","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"69 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I might say that, deep inside, Lost and Delirious is a chick-flick, but to those girls (and boys, let's say, because girls are not the only who like chick-flicks) who can look further and deeply. It's a smart, intense and beautiful alternative to Down To You or She's All That. And It's also a gay-themed movie that can be enjoyable to anyone.The movie focus in Piper Perabo's character, Paulie, which has a homosexual relationship with her best friend, Tory, played by Jessica Paré. Once Tory has no courage to admit to her parents she's gay, and decides to end up the relationship, Paulie freaks out. Everything is seen by the eyes of Mary (Mischa Barton).Piper Perabo gives the performance of her career. And, if we consider she was in vapid movies like Slap Her, She's French and Coyote Ugly, you'll be very surprised (or even shocked) with the way she make her Paulie a character so intense. Barton and Paré may stand behind, but are also great. It's a movie so well-crafted and beautiful that it's kind of funny the way director Lea Pool manages to make a movie that grows every time in beauty and intensity without losing the focus in real life, real feelings. It's a brilliant movie, a must-see. "},{"Title":"Three Kinds of Misery","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"51 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It could be called THE THREE FACES OF ANGST.Watching LOST AND DELIRIOUS zaps you into the utter miseries of adolescent anguish, and even those who haven't been to boarding school will relate. Moreover, each lead teen exemplifies a different type of misery although all have identity issues. Take the narrator; Mouse is her dad's pet name for her. Mary Bedford, also known as Mary B., gets the label 'B for Brave' by her older, dashing dorm mate Paulie. But afraid to take on the Brave mantle, Mary calls tells the Indian landscaper she's 'In Transition,' a fitting name for a pubescent teenager. Mary represents the anguish of detachment, leaving home for the first time though only about fourteen. Her mother died of cancer three years earlier and stepmom is envious of the bond between Mouse and her father. Hence she arrives at school and awkward outsider. Not only does Mary exude the New Girl vibe, but she soon finds herself witness to an extremely passionate relationship between her roommates, the adopted Paulie (short for Pauline), and the religious Victoria. After awhile, Mary finds their mutual cooing comfortable, evidence of their confidence in her as a trusted friend. The girls also bond through imaginary letters written to their parents which purge their repressed feelings. For instance, Tory air-writes to her mother whom she both despises and idolizes. Unlike Mary and Paulie, Tory has both an older brother in a nearby boy's academy and a younger sister here at Perkins. When the sister discovers Tory in bed naked with Paulie, Tory starts a campaign of disavowing her love. Yet this is no ordinary crush soon blown over. Tory, who initiated lesbian sex acts several times, continues to room with and unintentionally tease the despairing Pauline. Both girls are homophobic in both speech and attitude. They do not consider themselves gay at all, but sharing in a special unity. However, to squelch rumors of their homosexual behaviors, Tory starts dating Jake, her brother's friend, and bragging about it, blaming Paulie as the unclear, unrequited lover. Her misery stems from self-denial, and deep-seated fear of being gossiped about and labeled. Anyone who has come out of the political or sexual closet knows how labels stick. Above all, she fears being disowned by her family.Paulie has no such fear because her birth mother wishes to remain unfound and her adopted mom has emptiness behind her smiling eyes. Even the teachers can see Paulie's torment. Her affection for Tory soars beyond all teenage crush. This is a pure passion which exceeds rationality. Reading Shakespeare and cavalier poetry turns Paulie into a knight of yore, and she challenges Jake to a duel for the love of her lady. Despite this and her other tomboy tendencies, she cannot accept the lesbian label, either, but she's willing to put up with whatever others say as long as she can continue the fleeting bliss known all-too-briefly. In Pauline we see the ultimate misery of desire denied. With the firm confidence of youth, Pauline cannot imagine ever loving so deeply, so freely again. A realism pervades the strong performances of LOST AND DELIRIOUS that echoes the depressing state of adolescent anguish. The clear delineation of separate but joined misery by the three young leads make this film not a downer, but a celebration of truth--and film-making at its most intimate and revelatory.  "},{"Title":"About the film Lost & Delirious","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"42 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are few words to describe a movie such as Lost and Delirious.  The most conspicuous being beautiful.  No matter what your views may be on homosexuality, there isn't a person out there who can truly say that they did not feel the tremendous pain that Paulie felt when Tori walked out of her life. Every camera angle, tape speed, background, audio effects...everything...in this movie is absolutely perfect. I've never seen anything like it. The only other picture I can remember of this same artistic caliber would be John Duigan's 1998 film Lawn Dogs.  However, even it does not leave you with the emotional sting that Lost and Delirious does. The bottom line is, do NOT rule out this film because of the basis of it's storyline. It is not all about the sexual relations & lesbian activity. It is very much a deep look into the human spirit.  "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"42 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Another great movie by Léa Pool (La Demoiselle sauvage, Emporte-moi).This is not a lesbian-film, it's a film about love, about the happiness and the pain that goes with it. It's a true and poignant movie, but also very evocative and profound. The acting is excellent by the three lead characters Piper Perabo, Jessica Paré and Mischa Barton. They're really in it. Because you see, almost everybody, sometimes in their life, get through a period like these girls are going. Who hasn't been completely shattered by a relationship that's going nowhere or simply doesn't lift up? Funny parts too especially those with the gardener offering some words of advice to Mouse. Léa Pool makes also good use of the slow-motion to describe the pain, the emotion, the passion. In all, a movie that should be seen.Seen at the Devonshire Odeon Cinema, in Windsor (Ontario), on August 21st, 2001.85/100 (***½) "},{"Title":"A unique, emotive film","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film puts a unique slant on an old subject matter. The underlying tones and themes are impressive and emotive. Instantly, you are sucked into the lives of the 3 main cast members, bonding with each of them quickly. They are all individual, yet extremely similar at the same time. The lesson they have to teach you is one that shoots straight into you, and you just cannot look away or deny it. Everything the movie has to offer is exceptional, the writing, the directing and most certainly the acting. Piper Perabo especially. She holds you in the palm of her hand, taking you through highs, lows, love and pain. Don't get this film confused with some 'lesbian chick flick'. The characters and situations are real, potent and memorable. "},{"Title":"Love is. If you understand that love just is you will understand L&D","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has almost nothing in common with its insiration The Wives of Bath. The movie does have everything to do with single minded love that turns to obsession. Piper Perabo as Paulie plays the role of her career, far surpassing anything else she has appeared in to date (although in Coyote Ugly she is beguiling!)Jessiaca Pare plays the part of Tory well, and in some scenes steals the show with beautifully played emotions and torn loyalties. I have yet to see Jessica reach the heights of emotion she portrayed in this movie.The movie ends very weakly, and in my view drawing the curtain a few minutes earlier would have made L&D almost perfect. Well done Lea Pool on one of the movies that made same sex love acceptable and better understood. Shame that it did not have a wider audience at the time of its release. "},{"Title":"Is there anything more painful than love?","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lost and Delirious is an awkward, but strikingly earnest film. The story deals with a love affair between two girls at an exclusive prep school as witnessed by their roommate. Mischa Barton plays Mary, the new girl at school who quickly realizes that the two girls she shares a room with are a good deal more than just friends. Paulie (Perabo) is an outspoken girl with a troubled past, and Tori is a privileged girl from a more traditional family.The first time Mary catches Paulie and Tori kissing on a rooftop in the middle of the night, she assumes they are only practicing for future encounters with boys. Soon enough, the two are sharing a bed in the nude, and the sounds they are making through the night leave little doubt as to what is going on. Mary accepts their relationship, and the three seem on their way to being good friends. Things take a turn for the worst when Tori's younger sister walks in the room one morning and catches Tori in the nude with Paulie. It's absolutely astonishing to see how fast Tori pushes Paulie away from that moment on. Tori explains that her parents would basically disown her if they found out. She spreads the word around campus that Paulie is actually a sexual predator who crawls in bed with her from time to time.Tori ends up being a rather unlikeable character as the film progresses. She immediately hooks up with a boy from a nearby school, and openly flaunts the fact that Paulie means nothing to her. We know this isn't true from the start, however. Notice the agony on her face after she walks away from explaining to her little sister how there's nothing between herself and Paulie. She even goes as far as telling Paulie that she'll never love anyone else as much. All this after dumping and ridiculing her! Is this supposed to make Paulie feel better about being dumped? Anyway, enough about Tori...Piper Perabo steals the show as Paulie. Her character would best be described as dangerously romantic and obsessive. She loves Tori more than could easily be explained here. Her constant public displays of devotion leave nothing to the imagination about how she feels. At one point, she even challenges Tori's new boyfriend to a duel in the nearby woods. There is nothing anyone can do to console Paulie or curb her obsession. At one point, even Mary is taken under her spell until loving memories of her late mother seem to bring her back to reality. Paulie has nothing like that to fall back on. Once she sees that she will never be with Tori, it can only end tragically for her. Piper Perabo needs to be in better films like this one. No more Cheaper by the Dozens or Coyote Uglys, please! This is not your typical film about teen love to say the least. Although this film has a few flaws, you will not soon forget it after seeing it. To see such devotion for one person from another is rare, even in movies. There are sex scenes, and they are handled honestly and tastefully. The film will no doubt remind all of its viewers about their most painful crushes, regardless of whom they may have been for. There are a few minor side plots that may not seem to fit with the central theme of this film, but overall you will likely find it a rewarding experience. And you have been warned this film will probably depress you.8 of 10 stars.The Hound "}{"Title":"A much deeper film than expected","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I only decided to see this film simply because I liked Piper Perabo in 'Coyote Ugly', an enjoyable but 'lightweight' film. I watched 'Lost and Delirious' for the first time last evening and I was totally blown away by Piper's performance which surprised me, taking into account the fact that the film didn't exactly get rave reviews. It was a far deeper film than I expected it to be and I will need to watch it several times to appreciate its full impact. (I never manage to fully appreciate a film first time round!)The clever parallels drawn between Paulie's character and the bird of prey's plight are cleverly handled, although I thought it was made a little too obvious when she began to refer to herself as 'the raptor'. I felt this was unnecessary; the viewer should have been left to make that link for him or herself. The increasing tension which draws the viewer inexorably towards the climax of the film is almost unbearable. I felt myself starting to dread the end of the film, fearing its almost inevitable end. IMHO this is a masterful piece of movie-making. Miss it and miss out! "},{"Title":"A beautiful but sad story","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lost and Delirious is a very beautiful story of 2 girls in love. However, the end is so sad and depressing. Piper Perabo, who plays Paulie, is amazing. She successfully portraits a teen suffering the pain from losing her true love and feeling abandoned by everyone else in the whole world. Although I disagree with how she handled the situation at the end, she is absolutely stunning, a very talented actress. Paulie is very passionate, crazy in love with Tori (her schoolmate and roommate), and not afraid of showing it in public whereas Tori is the exactly opposite. When their relationship is discovered, Tori runs away from her true love into another guy's arm. Tori is afraid of her parents' reactions. She then purposely shows off her new relationship in front of Paulie so she won't be taken as a lesbian by her friends. I can't help wonder if Tori does truly love Paulie, how could she have the heart to torment/ hurt Paulie like this?! If Tori really wants to break off with Paulie, she should have let Paulie down gently. No wonder Paulie goes nuts at the end and takes an extreme measure to herself. After all, Paulie is willing to go all the way for love but I am not sure if Tori deserves it.Overall, the acting is great. Pearbo gave a superior performance to deep emotion that Paulie has. You can feel the joy and pain that Paulie goes thru. She really touches your heart. It is a very emotional and intense movie worth of seeing it. "},{"Title":"Loved It!","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"26 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I personally L-O-V-E-D this movie. I didn't view it until recently and I have to say it changed my life. This movie made me wake up and realize exactly how I feel in my relationship and made me recognize what I would do for my partner.The way that Paulie feels for Tori is so strong that I could feel it in the room when I watched this movie. Personally I think I would do the same thing that Paulie did. I would go off the deep end if my partner, one that I love and adore just dropped me like that. It also made me realize how other people feel about two girls who love each other. Now I can understand how people feel about my relationship and I know how to handle other people's feelings. "},{"Title":"It's all in the acting","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Piper Perabo is absolutely moving in this film, which centers around Paulie (Perabo) and Tori's brief love tale, as told through the eyes of Mouse (Mischa Barton), a neglected young lady who is placed in boarding school by her father at the suggestion of her step mother. However, like many lesbian movies made before the Dykefication of (mainly Californian) American society, this is one that has no happy ending, despite the mainly Canadian cast.Mouse obviously feels estranged from her family since the passing of her mother, and finds quick acceptance and camaraderie in her roommates, Paulie and Torie. Paulie is adopted and feels like she has no real family and is obviously devoid of any spiritual connections with many people in her life, save for Tori. Tori, on the other hand, is very sheltered by her conservative parents, but like Paulie, she also feels like her family isn't entirely who she is.We then discover that Paulie and Tori are lovers and often make love while Mouse is (supposedly) asleep, thereby lacking the decency to slip a Nyquil into Mouse's bedtime milk so she can peacefully sleep through it all. However, one morning Paulie forgets to crawl back to her bed (!!!) and the pair are caught by Tori's little sister and her posse.Tori, thinking of how her parents and family might abandon and disown her, is quick to denounce what her sister saw and chalks it all up to Paulie's emotional imbalance. This has got to be the most infuriating and gut-wrenching scene of the movie when the perpetually closeted girl seals herself into her gilded wardrobe with a perky and half-convincing I'm boy crazy! This drove me insane because it almost seemed as though lil sis was about to say, If you are, I'll eventually think about starting on re-accepting you as my family out of love. Meanwhile, her (bratty) little sister not only spreads the rumor around the school that Paulie is lesbian, but that she is after her very straight sister. Tori even begins a relationship with a boy from a nearby boarding school to assert her heterosexuality. This is because we all know the sure cure for homosexuality is a big obnoxious frat boy penis.Mouse watches all this and remains friends with Paulie, despite the rumors people are spreading. Although she tries to help her friend, even Mouse can't stop Paulie's near psychotic downward spiral into torturous emotional HELL. My heart just went out to Perabo's acting as I had to endure ever more unbearable uncomfortable scenes of Paulie absolutely losing it in class, at the dining commons, at the father-daughter dance, and right before the climax. Going back to the obnoxious frat boy stereotype, I was kind of disappointed that Paulie didn't clock the moron's chin after he proclaims that he played Laertes in Hamlet. His face was so schmuck-y I really wished Paulie would hit him in principle.Anywho, the ending is for your viewing pleasure/disgust. There are also some juxtapositions with the hawk and Paulie but quite honestly, that parallel was lost on me... I was Lost for the most part because I couldn't understand why Paulie, someone who held herself together despite her fragility, would completely lose it for a closeted girl... and Delirious because despite the former statement, Perabo really did do a good job with the insane material she was given.However, this is why I couldn't give the movie a better grade... it made me too uncomfortable. I felt absolutely embarrassed for Paulie and just hoped HOPED she could just get over herself and Tori. So many scenes are just downright uncomfortable to watch, and I really believe that it's because Perabo got the pain of Paulie down perfectly. While I don't want to dismiss this movie because of the lesbian movie tragedy stereotype, I wanted to put it out there in case you're expecting a heart-warming Saving Face-ish love comedy. "},{"Title":"unbelievably, wastefully poor","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"27 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The worst part about this film is that it did not have to be so terrible.They had a nice budget, though so do many films; they made it look slick and pretty, and best of all they had the 21st century lesbian-savvy audiences who would embrace a lesbian positive film... and yet the writer and director went out of their way to lift every single redone film bit about lesbian torment and confusion at boarding schools, (you know, the place all lesbian love lives and dies). This is a theme that has been done again and again and AGAIN in film, but something that viewers-if one uses this voting forum as a clue- cannot seem to get enough of.Every element of this story was so over the top, excessively phony and contrived that it was painful to sit through. The lead characters say it all the crazy, abandoned, genius, rebel lesbian tough girl (well, they took a super pretty femme like Piper Perabo and tried to rough her up, but it didn't stick much) seduces pretty rich girl who is destined to betray her. Watching them every step of the way is character 3, a dopey, well-meaning, wide-eyed, good girl observer. I say 'every step' because she shares her every thought with the audience via the stiffest, most inane monologues.Her lines seem to have been WRITTEN by a fifteen year old, though they are trying oh so, so hard to sound like how a fifteen year old would really, um, you know, well... talk. Hearing them (make love) with their noises was um, you know, like, well... okay! she says about her 2 wanton roommates, who roll around in the bed next to her.Later she asks Graham Greene- the accomplished native American actor who is completely wasted in a roll as a gardener (!) Is it wrong to care what people think?Sorry, but is she a teenager, or is she age 7?Granted, Piper Perabo (as Polly the tortured dyke) & others do an okay job for the horrible lines they are forced to utter. Perabo has a nice energy level and is obviously very comfortable in front of a camera. She would do well in a decent project, so this is in no way a criticism of the acting.But this story is SHAMELESS in perpetuating every single stereotype about lesbians all rolled into one character. They couldn't stop with her (Polly) being an angry, crazy-passionate, secret genius who finished math problems for the speechless teacher. Oh but that's after she argues with the teacher who dares accuse her of gabbing.That's a word THEY (males) use against US (women)! she says, stomping out of the classroom.Is this ALL the writer could come up with? Or maybe we should ask Why stop there? Poole and co. went on and made Polly a poetic dark child who communicates with wild hawks by screaming their name in the woods.Cue the slow motion, sci-fi, Xena atmosphere!Then we have her writing to her birth mother... (most lesbians are love-starved orphans, in case you were in the dark).Then we have two teachers (one uptight, one a zany type with loose neck ties) who hover around all of the action (the school looks awfully big for just 2 teachers)... and give dark child/ seductress/bird girl tense looks. Hmmmm. I wonder if something well, you know... um, FUNNY is happening between these TWO TEACHERS??????There is simply no excuse for something this poorly done. Heartbreak happens, but surely the writer and director know that lesbians exist in much more sophisticated times than this schlock.I cannot reveal the ending out of respect to those who force themselves to sit through til the end, but if you are not laughing, I can only guess you are crying. And not for the right reason. And I don't mean the wimpy make out scenes.  "},{"Title":"A good little movie","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Admittedly, I rented this movie for the wrong reason (being a post adolescent male, Piper Perabo and lesbian seemed to go well together). However, it turned out to be a really good flick which was really well done on all levels. Technically, the 3 main actresses portrayed their parts really well.  The cinematography was excellent, including some really well done shots that seem to stick with you after the movie.  (Piper Perabo on the roof with the eagle, for one). Storywise, this movie is also excellent.  As another reviewer said, it's poetry.  It talks not only of love, but of love lost and no longer requited. It talks of change and the extents to which a person will go to get that special someone back. All in all, I'd give this movie 4 stars out of 5 and recommend renting it to anyone looking to fill a couple hours with a good movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is not beautiful, it's just pretentious.","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lost and Delirious is an amalgam of all that people hate about indie films. Its characters awkwardly speak pseudo-poetic lines that I'm sure look really good on paper. Piper Perabo does the best she can, but she's saddled with faux-meaningful tripe like Don't touch the raptor, and Here we're lost... and delirious. Any flick that mentions it's title so self-consciously in a line should be automatically disqualified from everything. Yes, it's about love, but the device of lesbianism arising from boarding school has been done much better. And of course, there's the requisite suicide, understanding lesbian mentor, and monologues on the freedom of birds. Its symbolism is painfully obvious, its structure predictable, and its writing self-conscious. Avoid, unless you want to make an inspiring movie - then watch Lost and Delirious to make sure you don't make the same mistakes. "},{"Title":"Lost and Delirious. That pretty much says it all.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having seen Léa Pool's wonderful 1998 coming-of-age film, Set Me Free, I was excited to check out this new film of hers. How disappointing to find that the charm, character and sincerity of that film is completely missing here.The plot It doesn't take Mary, the mousy new girl at an all girl's school, very long to figure out that her two roommates (Pauline, rebellious and tough, and Victoria, more traditional) are lovers. But when some other girls discover them in bed together, Victoria starts pretending to be straight. This makes the rebellious Pauline go nuts, so she takes up bird training and pretending that she's living in the 14th Century while the mousy girl runs around looking distressed.When the film begins, the three female leads are ridiculously bouncy and hyper, causing me to wonder if they might be the same actors I saw on Barney about six years ago. Then, when the girls turn serious, they sound like they're reading their lines from a drugstore romance novel Have you ever been really thirsty, so you take a big drink of milk right out of the carton - only it's gone sour? That's what's happening to me. Inside. Forever. How can this line be taken seriously?One of the few things worse than the film's dialogue is the overbearing grab-bag of a soundtrack. The music leaps from inspirational Native American Rain Forest Muzak for the bird training scenes to mid-'80s horror film synthesizers for the dramatic moments (like the shattering mirror) and then on to the gut-wrenching love ballad that plays during a 5-minute close-up of Pauline's twisted face as she writhes in pain from suffering and despair. Good grief.Jackie Burroughs, the incredible actress who plays the school's elderly headmistress, is more beautiful, sexy, dynamic, exciting, genuine and fascinating than all of the other characters in the film combined. She delivers the film's only genuinely moving scenes, but her outstanding (and brief) performance only makes the rest of the film seem that much more banal.This film may have been revolutionary had it been made in 1961, but it's set in 2001, so the girls' self-hatred and repression seem outdated and unnecessarily melodramatic. I just wanted to slap them.If you're interested in cinema that deals intelligently and realistically with the difficulties and confusion - as well as the pleasure and joy - of young women coming to terms with their attraction to each other, I would recommend The Incredibly True Adventure of Two Girls In Love and Show Me Love.  "},{"Title":"Pretty much horrible","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Young lesbians looking for films about themselves deserve so much better than this movie. So does anyone else who watches it.The first problem is that the dialogue is unrealistic. These characters launch into what they think are beautiful poetic speeches that no real person would be able to make up off the top of their heads. The scene where the three main characters are reciting letters to their mothers is particularly bad; the first has written hers ahead of time but the other two spontaneously create drivel that some scriptwriter must think is particularly deep and intriguing.The second problem is that we're never really shown what's so, so great about the love between Tori and Paulie that Paulie will go through the lengths she does for it. I'm sure fans of this movie will claim that it's true love!, but the film leaves us to infer this instead of making us truly believe it.There are various notes that ring emotionally false. One that stands out is Mary's reaction to her two roommates having sex in their room while she's there; she appears to have no problem with it. I can just hear the thought process of the writer of the original novel (or of the screenwriter, if this wasn't in the original) Mary has to be absolutely okay with everything, or else she'll look homophobic. You find me a high school girl who's completely comfortable with two people of either gender having sex in the room while she's there, I'll show you a high school girl who's either a voyeur or is trying too hard to seem cool.The actors try hard to sell this story, but the script is so bad that it can't be done. As the film progresses Paulie begins to look more and more like a head case, and the awkward Shakespearean quotes get worse. Don't waste your time watching this. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Tale of Love Destroyed by Fear.","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mary How much does it matter what other people think?Joe It depends on how much they're paying you, I guess?...How much are they paying you?Lea Pool's decadent tale of a love unlike any other is a humorous, passionate, and tragic statement on image and the lengths one will go to in order to uphold a facade created out of fear. The language is real, interesting, and sharp. The acting is superb. Piper Perabo is truly a force to be reckoned with as the desperate Pauline. The woman mesmerized me. This was a role with substance, unlike the frat-boy fodder that was Coyote Ugly. I hope more offers for roles such as this come to her. She is amazingly talented if given the challenge.Desperation runs deep among the three main girls; albeit in different situations, yet they all yearn for the same peace to love and be loved unconditionally. An all-girls school is definitely the place to showcase this need. One particularly humorous line comes from Tori near the beginning of the film. While taking Mary to their room, she tells her about the food on campus, stating we mostly save up our allowances and order pizza or Chinese, and, you know, the anorexics just eat erasers. Prior to experiencing the desperation of losing love among the three girls, we experience, from a distance, the desperation of women everywhere the deeply-rooted desire to be desirable, to be wanted, to be valued as someone, without the burdens of who we are on the outside. From the outside, Pauline and Victoria are two good-looking girls who go to a boarding school. Inside, they are two desolate souls being pulled from what they know to be true. The cruel world that they reside in will never allow them to be as one.Freud would say this is an inevitable recipe for madness, yet he would justify that by stating that it is simply because of society forcing sexual repression upon Pauline and Victoria. This might be true, but as Pauline passionately tells Mary, I AM NOT A LESBIAN! I AM PAULINE IN LOVE WITH VICTORIA! She is a soul in love with another. No gender, no face, no creed. Just one belonging to the other. Forever.Pauline attacks her desperation with conformity, something quite unusual for her. This proves futile and the facade remains, dancing away into a new life without her. We can all identify with Pauline's desire for love without obligation, without a cost to who we really are. Sometimes the desire comes to fruition, and sometimes not. We can only hope for the former, and truly understand that the one and only definitive, eternal source of unconditional love is inside ourselves. With that, we will always be able to fly to our own undying glory. "}{"Title":"A movie about true love and the desperate unsparing attempt to fight for an answer...","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...yesterday evening I saw the european premiere of this beautiful movie at the Berlinale. The majority of the audience was overwhelmed with emotion - and so was I. One major difference to other great love stories is that after nearly a day I STILL am moved. This movie is my new number one love story of all time and replaced my long time number one Comrades Almost a love affair. Despite the sad but inescapable end of Lost and Delirious for some reason I felt perfectly happy during and after the end credits of the film. I don't know why I had this feeling but I cannot thank Lea Pool - the director of this film - enough for not disrupting this feeling with a redundant question answering-game afterwards. Maybe she didn't do it because she was perfectly happy too... "},{"Title":"The Mouse And The Raptor","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought 'Lost and Delirious' would be about some spoilt teenage girls hooking up on sex, drugs and rock and roll. But, to my surprise, it was something else. It's about three school roommates. Two of them engage in a 'forbidden' relationship while the other confronts her own issues and narrates the story. 'Lost and Delirious' isn't an easy film to watch. I don't want to hand out any spoiler but I'll say that it truly sticks to the title and parts of it are disturbing. I did not like how the film was treated because had it not been for the music and Piper Perabo's acting, it would have felt like a TV movie. At times, the pace is painfully slow and some scenes seem pointless. Piper Perabo steals the show with her terrific portrayal of the emotionally tortured and abandoned Paulie. Mischa Barton looks uncomfortable (and she needs to eat) but does okay in a few scenes. The soundtrack is quite unusual. There is something captivating about it. I also liked the sequences with Paulie and the raptor that symbolized liberty. It is not an easy film to watch but tells an interesting story of rejected love. "},{"Title":"Sorry I just didn't get it.","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you think it's beautiful to be obsessive about who you are in love with, then I can imagine giving it a good rating... but I cannot imagine that this theme of obsessiveness and having little respect for others (such as the way Paulie treats the teachers who try to help her) is anything you would want to teach your children. Yes, it's also bad the way Victoria treated Paulie, but guess what. That's life. Isn't it a more important lesson to learn how to get past these disappointments and make the best of your life? Or is falling off the roof a better lesson to teach our children? Secondly, when Mary's father didn't show up for the dinner, and Paulie helped Mary release her anger, that Mary even said she wished he were dead... Somehow I don't think this is a good message either that you deal with your disappointments through anger. "},{"Title":"Lost and Deletrious","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, that's what this should have been called, anyway. Mainly, due the the ridiculous, ham-fisted use of what can barely be called symbolism by the director. It would not have surprised me to find out that this was A) One of Lea Pool's earliest efforts, and B) at least semi-autobiographical. Turns out A is wrong, although I don;t know about B. I will bet she attended boarding school, though, and had a rather terrible same-sex relationship of SOME kind. This is the message that was beat down our throats by this film, and the short film which preceded it, the name of which I no longer recall.At any rate, the character development was clumsy (Who introduces herself by saying what her name means? Nobody.) the symbols were about as subtle as an all-glass elevator full of teen-age girls losing a cable and plummeting eighty stories. All over a loudspeaker. Honestly, the cry of a falcon when Perabo declared she was a raptor and leapt off the table? That was ridiculous to the point of parody. And it was only one of far too many symbols meant to show even the dumbest of viewers what her point was. And that was that she had a crappy childhood and feels the need to make movies about it, ala Vincent Gallo, instead of seeing a therapist, ala all of us who get on with our lives. There was nothing tender, nothing sweet, and nothing moving about this film. It was poorly enacted trash, and the actors could not save the Brett Ratneresque over the top HEY THIS IS MY POINT IN THIS MOVIE use of film techniques, writing, and acting. Sorry, but it was terrible. "},{"Title":"A Story of Young Love Burning Brightly","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lost and Delirious is about three girls who attend a private boarding school. As is common with such films, the girls feel alienated from their parents and at odds with the adult world in general.As in real life, the characters sometimes turn to rebellion to voice or act out their dissatisfactions. They break all the rules and, isolated as they are in the self-contained world of the all-girls school, they create their own world, which they liken to Peter Pan's world of the Lost Boys.This is a coming of age story. But it is more than that. It is a love story that may be uniquely about teens or may be universal for all ages. Paulie, played by Piper Perabo, is a young woman with great passions. When she reads Shakespeare, she doesn't just read the lines, she relates to the desperation of the characters, especially after her roommate Victoria rejects her love. She admires raptors because they live a simple life and are compelled by nature to hunt and obtain what they need. Paulie wishes to become more raptor-like as she suffers the pain of rejection (and the pain of loving). Piper Perabo plays the part tremendously. I enjoyed watching her in this role, in part because I watch Covert Affairs and I enjoyed seeing her earlier in her career.Victoria is played by Jessica Pare. The other roommate, Mary, is played by Mischa Barton. Both play their roles convincingly, with passion.The headmistress is played by Jackie Burroughs. She is inspired in her portrayal. One feels that so many levels of her character lie behind her words and actions. In a small role, Graham Greene is notable, as usual.The film captures the disappointment of young people who are torn between loving and hating their parents. It explores the edge between childhood and adulthood, where roles (in society) are defined, sometimes painfully. And it celebrates the passion of all-encompassing love, especially by young people who burn so brightly.I enjoyed the soundtrack of this film. The direction was well done, bringing the viewer into the world of the girls. The only choice that bothered me was the ending. Not that it was horrible, but I found it distracting. I feel the same symbolism could have been achieved without the confusing move into surrealism. "},{"Title":"A very good movie in spite of obvious flaws","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What could be more pure and genuine than the serendipity of an honest page from a young girl's diary, spotted with the teardrops she wept as she wrote? The diary belongs to 14 year old Mary Bedford (Mary Brave) as she writes about the heart breaking emotional trauma she suffers during her first year at boarding school. Lost And Delirious is a movie about the purest form of committed love, the kind that transcends all boundaries and causes those committed to devote every fiber of their being, heart and soul, to their loved one. There is no turning back or getting over this kind of love; once broken the heart can never mend. Most people will never experience this kind of pure love and, even if the opportunity were there, would never take such a chance with their emotions. If you have ever loved another person so intensely that you felt your life would be over if the relationship ended, you will identify with the character, Paulie Oster, and this movie may break your heart.L&D is not a lesbian movie about girls being naughty and experimenting at boarding school. If you're not the sensitive type and expect to be inflamed with lust this movie would be wasted on you. Get yourself a pound of fried pork skins, a six-pack of $1.49 beer on sale at the local convenience store, and rent Bimbos From Planet Lesbos instead. "},{"Title":"Piper and Shakespeare","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lost and Delirious was one of the best movies I've seen this year.  I had heard a few lesbians talk about how great a movie it was so I decided to check it out.  I was beyond impressed.  Primarily by Piper's acting though. From watching Coyote Ugly, you'd never know this actress of capable of such depth.  Lost and Delirious is one of the few movies that can actually make me cry.  I just found the entire second half heart wrenching.  I realize the raptor symbolism and extensive use of Shakespeare does get a little old after a while, but it worked for me.  I would definitely recommend seeing L&D, straight people may not appreciate it quite as much as a homosexual would, but it is still worthy of a popcorn session. "},{"Title":"a beautifully made, fearless movie.","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is gorgeous.  Piper Perabo is irresistibly appealing as the tortured and joyful Polly.  Jessica Pare and Mischa Barton are lovely.  The pain of these three characters is presented with absolute perfection. Wonderful. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly deep with impressive performances","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a coming of age film set in a private girls school. Our narrator is the shy Mouse (real  name Mary), arriving at the school for her first time away from home, still struggling to  recover from her mother's death three years earlier. Her two roommates, Victoria and Paulie,  are wild and crazy, the opposite of her, and she finds them fascinating. But when romance  goes awry, the lonely Paulie goes crazy she's lost the only love of her life. The film tries a  little too hard to be shocking and wild, but it's got a great intellectual core. It's at its best in  the simpler scenes between mouse and the gardener (the terrific Graham Greene), where they  talk in riddles and jokes about Serious Things. Like when they first meet and Mouse asks if  she can help him garden -- she used to help her mother and enjoyed it -- and when he asks  her name she replies, It's in transition, a brilliant way to express that she's migrating away  from her Mouse nickname to something better. That's one of the best scenes I've ever seen  on film. It's astonishing. Simple words, simple facial expressions, loads of meaning. Great  stuff. If the rest of the film was up to that standard, this would be a masterpiece. Granted the  cast is fantastic. All relatively unknown, Canadian actresses (the film is Canadian), but  beautiful and amazingly good. Mouse is played by Mischa Barton, who looks like a smaller  version of Sarah Michelle Geller. Jessica Pare and Piper Perabo are her roommates. Excellent. "},{"Title":"Just Great!!!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was totally awesome!! I didn't expect much from it, but since Piper is in it I gave it a shot, and was totally stunned! This is one of the most beautiful movies I have ever seen! You could compare it to Boys don't cry, but this one is far more better. A must see for everyone! Great script, great directing and excellent acting. Piper Perabo is absolutely marvellous as the rebel girl that loves a person she cannot have. If you ask me, she should get an oscar nomination at least for this film. But then again, this is just the kind of non-Hollywood material that the oscars usually pass on. A shame. This movie is 10/10!!!! "}{"Title":"A passionate and beautiful film.","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to say I didn't care for some of the lines in the movie simply because they where slightly corny, but the movie as a whole overshadows everything. I absolutely fell in love with Paulie, she was such a dramatic passionate person. I just related to the character.In my opinion, it wasn't about two gay females in a relationship. It was a rare instance where two 'people' just fell in love with each other, it didn't matter what their gender was. I literally cried big tears through a lot of this movie.If you have seen other movies with Piper Perabo don't make that the basis of your judgement for this movie. Looking at her other roles I was surprised they where even the same person. (of course her characters in each movie where completely different)Anyway, it really is worth the time to watch it. I suggest watching it alone for at least your first time watching it. Everything seems less cheesy when I am by myself. "},{"Title":"Short of almost everything","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I felt very disappointed with this movie; and not because the topic; the fact is that this is a poor film; the story is completely underdeveloped; only the Piper Perabo's character (who makes a quite good work) seems to matter. It's true that Mischa Barton didn't show any interesting skill in her interpretation to hope that she'll become more than the pretty, stupid girl of O.C. (a very camp, funny TV series, anyway). But I think that Jessica Paré deserved more screen time. She makes, along with the old professor, the best works in this movie; but anyway, they can't save this, in fact, bland and unrealistic film. And what a ridiculous ending...Well... I hope that sometime Denys Arcand's Stardom will be released here in Spain, if only because the huge art-house hit that Les Invasions Barbares was here, to enjoy a bit more of this gorgeous actress that is Jessica Paré. And if you want to watch a lesbian film, not a cinematographic poem in the vein of the most unbearable XIX's romantic writer, pick Fucking Amal, instead. F.A. shows life, not tragical monologues. "},{"Title":"Horribly Written","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie would've been a lot more enjoyable if it was a bit more realistic. The only scenes that had good acting in them, were the intimate scenes. The writing was bad and some of the scenes were horribly acted. Mouse, the character who was supposed to be involved with the other main characters, was hardly involved at all. The movie was extremely predictable. I anticipated a great movie, much to my amazement I was completely let down. "},{"Title":"Amazingly powerful","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, middle aged guy buys a movie about lesbian school girls. Everybody nods knowingly and they may have correctly judged my motivation in watching it. However, nothing prepared me for the way I felt after watching it and still feel about it now. I won't go into the story or spoilers, because they are sufficiently documented elsewhere here. On the face of it, there's an opportunity to make a genuinely erotic movie. What I saw was a movie about three girls who have, in some way or another, been rejected pushed aside or pressured into making choices which aren't their own. They are growing up and finding their way, not fully understanding the consequences of their own emotions. Those parts which I might have found erotic I found, instead, very tender and beautifully moving. The scene where Tori explains to Paulie that she will never love anyone the way she loves her is the most heart breaking piece of cinema I have ever seen. I get emotional just thinking about it! Piper Perabo gives an astoundingly real and powerful performance as a girl rejected first by her natural mother, then by her adoptive parents and,finally, by the girl she loves. Jessica Pare is convincing as a spoilt girl who sees herself losing all the benefits her family provide if she proves to be in any way less than the trophy daughter they imagine. She is plainly in love with Paulie but fails to see the consequences of her rejection until it's too late. Mischa Barton is also convincing as a young girl confused by her new surroundings but loyal to those who show her friendship. Her dismay when her father fails to arrive for a school event was profoundly touching. In the end,though, it's Piper Perabo who truly stands out. Why was she not nominated for any major award for this? I'd feel pretty aggrieved if I were her! I would have given 10/10 but for the ending. I felt a movie this good deserved something more conclusive and credible. Over all,though,it's not soft porn, not comically erotic, and nothing to watch with friends over beer. It's a beautiful, profoundly affecting film about true love and teenage girls. Anyone who dreads the day when their daughter comes home and says 'Dad, I have something to tell you...' really must watch this. I promise you, it could change your life! "},{"Title":"Sort of like the Anne Heche and Ellen story -- the teenage years!","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's quite good actually. Three young girls attend a posh girls-only-dorm-boarding school and slowly but surely begin to discover their own individual social as well as sexual identities as time passes by. Two of the girls (one of them played by Piper Perabo of Coyote Ugly) become lovers and try to keep this secret from the rest of their dorm mates but are caught while having sex one night by the younger sister of one of the characters. Embarrassed by this, the girl's older sister tries to put her lesbian ways behind her by dating and having sex with boys from a nearby dormitory and this break Piper Perabo's character's heart plus causes her to go to extreme lengths to show and prove her love. This storyline in intertwined with tons of teenage angst stories, all kinds of abuse including but not limited to emotional and sexual, as well as outcasting and finding ones true self. Great sets and outdoor locales, strong scenes, decent acting and sharp Dialogue. "},{"Title":"Neither Too Emotional nor Too Objective Story about Romance and Mutiny at All-Girl Boarding School","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A romance and a breakup between two girls develop into a mutiny at an all-girl boarding school--this sounds extremely familiar, but the outcome of Lost and Delirious is not, thanks to the fact that the film is neither the filmmaker Lea Pool's semi-autobiography nor one of her earlier works. As a veteran filmmaker, Pool puts a distance between the characters and herself; it produces a tone that is neither too emotional nor too objective. The contemporary touch is made subtly but noticeably, as the story takes place at a school where the girls play soccer and the teachers accept students' openly discussing love and sex in a classroom. The incredible acting of two leads, Piper Perabo and Jessica Paré, makes the girls believable. They look similar with each other; the combined castings may be called a mistake as it could confuse the viewers at least in the beginning. "},{"Title":"E for Effort but only half-a-film","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERSIn this movie I needed a completed insight from the filmmaker in order to feel satisfied. I felt that maybe she (the filmmaker or the novelist?) has experienced this dynamic in her own life up to a certain point, and then she let us jump off the roof and die. I did like the vital portrayal of Paulie's state of psyche, however. (Classically Neptunian for those familiar in Freudian psychodynamics, and in this case more of a Venus-Moon-Neptune.) (Un)Fortunately(?), I've experienced it, and it spurs an inner growth if you can survive it. Some don't. So, the ending may have been a truism. But the filmmaker owed it to the viewer to show different possible outcomes. It needed to be a longer piece. But, she can't produce what she hasn't lived and doesn't know. Maybe the issue was remaining true to the original novel which I haven't read. If that was the case, then the movie should not have been made, ideally, although who can criticize scoring the funds and getting the work? Perhaps this movie can be considered a wasted effort, but it was a decent effort, so she gets an E' for that, at least, I would say.  "},{"Title":"Explored issues of sexuality in teens deeply","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film explored the issues many teens deal with when exploring sexuality in a sincere way. As a rebuttal to the review on this site, I will say that many gay and lesbian teens don't identify as being gay or lesbian until later in life, despite having relationships with members of the same sex. Sometimes, as in Tori and Paulie's case, the idea of being a lesbian seems to be just too much. I never once got the idea that Tori was NOT a lesbian, despite the relationship with a boy. The relationship was merely a means of disproving what her sister and others thought about her. She stated twice after she started the relationship with the boy that she still loved Paulie. I believe that the sex scene between them and the loving ways in which they kissed throughout the beginning of the film clearly established a loving relationship between them. The biggest downfall of the film was Paulies spiral into insanity, which played heavily into the outdated sterotypes of lesbians as being crazy.  "},{"Title":"Good exploration of theme marred by melodrama","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having heard great reviews, I was disappointed in this film it's melodramatic, and while there are some good moments, it's drawn out and over-acted. Many parts of the film are entirely implausible, so it isn't so much an exploration of teen issues, as an unrealistic flight of fancy. Fantastic song over the end credits, though.I found the school setting interesting, and whilst the characters within the school (teachers, particularly) were not in the least realistic, the issues that the central characters confronted were well handled. However, the issue that I have is the events that unfold within the school - the first scenes, the final scene. I find it a pity that the emotional issues at the heart of the film were obscured by being placed in poor situations within the film.Much of what Paulie goes through is gritty, and real, and while overdone to a certain extent - almost, in some areas to the point of caricature - it is a fairly good portrayal of her emotional turmoil. "},{"Title":"Terrible and Great. A magnificent tragedy.","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie that starts out with pillow fights and teen lesbianism at a boarding school usually do not go anywhere, oh well - perhaps into the R-rated shelf. This movie however thanks to excellent acting and a script, I suspect, inspired by Shakespeare turned into possibly the greatest tragedy I've ever seen. In short it shows how prejudice and/or a broken heart can turn a life steadily, but surely, from happiness and into madness. Those of you with empathy will no doubt find this movie excruciatingly painful, but it really makes up for it in beauty.Ah hell, I don't know what more to say - just see it. "}{"Title":"Great movie (for a Canadian production)","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's greatest asset and worst liability is it's Canadianess. It could have been exploitative but it's not. It's lyrical, dipped in poetry, and coated in adolescent obsession. The ethereal music is more effective than one would expect. The flip side of being Canadian is it's budget. You could see its lower production value through the many prism; the weak boyfriend actor, small post-production problems, and the general lack of polish.Mary Mouse Bedford (Mischa Barton) is new to the all girls boarding school. She is befriended by popular Victoria Tori Moller (Jessica Paré) and rebellious Pauline Paulie Oster (Piper Perabo). She discovers her roommates Tori and Paulie are actually in a sexual relationship. Paulie finds an injured hawk and nurses it back to health. When Tori's sister Allison (Emily VanCamp) and her friends find Paulie and Tori naked together, Tori decides to blame it all on Paulie. Paulie is ostracized.Piper Perabo deserves some kind of acting award. I was dismayed by 'Coyote Ugly', but it was probably not her fault. She certainly proved she is better than that. Lea Pool really screws up the sword fight. At least kill the wimpy boyfriend. Otherwise, she gives this movie a great moody adolescent feel. Jessica Pare is also terrific in this and Mischa Barton does well being mousy. "},{"Title":"Not very good, in my humble opinion.","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  So here's the deal Mary Bradford is dropped off at an all-girls school. Called Mouse because she is so very timid, she befriend roommates Pauly, the rebel, and Tori, the beauty, and soon discovers they are in a relationship. As things progress, and as Tori and Pauly are caught in bed together by Tori's younger sister, they break up, fully due to Tori's not wanting her family to hate her. So Pauly is determined to get her back from her new boyfriend, Jake.Now, this was an all right movie, but the point of perspective is completely skewed. Mouse is nothing but a plot contrivance, there to advance the plot and play storyteller. I think it would have been a much better movie if it had been narrated by say, Tori or Pauly. But Mischa Barton does a very good job, even if her character wasn't very good.Yes, the movie is very symbolic, making sure we know that Tori is Lost and Pauly is delirious. The last lingering shot, is very symbolic. She's flying, get it? GET IT? The acting is okay. Piper Perabo is trying to be convincing as Pauly, but we all saw her being so sweet and innocent in Coyote Ugly, so...things don't work and she is miscasted, in my opinion. Jessica Pare is good as Tori, a bland role. I have one last thing to say. How long would the school have let Pauly's behaviour continue? She spikes the punch, yells at the top of her lungs in every scene, stabs people, and yet she only gets gaped at by the teachers.Just not very good.  "},{"Title":"I just couldn't look away","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The storyline was gripping. A young girl discovers her new roommates are homosexual. The tale was gripping and beautifully scripted and directed. The issues of sexuality and discovering oneself are prevalent in the title. I found the acting of Piper Perabo to be quite superb. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm really glad I saw it. I wish it was on hbo more. The acting was outstanding, and Piper Perabo's character had so much development, I felt like I had known Paulie for years. Love, tragedy, amazing sex, and a unique point of view from the director made this movie a must-see. I can't wait to watch it again. "},{"Title":"I LOVE THIS MOVIE","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this on one of the HBO's a few months ago and have watched it 5 more times.  What I can't understand is how HBO gave it a 1 1/2 star rating out of 4.  This movie is a 4 star movie, easily, and a 10 star movie on IMDB. It's flawless.Piper Perabo should have been nominated for an Oscar.  What a performance. I think the most meaningful point in the movie comes when Paulie is sitting on the windowsill, coming to terms with what has just happened, while You Had Time is playing.  The darkness is swallowing her, and she can't escape it.I think it was typical what Tori did.  Most people would have.  Most people are programmed in this world to behave a certain way, act a certain way, meet their parents expectations of them.  But it was her life, not her parents, and she should have realized that.  She was commonplace, Paulie was special.  If it was me, I would have chose differently.If I could of somehow been there as a friend, I would have tried my hardest to help Paulie.  To let her know that life goes on, and even though we may never love like that again, there's a reason to live.  This world needs special people, and Paulie was special.  She followed her heart, which is more than most of us can say.I would like to think that Tori regretted her decision.  That in the end, after all the years she lived, she realized she had left the one thing that she shouldn't have left behind, all those years ago.And I would like to tell Paulie, You had time, Paulie.  You had time.  "},{"Title":"wonderous","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One reason I LOVE this movie it made me cry. Now, movies do not usually make me cry. I see it simply as a fictional story playing out, and nothing more. It takes something exceptionally powerful to touch me in such a way I actually shed tears. I felt so incredibly sorry for Paulie that I wanted to reach out and give her a hug and tell her it would be okay. Piper Perabo was FANTASTIC in this role, and I felt for her the entire time she was going, well, nutty. The actors make this very believable. Piper actually looks like she's in pain, and going though this awful ordeal. I hope she wins an Oscar for something in the future.I was however the slightest bit disappointed with the ending. I can't help but think...what did Tori think about all this? Surely, she didn't stop loving Paulie, that was evident. I wish they had touched more upon that. Also, it irks me everyone is staring at that damn raptor when a girl just committed suicide. Now, I realize the bird represents Paulie flying off or whatever, but I just think its a bit ridiculous for them to pay no attention to her being most likely dead and focus on her pet bird.Perhaps my view on this movie is biased. I am a young girl involved in a relationship with another girl and I know I would be absolutely crazy if we ever had to stop our love for each other. I would surely lose it -- maybe not to the degree of Paulie, but somewhat.Whether it is my teenage love of melodrama, my situation, or just my personal taste that makes me love this movie, I do all the same. I give it 9/10 "},{"Title":"Stunned By Cinematography","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Of course with any film like this, their will be cynics who feel the need to cut it up, and put it down.  Things like the symbolism is too basic, or doesn't work, or that the characters were not developed enough.  Just because someone doesn't get a piece of art I feel it is sad to put it down, like what they don't understand has to be crushed.  Their bloodless souls crave blood. I think you either relate to this movie or you don't.  It is nothing complex, and I think that's really why I liked it so much.  I think it has been said already, this film is about one thing, love.  Told in the way a school girl would see it, which is its beauty,  if you threw heavy handed structure on top of it, it would just take away from it.  It is also a beautiful film, the cinematography is superb for the budget it was shot on.  I say well, done, one the best movies I've see on video this year....  "},{"Title":"A For Effort","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's hard to say bad things about a film that tries so hard. It's flawed but touching but awkward but sexy and totally self absorbed. The smarmy dialogue with too many quotes from of Shakespeare reminds me of, well, kind of like two upper class prep school 16 year old girls in love.The film is full of cliches that make me wince. All sorts of mom/family issues. You've got your adopted, troubled, cross dressing tomboy baby-dyke who has cold parents in a hot and heavy relationship with what I guess could be considered a prep school LUG (Lesbian Until Graduation) in denial who is going the straight track to please her family. You've got the sensitive, asexual kid who has a dead mom who likes to garden. Let's not forget that the groundkeeper has the most sense of anyone in the film. When in doubt, the upper class go to those magic lower class Zen groundskeepers for advice.It gets an A for effort. C- for execution of lines like Don't you know you shouldn't block a raptor? Or whatever it was. Ow, that was painful.  "},{"Title":"AWESOME","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I bought this movie online, without seeing it. I really couldn't wait, so I rented it from the video store. I hoped I would like it because...well I already did own it...just didn't get it yet. I watched it and saw the amazing acting it had. Piper Perabo!!! One of the greatest actresses of this century. Not to mention Jessica Pare and Mischa Barton. All very talented and believable. I really got sucked into the movie..cried when they cried, and laughed when they did. It was spectacular and has to be on my top 10 movie list. Great movie for the open minded and for anyone who ever went through that in their life..in love with someone, so deep, but afraid to tell your parents for they would not accept it. Life lessons are learned in this movie. Don't be ashamed to love. Be ashamed not to. "},{"Title":"Well-Acted Although Downbeat","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this to see Piper Perabo in something other than Coyote Ugly. Here, she plays a very different character, a lesbian at an all girls school who is in love with her roommate.  The whole story is told as seen through the eyes of a third roommate, played by Mischa Barton.The acting is top drawer, and the story is engaging.  I had an idea of how it might end up but I wasn't sure right up until the last few minutes. Nowadays, you can usually predict how movies will end about 10 minutes after they start, so it was refreshing to be kept on edge until the end.  That being said, I'm downgrading this one a little because I didn't care for the ending they chose.  I could have envisionied a couple of alternate endings that would have made this a stronger film. "}{"Title":"Something bothered me","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER There have been very few movies that effected me as deeply or bothered me for days after watching them like this one did. The story was sad and the acting was superb, but I've seen many sad movies before and they didn't leave me with the feeling of emptiness that this one did.The first time I saw this film I was aware that Mary was simply a story telling device (the movie is certainly NOT about Mary) and she added no depth or insight of any kind. I knew that she was entirely unnecessary, but I didn't realize that she was the flaw in the film.At the end of the film we hear from Mary how she is impacted by the events of the film, but who cares? I want to know what impact they had on Tory, the only other important character in the film.This story should have been told by Tory from later in her life, similar to Titanic. Then we could have gained some insight into her thoughts during and after the events. Instead, though we want to like her, she comes across completely cold and unsympathetic, a person willing to lie and throw her lover to the wolves out of her own self interests. I didn't want to dislike Victoria. After all, she was just a child acting out of fear and panic. But we were left with no choice, since Tory ended up being portrayed as a less than multi-dimensional character.I would have liked to have known how she really felt through all this. We saw every bit of Paulie's torment, but nothing of Tory's. Paulie was lost and delirious, but I believe Tory was just as lost. Was she really as uncaring of Paulie's decent into madness as she seemed? Did she really like her boyfriend or was he, as we suspect, a beard? And most importantly, what became of her life after Paulie's flight with the raptor? It must have been a terrible thing to deal with,  especially if she loved Paulie as much as her behavior at the beginning of the film led us to believe.These unanswered questions left a big hole in the film and in the heart of anyone who became involved in this story and its characters. "},{"Title":"A Lovely film. Rich, passionate, and a bit heart-wrenching","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An old story retold beautifully. This film was made by someone with obvious fire for life and love. Tragic and emotional, but never melodramatic as coming of age films often tend to be. This one makes you remember and even feel that pain of first love and loss, the intensity of first passion. Lea Pool is a director that has earned my respect with this movie, I can't wait to see her others. Very well cast, I also look forward to seeing what these actors will be doing in the coming years (hopefully no more like Coyote Ugly). All in all a fabulous movie. YAY Canada! "},{"Title":"Lesbians!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ahh... gotta love those love stories, especially if the love part is with lesbians(who are quite popular nowadays) and the story part is descent. I had high expectations for this movie and wasn't dissapointed. The story is about a girl, Mouse, who lost her mother a couple of years ago and goes to a boarding school where she becomes friends with Tori and Paulie, who happen to be in love (ahhhh...). When Tori denies her love everthing breaks apart and Paulie goes thru a major depression. The actors in the movie are good, but kuddos for Piper Perabo as Paulie, she really makes you feel the characters angst and loneless. After Coyote Ugly I never thought the girl could act, proven wrong here. Léa Pool also does a good job directing, although there are some slow scenes. Also, some scenes tend to look like sappy teen movies (like the one where a slow pop song accomponies Paulie's crying). Anyway, if you like love stories watch it, or watch it for the lesbians. $$$$ out $$$$$ "},{"Title":"not exactly lesbianism","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched the movie, it was fine. The songs are beautiful especially that 'Beautifull' by Me`Shell Ndegeocela i wonder where can i get the soundtrack album. Anyway, i just want to say one thing about this film i think it's not exactly about lesbianism. Ok, the main characters both are femaleshave a special relationship between them, but when as i watched the movie til the end, i began to understand that it's not about lesbianism. It's about relationship. And, i think, any kind of relationships will bring hurt and pain when it comes to affair. Quoting Paulie's line no, can't you see? It is Paulie loves Tori and Tori is still in love with me, and neither of us are lesbians!something like this, i can't really remember it,i come to realize that it could have been a heterosexual relationship had the one approaching Paulie been a guy instead of Tori. Paulie only needs to be loved. She doesn't care who it is as long as she has the love that she wanted to have. Only this time, it just happened to be a girl. So, again, it's not highlighting lesbianism here, it's only love. "},{"Title":"WOW--A True Independent Film, and one that actually Intrigues the viewer","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow--a good film, what I believe a good film should be, is a well told story.  We often forget that with special effects, cheap gags, cheaper women and a deluge of pretty faces with little or no acting ability overtaking the screen in place of a good story.  Good stories however still exist.Now a independent film used to be one with few if any name actors, very little to no budget, no studio backing, and something different from mainstream Hollywood.  My have the times changed.  So, it was with great pleasure that I found this film at the video store.  A film that was lauded, last year, by many critics. For a run down on the plot(my version doesn't give it away but informs you what kind of tale you're in for), you can check other reviews or look at the plot summary above, I will simply tell you what I liked, really liked about the film and it's few flaws. ***Possible Spoilers*** Mary B, our guide into the film and occasional narrator, called Mouse by everyone she tells us, is dropped off at the boarding school of her father's and step mother's choice.  This is the first time she is away from home and all the feelings one associates with that, timidity, reticence, alienation are explored through her.  She is housed with two other roommates, Paulie and Victoria. Paulie, speaks with a poet's heart.  She is audacious and fears no one except Victoria, who as the story progresses breaks off her physical and emotional relationship with Paulie.  The two are lovers and ultimately that is what the film is about.  Love at such a young age.  Getting over it. What happens when one person leaves another for reasons that have not to do with the heart but how people will accept you.  And how this will change you. Victoria dumps Paulie to cover up any embarrassment she may face at the hands of her sister, parents, and other schoolmates.  This is something that Paulie throughout the film refuses to accept.  In ways that some might feel comfortable just fantasizing about, Paulie tries to win her back.***END SPOILERS*** What I liked about this film is that it is fearless in the way it tells it's story.  Never going for a cheap moment, taking it's time to tell it's story and really getting into the minds of the characters and their setting. Not since The Adventures of Tom Sawyer has there been such a strong example of the main character not being the one introduced to the audience but one we stumble upon later.  Mary is the main character but Paulie is what the story ends up becoming about.  Paulie, her roomate, who has just been dumped by another girl in her all girl boarding school, takes over the story in the same fashion that Huckleberry Finn took over The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. Paulie, with her strong ways, outspoken manner, and her undying resolve to win the love of her 16 year old life back helps Mary tell her own story.When is the last time you saw a film where a girl walks into a library, atop the tables no less, and quotes Shakespeare to win someone who has so firmly and repeatedly pushed her out of her life.  This film is very daring and the acting is very strong.  Piper Perabo who plays Paulie was 24 when she did this film yet looks the part of a 16 year old and plays it like a young woman coming into her own. It's also a film about a girl finding her sexual identity that did not attack men to the extreme of certain  gay themed films.  And ultimately this is a film told with enough style and substance that it puts you in another place and time for a 100 minutes.  I am not a lesbian female yet I can understand and at times relate to the characters in this film and most importantly care about them.  NOW THAT IS A GOOD FILM.  It's not a story that any studio would tackle and hence it is a very good indie film. My only problems with the film are it's overuse of music.  Music to signal the viewer what they should be feeling as opposed to being a subtle part of the story.  And abrupt music cues that take away from certain scenes as opposed to enhancing them.  Then there is the narration, which though at the end of the film is at it's strongest, begins tepid like warm water for a cup of tea.  It takes some time before it comes into its own.ALL in all I rate this film 8 out of 10 and STRONGLY recommend it if you are into films that evoke what it is like to be 16 and getting over your first love.  No cheap sentimentality here.  "},{"Title":"My new favorite movie.","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is all about love.  Finally someone has realized that it doesn't matter what sex you love, it does not put the label of being straight or being a lesbian on you.  Love is just recognized as being something that is alive, something that you can't change.  Feeling the way you do about someone cannot always be helped.  Until this movie I had never seen it that way.  This movie is marvelously done and it lets feelings run free.  I think anyone would benefit from seeing it, as long as they don't automatically think, oh this is just some teenage lesbian movie. "},{"Title":"compelling","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Somewhat late night, I'm not feeling sleepy so I check the next movie that's gonna be on television. Lost and Delirious - some lesbian flick - cool... Well - this movie is more than cool. It's compelling. Charming as a car accident - you don't to watch but you just have to. So touching it moves your heart to the other side of your body.The character of Pauly is so realistic you just end up screaming at the screen while seeing her downfall. You become attached to the character that by the end of the film you just want to jump from a building, screaming lines from Shakespeare as you fall. I didn't even recognize it was the girl from coyote ugly. The only person I did recognize was Mouse who I saw in the 6th sense and in Pups and I didn't quite like her character.As someone who has not loved or lost - this movie is one of the more touching movies I got to see, and Piper is doing a fantastic job on emphasizing the pain that lies in love.10/10 - mainly because it came totally as a surprise. I expected a lesbian flick and ended up feeling depressed and eventually crying.  "},{"Title":"Good movie, Piper is awesome as usual","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I, like many others, caught this movie on HBO at about 2am.  I missed the first 40 minutes of it...but by the end, I had already ordered the DVD off Amazon.  This movie is amazing.  The passion and drama are great, and make up for what might be called weak plot lines or plot holes.  The only complaint I have is that...yes, it is a lesbian relationship, but the passion between Piper Perabo and Jessica Pare was unconvincing.  I mean, their kisses looked about as passionate and realistic as one looks when kissing their mother.  I understand they are not lesbians in real life, but the film would have been even more powerful if the audience actually believed the two were having a deep, passionate lesbian relationship in the movie.  But the movie, overall, is worth the time and money.  Oh, and Piper...will you marry me? "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good movie!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit, I rented Lost and Delirious on DVD having seen the trailer but expecting it to be one of those movies that turns out to be a disappointment.  I'm glad I gave it the benefit of the doubt, because it most definitely surprised me! This is a very well directed, tightly scripted movie with beautiful cinematography and amazingly mature acting, particularly by the very young Mischa Barton.As another IMDB user has commented, this is not so much a film about lesbians as a film about love - and what it can do to you when it doesn't work out right. There's really nothing I'd change about this film, and that in itself is the best possible comment I can give.  I rarely give out 10 out of 10 ratings, and if IMDB allowed a 9.5 this film would have received that from me.  As is, I am sorry to have to round it down to a 9, because if anything the film was better than that suggests... "},{"Title":"Lost and Delirious ** (R, 103 min.)","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mischa Barton, Piper Perabo and Jessica Pare share the screen in this powerful, but lacking coming-of-age film. Mary (Barton) is a lonely and depressed girl who has lost her mother and is now being shipped off to boarding school. She moves in with the nice and beautiful Tori (Pare), and the pleasant, but also somewhat odd Paulie (Perabo). To her surprise, Mary gradually finds out that not only are Paulie and Tori involved in a lesbian relationship, but a very fragile one, indeed. Strong, realistic performances from everyone in the cast help get the film going (and it is pretty good up until the first turning point), but it becomes seriously (and deliriously) confused after a while. Perabo's performance is good for the initial section of the film, until everything goes to hell, which just about sums up what happens to the girls' characters and the plot. "}{"Title":"A Must for Cinephiles & Romantics","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The five leading actresses were excellent. The teachers portrayed by Jackie Burroughs & Mimi Kuzyk were much more important to the core of the exuberance, inspiration, indignation, frustration, all in one fused mesh of adolescent quest for identity, of their young students, than the other comments have mentioned. The acting all the way down the credits was remarkable which means the director was exceptional. I am definitely going to see other movies by Lea Pool as suggested in these comments! I have not read Wives Of Bath by Susan Swan which the film was based on, so having said that, I confess that I still sense that the ending was not what most of us perceived it to be?!? I am the very witness to how real Lost & Delirious was... Although the poetry may have struck some viewers as dreamy &/or excessive, it is nothing short of a radical dream when you are a Catholic 15 or so year old girl & in love with another girl. The more you both perceive yourselves to be young women, the more the world around you suspects all too keenly the real nature of your passion, the more they call you immature. You are both still in High School & cannot actually move in together in the effort of having your very own rules while you must abide by the adults' code of conduct. The same adults who have gone hopelessly mad by taking every chance they get to undermine & chastise the true love  so miraculously found in the flesh of the inseparable two best friends!!!! This, my dear movie lovers, did indeed happen to me, so I know it must have happened to a lot of other teenage girls/young women... Jessica Pare was, in my humble opinion, the best performance of the three young leads. She was impeccable with excruciating details so brilliantly brought to life, we all were dying to slap her out of it, as we all surrendered to Piper's character propelled by the impetus that Jessica provided like nobody else would have done unless you start considering THE TOP NAMES EVER for that kind of an extraordinary performance. Yes, Piper & Mischa were as solid as you could wish for, but it was Jessica Pare's rendition of Victoria Torie Moller, the flawless cohesion that Mary & Paulie required. Just brilliant!!!! I emphatically recommend this movie to be shared with family, lovers & friends, all teachers & School Directors included! Oh, & yes, all I could think of was killing myself at the time of my fall with my first lover, when I was 17 or so, & oh, yes, it was indeed my Mother who saved me from myself...!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"amazing movie - it broke my heart !","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  when i first saw this movie, i could barely believe my eyes.  having just been through a 'similar' experience, i was touched by the emotional content it possessed, and the risk of the film itself.  i was in shock, thinking to myself, wow - this is a film about my life!the character, paulie is who i related to, on an intense level.  i could feel everything she was going through, and watched in pain, all the torture she experienced.  it may seem like just a silly 'teen romance' movie to some... but obviously those people have never experienced something so intense - so REAL.it truly blew me away, and i've seen it many times since that day.  it hit me in a way no movie has ever before.  and so, my comment?  amazing movie - it broke my heart ! "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I Saw this movie about 2 weeks ago on HBO and it's got to be the best teen romance movie I've seen in a long time anyone straight or not can relate to the movie. it's so sad to see how happy they are and how it all changes in about a day just because one of the girls is ashamed of the Ralationship.You can feel her pain and almost hear her heart break "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I Saw this movie about 2 weeks ago on HBO and it's got to be the best teen romance movie I've seen in a long time anyone straight or not can relate to the movie. it's so sad to see how happy they are and how it all changes in about a day just because one of the girls is ashamed of the Ralationship.You can feel her pain and almost hear her heart break "},{"Title":"Amazing..breathtaking...incredibul..top 3 of the year","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought for sure nothing would make me want to reread hamlet again. After viewing this movie I may buy the book and look at it a 2nd time. This movie is about a lesbian relationship. Paulie and terry(i think thats her name). When terrys little sister bursts into her dorm room terry is sharing the bed with paulie. Terry vehemtly denies a lesbian relationship and says she must have crawled into her bed when she was sleeping. The movie shows what this does to paulie how she can simply not go on without terry's love. I did dislike some of the beniging with the introduction of mouse or rather mary B. Its sappy crap and I thought for a secound this movie would be a sappy crappy movie ...HELL NO! Within the first 3 minutes We see a great dance scene with music from violent femmes day after day very energetic. By the way terry has GREAT BREASTS! I have seen THE GOOD GIRL, IGBY GOES DOWN and other movies that i consider amazing this year but I rate LOST AND DELIRIOUS right up there with those I may even go out on a limb and say I liked this movie better than those 2. I surely liked it better than the good girl. Anyway you DEFINITELY can't go wrong watching this film. ALL(yes all) will like it.   10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Dramatic and very good","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow!!! This movie is about 2 lesbians who live together Paulie(Piper Perabo) and Tori(JEssica Pare)...When things get too serious and real Tori dumps her and denies her homosexuality and also denies that she had any feeligs for Paulie.  Paulie then gets very depressed and tries to win her back but just makes herself more depressed and insane. This movie has some corny dialogue and over done scenes but overall its done very well and the preformances by the three leads especially Perabo are great.Something similar happened to me while back.  I had just come out of the closet and my first I fell in love with a guy but when it got too serious he denied his homosexuality and denied everything we did and totally changed. I never lost it as much as Piper Perabo's character but I still got a  lot out of this movie!   "},{"Title":"The pain of loss coalesced onto celluloid.","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like the stupid, stupid male that I am, I rented Lost and Delirious for the hot girl on girl action.  Truth be told, there is some to be had.  Both Piper Perabo and Jessica Pare are beautiful and the expression of their love physically is captured here.  Little did I know that the box of Kleenex I'd reserved for the screening would be nearly entirely used up for the rest of the film though.  This isn't a story about lesbians or outcasts or forbidden love.  It figures into the tale, of course.  After all, roommates sleeping with each other at boarding school and are then exposed to their peers are going to result in tragic consequences based on stereotypes.  But there is so much more here.  If you've ever loved someone deeply... and then lost them... and then, worse, been turned on by them and hurt so deeply as to permanently scar your soul, then you'll understand the turmoil that rages through young Paulie.  And if you're not in complete tears by the end of this film, you're simply not human. "},{"Title":"Good movie, except for the ending!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really, really liked this movie until the end came.  I hated the end of this movie!  It was completely unrealistic.  The rest of the movie was believable, at a few points it was very real to me, but the end ruined the whole thing.  I would still watch the movie again, but would turn it off before the end.   "},{"Title":"A Heartbreaking Story!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a truly heartbreaking story! Was it a real event? Even if it was only fiction, it felt very real to me. I remember that, when I was in HS, I was in love with every one of my female fellow students, but I was so cripplingly shy that I never dared to express my love to any of them. How much that memory pains me! Ever since then, stories about adolescent love have had a particular appeal for me, and this one is particularly appealing. I certainly can understand the grief of Pauline. Has the author of the original novel written anything else in a similar vein? If that is so, I encourage her to get it filmed soon, for I want to watch it.  "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wish this film would go mainstream, but I doubt it ever would.  It's truly amazing that it presents the passion and pure intensity of feelings when a person is in love, in such a lighthearted way.  I recommend that friends of lesbians see this to get an understanding of how close two women can get. This movie is a good representation of young love, and I'm just so happy that it was made.    "}{"Title":"Hunters Of Passion","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Is life still worth living when passion is irretrievably gone? A passion that filled your heart until it nearly burst, a passion that you wanted to stay forever. And so you fought against convention, you tried to ignore the rigid rules of society. But it was all in vain.There was another passion in your life, the love for a falcon with injured wings, which you saved from sure death. Now it can fly again, it spreads its wings on a high roof top, hurls itself into a new destiny. And, although you know you can't follow it, you run behind your passion and leap from the roof top, too, for you know that once it's gone it will never come back and everything else won't matter.There were people in a crowded Berlin cinema, people that admired you when they saw you jump, and they understood that you didn't want to become like your old teacher, who had once lost another passion, but who tried to live on, alleviating her grief in the inexhaustible fountain of literature.Just like we all live on, somehow, somewhere, thinking about some private passion we are running after or which we might have lost at some point of the past and which is not yet buried.  "},{"Title":"2 hours of poetry","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is a movie about love, though you may see it categorized as lesbianism by accounts that need categorize it as ... something.think only of your deepest pain of love lost.  now think it that someone had been there during your deepest feelings of tragedy, had captured it in an artistic eye's video, had provided slow motion where necessary, had accompanied the scenes with the most necessary of heartfelt music, etc, etc, had captured everything so that your pain served in solitude, and because of solitude, was not served in vain.a truly beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"I signed up for IMDb just to review this.","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is simply spectacular. No other movie has made me cry so hard before. This was amazingly done. Great filming. Great characters. Each character has a different personality that you get attached to. I can tell you right now, you will absolutely love this movie. Not even exaggerating, this made it to #1 on my movie list. This is a dramatic, romantic, and just amazing movie. There is so much symbolism in it, and so much more to enjoy. I HIGHLY recommend this movie to anyone who hasn't see it. You can feel pain for the characters in the story. I love how it is a 3rd person point of view looking at a lesbian relationship. This movie isn't even about lesbians--It is simply love. Finding love with a PERSON. I will be seeing this a second time. I give this movie a 10 for a reason. It deserves this. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lost and delirious is one of the most beautiful movies i have ever seen. You can approach to it in different ways as a tragic love story, as a metaphor of the lost of innocence (that awful moment when we realize, that our choices begin to change our lives in a way we cannot control) and as a amazing aesthetic exercise of eroticism. I think the second is the most remarkable one, because it is a metaphor of a key moment in the life of every human being. Perabo's character refuses to embrace her lover's choice and desperately tries to find way out of reality, in the idealized past of knights-hood. Her choice drives her to lost everything. "},{"Title":"May I kiss you, may I kiss you there?","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the most beautiful films I've ever seen, and couldn't help dropping some tears at the end. You might think it's just another story about a love gone bad, but it is not. Surprisingly it portrays the two main types of lovers the ones who love endlessly and to whom the absence of that pure love is just not bearable, and the ones for whom love is just a pale flower that withers and dies and not worth risking others aspects of life itself.It is very well acted, directed and paced. Furthermore it has the most beautiful love (/= sex) scenes I've seen in a picture. The soundtrack is appeasing and it contains a song by Meshell Ndegeocello that I find a true pearl, Beautiful in it's name and in sounding.Definitely a must see and... remember. "},{"Title":"Well done.  Lea Pool has become a guru of modern love.","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I would have given this film an 8, because it is indeed a good solid film with strong emotional and psychological subtext. But I gave the film a 10 because of two particular scenes where Lea Pool's dialog floored me with sage-like perceptions of love in a modern age. Additionally, I think Pool did a fine job with the story telling, and with delving into the hearts and minds of three very different young women who room together at a boarding school. It is these three young women who are the heart and soul of this Shakespearian-rooted tragedy.First, there is Paulie, played exceptionally by Piper Perabo. Paulie is phenomenally gifted, though brilliantly rebellious to the point of extreme disrespect for her elders. Orphaned as an infant, Paulie never truly felt as though she were loved. Distrustful of adults and unwilling to compromise, Paulie finds love only in the form of Tori. Tori, portrayed superbly by the awkwardly beautiful Jessica Pare, is a secretly reluctant débutante in the making, confidentially involved in a torrid affair with Paulie. Confidentially, that is, until the arrival of Mary B, Tori and Paulies' new roommate.And here is where the film actually begins, with the arrival of Mischa Barton as the sweetly naive, yet heartbroken Mary B. Mary's birth mother died from illness, and her new stepmother speaks about her as though she weren't there. Her father has sent her off to boarding school in order to make an easier start with his new wife.In fine supporting roles are Mimi Kuzyk, Graham Greene, and Jackie Burroughs. As you can see, the cast is relatively impressive for this indie fare. And, as I said before, this is a solid story, except...My only complaint, though this may be unusual to hear in the modern age, is that I don't always appreciate cinema equating sex with love. While the girls had a torrid affair, it was the friendship between them that was the foundation for their love. It would have been more appreciable if the film had started with just the two (Paulie and Tori) and the love which sprang from their friendship; then deal with the truth that their love evolved into something more intimate. Unfortunately, evolution can only go forward, and never in reverse. Trying to reverse such a process only leads to tragedy and madness, which Pool demonstrated well.Admittedly, my favorite scenes were First when these teenage girls were trying to interpret love, and Paulie (Perabo) demonstrated her exceptional understanding of the truth of love that love simply is. Second, and more importantly, was when Perabo's Paulie truly opened my eyes to a truth of alternative lifestyles. Barton's Mary B accused Paulie of being a lesbian, because Paulie was a girl in love with another girl. Paulie's response was as articulate as it was epiphanic. She said, No, I'm not a girl in love with another girl. I'm Paulie in love with Tori. This was a moment of blinding wisdom.Intellectually speaking, the film deals wonderfully with the psychological aspects of this tragedy, even though the emotional aspects of the story became somewhat confusing. All in all, it is, indeed, a solid film filled with solid performances. "},{"Title":"harmful","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a hackneyed beast of a movie, ineffectual but self-important and melodramatically sulky, fascinated with what is ultimately its own hysteric boredom. And we are rewarded with what must have seemed a sophisticated resolution, but is in actuality a negative and hopeless ending. If this was a smarter movie, I would have been down. I don't need gaylesbi propaganda. But it's not (propaganda or smart). It doesn't even deserve to be in the oftimes horrific canon of lesbian film. I don't know why this gets shown at queer film festivals. I don't know why this gets viewed at all. And I was the kind of kid who would watch anything for just a smidgen of queer content. I owned Longtime Companion, for god's sake. I was there the first day Poison Ivy came out, entranced by the weak flicker of lesbian luv between Drew Barrymore and Sara Gilbert. That movie's no more sophisticated than this one, and in reality, it's no less harmful, but I'd recommend Poison Ivy over Lost and Delirious any day. But we've got the internet now, we've got a gay guy in Mean Girls, we've got so many more options coming from both Hollywood and the ever-growing beyond. So maybe we don't have to troll the back aisles of the video store anymore. So maybe we don't have to watch quite as many horrible lesbian films.  "},{"Title":"If you didn't like it, that's quite sad.","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've just seen this film an hour ago (its something like 2am in Switzerland right now), and since have been reading some of the reviews that have been written about it. What bothered me about some of them is that there really are people out there who cannot relate to it the least bit. All it takes is a bit of good will, as with practically any film you see.One major drawback that seems to have put off quite a number of people is the symbolism the film works with. It's a bit hammy, sure, to see a hawk used as an icon for freedom in a rather blunt way; but if you take Pollie (Piper Perabo)'s point and try to identify with her, it will make perfect sense, as her character works very much on that symbolic kind of level.It shares the theme of  Dead Poets' Society (which it doesn't try to imitate, as the film is based on the novel The Wives of Bath by Susan Swan ) It tells us about the decision of an adolescent to neither give up their most profound wishes nor to simply conform with the society they live in. In this sense, these characters are younger, stronger, and capable of true, uncompromised feeling, stand very much in contrast to the average viewer, who has learned to accept defeats and to adapt to circumstances. At the same time, they can hardl live in a society intolerant to their dreams, and either break or conform.I don't know, I just think if you accept Pollie's complete commitment to her and Tory's love (of which she is deprived in one of the most painful and banal ways possible), and her spleen about poetry and symbolism, this film will work for you in spite of its many little weaknesses (which none of us spoiled viewers could have done any better). If you refuse to do that, all you do is to miss out on a wonderful story, and what could be worse? "},{"Title":"I'm sorry to say I paid money for this...","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a straight male (if it matters for this review), and I'm at the 92nd minute of this film. I wish I could get my money back. That's what I thought about 10 minutes into it.We have 2 moderately attractive aged 20-plus lead actresses (Perabo and Pare) and Mischa Barton, also attractive and about the right age, playing 16-year old prep school girls.POSSIBLE SPOILERS ahead -----Although the 2 older girls are regularly having sex and essentially profess their undying love for each other - I believe the definition of lesbianism - one of them denies it after they are surprised in bed by her younger sister. Don't tell Mom and Dad and I'm not a lesbian, and all that other hokey dialog, etc.This leads to the predictable hurt feelings and that emotional plot-point between the two now-former lovers. Now we are given everyone's impression of what love is.We have an abundance - really, really too much - of shakespearean quotes and dialog throughout the movie, which I suppose is intended to provide some weight to it. It made me cringe.We have symbolic songs, a symbolic hawk or eagle - sorry it's a raptor in the movie and even so-designated in the credits - and some (symbolic?) scenes of fencing with pointy swords and no protective eyewear.Again, most of it made me cringe.Thank God the movie finally ended just now.I'm a moderate Mischa fan - I've seen Mischa in several other movies - all weird ones...Lawn Dogs (was OK, though weird), Pups (was not OK - too much yelling) and Skipped Parts (was OK, also kind of weird), so I suppose I should not be surprised that Lost and Delirious is no real winner. I still have hopes for Mischa, however, to be in a truly good movie as she is still young.The others? I never saw them before and I have no interest in them now.If the movie had only cost $11.99, I would say bad movie, but the women are cute and some are naked at times.At $20 plus, I say bad movie, with no extras on the DVD. I do not consider subtitles and a trailer an extra.This is far from the worst movie I've seen (3-way tie between Armageddon, Happiness, and Black and White), but it is pretty low on the list of over 200 movies I own. "},{"Title":"You could get lost in it but has some real good symbolism!","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Les talk about the film `Lost & Delirious.' The movie is based on the world of teenage girls in a parochial school, and their lesbian sexual & romantic tendencies. Piper Perabo stars as the overzealous & rebellious lesbian who's tongue get her in trouble in more ways than one. The film's symbolism of free-floating raptors & animalistic nicknames does give it an intellect perspective. What was also intelligent to include was the hot lesbian love scenes. The problem I had with the movie is that at times it moved way too slow and kept me lost from its primary delirious focus. However, `Lost & Delirious' is one film that you should find at your local video store on one of those crazy nights. *** Average  "}{"Title":"A thought provoking film","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I bought this movie without really expecting much.  It turned out that I really enjoyed it.  It was a moving portrayal of 'first love'.  It doesn't matter that in the movie the love was between two girls.  I felt the heartbreak and anguish as I watched.  The acting and script were excellent. After it was over it made me think of my first love and of course the love I lost.  I would rate this an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great story, Great movie!","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the best love story I've ever seen, it moved me! just made me being eager to watch it again and again. Although homosexual is not very welcome by now, but love is love, like Paulie (Piper Perabo) said to Mary B.  ...lesbian? you think I'm lesbian? No! it's just Paulie is in love with Tory... I'm strongly agree with her, in Love, there's no gender distinguished, as Paulie said...love is, there, on the high, when looking down, it's just right there, forever... hope people not to distinguish each other if they have true LOVE. Piper Perabo, you did this amazing role, like your very own story, made me love you so much. Whoever have never seen this movie, must see, must own it! I gave 9 stars to it, and 1 star left because of Paulie is not deserve to end her life for Tory's unfaithful love. "},{"Title":"Absolute nonsense","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film starts out with seeming promise. Nice, interesting shot dynamic in the car as Mary (Mouse) describes her feelings in a voice-over filled with some forgivable cliches (it's the beginning of the movie - we're willing to be gentle at first). Then the rest of the movie happens, goes downhill, falls down, splits its head open, and lies curled up on the ground in a fetal position, all shaky and insecure and pained, for the remaining 1.5 hours.I can't remember the last time I rolled my eyes so many times during a film. The dialogue is stilted and filled with so many literary references, that anyone who's completed grade 10 English can't help but see the wires. It's as if whoever wrote the script discovered Shakespeare for the first time and decided that it would be really clever and original to litter the script with references to Antony and Cleopatra and Macbeth. Even Shakespeare can't save this film; in fact, it would have been better if they'd just kept him out of it altogether.Lea Poole's camerawork is interesting, but becomes less enthusiastic as the film continues - eventually, she just fades away into typical shot/reverse shot and medium-shot technique, and drowns the film in typicality. It seems dishonest. There doesn't appear to be an ounce of real feeling in anything that goes on, despite the fact that Piper Perabo spends a good portion of the film running around screaming and crying. (One great element of the film is that so many characters do the run off screaming thing with great aplomb - it's hilarious to see so many girls exit scenes by running frantically, flailing their limbs, and screeching. Too bad it never happens in real life).The film takes itself so amazingly seriously that it becomes more entertaining than heartwrenching. Watching certain scenes wherein the music is pulsing and pounding, the camera twirling about the characters dramatically, and the girls shouting amazingly poetic one-liners to one another, everything seems to say, This is deep, man. At one point I was fooled - I almost got caught up until I stepped back and realized exactly how absurd the situation was (hint it involves swords).The bird metaphor clubbed viewers over the head so many times that I felt the desperate urge to run to the front of the theatre with a big sign that read, The bird represents Paulie.I give the film kudos for one or two heartfelt scenes where everything seems to fall into place and ALMOST appear sincere. That is, until a marvelously bad line like, Rage more! or Don't ever touch a raptor messes everything up.Wow. So it's 'controversial' because it's about girls in love. Too bad it looks and feels like an after-school special, and utilizes a conventional, rehashed narrative. There's even a dream-catcher hanging in the window of the girls' dorm. It may be poetry, but it's bad, seventh-grader poetry.  "},{"Title":"Beware of obsessive love seems to be the only message...","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Actually LOST AND DELIRIOUS is an artfully photographed film that explores the relationships between boarding school girls, especially the two young girls at the heart of this story (Paulie, played by PIPER PERABO and Tori, JESSICA PARE). The two girls tend to look so much alike that it seems to be a casting error unless this was intentional.The newcomer to the school is Mary (MISCHA BARTON), who soon learns that her roommates are also lovers and not above making love in her presence without any pretenses. She quietly accepts the notion that it seemed alright and doesn't put up any protests. Her character actually becomes quite annoying later in the film, when she willfully accepts the free spirited ideas of Paulie and goes along with her decision to fight a duel with a boy over the girl she's infatuated with, Tori. In fact, the whole film is really the story of girls making all the wrong decisions or choices--and the sad consequences.The story is given a lilting musical background score, excellent photography and good direction, but the script really has no message to offer except that it's dangerous to become involved too deeply with a strong-willed girl who is unwilling to break off a relationship. At no cost, does Paulie intend to let her friend off the hook when she decides the relationship has to end.She goes to such extremes in many unpleasant and awkward situations that the story becomes irritating even before the final choice is made.Summing up Artistically interesting but very flawed film dealing with a doomed relationship between two not very sensible young women. "},{"Title":"100% intense!","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" omg this movie is so much like my life!!! i could really identify with paulie. i mean, who hasn't had had a girl break up with you and you go crazy and start identifying with a raptor for comfort? it's that old lesbian cliché, falling in love with the straight girl and then identifying with a raptor. the slow motion scenes were the saddest, also when paulie runs out of the room screaming. it's so sad but also beautiful because even though paulie dies, it is only then that she can finally become the raptor. she flies away from there free. forever. you've gotta be heartless not to love this movie just like i loved the girl who broke my heart SOOOOOO much!!!! "},{"Title":"Do NOT see this movie","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that would have worked if it weren't for the fact that the acting sucked as much as it did. About halfway through the film I suddenly realized that everyone in the movie acts as if they're in an action film, only there isn't any action in this movie at all. I'm sure if they just added a few explosions and gave it a WWII backdrop it would somehow all make sense. Also, there's this whole thing about symbolism in this movie that really doesn't work. I mean, what's up with the hawk? I know it's supposed to mean something but the screen writer makes it so vague that really I think you'd have to be dropping acid before watching to figure it out. Then there's the narration. Everytime the girl starts talking about her feelings down there or drinking sour milk, I feel like pounding nails directly into my skull. Really, the only people I can see watching this movie and enjoying it are horny teenage boys who aren't old enough to buy porn yet.Simply awful. -3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Grade C-","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like so many movies these days, this one's trying to be groundbreaking and provocative -- only it's all been done before.  There's nothing new about this film.  To add to that, the script is terrible -- it's the writing of an adolescent who thinks that she's being deep.  The three young leads are fairly good, but they're not given much to work with.  I was bored throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"I can't believe so many people actually LIKE this movie.","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm stunned. Just stunned. To paraphrase Oscar Wilde, you have to have a heart of stone to be able to watch this and not break out into laughter.This movies tries so hard to emulate other movies that actually worked -- mainly Girl, Interrupted and Dead Poets Society, possibly with a little Slammer Girls thrown in there -- but the end result is a laughable, pretentious, pop video gone horribly wrong.During the most heartfelt, wrenching scenes, I found myself alternately thinking, I just don't care, and wishing a large truck would magically appear and mow down one of the characters, just to liven things up a bit.Yes, I know... one can only *understand* this movie if one has truly been in love. Not just I want to spend my life with this person, but I am so consumed by love that I might as well douse myself in gasoline and set myself on fire. THAT is love. Anybody else who disagrees just doesn't GET it. That's the tone of some of the other reviews, anyway... but for most of us who made it past high school and into normal relationships, it passes. For pity's sake, IT GOES AWAY. Luckily, this movie did too.I also am a bit surprised by the adoration heaped on Piper Perabo, both for this and for Coyote Ugly. She's got GREAT teeth, this is true... but her acting is a bit of a yawn. She tries hard to be Angelina Jolie in parts of this film, but she just can't match up. Being willing to kiss another chick doesn't really equate to future Oscar winner in my book.Still, I encourage everyone to watch this movie, just so you can join me in cheering the overly dramatic end. "},{"Title":"This movie is just plain awful!!!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  **SLIGHT SPOILERS** This movie was so bad that I feel compelled to vent about it on a comment board. L & D is one of those movies that traps you with a well done trailer. Based on the trailer I decided I wanted to see it and ended up staying up until 130 in the morning when it came on cable.  That being said I'll share my thoughts... The characters were severely underdeveloped although the acting was okay. I think these actresses will be good once they've spread their wings a bit more and have had an opportunity to act in something worth acting.  I had a couple of major issues with this film starting with the numb version of what was supposed to be passion between Paulie and Tori. I couldn't feel love at all.  All I felt was the experimentation. Next was the kissing and sex between the Piper and Jessica.  These two were obviously only willing to go so far to play these roles.  Think about it...when you love someone, do you give them a lingering closed mouth peck? Or do you give them a soul searching fiery kiss?  Pay attention.... Then, we have that whole cliche symbolism between Paulie and the hawk. I got so sick of the bird and Piper's screeching and running off everywhere. I also grew tired of the poetic lines.  I mean come on, We can never ever forever be...  Who do you know who would ever say that today.  It comes across as pretentious and corny. Sickening... Moving on to the fencing.  Hint to the writer and director don't write something into the script that your actors can't pull off.  I started looking for the adhesive footsteps that are on the floors of ballroom dancing classrooms.  Every step of that choreography was visible.  Oh and leave out that dark noon duel it was pointless. Hmm what haven't I addressed.... Oh Mischa Barton.  Big change from the 6th Sense, but not enough. Her whole role in the movie was irrelevant. Plus I started pulling my hair out at the phrase Until that night... And the whole thing with her dad abandoning her and her dead mother saving her from ending up like Paulie, that was just ridiculous. So to sum it up, I regret staying up until 300 for this. Unfortunatly I am exhausted as I type this message.  For those who haven't seen it...don't. 3/10 "},{"Title":"overindulgence and pretension at its worst","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, teenagers have a tendency to take themselves far too seriously, but that's no excuse for a filmmaker to buy into the wallowing pretension of sixteen-year-olds -- not that a lack of perspective is Lost and Delirious's only problem.  From overwrought monologues (under the guise of letters to parents in absentia) to trite visual metaphors that repeatedly beat you about the head (injured falcon = our heroine, etc.), this movie is one long exercise in hamming it up.Both writer and director are equally at to blame for this piece of art-house dreck.  As for cinematography, the movie is certainly beautiful, but not nearly enough to compensate for its many shortcomings.  Rent it, spend ten minutes ogling Piper Perabo as a deliciously schoolgirl butch, and put it away.   "}{"Title":"I guess I was the one who was lost","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, now I get the point of the film.  Piper Perabo is in a relationship with Jessica Pare.  The two of them have strong feelings for one another. Jessica leaves her for a guy.  Naturally, Piper doesn't take it well.  OK, I'm probably understating it when I say, not take it well.Aesthetically, the film is well-made.  I liked the use of lighting and shadows.  The one thing I have to criticize is the score.  I know this is a sad, melancholy story, but the music sounded like it was fished straight out an ultra-melodramatic after-school special.Of course, this story seems familiar.  Shy girl is new to school and she is befriended by a free-spirited troublemaker who sheds a whole new light on her boring existence.  But even a familiar premise can be made into something decent.Now here's my problem....the central character Paulie, played by Piper Perabo.  Basically, we're supposed to feel sympathy for her throughout most of the film.  She's been burned, we're supposed to yell Oh my God and burst into tears.  The problem is Paulie, though intelligent and free, is someone I couldn't care for.  And as the film went on, I felt less and less sympathy for her.  She has so much hate inside of her and inflicts it upon everyone she comes into contact with.  She goes completely hysterical, and throws tantrums left and right.  You just want to--well, I sure wanted to--scream out Get over it!  Besides--and this thought just came to me--the romance between Paulie and Torie (Jessica Pare) isn't developed to the point, where it goes beyond puppy love.  In watching the film, I had a good idea that Paulie and Torie were very good friends and loved each other, but I never got a sense of how deep their love was.  And even though, I think Paulie was being a complete drama queen.  I'm sorry, it's just I know drama queens like Paulie personally, and seeing her just conjures up bad memories.  And getting back to her hateful self, there is one scene where she drags Mouse (Mischa Barton) into the woods and makes her let out how much she hates her father.  And finally at the climax, we have a fencing match between Paulie and Torie's new boyfriend.  That's what this warm-hearted drama was missing  swordfighting!  I was actually cheering for the guy to win!Call me shallow, but I don't understand this whole idea the movie is trying to push  the love affair between the two central characters has nothing to do with lesbianism.  In one scene Piper actually cracks a mirror in hysterical rage and yells I am not a lesbian!  Maybe I read a different definition, but as far as I know when you like girls, you're attracted to girls romantically and sexually, you're a lesbian!  And there is actually an explicit sex scene between the two girls.  I know the movie doesn't focus on lesbianism as an issue, but the characters are lesbians--no need to be pretentious about it.Lost and Delirious is well-made and well-intentioned, but the execution is mediocre.  I just wanted to punch Piper out--and when I want to punch out such a beautiful woman like Piper, that's a big deal.  This is the woman we grew to love in Coyote Ugly and Rocky and Bullwinkle!  The film ends on a depressing note, only I wasn't depressed.  If only the movie had a more likable central character, it could've been so much better!My score  5 (out of 10)          "},{"Title":"Mind-Boggling; Deep; Probably the Most Realistic Depiction of Human Behavior (Script wise,) But With Degrading Performances.","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie follows its intention rightfully, honoring its very title&#x97;Lost & Delirious. You get lost, you get delirious, and yes, just by watching the pungent storyline, pungent being the uniqueness, rather aberrant conundrum of the script. The spell gets lost, however, with debilitating performances of the cast, and particularly Piper Perabu (Paulie,) who got awry whenever it came to intense situations. The other actresses (Jessica Pare (Tori), Mischa Barton (Mouse)) didn't have very intense situations so it worked fine with them. Paulie, however, undermined the very serious notion of the movie, and while the script continued to hit audiences with vigor and might, her performance wasn't exactly congenial to it. By the way, Piper now is a wonderful and much better actress now than she was back then, so that's perfectly fine.Some very peculiar elements, like the raptor, the gardener, and the English Literature classes, and the very liberal and open-minded teacher, together with contradiction of thoughts and behaviors, for example, Victoria's recognition of intimacy with Pauline, but failure to go on with her because of family's inclinations, such as personal attitude and religious affiliations, are all very much applicable to real life, so that's a perfect insight of most high-school, and college students. And that's mainly why the movie continues to serve such profound individualistic influence amongst people so well bound under the society as a whole. And practically even, there's no way out, except private affairs, which again, come under the retaliation of conservatives, and thus, individualistic preferences are subdued with extreme prejudice for subcultures and down-the-road likenesses. The point is, Lost & Delirious tremendously inflects on subtle necessities and feelings of humans, and highlights the various turns, U-turns in fact, that cross them all, to simply relinquish possibilities of artificial success. So what it's really trying to say is that human is his own enemy. Artificiality kills the man. Our own traditions, lifestyle choices, cultures, and trends are the biggest traitors. They themselves are swords, which slowly penetrate our minds and senses to deprive us of the very happiness. Pauline, for example, is struck in awe of Victoria, and Victoria knew that her family is orthodox, but she continued the same-sex relationship anyway, but when she feared exposition, she turned away. Such is the impact of societal patterns. And I'm not being judgmental here, mind you, I'm only pointing out to the vulnerability of humans to their own decisions, but that's how it goes, and will for decades, and there's no bettering that. Not everyone is a bloody heretic.I understand that this review is being very unconventional, so much so that you wouldn't call it a review at all, but believe me, the storyline, although lacking numerous editing and refinery skills, is just heart-rending, and deliberately and undeliberately, I'm forced to take this detour, and mostly as a catharsis. It has this conscientious impact on me, and, presumably, on all of us. Lost & Delirious is the perfect vow to castigation of the very phenomenon of tranquility. Mary's dad didn't come to the school function, Paulie got f**ked by Tori, Mouse had blood rushing through her veins (probably from the third party's frolicking,) Miss Fay was over-dramatically sensual in her reading of plays, everyone else were the typical dumb and judgy freaks about how lesbian relationships are stains on society. This among several other things&#x97;probably seven deadly sins&#x97;is what Lost & Delirious devotes itself to. I'm not saying that there was nothing wrong with the movie, there sure was, but everything was in the execution and certainly not in the moralistic aspects of the movie itself. So that's the bottom-line Despite the six, this easily stands as one of the most memorable experiences I've ever had. "},{"Title":"Review From A Heterosexual Male","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had seen clips of this movie before and I was intrigued, and not just for the graphic lesbian aspect. It looked like an interesting film. After seeing it, these are my thoughts.First, for the most part, this is just a romance-genre film with lesbian elements in it, not the other way around. It's not a lesbian film with romance elements sprinkled around in it. Except, there was one scene which was completely unnecessary and should have been cut. And this scene just so happened to cater to the lesbian demographic/audience, in my opinion. Compared to the rest of the film, it really stands out like a sore thumb. (And this wasn't a sex scene.)Second, Jessica Paré gave an incredible performance! The particular personality and especially the vulnerability that she exuded far exceeded other performances in other movies which demanded a similar role. I think it would have been more than appropriate for her to have been nominated for some awards and to have won some awards.Third, the film is generally interesting. It's definitely not an action movie, but it doesn't plod around at a snail's pace like you might fear. I think the average person would not mind watching it, regardless of interest in the romance genre, regardless of gender, and regardless of sexual orientation. The clear exception to this will be if you find lesbian sexuality repulsive. (Or heterosexual sexuality repulsive for that matter - it's also present.) "},{"Title":"A Sad and Powerful Film","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie would really make you feel sad and sorry for Paulie because she is over thinking the fact Tori broke up with her just as they were found out in bed together. I mean Tori shouldve taught her sister that anyone could fall in love regardless who it is unless they were people that are extremely evil and do wrong things! Could she have not thought of that?I was so hoping that Mouse and Paulie would be lovers with each other to calm her love sickness for Tori and think about themselves. Mouse had that golden heart for Paulie and I mean they should've kissed! I would have loved to have seen that and she wouldn't have sadly committed suicide! Its just so heartbreaking, really and truly '( "},{"Title":"Sad Love Story","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really loved this movie, it was beautiful and very sad. I've never cried as much as I did while watching this movie, before. Which makes this one of my favorite movies. This movie describes how tragic it sometimes can be when other people aren't accepting of same sex love. Shows how other peoples judge mental opinions can force someone to break up with someone they truly love in fear of rejection. I think the acting was great, especially Piper Perabo's performance. The story was very realistic and made me feel the pain that Paulie felt when Tori broke up with her. I find this movie perfect and give it 10 out of 10. It's definitely a must see. "},{"Title":"Lust and Delicious","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Arguably the most beautiful girl on film ever Mischa Barton, THE O.C. Well, if you disagree, kindly e-mail me the name of your contender. Chances are it might be Piper Perabo, COYOTE UGLY. Gee, here is a movie starring both of these two, they're very young, Piper just a year older, Mischa a couple of years away from her hit series. Not only do we have three very beautiful lead actresses, Jessica Paré being the third addition, we also have a beautifully filmed, sexy movie.Mary 'Mouse' Bedford arrives at boarding school. She is a sad, loner type, so come on! Mischa's miscast! ) She is quickly befriended by Victoria, played by Jessica Paré, who likens the group to The Lost Boys, only they are the Lost and Delirious Girls. The third member, Pauline, is the wild child, and Mouse quickly finds out that there is a blossoming girlie-love relationship there. All three have paternal issues, Pauline with her mother who abandoned her (and her cold adoptive mother doesn't make up for this), Tori with her mother who humiliated her over trivialities in front of strangers, and Mouse cannot get over the loss of her mother to cancer. There is a beautiful bitter-sweet close-up of Mischa breaking down at the memory of this, leading to the other girls declaring Mouse is dead, your new name is Mary Brave. I absolutely loved the pillow fight scene, with Tori so totally coy. Mary, who comes from Rainy River, where everything is stuck in the Fifties, initially believes the two others are 'practicing for boys'. There is a beautifully- filmed girlie-love scene, quite wholesome in its innocence if you look at it objectively. Gloriously-formed natural breasts. When Tori has an open discussion with another girl in math class, her teacher, Eleanor, makes an example out of her by challenging her to complete the intricate problem on the blackboard in front of the class. This irks Paulie, and she clashes vehemently with the teacher. Next day they go out running in the woods, and find an injured falcon. Headstrong Pauline decides to take care of it. Mary finds solace in gardening, Paulie sneaks laboratory rats to her raptor in the woods. And then again climbs into bed with Tori, only to get caught out next morning when Allison, Tori's sister, and her chums come barging into the room. Tori is upset, for she knows Allison will go straight to Mummy and Daddy with this story. Now Tori avoids Paulie like the plague, despite the passionate outpourings regarding intense love. Paulie continues to take care of the raptor, and it's exactly what is bound to be the catalyst in her undoing. Paulie starts to relate to the raptor too much, seeing it as an extension of herself, or as a mirror to her shortcomings. Tori confides to Mary that she still loves Paulie, but that if she wishes to hang on to her parents' acceptance, she could never be the same goofy Tori again. Tori now finds a boyfriend and has sex up against a tree in the middle of the night, to witnessing Paulie's dismay. Mary remains a loyal friend to Paulie, despite rumors in school that she must be a lesbian as well then. Paulie points out succinctly that she is not so much a lesbian, she's just in love with Tori. There is something ominous about all that fencing, in which Paulie excels. She is becoming a bird of prey herself. Tragedy looms as cavalier Paulie challenges Tori's boyfriend to a duel. Anything more said would cause spoiling the surprise. And you do have to watch this one yourself. As the DVD box says, 5 stars. And what is perhaps the best love-making scene in mainstream filming history.I must say I expected a vastly different, if more predictable outcome. Suffice to say the surrealistic ending took me by complete surprise. But nobody could call it predictable. This is such a beautiful, gentle film, that the way I see it, the storyteller spares us the gruesome ending with this fly-away outcome. And that's not a spoiler, just enough to tell you the ending is very, very unusual.Definitely one of the best movies I've ever seen. Heart-felt, deep, tragic, ominous, engrossing, superb, awe- inspiring. I'd have been proud just to have been part of the creative process of this relatively- unknown (or at least overlooked) gem.By the way, the girl who plays Allison is REVENGE star Emily VanCamp back in her young days. Casting department outdid themselves. "},{"Title":"A sensitive portrayal of adolescent angst and love in a girls boarding school","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I came across this film whilst channel hoping and so wasn't expecting very much; however, I was soon enthralled by it. The subject matter could have easily been exploited and the filmed turned into something seedy, but instead it is a sensitive portrayal of the difficulties of overcoming loss and rejection. The fact that the two main protagonists are female is incidental to the story of love and heartbreak and tragedy that unfolds. It is very well acted by all the cast, but Piper Perabo and Jackie Burroughs deserve particular mention. The ending is poignant and heart-rending, one can not failed to be moved by it. This film is everything that Blue is the Warmest Colour tries and fails to be. "},{"Title":"Cheesy and Disappointing","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After reading reviews for this film on IMDb, I thought it sounded promising enough, and so gave it a go. As soon as the film got going I knew it was going to be cheesy, which was annoying, but I stuck with it, as I was optimistic that the storyline or a character or two might draw me in. However, this film steadily got more and more boring, the acting was pretty terrible, especially Mischa Barton, who practically wore one expression, of sadness and wisdom (which was not convincing!) throughout. There were some moments put in to be funny, mostly when the main character is talking with her gardener friend, but which were just as dull as the rest, and the teachers of the school really added nothing of value to the film. With better acting and less 'cheese', this film could have been great, but I was at the point of laughing at just how unrealistic moments in this were, and I even skipped some scenes towards the end, in an effort to simply find out how it ended(which left me unsatisfied). All in all, a cheesy and badly acted film that, disappointingly, did not draw me in in the slightest, despite having an interesting synopsis. "},{"Title":"Piper Perabo - Exceptional Performance!","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Piper Perabo gives an extraordinary performance as she becomes Pauli, using every expressive nuance imaginable to express the full range of Paulie's emotion and spirit. I'm not aware of any better effort by any actor in many MANY years &#x96; she's stunning! As Paulie, Piper Perabo puts in one of the most emotionally riveting performances of the past decade. As the lead, she perfectly displays an emotional range that is incredible given her youth. It is amazing to see how she makes each scene and emotion credible, from the highest of joy to the depths of despair and depression. To those who find it a depressing movie &#x96; that is true, it's a tragedy no less than Shakespeare's Romeo & Juliet. It is clear throughout the movie that Paulie and Tori are deeply in love; Tori demonstrates her love right through to the end when she is shaken by the realization that her true love will be no more. I have watched this movie several times, and cry every time. I'm drawn to it because of the exceptional performance by Piper. It is so sad that the movie was released to so few theaters; I believe Piper would have become a Hollywood 'A list' actor had more people seen her amazing performance in L & D!Based on what I have read about Piper, I thought she was a very bright woman in addition to being an exceptional actor. She brings her intelligence, intensity, emotional range and strong physical presence to her characters - - perhaps best exemplified by her role as 'Paulie' in 'Lost and Delirious'. It is too bad that L & D had such a limited theater release because many people did not get to see a truly remarkable performance; I can't help but think that if it had been shown in more theaters that Pipe would be among Hollywood's 'A list' actors. For anyone who thinks she is just another pretty Hollywood face, take a look at this quote from her grad school adviser (she graduated with academic awards) She is a brilliant young woman, who graduated from Honors Tutorial College (HTC), studying physics, poetry and Latin in her senior year, . . . What has impressed me the most about Covert Affairs is that Piper's intelligence, enthusiasm, energy, and quirky personality come through, he said. . . She didn't learn self-initiative from us, but we sure didn't hold her backHer coursework was certainly not an easy load, yet she excelled in spite of traveling, sometimes to New York, for auditions.You can check out the complete post at Ohio University - http//www.ohio.edu/compass/stories/ 10-11/12/piper-perabo-golden-globes-2010.cfm "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie about two girls hard love on a boarding school.","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is so incredibly powerful and important to lesbians and others all over the world. It shows that two girls can love each other the same way as straight couples. It has an amazing, moving, soundtrack that fits like the hand in the glove to the moving tale. I would recommend this movie to everyone, it's impossible not to be moved by it. A lot of lesbians may rate it less than 10 because of the ending. But I think the ending was very good and the reason you want to watch it over and over again... you want it to end differently so badly but you can't change the story. And this could happen in reality. Tough love, love of your life... first love... forbidden love... This movie is LOVE. "}{"Title":"An amazing movie... To say the least","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First off, I'd like to say this film really touched my heart. I absolutely adored it, and I love it even more as I watch it over and over again. Trying so hard to understand it even more. I think I almost completely understand the movie now. By 'understand' I don't mean just the plot... All the feelings and everything. This movie is stupendous. My favorite character is Pauly, of course. She gives the best performance. She is such a unique, different character. She is amazing for the part. One of my favorite parts of the movie is when Pauly gives a small speech about love, to the teacher. I love what she says, and totally understand it. Even someone totally against homosexuality could like this movie. It is based on sheer love. I totally love it. It's a nice, heartwarming story, and I almost shed tears watching it. Overall, L & D totally rox my sox. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lost and Delirious is easily my favorite movie, and has been for a couple of years now. I happened to find it when I was flipping through the channels in the middle of the night when I couldn't go to sleep. I figured I'd watch it since there was nothing else on, and by the end of the movie, I was in a daze, mesmerized by how stunning and beautiful and amazing the movie was. The actresses, the dialogue, the images, the cinematography, the music worked so well together and were nothing short of amazing. The music in particular is powerful and inspiring. Running by Yvet Chamberland(sp?), which is the second song that plays during the credits, gives me a feeling like no other song I know. And the story of deep, true love in this movie... aw, gets me every time. I don't understand how anyone could ever NOT like this movie. "},{"Title":"Its an awesome movie!","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" i loved the movie so much. it made me cry but I'm a very emotional person. it relates to me in many ways and i think it was so amazing. it really made me think a lot about life. it was amazing. my friend made me watch and now I'm so glad that i did. i really like it and i cant believe its a Canadian film. that makes me proud to be a Canadian.anyways everyone should see this movie. i cant stand it when people think its a stupid movie or something. i hate when people make negative comments about the girls in the movie because I'm like them.oh and don't call Mary (micha Barton) mouse she is MARY BRAVE. sorry i just really love that movie.it really is good. "},{"Title":"At sixteen everyone believes in absolutes like love ...","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The things that stood out in this movie are- the incredible courage of Piper Perabo .. there were scenes that would be quite silly but she delivers them total conviction, and it works- Jessica Pare is quite lovely and has a shyness and a sincerity about her that's touching ...One line summary Shakespearean tragedy about love .. with cute girls making out.Just my kind of movie )PS I browsed Jessica's filmography and it seems she's in quite a lot of interesting movies ... "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I will not write a long comment since so many people have already said all the fantastic things about this movie, however it is absolutely worth seeing. It's beautiful and really something that makes you think. After I had seen it, I was in a kind of shock for a while, just amazed of what I'd seen. The actors are great, especially Piper Perabo, who I didn't really like before, however in this movie she is just...wow... I know some people just hear that it is erotic and such but it's not the important thing. It has got a message about love, and really, the sex scenes are very beautiful done. The movie contains some things that at least I find very symbolic, and i like that! You can absolutely watch it over and over again without getting tired of it.  "},{"Title":"Interesting, but a little familiar","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Lost and Delirious' is a nice movie that feels a little familiar. That it does feel that way is kind of strange since I haven't seen a lot of movies that deal with this subject. The movie is about two girls that love each other and share the same room on a boarding school. One of the girls, Paulie (Piper Perabo), is willing to pull that through no matter what, but the other, named Victoria (Jessica Paré), is afraid of what others might say and think. When they are found in bed together Victoria wants to end things and Paulie can't accept that. All this is seen through the eyes of Mary (Mischa Barton), who is their new roommate.The reason why things feel familiar sometimes is probably because certain scenes are familiar and therefore predictable. At one moment Victoria has sex with a guy named Jake (Luke Kirby) and of course Paulie (and Mary) sees her. There is also a scene where Paulie faces Victoria with their problem in front of Victoria's father. You feel that these things will happen in a movie like this. Still, Piper Perabo's performance does add something to these familiar things. She is slowly losing it and makes sure we believe her.What she also does is changing 'Lost and Delirious' slowly into a thriller but when we are almost there it goes back to the tragic love story again. It is kind of interesting to see. When Paulie would go really mad, instead of just really heartbroken, this could have been a thriller with too many clichés. Instead it is a human tragedy with some clichés that could have gone terribly wrong in the end. Fortunately the movie takes the right turn, or actually no turn at all, which is the way it should go. "},{"Title":"Haunting.. sticks with you.","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie.  I was absolutely riveted when I first saw it, and the characterization is so complete that I felt as if I knew these girls.  I FELT for them, I hurt with them.  It captures that feeling of being all alone, and no one understanding, especially prevalent in the teen years. Piper Perabo's desperation is palpable. This is one of those films that keeps you thinking about it years after you saw it.  It is so haunting and touches your senses; you will never forget it. "},{"Title":"wonderful experience at night. definitely NOT a thriller!","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i saw the movie last night on tv, from 1150 pm till 135 am. not many films keep me up that late!the funny thing is in austria, that's where i live, the movie was classified as thriller, so i kept on waiting for the thrill to come until i realized, that there is something else going on in this movie - i don't know whether you know movies by jane campion -that's what the movie reminded me of subtle thrills. a story about girls ... wonderful!all three actresses were charming. does anybody know if paré got dubbed after finishing the film, since she only speaks french?i am glad, i did NOT recognize piper perabo, cause i totally disliked coyote ugly. igitt.instead i was touched by perabos acting and the story as such, especially since it was not clear if victoria was in love with pauline or simply sort of the clueless-girls.the film produced images in my thoughts during the following day, this must be a good film.  "},{"Title":"Powerful and Innocent","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know what I was expecting. Possibly a badly done coming of age story? I got the opposite of that. Yes, it is about the love of one woman for another, but more than that, it is a raw and powerful love story. We get to see their relationship through Mouse's (Mary B) eyes. The film's passion and desperation spirals faster and faster and I for one, was left breathless in the end. My heart broke just a little. It's well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Very good one","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the movie a few months ago.  Very good one.  I really liked the sequences turned in slow motions (like when Tori tells her sister she's not lesbian and she start crying after that).  All about how everyone see you. It's not the kind of movies a bunch of guys together would listen.  I looked at it alone but really enjoyed it.  I was raised near the filming location, it's cool ! "}{"Title":"WOW--A True Independent Film, and one that actually Intrigues the viewer","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow--a good film, what I believe a good film should be, is a well told story.  We often forget that with special effects, cheap gags, cheaper women and a deluge of pretty faces with little or no acting ability overtaking the screen in place of a good story.  Good stories however still exist.Now a independent film used to be one with few if any name actors, very little to no budget, no studio backing, and something different from mainstream Hollywood.  My have the times changed.  So, it was with great pleasure that I found this film at the video store.  A film that was lauded, last year, by many critics. For a run down on the plot(my version doesn't give it away but informs you what kind of tale you're in for), you can check other reviews or look at the plot summary above, I will simply tell you what I liked, really liked abou t the film and it's few flaws. ***POssible Spoilers*** Mary B, our guide into the film and occasional narrator, called Mouse by everyone she tells us, is dropped off at the boarding school of her father's and step mother's choice.  This is the first time she is away from home and all the feelings one associates with that, timidity, reticence, alienation are explored through her.  She is housed with two other roomates, Paulie and Victoria. Paulie, speaks with a poet's heart.  She is audacious and fears no one except Victoria, who as the story progresses breaks off her physical and emotional relationship with Paulie.  The two are lovers and ultimately that is what the film is about.  Love at such a young age.  Getting over it. What happens when one person leaves another for reasons that have not to do with the heart but how people will accept you.  And how this will change you. Victoria dumps Paulie to cover up any embarrassment she may face at the hands of her sister, parents, and other schoolmates.  This is something that Paulie throughout the film refuses to accept.  In ways that some might feel comfortable just fantasizing about Paulie tries to win her back.***END SPOILERS*** What I liked about this film is that it is fearless in the way it tells it's story.  Never going for a cheap moment, taking it's time to tell it's story and really getting into the minds of the characters and their setting. Not since The Adventures of Tom Sawyer has there been such a strong example of the main character not being the one introduced to the audience but one we stumble upon later.  Mary is the main character but Paulie is what the story ends up becoming about.  Paulie, her roomate, who has just been dumped by another girl in her all girl boarding school, takes over the story in the same fashion that Huckleberry Finn took over The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. Paulie, with her strong ways, outspoken manner, and her undying resolve to win the love of her 16 year old life back helps Mary tell her own story.When is the last time you saw a film where a girl walks into a library, atop the tables no less, and quotes Shakespeare to win someone who has so firmly and repeatedly pushed her out of her life.  This film is very daring and the acting is very strong.  Piper Perabo who plays Paulie was 24 when she did this film yet looks the part of a 16 year old and plays it like a young woman coming into her own. It's also a film about a girl finding her sexual identity that did not attack men to the extreme of certain  gay themed films.  And ultimately this is a film told with enough style and substance that it puts you in another place and time for a 100 minutes.  I am not a lesbian female yet I can understand and at times relate to the characters in this film and most importantly care about them.  NOW THAT IS A GOOD FILM.  It's not a story that any studio would tackle and hence it is a veyr good indie film. My only problems with the film are it's overuse of music.  Music to signal the viewer what they should be feeling as opposed to being a subtle part of the story.  And abrupt msuic cues that take away from certain scenes as opposed to enhancing them.  Then there is the narration, which though at the end of the film is at it's strongest, begins tepid like warm water for a cup of tea.  It takes some time before it comes into its own.ALL in all I rate this film 8 out of 10 and STRONGLY recommend it if you are into films that evoke what it is like to be 16 and getting over your first love.  No cheap sentimentality here.  "},{"Title":"Quite realistic","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  We would prefer that life not have the difficulties in this story but unfortunately they do exist, as far as I know. The only thing that I have difficulty believing is that a woman as young and beautiful as Pauline would have such difficulty finding someone to love and appreciate her.A major theme of this movie is the intolerance and lack of understanding of the relationship the two young women have.One thing that is confusing to me is that I think in the beginning of the movie the third woman is assigned to share the room with the two other women. I don't think she volunteers yet later in the movie she seems to act as if she volunteered. So you might want to watch the beginning carefully to see if it is different from what I remember.  "},{"Title":"STARTS OUT WELL, BUT....","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lost and Delirious starts out well, but it eventually grinds to a halt and the movie never recovers.This movie doesn't know what it wants to be. A forbidden love story? A satire about insanity along the lines of The Ruling Class? A film about personal discovery? It is all of these things, but it lacks two things 1) a director who could pull off a multi-level film, like Robert Altman or Paul Thomas Anderson and 2)a well written script.I'm not saying Lost and Delirious is a bad movie. In fact, despite my reservations, you should see it for one reason and one reason only Piper Perabo.Perabo is an actress who I think has great potential. She had a promising start in the indie flick Whiteboyz. But Hollywood has squandered her talent in a bunch of dumb, undemanding roles such as Coyote Ugly.In Lost and Delirious, Perabo has the role of her career as Paulie, a young woman on the verge of insanity after a romance with another girl fizzles. Perabo invests the character with warmth and sensitivity and you can't help but like her.The film had some controversy for its' lesbian scenes, which are explicit without being sleazy. However, just because I said they are explicit doesn't mean it's a T&A fest; if that's what you want, rent Showgirls or Red Shoe Diaries.Aside from Perabo's performance, there really isn't all that much that stands out. Graham Greene is wasted in what could have been a wonderful role as the genial caretaker. Aside from her rack getting substantial airtime, Jessica Pare isn't given much to do, which is a shame because she also has great potential (see Stardom)as an actress. The story tries to be The Ruling Class meets Nashville, but it doesn't have the satire of the former and the power of the latter to fully succeed. With a rewrite and a skilled director, this could have soared.**1/2 out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Flawed but important film","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bravo to a film unafraid of tragic consequences. Better than any other  teen angst movie I've seen. The script suffers from some major plot holes, but the characters and performances overcome these weaknesses. Piper Perabo is especially excellent.Warning this is a very mature movie "},{"Title":"A captivating, and touching story... just wonderful!","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love is love.It comes in all forms, but to truly love someone just because of who they are and not what they are is truly breath taking and amazing, even touching. Lost and Delirious is a story of love, and the pain that may occur while being in love. If there's anything one could gain from this incredible story of heartache is just be you because either way someone loses the battle and can no longer fight the irrational. Piper Perabo is absolutely superb! You can feel Paulie's pain, which may make one contemplate the deepest feelings of the ultimate tragedy... love lost...Piper Perabo's best performance to date! "},{"Title":"Four Stars and a 10 Rating","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lost and Delirious is a superbly made film with rare sensitivity, excellent acting, perfect cinematography, and sensitive subject matter, and deals with it perfectly, intelligently and with great sensitivity. Love, sex, fear, jealousy, betrayal, abandonment, rage, and grief are all portrayed so well by the writers and the cast. I LOVED every minute of this film. I am not gay or lesbian, and this is one fine film. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Good performances sustain a cliche-filled movie","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lost and Delirious is filled with symbolism of the beat-you-over-the-head variety--injured bird that heals and flies free, Shakespeare soliloquies on love, hate, rage, etc--but nevertheless, this tale of two young lovers at an all-girls boarding school is made watchable by the performances of its three stars. Perabo's entire performance feels something like a bad imitation of Angelina Jolie in Girl Interrupted, but she perfectly captures the pain and anguish of breakup.  Jessica Pare is excellent as Tori, the girlfriend who is caught between her love for Paulie (Perabo) and the expectations of her conservative, religious parents.  As Mary/Mouse, the younger roommate through whose eyes we see the movie, Mischa Barton is outstanding; watch for her in the future. In spite of the excellent performances, the film amounts to little more than a slightly controversial Lifetime movie; the girls can't rescue the script. Barton especially deserves better than the self-conscious and pseudo-deep voiceovers which constitute the majority of her lines. "},{"Title":"BEAUTIFUL","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Waw, this movie is so good. Really beautiful love story beautiful poetry. If you liked romeo & julliet, you'll dig this. "},{"Title":"Awesume and refreshing forget Hollywood molds this is the film that breaks barriers","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie that will make you hurt and feel the pain of real love. Refreshing and different and under estimated. Piper gives a perfromance that's haunthing and unforgetful.  There may be times when the movie looses its line but never its story.  Wonderful! Rage  More! "},{"Title":"Quite a good, entertaining film","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, there were some faults in this film. I found the ending weak and some subplots were dropped.However, I really liked the film. It was very well acted, particularly by the three rising stars that formed the nucleus of the film. It was beautifully filmed, Bishop's University looks like an amazing place to visit.What was also interesting was, although the film was clearly set in the present day, so much of it seemed to be set in the 1950's, particularly the morals and social attitudes. Some may find fault in this, i would imagine that there is more than a little truth in this in many private schools, where conservatism perhaps rules.Probably the closest I've seen to this film are the films of Patricia Rozema, particularly When Night is Falling (1995).Well worth a watch! "}{"Title":"A Amazing Movie About Love","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a beautiful movie about love and the pain in which love can cause. The movie also shows some extreme measures that a person will go through to get a loved one back. I found the movie very enjoyable to watch and the music made me get that warm fuzzy feeling all over. It's defently worth watching ) "},{"Title":"A film","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An excellent piece, it moved me. It shows that love is not bound to any gender rules. Love between lovers is love between 2 souls. and souls are sexless.  I was still thinking about the movie hours after it ended. "},{"Title":"A Delightful, Sensitive Story","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a delightful, sensitive story is told through the movie Lost and Delirious. The plot centers on the love of one female, boarding school student (Perabo) for another (Pare) as seen through the eyes of a third, younger student (Barton). All three main cast members, Piper Perabo, Jessica Pare, and Mischa Barton give outstanding performances with Perabo's being worthy of Oscar mention. Watch for Mischa Barton in the future. This young lady hold much promise. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film deals very well with the issue of teenagers growing up in a strange environment and conveys very well the thoughts and feelings experienced.  The main characters act their parts very well and put forward in a very clear way the thoughts, feelings and emotions conveyed in the film. "},{"Title":"Rare Truth in a World of Lies","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rarely have I seen anyone brave enough to bring truth into the public eye as did all those who helped bring this movie unto the world.  I thank everyone of them.  It is nothing short of a tragedy that most shall never experience this film, for the beauty, passion and raw truth encompassed in it's frames are more than I ever though possible.  Daring enough to expose the true nature of love and passion, how addicting it can be.  Like a drug, it can consume you from the inside.  It overwhelms everything, becomes an obsession.  It can become the reason to breathe, and without it, life has no purpose.But people don't want to hear that.  They don't want to know how shallow their love is, they want to believe that true love is saying i love you everytime you leave.  They don't want to believe the truth, that they have never experienced maddening love, that all consuming, passionate, primal, real sensation, what it really means to love someone, for them to be your everything.  It is those people that will turn a deaf ear to the film's heart wrenching truths.  They will pass it off as hoaky, overly dramatic or just as a lesbian film.  But make no mistake, it is none of those things. It is art.  It is truth.  It is a gift to any who have the courage to face it.My meager words cannot possibly do it justice.  I can't even begin to express how deeply this film has affected me.  It made me remember what it feels like to be alive, to feel your blood flow through your veins, to know that chaotic, destructive, wonderful, perfect love.  It makes me want to live more. "},{"Title":"Tender and romantic","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  To be frank, this movie has all the elements of a common male fantasy come to life--schoolgirl lesbians--and with the unabashedly erotic scenes thrown in, it's hard to ignore the fact that many will see Lost and Delirious as that.Fortunately, this movie has a real heart and soul, and by the time the credits role, there's no doubt that the story is about relationships, not sex. Also, much like the Wachowski brothers movie Bound, the fact that the characters are lesbian becomes basically irrelevant, and we feel the emotions of people, not sexual stereotypes.For me, that is what made this movie. While the dialogue is a little overdramatic (and in a love story, how can it not be?), the performances come across as very genuine, and it is easy to be swept up in the lives of bad-girl romantic Pauline (Perabo), her girlfriend Victoria (Pare), and roommate Mouse (Barton). Anyone who has been madly in love with someone will recognize the emotions that play out in this movie, and will appreciate the way they are put to the screen.The film also touches on obsession, depression, imagination, and conservative social attitudes, as themes that seem to accompany love affairs that skirt the conventional. It is gentle but dark, joyous and sad. This gives the movie a healthy depth that gives it credibility and keeps it hoisted well above the teen sex genre.I rate it a 7/10, and definitely recommend it if you're into romantic tragedies. "},{"Title":"No special effects, but true to life.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the best movie I've seen this year. Finally a story that isn't superficial and full of special effects. The plot isn't that complicated, but all actors and actresses perform excellently. No need to say that they're all casted very well. They also acted true to life. I liked the interaction between the different characters. The sets (the old school and the woods) we're perfect for the story-telling. Also the soundtrack helps to create a very nice and magic atmosphere. I highly recommend this film! "},{"Title":"See it for Piper","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  See this movie for the Sexy Piper Perabo. Otherwise you should avoid it. If you like Lesbian (with a nude Piper) drama then this is for you. She is wonderful in it. I can't say much for the rest of the cast but trust me, Piper is the next big thing. "},{"Title":"One of the BEST!!! =)","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was a really really great movie!! I LOVED IT!!! ) ) It was one of the best movies i've seen all year, and in a long time.Piper was AWESOME in it!! She did an amazing job! ) You really get to see how great of an actress she really is! )Everyone should go out and see it! You won't be disappointed! ) "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an amazing movie and has the potential to remind the movie industry of why people invented movies. In this era of pre-canned studio blockbusters, it's very easy to forget that this is supposed to be an art form. This is the best movie I've seen since Memento, which is the best movie I've seen since Romeo + Juliet. "}{"Title":"magnificent","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i just saw this film tonight and i was blown away. first of all the acting of this young girls was brilliant. they were powerful and evocative. this directer has some real talent and potential. the emotion it evokes is so amazing. i was crying and the movie hadn't even reached the mid-way point. plus anyone following ani difranco's career may find the use of one of her songs MAKES THE MOVIE. i think i may have to own this film... "},{"Title":"Ignore the Hype, Enjoy the Movie","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, the poster shows some nubile young things wearing school uniforms with short skirts. Piper Perabo is in some lesbian scenes? Bring it on!But this is a very well made picture, filmed on a low type Canadian budget, entirely on location at a school in Quebec. Remarkably atmospheric and Piper Perabo turns in a magnetic performance. Give me Piper over Angela Jolie any time (this role begs certain comparisons to Girl, Interrupted). The supporting actors are wonderful and the sexual interludes are never exploitative, they're an organic part of the story. I forgot where I was for a while, I haven't had that feeling at a movie for a long time. This film will please the discerning fan of any gender, young intelligent females, but men looking for T&A will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Art","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are some who would see this film as nothing more than a portrayal of doomed lesbian love, and an exploration of young romance.  But these are the ones who do not look closely enough.  For in Paulie's riveting dramatic line we find one of the film's key points.  In response to Mary B's use of the word lesbian, Paulie says, Is that what you think I am?  I'm not a lesbian! I'm PAULIE in love with TORI!  And this is what the film means to say. It is not about doomed lesbian lovers at all.  It is not about youthful experimentation.  It is about what happens when two lovers, two kindred spirits, grow apart - or fall apart - and an exploration of what happens when you are not the one who does the growing. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I could go on forever about how well done,well acted,well directed this movie is.But all I can manage to say is that it is AWESOME.You really could feel what they were going through, it wasn't about the fact that they were lesbian or even that they were young, it was the fact that love lost is painful and sometimes forever,no matter what the situation is. "},{"Title":" A love story in the truest sense of the words","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lost and DeliriousThis is one of the best premieres I've seen in a very long time. Mouse is a shy, withdrawn young woman who is being banished to boarding school. In an effort to bring Mouse out of her shell, the headmistress assigns her to live with the most dynamic women in the place Pauline, the freewheeling embodiment of extroversion and Tory, the self aware beauty who thrives in Pauline's shadow.  Mouse soon becomes party to a secret shared by the duo, that, if it were discovered, could destroy everything that they hold dear, especially one another.Lost and Delirious has been tagged as a lesbian film.   Exactly what that is I'm not quite sure.   What I do know is that this film is about love, passion and all that can go wrong when these emotions are inflamed and then denied.  When the lovers are forced apart, the pain of rejection is devastating.   The fact that the main characters happen to be women makes it no less so, indeed you could argue it is worse, as few men would be so courageous and take such a risk with their emotions, regardless the nature of the relationship.Piper Perabo, looking very different than she did as the ditzy cute girl in Coyote Ugly is given the opportunity to show that she can handle a dramatic role, and acquits herself well - I was quite impressed.  Perabo's character is over the top throughout the film and refreshingly so - conventions don't exist for Polly who refuses to subvert her emotions, choosing instead to revel in them.   Jessica Pare meanwhile is amply subdued as Tory, a young woman so terrified of flouting convention that she sacrifices a love that she knows she will never find again.  I found it physically painful to watch as Pare slowly drives the wedge between her and Perabo's character.  Mischa Barton is indispensable for it is through Mouse's eyes and ears that we are able to watch the story unfold without prejudices.  As her character grows, so does the film. Finally, I enjoyed Graham Greene's role and wish they had made more use of his character.The script, although choppy in a few sections, flowed well and kept my attention, something few films manage to do these days.  It was also refreshing to hear a soundtrack that both meshed well with the action on screen and lacked any techno or rap music - not that I don't like them but they've been so overly utilized as of late that they've become stale.  I also appreciated the simple cinematography, which managed to convey more through its subtlety than serious films with ten times the budget.  My only qualm with the film is the ending, which, although I understand the why, I wish hadn't happened.If a heart beats in your chest, you will appreciate this film.  "},{"Title":"Poignant, strong lovestory","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This story will stay with you long after you leave the cinema, it's a strong poignant story about love, it's been described as a lesbian movie by those with the need to make a category for it, but essentially it's about love and friendships. Overacted in a grandiose sort of way by Piper Perabo who panders to a melodramatic script, superb understated performance from Mischa Barton who really holds on to the misgivings of the shy character 'Mouse' and brings balance and depth to the film. You can't take your eyes off Barton...go see this "},{"Title":"Uncompromised portrayal of a deep, deep passion.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tells the story of a young girl who moves into a boarding school, sharing a room with two girls who turn out to be lovers. When one of the lovers decides she doesn't dare continue the relationship, the other girl tries desperately to win her back.   This would be an easy film to ridicule, for its symbolism and earnestness in an age when everyone thinks they're ironic and worldly, but I really appreciated that very earnestness. I really appreciated this uncompromised portrayal of a deep, deep passion.  "},{"Title":"Conflicted Emotions regarding a film about conflicted emotions","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT.Many people are really going to react against this lovely story, believing that the director and writers feel that young lesbian love is doomed.  I see that point, but still like the movie and the performances.  And the pain of a lost love can make you feel that desperate measures are in order, as Paulie feels in the movie.My real gripe isn't that doom surrounds the girls, but that the film is set in the present day, and people seem more tolerant than this film suggests.  Of course, what do I know, I'm a straight male.  My other real gripe is that the faculty of this school, knowing perfectly well what is going on, takes no effective measures to break the girls up (they remain roommates after their split) or to protect Paulie from herself and to protect others from Paulie.  It strikes me as very unrealistic that the headmistress would do nothing more than a little office counseling with a suggestion that the girl seek help.  Help would be right there in the person of the school nurse and/or doctor.  And frankly, the girl got out of hand enough that her parents would probably have been brought in and maybe even have been required to remove her from school.Tragedy needn't have happened in quite this way.  Neverthelss, I disagree with the notion that Victoria is rewarded for going straight.  She remains very conflicted and is clearly fooling herself by having sex with a not so nice boy.  I still like the movie, and think it had some interesting things to say about love, devotion, mothers, and learning to know yourself.  "},{"Title":"Excellent and thought-provoking movie.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  ---There may be some spoilers in here---Let me clear some things up right away I am a man.  I am straight.  This is a good movie.Anyone who thinks that this is just a return to the bad old days of the doomed lesbian love story is a halfwit, either unable to think or simply unwilling to.  As Pauli says, I am not a lesbian...I am not a woman in love with another woman, I am *Pauli* in love with *Tory*.  Which I think is really the only important fact worth discussing.  That it *is* a tragedy only makes the issues more real -- it is in tragedy that we are most often forced to truly confront the issues before us.Lost and Delirious is well made, if not exceptionally so.  It is not the epitome of the filmmaker's art.  Piper Perabo tends to overact, and frankly, though most of the acting is good, none of it is spectacular.  But on the whole, this is a movie with depth, whose characters' confrontations with themselves forces the audience to confront the questions What is love?, How do you deal with rejection? "},{"Title":"One of the year's best films","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In reading over some of the other comments here, it is clear that there are both political and sociological issues involved in this film.  I want to address them, but lets get the basics of film comment out of the way.This is a beautifully made film that is exceptionally well acted and well directed.  Major cudos to the director Lea Pool for turning out one of the best dramas of the year, and to her three young stars as well.  Mischa Barton, Jessica Pare and especially, Piper Perabo turn in riveting performances.The movie seems never to sound a false note, with the possible exception of the idea that a school today would let Paulie get so far out of line in light of today's liability issues.  In a nation where kids get suspended from school for carrying fingernail clippers in their bags, walking into the cafeteria with a sword would probably get the attention of the school adminstrators and their lawyers as well.But there are serious issues at stake in this film and I want to address them.  I am a man and straight. That's where I'm coming from.  Some gay viewers were apparently offended by the story line which they took to claim that all lesbian romances end tragically.  For me, it wasn't really a story so much about sexual orientation as it was about young love and how that can take over people's lives. It was about the feeling that this first love is the most important thing in their lives and that they will never get over it.  That may be an over simplification, but it seems to sum up the story. Paulie could be male or female and the devastation he/she feels when he/she is dumped would be no different.A few others seem angered that she engages in over the top behavior, even going to the outlandish lengths of finding real meaning when reading Macbeth.  That, folks, was the point of the whole movie.  Someone in love went looking for guidance in great literature, and found models that showed her that desperate times require desperate measures.  The end results, of course, were bad, but that doesn't mean that people don't have those feelings.  They do.The film told that young woman's story and told it beautifully. "}{"Title":"Piper Perabo Takes Flight","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Still grieving the death of her mother, fresh-faced teenager Mischa Barton (as Mary Brave Bedford) is sent to a boarding school, in beautifully landscaped Canada. The young lass quickly discovers Lesbian sparks are flying between her attractive young roommates - free-spirited Piper Perabo (as Pauline Paulie Oster) and busty look-alike Jessica Paré (as Victoria Tori Moller). The gal pals take center screen as Ms. Barton serves as semi-omniscient narrator. The character commanding our attention is played by Ms. Perabo; she finds Ms. Paré drifting into another relationship, with a hetero young man from the nearby boys' school... Her relationship is ending, but Perabo won't let go... If you're wondering, there is an arousing girl-on-girl love scene between Perabo and Paré. Though they are playing underage, the actresses are old enough. Enjoy. A later sex scene, between Paré and boyfriend Luke Kirby (as Jake Hollander), is a contrasting bore - likely showing where Léa Pool's sympathies lie. The director does well, eliciting good work all around, and taking advantage of the gorgeous scenery. The story is engrossing, until a certain character goes Shakespearian bat-crazy. Better make that swashbuckling falcon-crazy. The ending can be uplifting, or a downer. For me, the duel jumped the shark.***** Lost and Delirious (1/21/01) Léa Pool ~ Piper Perabo, Jessica Paré, Mischa Barton, Jackie Burroughs "},{"Title":"A lesbian love story?  Not necessarily.","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Fourteen year old Mary 'Mouse' Bedford (Mischa Barton) has been in a downward emotional spiral since the death of her mother three years earlier. Her father quickly remarries, which she resents, and her stepmother whisks her off to a posh, girls boarding school; something her real mother would never have done.Upon arrival, Mary is warmly greeted by Miss Vaughn (Jackie Burroughs) who introduces her to senior student Victoria 'Tori' Moller (Jessica Pare), one of Mary's new roommates, who helps her settle in. Only minutes later Mary abruptly encounters the rebellious Pauline 'Paulie' Oster (Piper Perabo), another senior who will also be her roommate.Later, in their dorm, the three girls spend their first night together and quickly bond while orally composing letters to their mothers. Mary deeply misses her mother (sometimes even forgetting what she looked like) and strongly resents her stepmother for sending her away. Tori hates her mother for trying to mold her into the 'model' daughter. Her rich parents are very strict, traditional, and religious, yet she also respects, admires, and needs them. Paulie is not close to her adopted parents. Her letter is her first contact with her 'blood' mother whom the adoption agency has tracked down.Later that night, Mary wakes up unable to sleep and discovers that Paulie and Tori are not in their beds. She looks out an open window and sees them kissing on a roof. Initially naive, she thinks perhaps they are 'practicing' for boys. Very soon however, Mary realizes that Paulie and Tori are lovers when she wakes up one morning and sees them naked together in bed. This doesn't seem to phase the three girls very much, and they form an even deeper friendship which goes beyond sexuality.Paulie and Tori truly love each other, but their love is soon put to the test when a younger student (Tori's sister) bursts into their dorm one morning and catches Paulie and Tori in bed together naked. With the affair revealed, Tori panics and ends the relationship fearing that her parents, family, and friends will frown upon and disown her. Paulie is devastated and has a nervous breakdown. In the meantime, Tori convinces her sister that she's not 'like that' and starts dating Jake, a boy from a nearby school who likes her, in order to establish a 'heterosexual' reputation.It doesn't help matters much either when Paulie receives a letter from the adoption agency informing her that her biological mother has no wish to meet her in person. Paulie then goes to extreme and desperate measures to try and win Tori back, which unfortunately leads to tragedy.Lost and Delirious has very little or almost nothing to do with lesbians or being gay. It is a very passionate, emotional, and finally tragic coming of age story of first love and love lost. It shows us the extremes to which one will potentially go in order to try and hold on to that love or win it back when it is threatened or cannot be. It also shows us how fear can cause us to give up true love when the nature and circumstances of that love may be deemed perverted or scandalous by society. "},{"Title":"good technical production values","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" FINALLY we are getting some cdn films with decent production stds, IE the technical stuff like sound quality, continuity, props, etc etc.which help this film.one reason is the heavy Quebec involvement. what you have to realize is Quebec is very protective and a good guardian and guide of its culture incl art, music and film. unlike the lazy rest of canukistan which relies on the amateurish English division of CBC and then mostly defaults to buying American stuff. lots of which is entertaining and utterly irrelevant to the Canadian situation.but not so this film.Misha Barton went on to do the successful OC and it was nice to see Graham Greene (the gardener) in this one. also Jackie Burroughs is a very long well known cdn actress.its a rather good film with a bit of 'tit'illating lesbian sex.curiously the lesbian teen lead actresses physically resemble each other.I liked the stuff with the raptor. I think it was a hawk. "},{"Title":"A tragic tale of forbidden love...","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lost and Delirious is like Romeo and Juliet in the 21st century (as far as forbidden love stories go).Two girls fall in love and lose everything trying to conform in a narrow-minded society.This movie will shock you with its brilliance, move you with its honesty and charm you with its beauty.As good if not better than Blue Car.Trust me... watch this, discover true love and life will never be the same again.10 out of 10 forever. "},{"Title":"Beautiful.","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I fell in love with this movie the very first time I saw it. i could identify with all three characters and knew someone exactly like them. I enjoyed every performance, but I was especially moved by Piper Perabo's portrayal of Pauline Oster. Her acting was beautiful and incredibly touching. I cried through most of the movie because her pain just seemed so real. I could feel it. She was truly in love with Victoria and was willing to go to any lengths to receive that same love in return. Paulie was not afraid to love, so why was Victoria? And I didn't see the end coming. And i cried after that. This movie was beautifully shot, beautifully directed, and beautifully acted. I hope that if anyone comes across it, they'll watch it. "},{"Title":"Very intriguing but sad.","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was pretty good but at the same time it was pretty sad.The movie is about a young freshman girl named Mary who enters into a boarding school for girls. She rooms with two other roommates, Pauline and Victoria. After settling end with her new best friends she suddenly realizes that both women are really lesbians and are in love with each other. But Mary, being the good sport she is, excepts their love, keeps their little dirty secret, and stay remaining friends. Suddenly the two lovers get caught and soon Victoria second thinks her little love fling with Pauline and decides to break off the relationship indefinitly. But Pauline doesn't feel the same way and suddenly she goes into the break of desperation and insanity. Will Pauline ever convince Victoria to except who she is and get back her love? Or will she lose Victoria forever and at the same time lose her mind? "},{"Title":"Me' Shell Ndegéecello sums it up in this film, Beautiful.","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ****This review may Contain Spoilers****After watching this at 200 AM I could barely contain myself. Sleep seemed so far away, my mind was racing with flashes of emotion. My heart ached for Paulie and Tory. Only a handful of films have ever really affected me emotionally, and this is one of them. I really felt for the first time that 2 characters were truly in love, and that love has no boundaries. Age, race, religion, or sexuality make no difference. A truly romantic film, with heavy (but required I think) symbolism, and some excellent music. Great Acting, especially by Perabo as the eccentric and honest Paulie. Pare makes a dazzling turn as P's curious but confused lover Tory. Unfortunately her character is relegated to the back of the script line towards the end of the film. This does leave a lot of unanswered questions, is Tory devastated? Does she leave Jake? Will she ever love again? Barton shines as the mousy Mary B. She is the perfect bridge between the lovers, complementing each in some subtle way. Although, to be fair I really never thought of Mary as the main character, despite Miss Pools' attempt to make her that. Jackie Burroughs and Mimi Kuzyk also make great, believable performances. I have read most of the comments for this film, and have to disagree with most about the music, particularly the score. It is a wonderful thing, sure it's a lot of synth. But film music is supposed to complement the film, work with it. Not overpower, or disappear. Chamberlands' score is very effective, he creates solid themes for all aspects of the film. Amazing, sweeping work that made my heart soar. The song track for this film albeit short was also excellent. Beautiful by Me' Shell Ndegéecello not only made the love scene beautiful, it made the whole film beautiful.I hope that I will see more films like Lost & Delirious in the future. I want to lose myself and live someone else's life through film, if even for a moment. And this is what happened to me. For a second I was young again, naive, and full of hope and love. "},{"Title":"liberal","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" on the best, love this movie. It is I think a great lost love/ kick ass/ hot girl movie. unless you are say 80 or think like a 80 yr. old you will like this movie. also Barton's character brings a warm feel to a bad situation. A movie for the rebel inside us. Don't be alarmed by the slow beginning or the tranquil setting. This is what makes this movie special. It drags you in slowly and makes you believe that it will be one of those chick flicks then after all the tear jerking is over, it hits you in the head with reality of how people regard things outside the main stream. All the hate is fought by a brave soul who knows whats right. The hero of the show, transforms from a broken hearted puddle to how we should all expect in life. Fight for happiness. "},{"Title":"Shock!","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This a very good movie, i think. I just remember it today when i started to read an article about Misha Barton in a magazine. She is now in the popular drama series The OC. I like it. It's really cool. Anyway, i was reading about her and suddenly i recognize from her filmography, the familiar picture of the movie, i started to think 'why it's so familiar to me?' And then i got it! I was in shock when realize, that Misha Barton was playing in that movie!!! Oh my god!'That can't be'!When i first, four years ago,went to the premier of that movie with my friends, we didn't know, what movie was about,but then we realized that the movie was about lesbians. But it was so emotional. Really. It was like not ONLY about them. There was so much more.After the movie, my friends and i, were discussing, which character we liked the most. Everyone was saying about 'mouse'. "},{"Title":"What a film!!!","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was completely enchanted by this film. It's the most wonderful film I ever watched. The feelings are true and real and not artificial at all. Paulie went straight to my heart and I was running with her through the woods. It's the feeling of being free and captive at the same time. You cannot choose whom you love and how you love, you simply love and all your life is focused to this love. You can fly like the bird. But the bird has broken wings at the beginning of the film and gets cured. Paulie flies first and then her wings are cut. The sentence mentioned above I'm not lesbian. I'm Paulie being in love with Victoria! is astonishing and so natural that I was held captive by that film like never before. I will watch it again and again and again.  "}{"Title":"Impossible love","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I rented this movie because i wanted to see Jessica Pare who is gorgeous but I hate chick movies and reading that its all about some girls at some boarding school,i thought i would have to sit and listen to some endless girl talk.So i was ready for a lot fast forward.Boy was i wrong!!!!!This is a great movie!!!Forget about the lesbian issue.Perabo is so GREAT in this movie that after five minutes you forget its about two girls.Its all about Intense OVER the edge IMPOSSIBLE LOVE and also the desperate NEED of it. The acting all around is great.But Perabo really shines here and i cant believe she was not nominated for this.Maybe the symbolism with the bird in the end is a little overdone,but overall this movie leaves you emotionaly shaken and i cant think of many movies that do this these days.Excellent movie. "},{"Title":"I did not like it at all. Too weird and artsy. Skip it.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  There was no point and seemed to get weirder and weirder.  It seemed to start off OK and get progessivley darker and more weird until it reached the point of laughable absurdity.   "},{"Title":"teenage lesbian sex so beautiful you'd be aroused if you weren't so busy crying","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie to celebrate  it simmers with emotional nakedness. We have here one of the beautiful stories about first love and the pain of unfair separation.  All other teenage love stories are crushed by comparison.  Susan Swan's novel is so flattered by Léa Pool's direction that one begins to believe that this director could take anyone's high school diary to the screen with award-winning results. Piper Perabo, Jessica Paré, and Mischa Barton can start clipping their performances for highlight reels -- they are excellent by any standard, and they are consistently good from beginning to end. Jessica Paré is delectably in bloom, as required by the script, and from Mischa Barton we require only the deepest sensitivity ever found in a wide-eyed 14-year old actress.  An Oscar for Piper!  I have never heard Shakespeare recited with so much power, even as the movie departs from storytelling and descends (or rises?) into a visual representation of Paulie's emotional state.Here is where the movie crosses from simple sweetness to vignettes of Pauline in rage.  It's where a lot of viewers get lost, for if you are unable to connect to Paulie emotionally at this point, you will not appreciate the movie.  Like a poem, the path is barred to those who will not think with the heart.  I try to read a lot of teenage girls' poetry in high school literary magazines because when you chance upon a good one, it absolves all of the bad poetic sins of others, and even validates the form.  You simply can't find the same emotions in polished literary magazines, so you must wade through the almost-beautiful teenage love poems until you find a really good one. The same is true here.  It's bare emotion, and it's going to stand or fall on Ms. Perabo's openness to Paulie's raw feelings, and on our openness to both.  The movie remains set among tea parties on long greens at the edge of an arboretum in diffuse light; Derek Jarman's Edward II was a similar exploration of this emotional state, but Mr. Jarman had available a black dungeon, point light, and a bleeding carcass to set the angry mood.  Mr. Jarman's film was mature cinematic art, with all its pretense and self-awareness.  Ms. Pool's film is visually naive by comparison  the serendipity of an honest page in a girl's diary where someone wept while she wrote.  I believe the latter can be a finer art.One last observation.  The huge list of Montreal-French contributors to the movie must have had something to do with its success.  While this Canadian movie has a distinct North American look, it aspires to the subtlety of a French contemplation on life.  On the one hand, if the cast had paired a young Isabelle Adjani and Emanuelle Béart under the direction of a Claude Sautet, would anyone have questioned the splendidness of emotional candor?  On the other hand, if a purely French crew had made the film, could it have been as politically brazen, bravely inevitable, and downright unambiguous at the end? One can even imagine Paulie as a Native American orphan, her bird-spirit so central to the film's symbols and characterization.  Here is a lovely film, a beautiful film, and perhaps for French-Canadian cinema, even a landmark film.  Recommended. "},{"Title":"RAGE MORE !!!!!!!!!","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie an hour ago.  I am still crying.  This is the truth  Losing your love over the fear of what others will think is an injustice that will torment a soul until hell has been tasted.  How many people have experienced such a DARK DAY; and how could that day ever be mirrored so eloquently but through this heartbreaking, superbly acted film~    I thank the angels for playing these scenes before me.   "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie, to be seen as a piece of art.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First time writing here, and what made me do it is this beautiful movie. I think both the bad and some of the good comments about this movie missed some of its points. The keywords for this movie are subjective and expressionist. Lost And Delirious is a movie about love between two girls, not a political movie about homosexuality; it's not a movie about boarding schools. It's a movie about people and feelings, realized in a voluntarily biased and emotional way; not seeking full realism at all costs. This is what I call an artistic approach maybe people are losing their ability to see cinema in such a perspective, and it would be a significant loss. Sure, I thought for a moment that a girl behaving that way would probably get kicked from school, or that such a love story would hardly be tolerated in a boarding school, but this is just not what the movie is about, or aimed at. And the falcon thing is not a metaphor, is a process of identification. It's not the same thing, and it's the reason why it's so present in the movie. Finally, I think it's a mistake to consider some subplots or character traits shallowly defined; they're just out of perspective, out of view.Sometimes you should watch a movie like you would read Baudelaire, not Grisham. This film made me change my mind about the possibility for cinema to be an art; it really touched me.  "},{"Title":"3 Young Actresses Give Outstanding Perfomances in a Poetic Movie","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" About 15 minutes into Lost and Delirious I was worried that Piper Perabo was not even going to be the main character, for it seemed that Mischa Barton's character(Mouse or Mary Brave) would be the focus.  I was doubly worried when Piper popped up smoking a cigarette and doing her best Lisa imitation(Angelina Jolie's character from Girl Interrupted).  Did I really drive an hour and a half to watch Piper try and steal scenes every 20 minutes?Thankfully, this does not turn out to be the case.  Lost and Delirious begins taking you on a poetic journey that explores Love and its effects on different types of people.  This journey is deeply engrossing, and it is a journey that simply would not be made with most, if not all, American films(L&D is a Canadian film).  I am not talking about the Lesbian relationship, because this is not the point of Lost and Delirious.  The Lesbian relationship is merely a setting, much like the boarding school. Lost and Delirious is really about the world being a conservative, cold, realistic place that has no time nor tolerance for dreamers or those who live with their emotions.Many people will not like Lost and Delirious for this reason.  It is simply too far removed from the way people view and live in this world.  Americans in particular have lost their ability to dream or aspire to greatness.  We Americans are now concerned with one thing only, the pursuit, acquisition and protection of capital.  Money has become an intrinsic value to us and we no longer see, nor care to recognize, any beauty in this world.  Our society has made us cold carbon copy clones that move amongst the halls of faceless corporations busy in our pursuit of status on capitalism's ladder.Lost and Delirious attempts to bring some beauty and poetry back into the world.  Think of Lost and Delirious as modern day Shakespeare for teenagers and twentysomethings(if you are over 30 you will not like this movie unless you are one of those rare individuals that can still be called a dreamer). Piper Perabo(Paulie), Mischa Barton and Jessica Pare(Victoria) all give outstanding performances - they truly convey the angst of their characters in a variety of challenging scenes.  The first part of Lost and Delirious is Mischa's movie, until Piper and Jessica are caught naked in bed together by Jessica's younger sister, then the movie becomes Piper's movie.One of the best(and subtle) scenes of the movie occurs right before Jessica and Piper are caught(and thus doomed) where you see Piper running across a field at night with her arms outstretched as if she were flying.  She is going out into the woods to feed her newly found raptor and appears to be on top of the world.  Next morning, everything will change in her life forever - that is how fleeting happiness will/can be for dreamers.What follows is Piper's painful and realistic decent into the depths of despair.  Paulie's character gradually falls apart when she slowly finds out that her love will not be enough.  The world(conveyed by Jessica Pare in a number of scenes - all done with a subtileness very rare in movies) will neither tolerate nor accept Piper's views of Love.  It is these scenes in which Piper little by little falls apart that will draw the most critisism. Realists will claim they are not realistic and too over the top.  They will mock the dialog and the intensity Piper brings to the screen.  What they do not realize is that it doesn't matter whether or not Paulie would go into a library in full fencing gear, or if she would be expelled from the boarding school for one of her numerous outburts.  The movie isn't about those things - it is what these scenes represent.One cannot say enough about the performance Piper gives.  It is not easy to play a character that is falling apart.  Actors usually go too far too soon or they don't go far enough.  Piper acheives a perfect blend.  A good example of this is Leonardo Dicaprio in 'The Beach'.  He tries to have his character all apart or desend into madness and he cannot come close to the level of empathy that Piper achieves.  Piper also does things on the screen that most actressess would never do.  How many actresses would go an entire movie without any make-up on?  Piper brings an passionate intensity to multiple scenes that could very easy have come off as corny with a less gifted actor.The best illustration of this occurs in what is in my view the best scene of the movie.  Near the end of the movie Piper and Mischa are alone in the woods(the scene in filmed almost entirely in shadows, you can't even see the actors faces) and Piper is bringing out Mischa's pent up rage towards her father.  They recite a series of lines from Macbeth where Lady Macbeth is attempting to kill the female side of herself that won't allow her to do the deeds she needs to find the courage to do.  This scene carries so much passion and the dialog is so poetic yet it remains completely serious and tragic.I thought the duel between Piper and Jessica's new boyfriend was a perfect conclusion to this movie, it fit very well with the Shakepearean theme(you know that their is a large body count in the end of every Shakespearean tragedy).  However, I do think it would have been more fitting if Piper would have killed(accidentially perhaps) the guy instead of just wounding him.Lost and Delirious benefits from an excellent script that leaves you with multiple scenes and lines that linger in your head for hours and days after the viewing. Lea Pool, the director, also does a magnificent job of allowing the movie to unfold at its own pace, all of which leads up to a flurry of carpe diem at the end(or carpe noctem?) I have already singled out the acting of the three principle actors which is clearly some of the finest we have seen all year. I only regret that so few people will see this movie on the big screen.Piper's leap off the building is one of the better endings for a movie this year(only Blow's ending being supierior).  Unlike the raptor, we cannot just fly away from the world.  We can try to soar to great heights and feel the magnificient freedom that a raptor feels, but this world is always going to bring us down.  Like Icarus, there is a price for trying to fly too close to the sun.  Or like Bellerophon, us mortals are not meant to aspire to the realm of the gods and any attempt to do so will send us plummeting to the hard earth below.  Lost and Delirious knows that the world will not be kind to dreamers, but it asks you - would you rather dream a little dream?  Is it not better to live life a little bit lost and delirious?  I am sure that most of us who watch it will go back to thinking about our future acquisition of capital, its the way of the world we will say, but for a time, for those two hours we spent with Paulie, Mary Brave and Victoria, we will perhaps recall that there was another path, if only we had possessed the passion to take it. "},{"Title":"This story's been told too many times before","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a well-made film by a talented director, with good performances all around, and the angst of adolescent love is a perennial subject for film. In this case, the protagonist is an unstable young woman in love with another.   While their relationship is portrayed realistically, and not trivialized as a schoolgirl crush, the conclusion of the film harkens back to the recent past, when tragedy was the only fate that could befall lesbians in film.    The persistent metaphor of raptors soaring is a bit hackneyed, and ultimately, the film disappoints.    Pool's Embrace-Moi is a much more satisfying effort.  "},{"Title":"Not just a movie, Art","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I see a lot of movies, some of them good, some bad, but most of them entertaining.  Lost and Delirious falls into a category of film that is beyond simple entertainment - it is Art.  And it is riveting.The integration of a simple, time-honored story with an incredible soundtrack and beautiful cinematography is nothing short of stunning. Toss in some great acting and an tight script and you have a movie everyone should see.I understand that Lea Pool does not consider this a lesbian film.  She is right.  This is a love story, that uses homophobia as a plot device.  The movie could as easily have used class or race or disability or nationality (the list of isms goes on and on) to divide her characters and drive the story.It is rare to see such a well-integrated and beautiful film in today's era of mass marketed trash (even independent films seem have studio backing more often than not).The synopsis that starts Three girls share a secret cult... is, in my opinion, just wrong.  There is nothing cultish about it.  This is just a love story... one that will resonate most strongly with queer women, but one that should be seen (and will  be enjoyed) by anyone with a romantic bone in their body.For those who like comparisons to other films... I consider it a close cousin (in emotion, style and quality) to Rozema's When Night is Falling and Kieslowski's Trois Coleurs Bleu.This film will not disappoint.  See it!  "},{"Title":"I felt like I was in English class!","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw Lost and Delirious in the 13th Annual New York Lesbian and Gay Film Fest I was happy that such an appealing and well-directed film with a lot of good acting was made. However, I could not keep wishing for the poetry to be over! If anyone is familiar with the lesbian erotica trend, this was very close, in terms of unnecessary poetical phrases and verses being tossed around in what you would think should be a daily conversation or fight! The film is beautiful, and the plot is okay. But it might make you say Oh, get real, someone please shoot her before she recites another line of poetry! Drama is good, but melodrama?!? "},{"Title":"Love Story","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie had me in tears. The love story is beautiful, the heartache realistic, you can't help but relate in one way or another gay, lesbian, straight. If an you are and open minded intelligent person you'll love this movie. Will have you soul searching. Personally i was reminded of when my wife and I first met. The passion we had for each other as young lovers, the heartache that we went thru. Just because this movie showcases a lesbian love affair doesn't mean its just got lesbians. Guys...you should watch this movie. It really thinned my blood out a little. Some men do care...Be brave, be passionate, be true to yourself because we only live once. "}{"Title":"very well done and tragic","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" i think i am supposed to type that i am writing a spoiler but its not too much detail really. anyway... also this came out several years ago and i saw a bit on television, and i got the video and became addicted and viewed it repeatedly because of the dramatic impact resonating and being so confounding, despite knowing the outcome. first of all piper perabo shows considerable range after being exploited practically... in case i can get away with that, in earlier films... after getting older i recently i have to admit starting with alicia silverstone i did find newer yes, slightly younger actresses more than just bizarre characters like from 80s flicks like the brat pack set of films... but then this comes along and its granted a safe issue of two women or you get a vicarious thrill or whatever but... perabo sort of pushed the envelope to the extreme in terms of this characterization say by being haunted by another lover that i never saw in any case even close... her inability to discern her own emotions and the lovers influence as someone that is outside of her is a shock and very convincing, and something that is almost never brought up in any art form or is expressed this eloquently. and i hate to say it but this made her truly alluring to me albeit hopelessly tragic (not to mention however, obviously, that its only a screen idol). the critics found certain so-called Gothic scenarios too irrelevant but maybe only a scene or two. jessica pare is almost comedic in one instance as someone overwhelmed by an x and deflects perabo very very well. they are both unforgettable and its easily the best love story I've ever seen. i liked emmy rossum immensely and also jake gylennhaal from the day after tomorrow couple because they're both snowbound and are sole survivors of an ice age. however i have an issue with brokeback mountain in terms of all this and may not see it. hes incredibly talented but am not nearly as comfortable with two men as with two women this way. anyway thanks & cheers... peter r. "},{"Title":"So that's what life is going to be like...","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's strange to me, and just a little frustrating, that nearly every story about gay life, or anything having to do with gayness has to be disastrous. If you've ever read Sara Waters, or Ann Rice, or any other novel about homosexuality, you'll find it depressing and all alike. For some reason, people get it into their heads that no matter what, if you're gay, something isn't going to turn out right, or you're going to end up miserable. The fact is, everyone has something in their life that doesn't go as planned, and it's not right to assume that being gay is choosing the road of dispair. Take Willow and Tara (Allyson Hannighan and Amber Benson) from TV's Buffy the Vampire Slayer.Needless to say, the movie doesn't end well. The characters are well developed, and the story line is solid. But some of the dialogue is absurd, and a few of those acting, could use a better director. The cinematography was quite good, and the soundtrack (minus the score) was acceptable, but the score was melodramatic at best. I think they were trying a bit too hard on that. Also, the stereotypical butch and femme roles were monotonous, and out of place, and made it difficult to understand the character unless you are in that exact position. Overall, I would suggest that you see it if you're not burnt out on the sad ending stereotype. And I think that some of the actors/actresses just need more practice, as anyone would. But please, lets get some of the other perspective on gay life for a change! "},{"Title":"Piper is amazing","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At age 25, Piper Perabo plays the most challenging of all her roles to date. Although the film may fall short in many areas from its direction, supporting acting, its ending, and overall moral, Piper is pure poetry in this Coming of Age, dramatic love story of Youth. Yes, the film is very strong in some areas that makes the overall production fall short. Even though Piper is wonderful, she could not save the film. If you are gay, you will respect this film. Will you enjoy it, is up to the individual. It is a strong story, and far from a comedy about girls in an all girl school. Many of its late night viewers who watch this on their cable station in the middle of the night will get the wrong idea what kind of film this is by its log line. It is far from your b-movie status, where everybody gets naked and has a good time. This movie aims high to be powerful, and sadly falls short. Mischa Barton, the little dead girl under the bed in the Sixth Sense is also in this film. She too is amazing at the age of 16. Keep your eyes on this one, she just may be the next big thing to hit the big screen.  "},{"Title":"Canada may become an art film powerhouse.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mostly known for cheap sex film knock-offs, blatant environmental propaganda and runaway U.S. productions, It looks like our maple drenched neighbors to the north may finally take themselves seriously and produce some really beautiful, well acted, well scripted art fair.I rented this film, expecting a cheap imitation of Breakfast Club and found it to be a much more profound piece of work about teen agers than I have seen outside of an After School Special--with a more engaging and timely theme.The real twist is how teen-agers pretend to be adults, but when confronted with a serious subject, revert back to child hood, instead of confronting them.This movie is a must see for fans of serious teen age movies. "},{"Title":"Could have been profound, but ended up pointless","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This formulaic story of `forbidden love' at an all-girl boarding school completely left me flat.  I sincerely believe that the filmmakers decided that making it a love affair between two female roommates was going to be innovative and edgy, (hello?  Lesbian tryst at boarding school?  I think this cliché has run its course.) but it went nowhere.  I think they tried to make it sensual and dramatic through the use of music, but in reality the music was so horrible that I ended up laughing it its sheer awfulness instead.  Piper Perabo did have a meaty role, and she wasn't terrible in it, but the material she was given was so ridiculously histrionic that it was hard not to roll your eyes.Unless there is nothing else on and you have no problem staring at the television for two hours, don't bother with this film in any way shape or form.  Cleaning the cat litter box would be a more satisfying (and productive) way to spend the time.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"Awesume and refreshing forget Hollywood molds this is the film that breaks barriers","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie that will make you hurt and feel the pain of real love. Refreshing and different and under estimated. Piper gives a performance that's haunting and unforgetful.  There may be times when the movie looses its line but never its story.  Wonderful! Rage  More! "},{"Title":"Easily the Worst, Most Trite Film in Recent Memory","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS BEWARE (or something)Lost and Delirious was, to quote a newspaper headline, Just Plain Lost. This movie was an attempt to display the gut-wrenching pain of lost/impossible love, in short.  However, the movie turned out to be just a bunch of ridiculous, talentless young actresses hopping around a girls' school as they slowly descend into a pointless display of madness and teen angst.I personally felt that a script for Dawson's Creek or Seventh Heaven would probably be more entertaining and accurate, so I hope that pretty much gives an overview of how little direction or honesty this film had.  Piper Perabo is most definitely my choice for the worst young actress of the past few years, and the other two lead girls aren't far behind, as they galavant with pouts and crocodile tears as they deal with issues that, in the hands of a competent writer or director, would seem important and central to the characters, such as parental hatred, the need for love, the painful process of self-discovery, etc.I couldn't help wondering if I had suddenly been sucked into a strange, lesbian-powered after school special, as Pauly very solemnly gives Mouse the nickname Mary B as in Mary Brave.  I mean, wow.....Then there was the falcon (or hawk, i wasn't quite sure).  It is referred to as a Raptor and Pauly says things to Mary Brave like Are you crying? Are you GIRLY-GIRL crying?  I was GIRLY-GIRL SUCKY-SUCK crying too! and Rage, Mary B!  Rage with the Raptor!  The absurdity of it all is just overpowering.  girly-girl sucky-suck?? what the..??Not to mention the annoying slow-motion interludes, the horrid music, the use of poetry and literature as metaphors for the characters' feelings that ended up being about as profound and original as an episode of Full House. And then there was the gratuitously long sex scene that according to all of my lesbian friends who have seen this movie, doesn't even look like real lesbian sex.  The girls are just sort of there making love and looking nervous, and the director chooses to focus on their chests instead of their faces (maybe a desperate attempt to keep the audience from realizing that they are talentless), and the scene's lighting and music just make it feel like softcore lesbian porn.  The scene's between Mary and Graham Greene were even worse and the supposedly touching fact that Pauly's teacher is an old lesbian is just predictable and underdeveloped, the real problem the whole movie suffers from.In short, this movie was so poorly made in the way it dealt with important and poignant issues that I was both disgusted at the ineptitude and also forced to leave the theater at one point and come back in after five minutes of uncontrollable laughter.  It was undeniably the worst movie I've seen this year, and probably the worst coming-of-age movie I've ever seen. Don't waste your time -- go watch Get Real. "},{"Title":"Delirious? Not at all  Lost?  Pity it wasn't ....","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Breasts, nipples and hysterics do not make a good film!This film has the makings of a good film, but falls short on bad scripting, histrionic and over-the-top acting, dull and one-dimensional characters and, oh so unsubtle and pretentious symbolism -- like Jonathan Livingstone Seagull and Birdy rolled into some elements of the infinitely better, and ultimately more tragic, and more moving, Heavenly Creatures.I can't see any reason to see this film, unless one happens to watch only gay-themed movies and believe that if it's gay it must be good. This is gay, and believe me, stereotypical and ... bad! Despite the lavender and pink appeal of this, it must rank at one of the most stupid, sensational and dumb films I have seen.Stick to Julia, Heavenly Creatures, Goldfish Memory or strike gold with A Lawless Heart and Bedrooms and Hallways. This is queer cinema at its worst.Shame, sisters "},{"Title":"Bad, bad bad.","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't like the movie at all, I thought it was way over dramatic..  everything about it was over the top, including the acting- which was all over the place. I didn't see a love story either, that wasn't love between Paulie and Tori, that was a thing called obsession. If Paulie didn't have Tori to obsess about, it would have been someone else. The sex scenes were shot badly, I felt sorry for the actresses, because it was so unflattering. And what's with all the teenage whining and crying? I felt like I was on Dawson's Creek! I give it 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"what an auwful banal film","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  God help the people that made this primitive, fake, sentimental film. I did not believe in any of the cardboard characters. All the sentimental moments felt really fake. One moment the girls are running like headless chickens, and the next they start crying and telling each other how they hate their parents. If you want a great movie about young girls in love watch F***ing mal or Show Me Love. This is a European film that deals with the same problems, but without banal symbolism and primitive screenplay.By the way, with this heavy-handed symbolism the director might think that all viewers are simple morons, cos a girl with emotional problems and her hawk that can't fly is just plain silly. And while we are on the subject I didn't feel in any way sorry for the main character, because mental illness should be cured in the hospital, and people like that should be locked away, so as not to harm any of the people around them. "}{"Title":"nothing could save this movie...","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i went into this movie with high hopes. i am a man who can truly appreciate a good love story. the film started out well enough. with interest and intensity, but (a note to all filmmakers) use these things with caution, because an entire movie filled with pretentious insight and overdramatics, gets old, and even sickening, in a very short time. the story, which i would describe as a glossy Hallmark lesbian dreamscape, is so pretentious and so over-the-top, that it reaked of junior-high notebook romance. the kind that eventually develops into lonely-houswife romance novels.the real downfall (not that there were necessarily any high points in the film) was the link between piper perabo's character and the hawk she nurtured. when bird-like sound effects and slow-action camera work began to follow her every move, it just got ridiculous. though, not as ridiculous as the ending, in which all this hawk nonsense leads into.to the other men out there, i must warn; if you decide to watch this movie for the 'hot lesbian love scenes', for which there are some, do not waste your time. your time and your money would be much better suited by watching porn, than by sitting through this immature wreck of a movie. rage on! "},{"Title":"A drama by numbers which we have all seen before","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am really not sure who this film's target audience is supposed to be.If you take out the bare flesh parts, I would have put this as one of those made-for-TV movies that would be shown on one of those small film channels whose number is way, way down on the PVR. It is Mills and Boon romance that deals with issues with a bit of nakedness thrown in for good measure.However if it IS aimed at the teenage boy market, there are going to be a lot of very disappointed young men out there. Whilst all three of the girls are clearly ideally attractive, young, fit people with just-washed hair and white straight teeth, a quick search on the internet is going to be far more fruitful for any voyeurs. The nakedness is not really needed and indeed probably would have been a better film had it not been there.My biggest gripe however is that this has all been done before. The coming- of-age through discovery of one's sexuality and or first love was handled far better more than 25 years earlier in Bilitis and as for the using an animal to compensate for lack of human closeness has been done a thousand times from Kes to Lassie and Flipper! They even throw a bit of Seize The Day in there!All very nicely shot but the plot and dialogue is often so clichéd that you are left feeling that someone has just slapped you in the face with a fish to get the point across. REPEATEDLY. Even the ending is predictable.Overall I really felt this was a bit of a waste of both mine and the actor's time. "},{"Title":"Even great sex scenes didn't save the poor script","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lost and Delirious is a lesbian love story with lots of passion, but not much else to offer. It has some enjoyable parts, but the cliché cheesiness leave something to be desired.MaryBeth (Mischa Barton), or Mouse as she is often called, is a sheltered young teen who is sent to a boarding school. She is still recovering from the death of her mother a few years earlier, and has difficulty fitting in. However, Mary B is put in a room with Tori (Jessica Pare) and Paulie (Piper Parabo), two older girls who are very much in love. While she is clearly heterosexual, the love starved Mary B is comforted by the open displays of love and affection between her two roommates. Tori and Paulie also bond with Mary (nicknaming her Mary Brave) and all share painful stories about being neglected or rejected by their parents. But things go into a downward spiral after Tori's younger sister and her friends find Paulie and Tori in bed together. Horrified at the idea of being disowned by her religious parents, Tori tells everyone that Paulie forced herself on her, and begins dating a boy at the nearby boys' school. Paulie is beyond devastated, and spends most of her time in the woods healing and training an injured hawk. Poor Mary B is stuck in the middle between a newly repressed Tori and mentally cracking Paulie. Paulie quickly becomes an outcast with Mary and the bird as her only companions. Despite Mary and a kind teacher trying to help her, Paulie continues deeper into her nervous breakdown. The movie ends on a heart breaking note for all parties, leaving a bitter taste in the viewer's mouth.Lost and Delirious feels&#x85;half baked. If anything it definitely got the passion and emotion down very well. The love scenes were great and some of the sad scenes were good. As stated earlier the plot was cliché. It followed that basic plot of a gay movie where one character is gayer than the other, and one tries to be straight. That can be good if the characters are very interesting or original, but they were not. Paulie's character just seemed like a lesbian, more unstable version of Julie from The Next Karate Kid, even more with the addition of the hawk. Piper Parabo is also such a dead ringer for Hilary Swank that it almost feels like plagiarism. The viewers know little information about Tori, other than the fact that she is a closeted lesbian and has religious parents. The fact that they are religious or conservative is only revealed when the girls are found out, and they act as though this has already been established. Mary B is the best developed character, but they try too hard to make all of her narrations poignant and meaningful, but most just come off as silly. Many aspects of the plot didn't seem to make sense. If Tori was so afraid of being outed why would she openly sleep naked with Paulie when she knew her sister often barged into her room? Why would she even do so when she first met Mary? Mary could've been a gossipy homophobe for all she knew! Paulie has such a clear and slow mental breakdown that it is painful to watch. She is so ignored that her family would have good grounds to sue the school for not forcing her into counseling or sending her home for psychiatric treatment. Some themes of the movie also irritate me. Despite being a lesbian movie it equates femininity with weakness, and the girls act masculine when they are being strong. On top of that, it depicts suicide (particularly suicide over a lost love) as beautiful. That is just&#x85; that's not in good taste, and a rather poor message. The conclusion was not very satisfying, and left me wondering more about the characters. Not to mention, I found the characters' reaction to the painful ending rather lacking in emotion, if not totally indifferent.Lost and Delirious is mediocre at best. The writing isn't great, the acting isn't great, and the plot isn't great. Is it terrible? Well, no. There are several things I liked about the film, mainly the fact it was narrated by a third party. I also liked the passion they were able to depict, despite the lacking script. But in general, it's too corny to be good. "},{"Title":"Piper Parabo carries the show","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Parabo reminds me of a young Julia Roberts, here a lesbian at an all girls school let down when her partner breaks up to date a boyfriend and keep the affair a secret from her parents, the teachers, and the other girls. The furor inside grows meniacal from this point while she duels with a sword on top of a table and knocks over a huge cafeteria tray shelf at lunchtime after her girlfriends have left her table to talk about her. I must admit my tolerance for this genre has grown thin of all girls or all boys at some private school rebelling against rules to fulfill their base urges or fantasies in some type of anarchy where those in charge do little to intervene. Early efforts like Lord of the Flies come to mind, but the scene where she takes a bird on a leash out to the forest and trains it to fly seemed freely borrowed from Evan Hunter's novel and film based on it, Last Summer. "},{"Title":"Love wounds; and love scars.","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dramatic, intense and even forbidden. Mary Bedford(Mischa Barton)enrolls at Perkins Girls College and immediately has to come to grips with witnessing her roommate's lesbian relationship unravel. 'Paulie'(Piper Perabo)and 'Tori'(Jessica Pare)are forced to end their torrid affair and realize what it really was. One is ready to let go...the other isn't. 'Paulie' in her misplaced wisdom and ideals gets lost in her answered passions. The sex scenes are emotive and explicit.Supporting cast includes Jackie Burroughs, Graham Greene and Mimi Kuzyk. LOST and DELIRIOUS is based on a Susan Swan novel and expertly directed by Lea Pool. "},{"Title":"Awesome and impressive","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well i have to admit, that i as a guy, first bought the movie in well kind of joke.But after watching the movie i had to admit, even if only to myself that i was actually moved by it. It a great movie, i loved the dialogs, the music, and the actress. However i do have to admit that the story is kind of depressing, but then again, its only depressing because you get sucked in to the movie.The moral of my story, this isn't just another chickflick because, hey I'm a guy and i liked it.So guys if you wanna make an impression on your girlfriend buy this movie and watch it with her, She will love it ).Later all "},{"Title":"This movie is so real!","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The last person's comment so so offensive! Obviously they weren't a lesbian and they have no idea what good music is. The score So Beautiful is played when Tori and Paulie are making love. It's by a phenomenal artist named Meshell Ndegeocello who absolutely rocks!! Her song evokes such emotion that I can't resist breaking out into tears sometimes when she sings it. This movie is believable and so real. I feel for Paulie and hope she found peace when she flew away. The love that Tori and Paulie shared was so much more than puppy love. The were soul mates. They loved like Cleopatra loved Paulie was the King and Tori the Queen. Tori was so concerned about what her parents and her classmates would think that she went against her own heart. I bet Tori never forgave herself, and she was the reason that Paulie faltered. All she needed was her love, and without it she had nothing. "},{"Title":"Love is a universal theme","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished Lost and Delirious and I thought it was wonderful. I won't go on about the symbolism, but it makes me sad to have read so many bitter and cynical reviews. No one out there has ever had a lover stand up and walk out on you and then turn and cry? Or run away? Maybe we don't all have to good fortune of being able to escape into a dusky forest and befriend a hawk, but that's what makes this a movie. If Pauly had had her heart broken and then put on her make up and gone to school with her best foot forward, it wouldn't have been much fun to watch at all.There were certain stereotypes mentioned in other reviews with which I will have to disagree. I have several gay friends and I have never heard the stereotype that they are all love starved orphans.I agree, the boarding school setting may not be the most original place for young girl love, but it had to be set somewhere, and that's where it was set.The greatest thing about this movie was the portrayal of the emotions felt by the characters. I know that I have been close to going over the edge over matters of the heart. I think Pauly's struggle is something that everyone - gay, straight, male, female - can identify with. Also, I didn't feel bombarded with man hating feminism... I mean, sure, all that change my milk for gaule stuff was a tad anti-male, but its not like that passage was written for the movie. It is an example of classic and important writing. And besides that, it was only used as a device to show Pauly's feelings about guys. The few actual males in the movie weren't portrayed in a negative light... Jake went to battle for his girlfriend, about whom it was evident that he cared greatly.The friendship, comeraderie and attraction between Victoria and Pauly leaped off the screen. I thought both actresses were beautiful and did a wonderful job, and the fact that the main relationship was same-sex did nothing but make the whole thing seem more tender. As for the dialogue, the next time you run into a fifteen year old girl, have a listen. Most of them aren't exactly Elizabeth Barret Browning. (This to say that Mary's dialogue didn't seem to me to be contrived.) Also, I have to say, I really liked the music. If this movie has a fault, maybe it can be said that it is overly melodramatic at times. But that's something I can live with.All in all, very enjoyable to watch, and I'll recommend it to others.  "},{"Title":"A Shakespearean Tragedy","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let me start by saying that I fully agree with simplify2's comments Tori was underdeveloped, and the end of the movie left me wanting to know more about her motivation, and what she thought about the situation in general.  I suspect this lack of development was a symptom of the problematic script  instead of explaining how a character (who earlier confessed that she would be lost without Paulie) simply begins ignoring her lover, they just chalk it up to her need to salvage a relationship with her parents (parents whom she has already professed to hate).  That being said, I still greatly enjoyed this movie, mainly because I was viewing it through the lens of a Shakespearean tragedy, which isn't too much of a stretch considering all of the Shakespeare allusions sprinkled liberally throughout.  The good thing about this movie is that even with its underdevelopment/plot hole concerning Tori's character, it is still infinitely less convoluted and contrived than just about anything Shakespeare ever wrote.  And this is why I like it.  It takes the best of Shakespeare (powerful and universal themes of love and love lost) and combines it with scenarios that are actually believable (as opposed to something like Othello or R&J).  The result is a movie that is captivating because we can all relate (again, as opposed to something like R&J).  If there is a heaven, Shakespeare is up there kicking himself in the ass for not writing this story.This is a movie about love, but I don't think that everyone has realized that it is as much about parental love as romantic love.  I guess the point of this movie is that a person needs love from SOME source, whatever it may be.  **SPOILER** For instance, if Paulie's mom had agreed to be contacted (i.e. loved Paulie), she would not have committed suicide.  I put that spoiler alert in out of courtesy, but I actually don't believe it's a spoiler.  Anyone who couldn't predict that Paulie was going to kill herself is a little dense.I give this movie an 8/10.  The emotional impact (through acting, story, cinematography and soundtrack) outweighs the plot holes.  Question if this were credited to William Shakespeare, do you think anyone would be complaining about story problems? "},{"Title":"best movie ever!!!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i didn't know what to expect from this movie but i was pleased with the outcome. it was so awesome. i love how they portray the story of someone's first love. it's something we all seem to go through. some of us have better results than others but then some have results like Paulie. i can relate to what paulie was going through from experience and it really touched me that the director could portray such a thing.  "}{"Title":"A little overdramatic","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie was a little overdramatic, you can see the director's fingerprints all over this movie. It's likely that the director of this movie went through some personal experiences similar to this in her own life.The main character in the movie, Paulie, is psychotic. Reminds me heavily of one of my own ex-girlfriends both in terms of looks and personality, except in a non-lesbian, non-psychotic sort of way. The character is way too dramatic.They quote a lot from Shakespeare in the movie, and you get the feeling that this is like a Shakespearean love tragedy. That's not necessarily a good thing -- because Shakespearean literature is pretentious, something only pompous english teachers love. This sort of overdramatized theatre should be kept far far away from the silver screen, it doesn't work in this day and age.However, on the plus side, there was some very realistic love-making by the two lesbian lovers.  "},{"Title":"Sexy and seductive!!","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This highly romantic and very sad story of Pauline in love with Tory takes you back to the times of the faithful and brave knights who defended their honour at any price. The scene taking place at the library and the final sword desperate confrontation let me breathless ; so did the aesthetic quality of the filming and the outstanding soundtrack which compose a very emotionally overwhelming ensemble. The eagle fly scenes are so symbolic that they engrave on your memory forever.THIS IS A VERY INTENSE AND BEAUTIFUL FILM ! The three protagonists  PIPER PERABO (Pauline), MISCHA BARTON (Mouse), JESSICA PARE (Tory) are remarkable performers. PIPER PERABO (I also saw COYOTE UGLY) is definitely one of the best, intelligent new generation performers and is for sure destined for a successful carreer (on stage theatre included).LOST AND DELIRIOUS IS ONE OF THE BEST FILMS I EVER SEEN !It goes far beyond the question of the so called sexual orientation  it gives you the opportunity to think about anyone's choice, despite the politically correct air du temps.I JUST HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS DVD !  "},{"Title":"Rollercoaster Film","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I followed this movie through its production in eager anticipation of its release.  I saw it almost as soon as it came out, however, months later, I am still unsure as to whether or not this was a worthwhile film.  For the most part, I enjoyed the film, enough that I cringed only slightly during the scenes in which it fell apart.  After seeing Coyote Ugly, I was surprised that Piper Perabo performed so well in a dramatic role.  In fact, it is her performance which often carries the film through its rough parts. In some of the less plausible scenes, it is only Perabo's charisma that prevents us from closing our eyes and plugging our ears.  She owns this film.  Even though some of the scenes are over-the-top, the power of Paulie and Torie's love and demise makes them more believable.  As someone who has loved and lost, I can relate to the ups and downs of the characters in the film.  However, the hawk that we are supposed to relate Paulie to undermines the intelligence of the viewer.  Since this is teenage love, the end makes sense (raging hormones and all), but the hawk seems to trivialize and 'Hollywood-ize' the situation.  All in all, a film that has much potential but seems to get overwhelmed by its own darkness and teenage angst. Perhaps the chaos of the direction was meant to mirror that of teenage love? Somehow, I think not. "},{"Title":"Worth it to see","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yeah, there were flaws. It was overwritten, but beautifully acted. The metaphors hit you like anvils, but there was a solid story. I think the good outweighs the bad here. It's thought provoking, even if you didn't like it. Lost and Delirious is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"I must be lost. Can someone please tell me how to access the alternate ending?","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Move over Personal Best.  After nearly 20 years at the top of my list of Films best watched in reverse a little Canadian sleeper called Lost and Delirious has knocked you from that top spot.  I was amazed that I had never heard of this movie until long after it's short stint in theaters. Not that I expect to have heard of all movies at the time they were released but I would have had to be in a coma to not have heard about this movie. Why should I have heard of this movie?  Because for as much as I would like to hope that someday movies in which Hollywood's best and brightest young stars, Perabo, Barton and Parre in this case, find themselves involved in a lesbian relationship will be such commonplace and not reason enough to see it and certainly not reason enough to order the DVD from Canada more than a month in advance of the US release that is not the reality today.  Now having seen this movie it seems even less likely to happen within my lifetime. By now some people reading this are probably thinking, this is supposed to be a movie review not a diatribe on the lack of lesbians in film (probably in language not suitable for this site).  Unfortunately, this film showed me just how far society hasn't come.  A fact made further evident by the majority of the other reviews posted on this site. This is a lesbian movie.  It's a love story but it's a movie about two young women in love with each other.  This is what drives the entire plot of the movie.  Take away the lesbians and there's not much of a love story left, not much of anything left.  The heart wrenching and ultimately tragic consequences that ensue do so as a direct result of the inability of all of the film's characters to deal with the fact that they are involved in a lesbian relationship. While Perabo and Parre are the lovers all three of the characters including Barton are very much involved in the relationship. In fact Mouse/Mary B. (Barton) is the only character in the entire movie who really attempts to address the issue that perhaps the girls are lesbians only to be told by both of the girls that they aren't lesbians.  They just love each other and they have sex, often with Barton in the room but they aren't lesbians. These girls aren't just lost and delirious they are delusional.  They believe that Barton is asleep and oblivious to them making love night after night in a small boarding school room.  The first two times I watched the movie I thought how ridiculous it was to have these girls who are so afraid of people calling them lesbians making love with a girl they hardly knew just a few feet away. As I watched the third time I realized that they probably did believe for the brief moments they may have thought about it.  It's not stated just how long the two had been involved, the implication is that it had been going on for some length of time and that the school's Head Mistress and many others were aware of it as well.  It had gone on so long that they had become passionately in love with one another and in the process created for themselves a little bubble in which their love could thrive without ever having to face the reality of what it meant to be a woman in love with another woman.  When the bubble bursts neither of the girls have developed the skills to deal with the reactions of others. Lost and Delirious is for the most part a good movie.  The script was by far it's weakest link with the dialogue sounding somewhat unnatural and as a viewer you become completely aware that they are actresses and you're watching a movie.  It works itself out though and I fell quickly back into the storybook after these bumps.  The actressâ?Ts performances were generally at least up to par with what I would expect from young talent, which all three women most definitely possess.  I found Parre to be a little weak and unbelievable at times in her delivery but that was also the nature of her character and often during scenes in which she was delivering some of the more poorly scripted lines.  Perabo showed her true talent by delivering one of the most passionate performances I've seen in a long time. Sometimes it hurt to watch because I could feel her pain as if it were my own. Mischa Barton is definitely one to watch.  She has a true star quality, the indescribable thing possessed by so few and coveted by so many. Overall Lost and Delirious is a good movie which ten years ago I would have been just thrilled to have seen made.  But ten years ago I thought that by now there would be not just more lesbian movies but at least a few more with happy endings if not in the theatrical release at least on the DVD.  The ending hurt me more because I thought of all the young girls who had written such great things about this movie and put up fan sites for it not because it's the greatest movie they've ever seen but because it showed mainstream actresses portraying lesbian characters that they could identify with.  My generation had Personal Best with a beautiful young Margot Hemmingway as the non-lesbian woman in love with and having sex with another woman.  Of course since none of the characters in either of these movies are lesbians  - unless you watch the movie backwards.  Lives can't be lived backwards and people shouldn't feel that they have to try to live them that way in order to have a happy ending.  Until art imitates life, and at there's at least one movie (aside from small indie films) where the girl gets the girl and they live happily ever after I'll keep watching this one backwards.  "},{"Title":"Manipulative + Plot Holes = Don't Waste Your Time","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I suspect there are going to be two different reactions to Lost and Delirious. Some people (most likely teenaged girls) will look past the many faults to find a theme that really resonates within themselves. Others won't be able to move beyond those many problems and will find the film shallow and manipulative. I'm afraid I belong to the latter group.Problem one Manipulative. At one point in the movie there is a minute long close-up of one of the characters (Pauline) crying while a sad song plays in the background. Five seconds wouldn't do I guess. That is about as manipulative as movie making gets. The movie isn't trying to tell you a story; it is trying to make you cry.Problem two Really bad plot holes. The movie is set at a girls boarding school and follows the lesbian affair of two of the students there. When the couple breaks up, one of the girls (again Pauline) rather quickly goes off the deep end. She starts exhibiting increasingly erratic and violent behavior. Nobody at the school does anything! The staff just stands around wringing their hands and thinking Oh dear. Worst of all, as Pauline begins to stalk her former partner, nobody even thinks that it might be a good idea to move the girls out of the same dorm room! Stalking and Violent yet nobody seems to think separating the two girls might be a prudent idea! What is so ridiculous is that these were very easy plot holes to fix. Why not a 30 second scene of the staff moving Pauline to a different dorm room? No, no. Far better to have a minute long scene of Pauline crying.I suppose if I were younger and had not already seen so many better made movies with a similar theme I might have had a different reaction to Lost and Delirious. Hmmmm. Let me think. Yes, if I were a teenager I might have given the movie 3 stars instead of only 2. "},{"Title":"It Takes Courage","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It takes courage to grow up and be who you really are.I would not even pretend to know what teenage girls go through as they mature. Despite the fact that I have experience with many of them, I would not be privy to their innermost thoughts. This film can only give us a vicarious glimpse into their minds and emotions. But, that is enough for now.Piper Perabo has come a long way from Coyote Ugly and has matured into a good actress. She is Paulie, a girl abandoned twice by her mother and who is in a torrid affair with Tori (Jessica Paré) until they get caught by Tori's sister Allison (Emily VanCamp). Tori realizes that she must deny her love and end the affair to maintain connections to her family.Another loss is more that Paulie can deal with and, despite her best efforts to get Tori to admit her love publicly, she takes the only step she knows will end her pain.A beautiful story that gives a glimpse so that we can empathize a little and grow a little and maybe find that courage. "},{"Title":"Lost and Delirious - In some way, I carry Paulie with me","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My name is Marija, I am currently 22 and from Serbia...and I adore Lost and Delirious (L&D). It's more than a movie... It's more than just a great story about love... It's more than acting... L&D is GREAT MOVIE, it has a serious story, with important meanings, special music, at the background, THE BEST ACTRESS ever - Piper Perabo, who did 'her job' more than perfect - she succeeds to express all feeling that were in Paulie, by every move on her face, of her body, too. She gave to the movie special note, and without her, L&D wouldn't be that special. I think, that LEA POOL has great influence, too. I would be happy if more people would be interested in L&D, or movies with similar conclusions, that are about LOVE, but not the ones with ordinary stories. L&D is really unique, and through few directions, it says what it is meaning- relationship between mothers and daughters - LOVE !!!!!!!!!!!!! - weaknesses / strengths - real values in life - fight for LOVE, for something that is IMPORTANT to you - be honest with yourself, and with othersI like the parts when Paulie runs into the woods (to feed the Raptor) at night. She is such an energetic person, and a caring one too. I like the way that some things are presented in L&D, like characters, details, ideas (Raptor, fencing classes, literature classes...dialogs...)...etc. This movie, whenever I watch it - and I do that often - always puts me in some particular state, but I have that feeling that L&D makes me COME BACK TO MYSELF, come back to my real values, make me don't give up of my aims to fight for my LOVE, for the ones I love... I think that I carry it with me, as I can say it, in some way, carry Paulie with me, in my heart... she lives there somehow, in a strange way. I can't explain that but I love her. I would like to say to all the people who worked on this GREAT movie, THANKS SOOOO MUCH !!! They really made a great thing, that they can share with people all over the world and send their message about LOVE. REAL LOVE.Marija, July 4, 2004 www.lost-and-delirious.com "},{"Title":"total crap","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is a beautiful movie?  hardly.  from the malarky that is the soundtrack within the first five minutes, along with the girl's narration, i knew i was supposed to be taking this seriously and was just waiting for some ridiculous poetry to spew forth (most of this happens towards the end of the movie).  about the time the wild girl shows up, waiting to get the party off its butt, (i swear she says rage more, which the inhibited girl repeats, like its her slogan.....and i had to supress the urge to go outside and slash random tires or people for that matter).  then the camera moves all fast around this girl who cant stand still, take her time, pour a drink normally, spike the punch without throwing her bottle into the bottom of the punch bowl, picking the bowl up, shaking it around screaming I DONT HAVE TIME FOR THIS! while simultaneously dancing (throwing around like rag dolls) three girls, yelling at boys to go to hell, all while quick shots from the camera let us know that this girl is OUT OF CONTROL.i dont need to continue (as i turned the movie off there, catching the ridiculous ending later).if you liked coyote ugly, this is a really beautiful movie. i dub thee coyote ugly boarding school.  "},{"Title":"turn back the clocks a few decades coz we're timetravelling to the movie age where lesbians had to be unhappy","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I also saw the film at the Berlin Film Festival. But unlike the authors of the other comments I will not praise it. Léa Pool does not make movies to tell a story for mere entertainment, she takes a rather psychoanalytical approach to her characters.In the case of Lost and Delirious it is not as much a story about first love and search for identity as much as it is about a love taking a disastrous turn and the collapse of Paulie, everything overshadowed by the mother-daughter relationships (though the mothers are not present).I don't think Lost and Delirious moves swiftly (as the imdb's plot summary states) from boarding school routine and girlish silliness to the problems of the love story. The movie is rather heavy handed from the very beginning on. It stresses its big, meaningful points too much and thus it comes off as blunt, kitsch, unrefined and overly dramatic.  The one-dimensional supporting characters add to the very much arranged and constructed story arc.Dear Léa, your film Lost and Delirious basically suggests that Paulie's break down is due to the lack of love from her mother. Even her lesbianism can be linked to that. While Victoria is redeemed by backpedaling and going straight, you make the lesbian Paulie suffer. The days when lesbian love was portrayed in movies as unhappy love with suffering and suicides involved and thereby brandished as perverted and sinful should be over by now. You really didn't need to take us back there. No love. jules  "}{"Title":"A Completely Preposterous Premise","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My problem with this far-fetched and tedious work evidently lies in what the source material gave the filmmakers to work with, that being the novel and/or the screenplay. I have read neither. It is impossible to fathom that signal after signal of the central female character's dramatic psychological decline either went unnoticed or was deliberately ignored by such an inept staff of boarding school instructors and administrators. If the goals of the school included creating a headstrong group of adolescent girls, they accomplished that and regrettably more, resulting in conditions where, to bend a phrase, one of the patients was running the asylum. There is not one iota of redeeming value to warrant seeing this film. The girls are inexperienced and throw the word love around in a way that makes it a totally misunderstood commodity. Peripheral tidbits come and go as mere fillers, offering no beneficial reasons for being integrated into the plot. If those were meant to serve as symbolism, they failed in their mission because they were shoe-horned in as central story items instead of being eased in the way true adolescent life would evolve. By toning down the script's language throughout and substituting innuendo in the lesbian scenes, instead of everything that required the R rating, during another era this film could have been a product shown in entirety as a half-hour Twilight Zone episode. The central female character's name being Pauline also reminded me of Melanie Lynskey's role as another Pauline in Heavenly Creatures (1994), a film costarring Kate Winslet. That movie was based around an actual tragic event that occurred overseas, following similar life experiences by adolescent girls and misguidance by adults, but in more home-based and parental proportions. It will take the viewer some effort to be forgiving about the lack of adult monitoring in the Lost and Delirious school setting. After muttering, Oh, c'mon!, to myself so many times, this film made such effort not worth it in any way. "},{"Title":"I was like a car with no driver","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Something you've always suspected - the craziness of a woman is very well fleshed out in this story about all girls high school.This is a very well produced movie that's both beautiful, and full of good observations at the same time. What's very clear is the deep need in the girls to be loved. But what happens if the environment can't provide that for them ?Emotions and physical needs are difficult to be satiated by reason. But in the interactions, the inherent meanness, and destructiveness that women harbors is also shown. The bitchiness really is part of the psychological makeup.Pauline became the victim of her own womanhood. Not knowing that the best protection is to follow the moral code of the society (but that's difficult to know at such a young age). There's a fine line between a road to safety and road to self destruction, but this movie ends with none of the enlightening insights.Maybe some people are too far gone by the time they reach puberty. It's difficult to hide the deficiency in character if you're in a boarding school. I went to a boarding school, and saw similar problems with women coeds.If only they didn't need such constant reenforcement of being loved .... "},{"Title":"OK, but puzzled by the ending","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I read a few user reviews that spoke of the poor acting. I have to disagree. I thought Piper Perabo was great in the movie, and the other actresses did their jobs well.I didn't get the ending. I will not say what it is because I don't want to spoil it for you. If anyone wants to explain it to me feel free to e-mail me. I think it's because I'm a guy! The movie captures the viewer via their emotions, so I imagine its appeal will be greater with women than men. I can say that it makes you care for Piper's character and you feel what she is going through. Of course, these are not things guys usually look for in a movie. I didn't think the plot holes were too large as other reviewers have stated. I will give my movies a little latitude in that area. I don't label something a plot hole just because the characters do not respond exactly how I would. Overall I gave it a 4 for two reasons I think it will have limited appeal - very few men will like the movie - and the ending does not quite fit the ground rules laid out during the rest of the movie. "},{"Title":"Great Film,Guys Review","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this movie was great, I saw it on HBO and saw Piper Perabo (who is gorgeous) and thought I'd watch it, and when I finished it I thought that It was great. It was as if it was almost real and you really do see from a non-biased point of view when looking through Mischa Bartons eyes and this was one of those films you see not expecting anything then all of a sudden being blown away by the performance the actors give (kudos to Miss Perabo in the last 45 min.) But all in all I really liked this movie, Don't hesitate just buy it, You will not be disappointed. This almost made me cry (and I never cry when watching a movie) by just how much Paulie (Piper Perabo) felt towards Tori (Jessica Pare) but she didn't want her father to know so she told her that she did not love her. I'm not Homophobic are anything and I think that if someone is they should watch this film then they'll know that some people aren't gay are lesbian but just love someone of the same gender and that love can exist there. But I'm gonna say it one last time this was a great film. "},{"Title":"About real love","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Great movie with fantastic actresses, especially Piper Perabo, and in my opinion people have to watch it. The best movie ever about real love. Léa Pool direct a movie that conducts us through the feelings of three young girls in a boarding school. Piper Perabo plays Pauline Paulie Oster (unbelievable interpretation), a warrior of love who self destroy trying to get back her beloved girlfriend, fighting against hypocrisy and conformity. This movie shows what could happen if we interfere in the feelings of other people, not to help them, but only to defend our prejudices. Wonderful ending (even if really sad), with a superb metaphor. "},{"Title":"One of the best expressions of the lesbian/heterosexist dynamic I've seen","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie blew me away. I saw it, loved it, bought it and still watch it often. This movie depicts the secret love between two girls at a private school and how they exist blissfully until the secret is out. Heterosexist pressure destroys the garden of lesbian eden so to speak and the movie follows the descent of one lover into madness and the retreat of the other into the closet. The dynamic of the lovers, their friends and family shows a true-to-life struggle to find happiness. Some are dedicated to true happiness that resonates with the soul, while others seek only the topical happiness that comes from pleasing others, fitting in and not making waves. The characters flesh themselves out early in the movie and paint a picture that every person struggling against the current of society at the cost of your heart can relate to. This movie is an inspiration to those closed to diversity and to those working to achieve it. It is also a beautiful story of the fragility of love; it can be reciprocated one day and unrequited the next. I give this movie an 11 out of 10 and say it it a must see! "},{"Title":"Positive look","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Truly an exception work of Canadian Art that not many people can really understand. when people see this they will immediately assume it's a dirty teenage lesbian knockoff, but it really isn't. it's about loving someone for who he or she is and not about sex, gender, age, religion, creed, race or sexual orientation.too many people are afraid of Lesbians and homosexuals just because of their behaviors and their desire for the same sex but their just as human as everyone else. Lost & Delirious will have you thinking about what it's really like to love someone for who he or she is.  "},{"Title":"Sorry but this movie was pathetic","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've read several reviews saying they appreciated this movie.  Well,that's good for the filmmakers because I'm sure they did their best. They were trying to tell a noble story but in my opinion, the pooracting from Piper made this movie impossible to believe.  Heranger fits were so false and inappropriate that I sat back inwonderment wondering how Siskel and Roeper gave it twothumbs up.Whatever.  I don't want to waste my time writing why I didn't like thisfilm but I prefer a little reality mixed in with my fiction.G.  4/10  "},{"Title":"SUCKS","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think lost and delirious sucks. please, it's not because i've never been in love, i can't cry or i'd have something against gays. no, rather the opposite.i could say woman can't direct but that would be ignorant and not true. but please, the music is soo awful(ok, personal opinion and the very last one was ok), the acting has it's weak (too much) moments, the hawk(certainly a genius idea), the action, everything is kinda silly later on. the script has severe weaknesses, mary's character(i'll tell you why) and the gardener is ridiulous.all in all it's like the first half hour is ok(except the music, although it's somewhat endurable as long as u see the girls going for each other). hey, u couldn't mess too much up in that part. characters are introduced. mary is sent to a boarding school and becomes roommate with paulie and tori, who are apparently gay. when the relationship is revealed to tori's little sister the whole movie goes down the toilet. i mean, the case is crystalclear, the two girls love each other, conflict one girl turns away(Tori) because of social pressure against gayness but they're still in love. what the movie does is following the finally completely wrong and mentally ill paulie. and i disagree with her. being depressed, citing shakespeare and cutting my hair(in my case, male, i'd need hair extensions;-))is not my way of solving a problem. as a characterization within the movie it's ok, but after one hour my discomfort reached a high point and i could only laugh about the silly symbolism and overdramatic acting. but the problem is not that my problem solving style differs from the main character, the whole thing could have been good, as character, psych study. the problem is there's still mary, i guess i did expect her, and a scene in the movie pushed that expectation(dialog tori-mary), to do her part resolving the conflict. but all she does is carrying the second sword so that paulie could cut the poor, absolutely innocent, boy.this story weakness and the, in my opinion, bad directing adds up to my conclusion It SUCKS, watch fucking amal instead, same topic, better movie. "},{"Title":"Oh so sad.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the worse movies I've seen this year.  I laughed when I was supposed to cry and cried when I was supposed to laugh.  It depresses me to see more than adequate actors with a horrible plot and pathetic direction. It really could have been good.  What was all of that bird stuff?  Call it what you will, but poetry it's not.  Yucko. "}{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Y love LOST AND DELIRIOUS FOREVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!. Such a beautiful film..no words to describe it, just WONDERFUL! See it if you didn't yet!. Its magic! I love this movie, i love Piber ,she is awesome! The best actress, my favorite!, the performance given by Piper is so strong, you feel her pain, her emotions almost like... run though the viewers, it's incredible! And I'm totally in love with Paulie! she is amazing its so real and pure, it made me cry so much, definitely the best film i will ever see. THIS IS THE MOST BEAUTIFUL AND MOVING FILM I'VE EVER SEEN.. i love piper...i love Pauli...she's the best actress of the world!! every time i watch this movie it's like is the fist... it's like i live into the movie...my God...i can't find words ford describe what i feel inside... and i am so happy to know that there are a lot of people which love this movie like me... a kiss to all fans... if i were Tory...i would never leave Pauly..i love her so much!!also sorry my English it's not very good. "},{"Title":"Justice done to an essential subject that is often trivialised.","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A beautiful engaging film that actually manages to get to the essential human dramas of love, unrequited love, passionate love and filial love. The all consuming power of early fixation and its tendency towards poetic angst is fabulously redirected into some really powerful Shakespearian diversions that really 'crank up the anti', so to speak.The thing that troubled me most about this film was the fact that the story was wrapped in a fairly sickly Utopian girls school that, unlike the emotions dealt with, hardly anybody has ever gone to - I doubt that such a place could exist. Speaking of wrappers, this film seems to borrow an incredible amount of its staging and visual identity from other films. I was tempted to begin this review with; 'Bilitis' meets 'Kes' meets 'If' meets 'Picnic at hanging rock' meets 'Dangerous liaisons', but the list started to get too long and seemed doomed to end with meets 'Karate kid' (where have I seen that gardener). I will stand by the comparison with the first three though, in fact the influence of the film 'If' is tacitly admitted, by the inclusion of the same Sanctus from Misa Luba in the sound track and an almost identical school building. Having said that, the story that forms the core of the film is resilient enough to support all these overcoats that it wears, and they are very well fitted indeed. I would like to read the book now, mainly to see if it is just the production team being lazy in salvaging other films to clad what must be a well crafted narrative, or if the original author was influenced by them. It is a very fine film, with an admirable message so I do hope I haven't belittled it too much, you really should read the other reviews below this one to re-balance my bias. "},{"Title":"The Best Worst Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ah, Lost and Delirious. Where do I begin? Imagine everything that can go wrong in an indie film. I'll give you a minute, there's a lot to think about.You done? Okay.Everything you just thought of is present in this movie. Bad writing - horrible, pretentious writing - that's at the core of it. Bad acting - that's not necessarily the fault of the cast, though some of them give truly horrid performances. A flood of angst. Not just any angst, but pathetic, teenage, *gay* angst. Which would be sickening even at the best of times.It's also a bad adaptation. No, not a bad adaptation. That's inaccurate. It can hardly be said to have been adapted from its source material at all. Anybody who's read Wives of Bath, the novel on which this movie is (allegedly) based, can tell you that the only things the two share are the (first) names of some of the characters.That being said, let me get to the point.I. Love. This. Movie.I remember the first time I ever saw Lost and Delirious. That's not something you forget. I just happened upon it whilst flipping through movie channels one day. I watched it; because though I've seldom been met with anything that's not crap, I continue to watch lesbian dramas, because I think maybe - just maybe - one of them will surprise me.Well, this movie did surprise me. And when I say that, I mean that every scene made me think, incredulously, Are you kidding me? Yes, it was crap. But I slowly began to realise that this crap was, in fact, comedic *gold*. This movie was - is- a laugh riot.I mean, come on, these little lesbians are ca-razy. Picking up shards! Crying like girly-girl, sucky-sucks! Misinterpreting Shakespeare! Barfing bad poetry! Slow-motion crying! Duels! And when Paulie jumps off the roof at the end. Hoo-lordy. Because, if you'll notice, that is a slanted roof. So she's not just going to fall straight off of it, that's not how physics works. There's too much slope to that roof for that to happen. No, she is going to jump, slide down the tiles, then fall. Lollerskates! Honestly, it's like the first time, every time with this movie. Yes, I own it. From time to time, when we want to have a little fun, my girlfriend Sarah and I will pull out our copy with Chinese writing all over it and pop it in. Hilarity ensues. It's not that we're insensitive. We're just mature enough to see this movie for what it is. A badly written, badly acted, coked-out-on-angst melodrama. And in that, we have found pure joy. "},{"Title":"A little risque for my taste","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Indeed a very powerful film but I felt very uncomfortable with the love scenes.  I realize of course that the actresses are adults but the portrayal of sex between teens in such an explicit way was bothersome to me.  I was, however, impressed with the performances, especially of Piper Perabo. "}]