[{"Title":"Well-shot, highly entertaining","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I was very surprised how much I enjoyed this film. I thought it was funny, sexy, painful, and warm. Andie MacDowell's performance was nuanced and vulnerable. For once, the director of a MacDowell film did not make her beauty another character in the film. The romance between Kate and her young man is lovely to watch and it plays out very well. Her relationship with her friends is both a thorn and a balm in her life. Imelda Stalinson, who has been a MVP in so many British films, does a great job in this. There is some tragedy in this but I think the film is saved in the end by the brilliant acting, clean direction, and witty writing.The film quality is excellent and the music is good, too, though unavailable on sound track.  "},{"Title":"Astonishingly bad. In the top 3 worst movies I've seen.","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This film was choppy, incoherent and contrived. It was also an extremely mean-spirited portrayal of women. I rented it because it was listed as a comedy (that's a stretch), and because the cover said Andie McDowell was acting up a storm in it. She wasn't. I'm a gal, I watched this film with two guys, and we spent an hour afterwards exclaiming over how bad it was.WARNING PLOT SUMMARY BELOW! RAMPANT SPOILERS!The movie starts out with a fairly hackneyed plot about an older woman who takes up with a younger man, to the severe disapproval of her two jealous single girlfriends. They want her to marry a boring guy their own age who is kind of in love with her. But she's so happy with her oversexed puppy that you're rooting for them to stick it out, and sure enough, she decides to marry the guy. But her harpy girlfriend, aided by the wishy-washy one, sets up a plot to trick our heroine into thinking the guy is cheating on her. It works. She has a fight with him, he runs out of the house and is crushed by a truck (Remember the movie's title?) So now he's dead, two-thirds of the way through the film. And although our heroine is a school headmistress who spends her time watching over girls, she apparently forgot to use birth control and is pregnant.She's already broken off relations with her girlfriends, because they were so unsupportive. Alone and pitiful, she decides to marry the boring guy. Did I mention that the boring guy who kind of loves her is a minister? She had asked him to marry her to the young guy (nice, huh?), but now she tells him she'll marry him, and apparently he has no objections to being dicked around in this fashion. But her girlfriends rescue her at the altar and take her home, where they not-quite-confess that they were mostly responsible for the love of her life getting smushed. She has the kid. In the final scene, they leave it in a crib inside her house while they go out on the porch to drink, smoke and be smug. I kid you not, it's that bad. I left out the part about the cancer red-herring and the harpy's ridiculous lesbian moment. "},{"Title":"A Cynical Mess","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" This film is a calculated attempt to cash in the success of Sex in the City and Four Weddings and a Funeral. In fact, if they'd called it Sex at a Funeral, they might have done better at the box office.But the film falls between two stools and can't get up. The characters spout improbably bright dialog, but never act in any way remotely recognizable as human. One arbitrary, senseless action follows another to advance what passes for a plot, and one soon tires of the falsity of the whole enterprise.Andie MacDowell gets points for acting her little heart out, but the performing honors are stolen by Imelda Staunton, as of all things, a police detective (don't they have a height requirement over there?). Ms. Staunton seems unable to make a false move. Would that we could say the same about the writer-director.If Notting Hill annoyed you as being bogus, stay away from this one. Phonus bolognus on the half-shell. "},{"Title":"a crush or true love?","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  For all its faults, I found more poignancy in this movie than I expected. I admit that I purposely avoided this movie because Andie McDowell was in it -- who is a terribly overrated (though beautiful) actress. I was surprised to discover depth where she has never shown it before -- and very subtly, so much so, that it was unfortunately missed.I've always enjoyed how many of the English movies I've seen have a tendency to mix comedy, tragedy, and drama in a way that Americans find hard to comprehend. Is not life itself a mix of all these? Do we not have situations so painful that we have to laugh?I don't want to make this movie more than it was, but I thought it was a sweet, quiet story about a woman who may not have had the chance to find love -- and it comes along unexpectedly, in a very unconventional form. It is rather sad to watch her struggle with her somewhat immature feelings (and as I noted, Andie M. did a superb job) and disbelief over whether she was involved in just a crush (ahem, perhaps where the title came from -- surely not, as some reviewer noted, from the fate of one of the characters) or true love. I also enjoyed the genuine concern of her friends -- despite their misguided, and perhaps implausible efforts to dissuade her.The movie showed how the type of love Kate wanted, may not have been possible in her small community, in the position she held, and with the life she had already created for herself. I thought the writer/director did a fine job of showing her struggle with the implausibility of the relationship she found.Not the best movie ever made -- but nice to see a film that focuses on friendship, which often gets pushed aside as true love prevails (an implausible plot that movie viewers most want to see -- and who find anything other than true love to be implausible!).  "},{"Title":"Hidden Gem on the DVD Shelves","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I really truly enjoyed this movie. (Which is why it surprised me that it got such a low rating from so many users at this site!) I am not saying that it is a cinematic masterpiece but it was a great way to spend a cold, snowy Saturday night. It is funny, poignant, and a great tales of the ups and downs of female friendships lasting through difficult times and the bad things that female friends tend to do to each others! (fess up ladies, we have ALL BEEN THERE!) Bill Paterson shines as the Reverand Gerald Marsden and Andie McDowell proves that she can be a fine actress when the role is right and she puts her mind to it. (And truly, there is the best wedding escape that I have ever seen or dreamed up in this film ... more guts than anyone I have ever known!) You will laugh and you will cry --- ignore any marketing campaigns and how this film is being marketing .... it is a hidden gem that should have done TONNES of box office. (now I have to look around to purchase a copy!) "},{"Title":"A portrayal of love for middle-aged women with beauty","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" The tag line for Crush is Three female friends behaving badly. I beg to differ. It's more like three middle-aged women complaining about men. This won't be enjoyable for many men.But now on to the good things. It's dramatic, it's sad, it's funny and it combines all those elements with beauty. It's primarily about Kate (Andie MacDowell) trying to find love. MacDowell stands out in this film. She does have two best friends played by Imelda Staunton and Anna Chancellor but to me they were just annoying and continuously acted inappropriately.But then into Kate's life comes Jed (Kenny Doughty). The entire theatre audience sighed as Doughty appeared on the screen. Very handsome, and he had the smouldering stare down pat as he melted our hearts. I had predicted that he would go on to be a star, and that might still happen, but slowly, as he toils around in some small roles.The film was shot beautifully with the location in England being spectacular. The filmmakers also made a number of beautiful subtle contrasts to the men in Kate's life. These filmmakers definitely know how to make a great film. Too bad they don't know how to write characters very well. Andie MacDowell's Kate is the only great character, unless you count Kenny Doughty's looks.Crush is not for men, and only for fans of Andie MacDowell, Kenny Doughty and technically superb and beautiful film-making. "},{"Title":"Nicely filmed with a talented cast, but the weak script and underdeveloped story ruin what could have been a great movie","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Crush wasn't a terrible movie, but it could have been better. Instead of the great movie it had the potential to be it was a rather average movie. The film is nicely filmed, with lovely scenery and swift cinematography. The performances from the three leads Andie McDowell, Imelda Staunton and Anna Chancellor were believable in their roles, and there is a decent supporting turn from Bill Patterson. The music is lovely too, and the direction from first-time director John McKay is average.However the film has several failings, namely the weak characterisations despite the actors' stellar performances. The script is implausible at best, and lacked wit. The plot is also predictable and contrived in places, that has been done many times and better, and there are uneven transitions from comedy into tragedy though there are many valiant attempts. There was a scene where Molly says to Kate I can smell man on you, and I just wondered whether that was rather inappropriate to say that to another woman. There is a lack of chemistry between Kate and Jed, and the conclusion of the film is rather unsatisfying. All in all good, but could have been better. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Crushed by love...","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Crush provides a combination of drama, humor and such irony that I find the English establish very well when it concerns matters of the heart. Mostly known for directing John McKay wrote this wonderful screenplay about three forty-something friends in a small town in England. All three professional women down-out of luck with men formed a ritual ladies night gathering with gin, fags and sweets intake included with endless chatter of their dates erroneous behavior or the needs of their libidos. Andie MacDowell once again thrown by the surrounds of the British (which is where I find she exudes the most) is absolutely charming as the head mistress of a prestigious school who becomes involved with a younger man. Small town gossip and the disapproving jealous friends (great supporting cast) conflicts with her relationship. Unfolding a series of brutal unfortunate events and showing us the many difficulties when one is in pursuit of true happiness. Keep in mind the main premise of this film is friendships and the ending shows us exactly that. This is the type of film you either love or hate, which is why I believe a lot of mix reviews and not that greatest success resulted when this film was released. As I'm sure most are just unearthing the film now. I very much enjoyed this film and highly recommend for those in the likes of such films as Love Actually, and Three Weddings and a funeral. Not to mention the soundtrack is extraordinary perfectly capturing those crucial moments. "},{"Title":"Charming!","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is a refreshing, enjoyable movie.  If you enjoyed, Four Weddings and A Funeral, Peter's Friends, etc., you will see a number of familiar and talented actors.  Made me laugh, made me sad.  I view movies for entertainment, and English-set movies generally fit that bill for me. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"I Really Enjoyed and Related to this Film","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Having no knowledge of this film prior to seeing it on Rialto Channel I found it to be a pleasant, poignant and enriching film. The casting was excellent. I loved all the characters, they were a little exaggerated in places, (but this IS a film). The way it looked and the enjoyably giddy ride the main character took until it turned badly, as real life can and does. Yes, I thought Andy MacDowell was great.  I was particularly interested to watch this film once it began because people so often joke about her acting abilities (I find this quite wierd because she's always a solid actress in my opinion).I loved the bit at the end where Andy's character said sometimes I feel he was never here etc., it was so completely how it really is in a situation like that (which I can personally identify with), then there was that gorgeous classical piece Nocturne I think by Chopin, which was a beautiful way to end (bar the light comedy at the end, which was probably unnecessary).I say well done to the film makers - I have seen 1,000s of worse films! "}{"Title":"erotic Plus","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Kenny Doughty as Jed Willis is sexier in this role than any male porn star, even though he keeps his pants on.The movie tore at my heart reminding me of the intensity of the big explosive love of my life. I don't think I can think of another movie, except perhaps Zeffirelli's Romeo and Juliet that captures that giddy joy that well.The other draw of the movie is the very English eccentric characters enjoying the scandal vicariously. In that sense it is much the same appeal as Midsomer Murder or a Miss Marple mystery, without the mayhem.This is a great antidote to the mock horror currently popular in the USA an any relationships between people of different ages. "},{"Title":"This film overlooks one very important crush","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I know it is 2005 and many of you have probably already seen this movie, but it is my first time seeing it on Lifetime. I thought it was a pretty good movie until I begin to see what was really happening between Andie McDowell's character (Kate) and her friend, Anna Chancellor's character, (Molly). At first I thought Molly was just bitter against men because she had been in a number of crummy marriages, and while that may be part of the problem, the real truth of the matter is that she has a HUGE crush on Kate. This explains the lengths she goes through to keep any man away from Kate. Molly is a lesbian whose loyalties lie with women (which may explain the failures of her three marriages) and her lesbian tendencies come out at near the end of the movie when she kisses the other woman at the medics party. This confirmed for me what I had been suspecting all along that Molly was a gay character in this movie and she wanted Kate from the beginning. Molly is very domineering and controlling with her friend Janine in whom she has no sexual interest, but rather she uses Janine as pawn to help constantly interfere in and destroy Kate's relationships. Molly initiates the breakup of any love interest Kate may express in a man and being Kate's doctor, she also has access to Kate's body. The director was very clever in very subtly showing/hiding this lesbian aspect/triangle of the film, but lesbianism is the fantsy of most males, even directors. As we can see, love between women is not always a pretty or sexy sight. "},{"Title":"Crush","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Me being of Irish origins, loved this movie, Not only was the guy hot and funny he was also sincere and honest. I loved the girl who he fell in love with too, she was pretty. They were such a cute couple. The ending was so sad. Love this movie! Although it is a little dirty, it reminds of a British or Irish version of Prime. If you liked this movie you should watch prime. Same story line young guy falls for older women, older women falls for young guy to. A lot of paths cross, in the end, the best decision is made or task is completed. Don't have anything else to say, without ruining the whole movie, all though I thought the french guy was ugly, less appealing to me. Umm...if you like Irish movies, I would recommend Circle of Friends ,that movie is so good. Quick quote, you might not get unless you watch it well, thats my dinner ruined. LOL "},{"Title":"Nice scenery and a hot guy ;)","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Well, I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. It was funny and sad and yes, the guy Andie MacDowell shagged was hot. Interesting, realistic characters and plots as well as beautiful scenery. I think my Mum would like it. I still think they should have been allowed to call it the Sad F**kers Club though... "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" The first word which comes into my mind after watching this movie is beauty. Beauty is all around, in actors' play (Andie is superb as always), in well designed shots, and in authors' red line idea - the Love.I think the Kenny's character is the only white spot in these three womens' otherwise boring and predictable life. His interaction makes Andie's character living as entertaining as it could possibly be. When he's gone, it became obvious that we cannot really appreciate and hold to our inner believes and sacred desires.The fact that Andie successfully recovers from this loss is nothing bad, instead it shows that life prevails in any forms, even in this small British village, which is shown perfectly.Another reason I love this movie is that it is so British in all ways - all that houses and fags and accents ))). And Andie again is doing superb job! It is a shame that this movie got such low marks. 10 out of ten! "},{"Title":"One of the worst films","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" This had to be one of the worst films ever. When Kate shows up and Jed is with a bunch of guys and they all start clapping...so Hollywood. Another bad scene was when Kate was running her hands over the pavement it appeared that she was examining the texture of the pavement. Andie's acting is so bad in this film - I could not connect with them or feel there love for each other. The other 2 women however were very good and overshadowed Andie. Anyway this was such a campy movie. I usually like these type of films but I just couldn't get into this film. Too many unlikely situations and again Andie's acting didn't help the film. Also, she is all gums. Lancome must put her makeup on with a putty knife because she looks glamorous in the commericals. "},{"Title":"Charming!","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" This is a very moving picture about 3 forty-something best friends in a small england town. One finds a passionate loves and a new beginning with a younger piano instructor, When tragedy strikes and hearts are changed forever. Definitely a film to have a box of tissues with you! A powerful piece of work. This is definitely one of my favorite films of all time.*SPOILER!!! SPOILER ALERT!! SPOILER!!*The main character is taken by her young, handsome piano instructor and a passionate romance blossoms. Her two jealous friends play an immature prank which quickly leads to tragedy. She loses her love and her friends in one foul swoop. In the end a unexpected surprise pulls them back together.(in my opinion her forgiveness is not warranted) "},{"Title":"Confused","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Was this meant to be a comedy or a serious drama? This film starts with a light-hearted banter between three women. Fine. It moves into a conflict between the women when one of them meets a man. Fine. There are a few antics between them. Fine. But when the plot thickens and finally becomes black I started to wonder whether I had misinterpreted the first part of the movie. It continues in this vein for a while until, in the end, it tries to go back to the original light-hearted banter. But by now it's too late. It's hard to see why these women would still be talking to one another and the finale is unconvincing. Truly a lesson (for British filmmakers anyway) of how not to make films. Difficult to see how the producers ever convinced themselves this film would work. And the box office proved it to be a real flop, because I'd never heard of this film until this weekend (four years after its release). "},{"Title":"Horrendously appalling","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" This starts off bad, what with the three women acting like simpering junior high school wussies sitting around giggling with their gin, endless cigarettes and a caramel chocolate treat for the one who tells the best 'man' story, and then it gets worse -=- spoiler alert =-= what with Andie's character falling for the young organ player who used to be her student when he was 14 (she's the headmistress of an English school, believe it or not), only to have him destroyed thanks to her bitch-from-hell 'girlfriend' . ..and then from there, it's basically unwatchable claptrap she forgives her 'friend' and has the organ player's love child and the 3 women end up as they started, drinking more gin and smoking more cigarettes blah blah blah. Andie's character throws the caramel chocolates out in the street, in a pathetic attempt to symbolize growth. Have mercy. "},{"Title":"Chick flick for 40 and up","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Crush is a comedy/light-drama which tells of three middle-aged single women best friends in England, one of which, a proper school headmistress (MacDowell), falls in like/love with a young former student half her age. What begins as a straight forward  sexually charged Spring-Autumn romance twists and turns unexpectedly and finally sorts itself out to feel good conclusion. Crush is an enjoyable, sometimes brash, sometime sentimental romp which will play best with more mature females. (B-) "}{"Title":"women aren't this pathetic","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I had been curious about this movie when it first came out, and just caught it on IFC. Shocking!!! While Kate's friends may have been justified in their concern, the way they handled themselves was even more immature and worrisome than the behavior they were accusing HER of! I was shocked by the outcome of their 'setup' for Jed (I hand't heard anything about it prior to seeing the movie) and couldn't believe the lame 'i'm so sorry' speech given later in the doctor's office. It was horrible and I truly believe it would have taken a lot more time and effort for Kate to be able to forgive her friends. Jed's demise was a direct result of their actions and they never (especially the tall one) really seemed truly remorseful. The bond between women and their best friends is strong and I think we have all been on either side, whether we are the ones being forgiven or the one in need of forgiving. That being said, this may have been the unforgivable deed indeed! "},{"Title":"An Irregular and Confused Screenplay and Direction Where the Genre of the Movie is Never Defined","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Katie (Andie MacDowell) is the head mistress of a school, Molly (Anna Chancellor) is the doctor and Janine (Imelda Stauton) the chief of police in a small England town. They are above forty, best girl friends and are together most of their vacant time. They like to dispute the most unsuccessful and unhappy affair with the local men in the week. One day, Katie meets Jed (Kenny Doughty), her former student and at least sixteen years younger than she and they fall in love for each other. She hides this love from the locals and her two friends do not accept such a situation. In order to avoid a spoiler, I cannot comment further than that. This movie has one of the most irregular and confused screenplay and direction I have ever seen. It starts as a romantic comedy, then goes to a free dramatic tragedy, goes to a comedy and ends mushy. The unnecessary tragedy in the middle of the plot does not fit to the movie. Further, the circus in the marriage of Gerald and Kate is ridiculous. If the viewer expects to watch a comedy or romantic comedy, will be very disappointed, and if he expects to see a drama, will be also disappointed. My vote is six. "},{"Title":"I really have a soft spot for this one!","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I must have seen this movie at least 5 times by now. Here's why.Look, I know good, award-worthy movies and I can see why this one doesn't belong in that category. The acting is not very convincing, the story has huge holes in it and the characters aren't exactly deep. But there's just something incredibly charming about this film.The three main characters are beautiful to look at and though their acting isn't great, this kind of works for them because their exaggeration also makes them very likable.The film has a good atmosphere, with its typical British elements, its music, that's simple and plain but works, and its own pleasant style, which I find hard to define.And I really like the plot. I won't spoil anything - I'll just say it gives you a really interesting perspective on some things. It may not be a very deep perspective, or even a realistic one, but it is one I liked nonetheless.The movie is lighthearted and kind of depressing and sad at the same time. Which is a strange combination, but it works. It's also kind of ridiculous, a quality I can really appreciate in a film. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Better Than I Thought","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I watched this film last night for the first time. It was airing on one of the HBO Channels. To be honest I was pleasantly surprised. I wasn't sure at first where they were going with it as the movie progressed I became more and more interested. Thinking at first if this were an older man younger woman scenario, no one would care. I also wasn't sure about Jed's character and what his motives were as well. I like Kate's (Andie MacDowell) friends did not want to see her get hurt and yet being older myself I understood. BUT friends can be sometimes dangerous especially one who masks envy for concern.Once I realized that however young HOT Jed was he was sincere and I believe truly fell in love with Kate, making the outcome even more tragic. On a lighter note one aspect of his character that I found sexy is when he would take the gum out of his mouth before making love to Kate. It was sexy at best! I liked Andie M. in this due to the fact that her character was someone I could relate too. The romantic who I gather had not experienced real romance up until meeting Jed (Kenny Doughty). When she would smile thinking of him in the most inopportune places I thought yes indeed I know that feeling. This is not a great movie but it is a good one and refreshingly what it feels like for older women trying to find love and having a movie in this era portray that. "},{"Title":"These are friends?","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" My sweetheart and I watched this on cable last night. For a comedy it had too few laughs. The acting was passable, with two strong supporting performances from Staunton and Chancellor and a weaker lead in MacDowell. Given the cable synopsis, we thought this film might have echoes of Notes on a Scandal. No such luck. Yes, the American headmistress of a British school begins an affair with a former student, but he's 25, well past the age of consent. Sure, he's not as sophisticated as his lover and her friends but he is sincere, and they plan to marry. Her friends the doctor and the implausible cop decide to ruin the relationship for her own good. A true friend can advise you not to pursue a relationship but ceases being a any kind of friend when he or she actively sabotages the relationship. Dr. Molly is the worst friend since Linda Tripp. Her malice indirectly leads to the death of her friend's young lover and she expects to be forgiven? Lady, please! "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" This was awful. Andie Macdowell is a terrible actress. So wooden she makes a rocking horse look like it could do a better job. But then remember that turn in Four Weddings, equally as excruciating. Another film that portrays England as full of Chocolate box cottages, and village greens. I mean that school, how many schools apart from maybe Hogwarts look like that? The twee police station looked like the set from Heartbeat ( a nauseating British series set in the 60s).This film just couldn't make its mind up what it wanted to be- a comedy or a serious examination of the undercurrents in women's friendships. If it had stuck to the former then the graveyard sex scenes and the highly stupid storming of the wedding might just have worked( i say just). But those scenes just didn't work with the tragedy in the second half. I also find it implausible that Kate would ever speak to Molly again after her terrible behaviour. A final note- what is a decent actress like Staunton doing in this pile of poo? Not to mention Anna Chancellor. Macdowell should stick to advertising wrinkle cream. "},{"Title":"What a shame!!!","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" What started as a funny story of three women in their 40's going thru a kind of middle life crisis and their bad relationships with men, then turns serious when an unusual romance blossoms for one of them. The relationship develops unexpectedly well, the characters seem real. The young man who's the love interest delivers some surprising twists and it's all very believable. We actually root for them and their beautiful love story&#133; But just when the film could've built up to some real high class drama (the older woman confronting her fears and other people's prejudices) it whirls downwards into some really deranged nonsense, pseudo tragedy and plain silliness. The so well constructed characters and the very good performances get drawn into a not well chewed mess which is irritating to watch. It's a shame really, what had started well and could've turned into a really neat romantic flick, even a little jewel (with a good look on how these two people connect above all their differences and against all social conventions), gets wasted. It's almost as if we were watching two different films. Maybe the script was meant for a short film and didn't add up to the full hour and a half and had to be filled in? Anyway it could've been better written to have a coherent development and ending. What a shame. "},{"Title":"With Friends Like These...","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Caught this on IFC yesterday, and can't believe the positive reviews! Am I the only one who thought these ladies were anything but? Kate tells Jed she could get fired because she's supposed to be a pillar of the community, but puts out for him! Then they suddenly decide they're in love? And she's SO devastated over his death, she doesn't go to his funeral, much less, tell his family the good news! By the way, how did an American get to be the headmistress of a very proper British school? Janine should have been kicked off the force for her inexcusable abuse of power, but nothing happens! And she winds up boffing a con she brought in for questioning! And the less said about Molly, the better!As for the guilt Janine and Molly feel over Jed, please! It's the punk's own damn fault he got turned into roadkill! Where's the guilt over poor Gerald, who gets puked on? If only I could do the same to the bozos behind this movie! "},{"Title":"Friends....and Friends","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" CRUSH is now a ten year old film written and directed by John McKay, a film that stands up well with the passage of time and the observations of feminine behavior. It is blessed with a fine cast of actors and has the courage to take a comedic start and turn it into a tragic mode without destroying the main theme of the special friendship among a small group of women. Kate Scales (Andie MacDowell) is a headmistress of a private school in a smallish English town and is close friends with policewoman Janine (Imelda Staunton) and physician Molly Cartwright (Anna Chancellor) each of the women is in the 40s range of age and each is single, their social life is meeting together for booze, smoking, and gossip and competing by putting themselves down for having the worst faux pas with men. Kate encounters a young former student of hers, Jed Willis (Kenny Doughty) as he plays the organ for funerals. There is a mutual attraction and soon they are having a frequent physical relationship. Jed is sincerely in love with Kate but Kate feels the 20 some odd year difference in their ages in an insurmountable gap - though she is passionately attracted to Jeb. When Kate shares her 'affair' with Molly and Janine her friends are appalled and set out to destroy a relationship they feel is completely wrong and doomed to failure. Molly and Janine take extreme measures to see to it that the couple is broken up and their intentions result in a tragedy they all must face. The repercussions of this behavior creates a whole new set of circumstances and despite the tragic elements the friends are able to reunite by film's end - with very clear discoveries about each other and changes in each of their lives. There is a lot of well written and well delivered humor in the first half of the film with the trio of women creating a bond that seems to be ceaselessly entertaining. The introduction of Jed - played to perfection by the very talented Kenny Doughty - changes the theme of the story and while many viewers will feel negative about the turn of events there is here a chance for the examination of the spectrum of friendship that is solidly written and performed. What seems to be a bit of fluff movie develops into a psychological study that makes it stand above many other 'chick flick' comedies. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Andie's Most Memorable Movie Moment","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" First off, let me say that I love Andie MacDowell -- she's gorgeous, charming, very sweet, and she's proved her acting abilities to me in several roles. She also has the most delicious and engaging smile.I was very much enjoying Crush up until that tragedy came out of left field, so angering me that I yelled at the screen. I actually felt betrayed after becoming so swept up in all the joy and romantic eroticism beforehand. There could have been all sorts of adversity for the couple to face without the great, plot-shifting finality as written. This is the only reason I can't count the film as a true favorite.Still, there's that one pivotal, magical scene, in which Andie's character first meets her former student as a strapping adult. When he asks her, barely suggestively, if he could get her anything, Andie provides the most wonderful and telling expression her eyes soften and her jaw slowly drops with breathy desire -- long-suppressed desire -- and without a word she speaks volumes about her deep well of longing and the smoldering lust that is overcoming her in the moment...she is a vital, beautiful woman, and her needs can no longer be ignored. Jump cut to the teacher well-mounted behind some bushes and you have the cinematic equivalent of orgasmic abandon, all done quite politely. I still become, uh...quite moved by the memory of it. "}{"Title":"2/3 good 1/3 bad","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed the first two thirds of this movie, and hated the last third. Every movie has a message and this one was Good friends stick together no matter how badly they behave towards others or themselves.Andie McDowell - in a performance I liked, because she seemed to have dropped her whiny, self satisfied, airs of previous roles - is a headmistress of a private British Public (ergo private) School, who has two close girlfriends who meet and trade men stories in order to win chocolate bars as a prize for the best story.One is a cop, played pluckily, by Imelda Staunton. The other is a Doctor, who is angry, foul mouthed and cynical; and as it turns out spiteful.At a funeral Andie runs into an old pupil of hers, some 16 years her junior, who happens to be the Organist. Before the re introductions are barely over they're shagging in the Cemetery. This is the kind of movie this is. Hedonism is King, or is it Queen? She decides that this is a man story she'll keep secret from the girls, but it's soon out and they are not pleased. The Doctor seems jealous, while the cop seems concerned by the age, and class difference. Although why a cop should pull the class difference issue is beyond me! ***********************SPOILER***************************** When Andie makes the decision to marry him, the friends pull out all the stops to divert her, to no avail. (At this point I said to my wife I bet they (the writers) kill him off). Sure enough the Doctor convinces the cop to have her video her seducing the boyfriend. Andie walks in on the seduction, which unknown to her has failed, and storms out. In the ensuing fight, she kicks him out and he is run over by a truck while sitting in the road trying to put his boots on.That's the first two thirds, and it's not bad. The lines are often witty, if a little to self consciously so, but it seems as if we are going to attack the May - September love affair issue head on. It is not to be. The message is instead to be about how friends make up after screwing one of their own. Which would be fine if there had been a serious attempt to do so. Instead the serio-comedy goes all comedy, and darkly so! Andie walls herself off from her friends and then in a colossal show of thoughtless dishonesty she sets up the school's vicar to marry her. By this time we have seen her get sick and know she's pregnant and assume she is, perhaps, seeking a father for the child through subterfuge. As it turns out Andie has not only become deceitful, she has also become stupid, as she is unaware she is pregnant! The friends decide to intervene again, but this time for a good cause. No matter that Andie has set a man up for an emotional crash, but now her friends add poison to the gruel and have her arrested at the altar, by none other than her cop friend and her willing bobbies.Off they go to the Doctor's office where the pregnancy is revealed and in a quick, unconvincing scene, all is forgiven. A bad taste in the mouth is the ending! People behaving badly and stupidly and learning not a wit from it! "},{"Title":"Cracks.... (DVD)","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I thought it was a New-York located movie wrong! It's a little British countryside setting.I thought it was a comedy wrong! It's a drama.... Well, up to the last third, because after the story becomes totally abracadabrantesque, the symbolic word for a French presidential mandate. It means, close to nonsense even it the motives would like to bring a sincere feeling.What Do I have left? Maybe, a good duo of actress Yes, I know, they are 3 friends, but the redhead policewoman is a bit invisible for me. The tall doctoress surprises by her punch, and McDowell delivers a fine acting as usual, all in delicate, soft and almost mute attitude. This gentleness puzzles me, because as other fine artists or directors, the same pattern is repeating over and over. In her case, it's like, whatever the movie, it's always the same character defined by her feelings, her values, who lives infinite different stories. I still don't know how to set the limit (or the fusion) between the artists and the works.Another positive side of this movie is its feminine touch & the interesting different points of view. The women have each their own way of living, even if they are all single. It brings a lot of tolerance and learning to witness how a same and unique reality can be perceived in as many ways as people.Finally, the movie is quite viewable, but the great final cuts the desire of a next vision. "},{"Title":"Sex and the City in the Cotswolds","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Crush examines female friendship, for the most part avoiding the saccharine quality which spoils so many films with the same theme (e. g., Steel Magnolias).  At the same time, it reveals the power of a sudden passion to overwhelm and surprise.  The events depicted were highly improbable, but the underlying emotional truth seemed very genuine to me. Not a film for the speeding-vehicle-and-explosion crowd, but grown-up women are certain to respond with both laughter and tears.   "},{"Title":"a chick flick that men will enjoy","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I think the weighted average for this film is too low.  I give it a 7. Very entertaining, although over the top in a few places.  My wife says it passes the Danielle Steele test.  Superb performances throughout, particularly by Andie MacDowell. "},{"Title":"Homage to Four Weddings and a Funeral","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I was `crushed' when I was informed that there were no future plans for a sequel to one of the most delightful romantic comedies of all time `Four Weddings and a Funeral'. `Crush' a female bonding pic of the same genre is no sequel to `Four Weddings', but it could easily be presented as what happened to our `four weddings' heroine Carrie if you knew `Hugh' was out of the picture. Ironically enough, our main female protagonist in `Crush' is played by none other than Carrie herself- Andie Macdowell. She plays Kate, a school headmistress who bonds with her 2 female friends each week and discuss their love lives, insecurities, and careers. A caramel candy box is given as a consolation prize to the fem with the saddest ordeal. Anna Chancellor, who played Henrietta the bride who got `Hughmongously' dumped in `Four Weddings', is wonderfully vicious here as Molly- the manipulative chumette who tries to disengage Kate's romance with a younger man.  Molly is like a vengeful Henrietta who seeks justice against Kate, who can be disguised as Carrie. Besides the female kinship, the film also focuses on Kate's relationship with a younger man who used to be one her students. `Crush' does not make any new discoveries that romantic comedies have not presented before. It is more like a homage to `Four Weddings and a Funeral'. I was not adorned by `Crush', but since I still have a major `crush' with `Four Weddings and a Funeral' it `merried' me enough to recommend an engagement to `Crush'.  *** Average  "},{"Title":"Ooops","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  A correction to my previous post.  I confused Imelda Staunton (petite) with Anna Chancellor (tall and blunt spoken).  Chancellor was the doctor and Staunton was the police chief.  I had it the other way around.My apologies to the actors and their fans. "},{"Title":"Tears, Joy and laughter...","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  the movie was a combination of all these things and in every category worth winning awards. The comedy timing is perfect, the dramatical part a tear jerker and the whole movie is entertainment at his best. Andie McDowell and her fellow cast members are in superb form. This is definetly a movie not to miss out on. Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Sure he's cute - but he's not the only thing that carries movie","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Ok - I admit. I think Kenny Doughty looks amazing in this movie - but beyond his good looks, the movie is carried by a sometimes predictable, but reasonable plot.Starting out, we're introduced to the three lead females of the movie. One a headmistress - very concerned about her image and never married. A police officer - with child and a bad ex to go on about. The third - a power & status hungry doctor with a desire for recognition and three ex's.They are almost the First Wives Club, and indeed there is much verbal bashing of ex's involved as well as some he left the credit card behaviour. Characters set - the movie continues.McDowell's character, the headmistress, arrives late at a funeral - where a young organist, filling in for the regular player (Doughty) catches her eye. What will her two friends say about the ensuing mischief? Will they live happily ever after?A tissue or two recommended if you're the teary type - the end uplifting, but maybe not what you'd expect. All in all a great movie which stands out amongst the current choices of action, special effects and schlock horror. "},{"Title":"One of the best 'girly' afternoon films I've seen!","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I thought this was one of those really great films to see with a bunch of close friends. I laughed and cried and laughed and cried at the same time.  It was just really touching.  Although not a new concept this was a very well made film. "},{"Title":"Sweet romance for women over 40","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Andie MacDowell's facial expressions are great again in this movie. When you enter 40 and have been single for a while (or all your life) you may feel you are wasting away. The movie is a sweet reminder that love can be found just anywhere if your antennae is acutely active. I liked the quick sexual encounter, which must be out of character for a normally reserved school teacher (MacDowell). Her ex-student is cute enough, still carrying a crush on his teacher for so long. There are some parts that I thought rather unrealistic or unpractical, though. For example, at a scene where the other women's jealousy override and a scene was set up to make Andie MacDowell dump the young man, would a mature police officer (the other friend of MacDowell) allow her friend to do such a sinister act? Is it so easy for anyone to not stop in front of a car? Of course accidents happen all the time, but I hoped to see the heroine get happily married with the first man she got involved with (that was the hardest part to believe!! For such a beautiful woman to stay single for so long??)... Maybe the movie producers are aware of the fact that many romance between an older woman and a younger man do not last for long. Beside they know that a happy ending would not appeal to the public, especially to jealousy women over 40, who are waiting some miracles to happen. The sad ending with a glimpse of hope for the sad woman who lost her true love is sweet, but if the man continued to live, would that last? For how long? Nobody knows. Nonetheless, it's a movie to make you want to watch it again sometime later.... a year later maybe. "}{"Title":"Incredibly far-fetched forbidden love comedy/drama","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Andie McDowell is beautiful as the 40-ish woman whose late start at a serious relationship leads her to a considerably younger man and a subsequenet falling-out with 2 long-time best girldfriends.Seeing a gigolo/gold-digger in the sincere young man, the girl-friends, dead-set on terminating this silly relationship, go over and beyond the call of duty in helping out their friend (who obviously is blinded by this gigolo's tricky game.A short succession of situations is absolutely ridiculous. Far fetched no longer covers it. Without these unbelievable scenes, there may have been hope for a sweet love story. Instead, all the viewer is left with is an involuntary shaking of head -- these things just don't happen! Without giving away cliff-hanger details, I warn the viewer of having high expectations for this film; most (like me) will be very disappointed. On a scale of 1 to 10, this one ranks a weak 4 with me. There is much better material out there. This one isn't worth your time. "},{"Title":"Intended to be frothy, but no fizz","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER The young lover, Jed, is kicked out by the spinster, Kate (Andie McDowell), because she wrongly believes that Jed is having an affair with one of her two catty girlfriends.  Kate thought she caught them en flagrante delicto.  Kate throws Jed's shoes out the door.  Jed reluctantly leaves, and then sits in the middle of the road to put his shoes on.  Then he gets run over (Crushed, one of the meaning of the title) by a truck.  And dies.And then he gets run over by a truck.  Can you imagine a screenwriter actually submitting a script with this plot element?  Up to then, its a comedy that intends to be frothy, but lacks any real fizz.  Everybody but Jed is just annoying.  And then they kill Jed, and everybody's sad, until the end where the gals learn to love one another and be supportive, instead of destructive.  I give it 2 ugh's. "},{"Title":"more serious than the assumed genre, but still trivial","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Rating  6/10It took me a while for me to realise this is not a standard romantic comedy. The first half of the film more or less fits the romantic comedy conventions, but then the second half progressively moves away from them.I liked the way that the movie showed some of the problems that can arise from intergenerational relationships. The characters of the three friends were nicely drawn, each being, not too extremely, contrary to the stereotype of their occupations.The film did, however, continue the romantic comedy tradition of having a casual disregard for plausibility. Even the most love-struck head of a school is unlikely to give the students the afternoon off. And while I did enjoy the wedding scene, it was beyond the bounds of plausibility. In spite of the serious bits, the film is essentially light and trivial, rather than deep or artistic.I eventually realised that, in spite of the central role of the romantic interest, the film is actually about the friendship between the three women. And that brings me to the major flaw of the film as a story. Aspiring authors are advised to consider how their protagonists are changed by the events described in the story. If there is no change, you have to wonder what is the point, what was the story trying to say? In &#145;Crush', there is no change in the relationships between the friends, or even real change in the women themselves, regardless of the various things that happened. The film started with the friends together, gossiping about their lives, and it ended exactly the same way.The film was enjoyable enough and easy to watch, which is fine if all you want is a light piece of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Comedy at the Expense of Plot","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  All too often, romantic comedies are overlooked as cheesy chick-flicks at worst, or light-hearted and fun at best, but rarely are they looked upon as serious portrayals of adult relationships. The movie that broke the mold was Woody Allen's 1976 Oscar-winning Annie Hall, which followed the trials and tribulations of a relationship from beginning to end, all with Woody's famous narratives punctuating the story with his off-beat, but noteworthy insights into romantic relationships. Since then, the dye has been cast, and romantic comedies since then have followed much the same kind of formula someone's emotional or social dysfunction has held them back from attaining true love, and it's only till they meet someone else, also with such a condition, can they learn to forgive someone else's faults, while also improving on their own. Movies such as When Harry Met Sally and Pretty woman are fine examples of how the dysfunctions are funny, but also germane to the plotline and fundamental problem that needs to be solved.However, as time evolved, it appeared that audience's appreciation for the humor was all that was needed for the movie to have legs at the box office, and in effect, filmmakers began paying less attention to the merits of the serious side. The net effect has been a slow, gradual decline of the quality of the romantic comedy, where gagging undermines the movie's more insightful and profound observation of the mating process.Two recent films that exemplify this today are Kissing Jessica Stein and Crush.In Crush, Andie MacDowell plays Kate, one of three forty-something single women who get together to smoke, drink, and reward each other with chocolates for who has the most pitiful man story of the week. Kate, who is the headmistress at a strict all-girls school in England, has a quick fling with a 25-year old boy named Jed, who plays the organ for the church. The movie was supposed to be about how the friendships between the women is challenged by Kate's having fallen for not just a man, but an immature boy. This makes it harder for Kate to fess up to herself and her friends, causing them to have their big fallout, which leads to self-realizations of their own dysfunctions, and then the final acceptance of one another.The problem is that the filmmaker got too sidetracked on the humor route and, in their attempt to entertain the audience with humorous interludes between Kate and Jed, their relationship never took hold in our minds as a credible, believable or even functional justification of Kate's behavior. So, when her friends disapprove of Kate's relationship with Jed, we don't disagree with them, thus not seeing them as the controlling, overbearing and jealous friends that they were probably intended to be. The error was that the fundamental plot was compromised for the sake of comedy. Had Jed been a more three-dimensional character with depth and some dignified qualities that would make their relationship a believably loving one, the fallout between the friends would have made sense.A much better film of the same kind of plotline is Witches of Eastwick. There were plenty of gags in that film, but they all helped to serve the narrative, not at the expense of it.Kissing Jessica Stein is a considerably better film than Crush by its own rights, mostly because the actors did a great job at their over-top-characters and witty script. Here, Jennifer Westfeldt plays Jessica Stein, who is in that perpetual pursuit of a man, only to find that the entire pool of available men is either crazy-weird, gay, or married. After a series of hilariously depicted disastrous first dates with men she finds in personals ads, she ends up hearing about, and responding to, an ad from a woman named Helen, who's seeking another woman. The movie does a good job at bringing the two women together and developing their relationship, but once again, it lost sight of its original message and the very framework of what Jessica's personal challenge is, and why she has a problem establishing and maintaining relationships.Specifically, early in the movie, one of Jessica's coworkers, Ben, an old flame and friend-of-the-family, who is portrayed as not much more than a loud-mouthed New Yorker, tells her like it is she judges people too quickly, she's too superficial, she doesn't give anyone the benefit of the doubt, and she thinks she's got men all figured out in the first five minutes of a date. Yet, she's hurt by his remarks, and instead of learning something about herself that she could use, she feels (and we feel with her) that she's the one who's been unfairly judged. The movie showed us the men she dated, and they are losers, hilarious as they may have been. To Jessica, and to us, she doesn't have a problem MEN DO, which is exactly what undermines the whole point of the movie she really is as Ben described, and she'll never have a close, romantic relationship with anyone, man or woman, until she has an epiphany and goes through a profound change. In order for us, the audience, to feel the satisfaction of this achievement, we've got to believe that she needs to do it in the first place. The gaggy portrayals of the dates she had were entertaining in themselves, but they undermined the most important part of the movie that had to be established she's the one with the problem, not everyone else.As it turns out, the semi-lesbian relationship she develops with Helen isn't a bad portrayal, but her change is rather anticlimactic. When asked why the relationship didn't work, she said of Helen, I guess she wanted someone more&#133; gay. No, that's not why it didn't work, and nothing that happens next suggests that she went through any real change that kept her from being in relationships in the first place. Sure, she realized that she shouldn't be ashamed of her lover, man or woman, but she learned nothing about herself.A much better film in the same genre with a very similar plotline (minus the lesbian relationship) is Crossing Delancy. Here, Amy Irving has exactly the same problems as the Jessica character, but goes through a more believable person change, all without having compromised the humor. While I found Jessica and fun and delightful movie, it was so ONLY because of the humor, not in spite of it.In summary, I worry that the trend of romantic comedies today are trending more towards the humor being the important part, and leaving the plot and message unnecessarily behind in second place. They are not mutually exclusive, so one doesn't have to be compromised at the expense of the other. Laziness is the only explanation.  "},{"Title":"Buddies, male or female, just don't act the way these women do. But those Cotswolds are worth seeing.","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  If I told my buddies I was having an affair with a woman seriously younger than I, I don't think they would endanger the young woman or their own friendships just to derail my temporary insanity. Welcome to the film `Crush.'Thank God for the Cotswolds, England's grand pasture, and for a great little town, Chipping Campden. Otherwise, John McKay's film, which he wrote and directed, would have crushed me in its off-center feminism, plot, and buddy system.Andie MacDowell plays an American headmistress of the local private school; her two female buddies are a physician and a police chief. Andie falls for a much younger organist (Yes, the obvious organ joke is not just presented but also repeated). Her friends' ensuing struggle for her common sense is so nonsensically brutal as to confuse the dilemmas facing single women everywhere. That all is resolved lovingly among the ladies is an insult to logic and true friendship anywhere.A cleric who almost wins MacDowell's hand by default reveals the film's weak dialogue and sensibility when he says, `You're better than sausage.' Or witness MacDowell's love-struck mind when she confuses someone saying `stuck with the senses' with `f***ed senseless.' She does experience the latter, causing the confusion of jealousy and malicious sisterly concern leading to tragedy and renewal.Buddies, male or female, just don't act the way these women do. But those Cotswolds are worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Even the few hilarious jokes could not save it.","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  The worst thing about Crush is not that it's acted pretty bad, or that the plot is virtually non-existent, and it's not even that bad that the camerawork could have been better.No, the worst part of this movie is that it has a few absolutely brilliant moments that keep you hoping that there are more to come.But in the end, it's too little, too late. If you are a fan of violin-music and cheap tearjerking scenes of 40+ women crying and hugging and talking about babies and marriage - then by all means, don't miss it.I myself am not exactly thrilled to see the things listed above in a movie, and as a result I had a pretty horrible time. The few absolutely brilliant jokes can not make up for the rest of it.The verdict 4/10. Guilty of wasting my time. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films ever made by a male director about woman.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Not a `woman film' but film for the gang. One of the worst films ever made by a male director about woman. Director Andy McKay simply doesn't know woman. Peaks of bad taste, American Pie's humor style, crude story, no sense, groundless story, refuted characters. Vulgar fantasies came to life on screen. Insulting and definitely not funny. I wonder how three good actresses accepted to take part in it.   "},{"Title":"To have a `Crush' on this movie is a matter of definition!","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Call me an over-sensitive knit-wit, perhaps, for I did enjoy this `bitter-sweet' romantic drama! Definitely for anyone who's still unsure what true love really means!This movie is saddled with absolutely credible characters, plausible events and a great script. Three successful career women, but nonetheless, hard on their luck in finding decent suitors! Women who prefer to mope around together, keeping up with their alcoholic consumption, perpetually lighting up their fags, and satisfying their obesity for chocs! At least, until their lives get CRUSHed when Andie MacDowell's Kate has a CRUSH on Kenny Doughty's gorgeously talented Jed CRUSH! Gosh what an appropriate movie title!This movie is scripted with such an incredible number of puns to keep one's head spinning! Definitely great puns that sweep up laughter, emotions and disbelief!  And all serving as a cue to the definition of `love.'  Just watch how the Kate-Jed ecstatic sexual relationship plays on Kate's buddies!Great performances overall! And MacDowell's performance is strikingly fabulous. Yep, good solid acting that should receive an Oscar nod! Her facial expressions and her physical appearances are wonderfully coherent with the different stages of her moods and condition. Anna Chancellor and Imelda Stauntan are well casted in their roles to support the events that follow Kate.Amazingly beautiful shots of a neat English village, credibly filled with an air of prim and pomp. Yep, an English countryside filled with uniformed school children and stuffy villagers, including a shy, old village vicar! Yep, the quaint sort of population who will break into whispers over the minutest scandal!  Guess what? If you think Kate's relationship is a societal taboo, how then would you define Molly and Janine's final success with love!The movie is fast-paced. Even the flashbacks work well as an important reminder to Kate and Jed's relationship. There are some edgy moments to the story that help prevent boredom to seep into the plot. And thumbs up to its originality. I was totally absorbed. Even the ending does work to sum up the whole!  "},{"Title":"A Shame!","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I was gifted with this movie as it had such a great premise, the friendship of three women bespoiled by one falling in love with a younger man.Intriguing.NOT! I hasten to add. These women are all drawn in extreme caricature, not very supportive of one another and conspiring and contriving to bring each other down.Anna Chancellor and Imelda Staunton could do no wrong in my book prior to seeing this, but here they are handed a dismal script and told to balance the action between slapstick and screwball, which doesn't work too well when the women are all well known professionals in a very small town.And for intelligent women they spend a whole pile of time bemoaning the lack of men/sex/lust in their lives. I felt much more could have been made of it given a decent script and more tension, the lesbian sub-plot went nowhere and those smoking/drinking women (all 3 in their forties???) were very unrealistic - even in the baby scene - screw the baby, gimme a cigarette! Right.Like I said, a shame of a waste. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A delicate lesson about the charm of a victim","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" The essence of film is the charm of Kenny Doughty's character. Ambiguous, strange, seductive and innocent, he is victim of vision, expectation or desire of few ladies for who the life after 40 age is a strange adventure, nice, attractive but very risky. A sophisticated game for recreate pieces of a lost youth, to go around a normal crisis, to discover sense of days and illusions.For the four women, Jed Willis is a strange specimen of rare species and their curiosity is as entomologist's curiosity. So,the solutions are naives answers to a complicated reality who fascinates and is scary in same measure.Limits of love and forms of expectations. The fear for future and thinks of the other. The joy like fragile creature and the life like small adventure. That are the fundamental ideas of this delicate lesson. "}{"Title":"Bad mixture of comedy/tragedy/drama without a resolution...","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" For the first forty-five minutes one gets the feeling CRUSH is a comedy with some digs at sex and the single woman. Then, when the heroine (ANDIE MacDOWELL) falls abruptly in love with the organist at a funeral (and has mad sex on a gravestone), the film starts to veer into more serious territory as her two best friends try to dissuade her from thinking of him as anything more than a fling.She tries, even going so far as to make a trip to Paris, France to enjoy her freedom and ends up almost making it with a Frenchman until she decides at a crucial moment to pack her bags and return to the waiting arms of her boy toy organist (KENNY DOUGHTY). It's Doughty who gives the most natural performance as the sad-eyed, sensitive and unpolished guy with the raging hormones. He reminds me of a handsomer but blander version of Johnny Depp.When another more direct plan to convince their friend that she's making a mistake backfires, the plot veers off into tragedy before gradually resuming a lighter tone as the friends stop bickering and decide to resolve their problems by enjoying a gin and tonic and fags (cigarettes in U.S.A.). We're left with the notion that the best way for all three to solve their problematic out of control lives is to simply sit back, and, in the words of Fagin, shut up and drink yer gin.At the end, there's a cheated feeling that the story can be summed up as much ado about nothing. Perhaps a more delicate handling of the theme of unconventional behavior (especially from the so reserved British), would have been a better way to go.The performances are all better than average, which makes it a shame that the film didn't have more of a statement to make.The bawdy behavior is treated in a casual fashion (the Brits are way ahead of us in matters of sex) and it's all very uneven, never sure of itself and veering off into unpredictable areas instead of telling a story in a concise and believable way. Not recommended. "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I saw only one comment how an American could be headmistress of a prestigious English school. A good point. Another would be - how would they allow her to stay at the school pregnant, with no husband? Not likely! Kate's friends were hateful, Molly particularly, and in reality, could they be forgiven? Is it possible the scene between Molly and Jed was the future? If Jed had been shown with more depth of character, he might have been more believable as Kate's future. Perhaps, that is why she was having qualms about the pending marriage.A series of events with good music, photography; some amusing scenes, some reasonable dialog. But all in all, it went astray more than once i. e. the wedding and abduction; the I'm sorry from Molly, the silly ending among others. Too bad as there were all sorts of possibilities for a better movie. "},{"Title":"Pleasant Romance of 40-Something Woman and Younger Hunk","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" The Crush is a pleasant enough 40-something friends romantic chick flick for the first two-thirds or so, as it tries to be a Brit Sex and the City. I particularly enjoyed the turn-around of the trophy young hunk whose character is not much fleshed out (come to think of it we didn't see all that much physical flesh of him either and Kenny Doughty is worth seeing more of). They sure make a lot more deal of young man/older woman than was made of the opposite in either version of Sabrina (neither movie do I like) or for that matter with the Douglas/Zeta-Jones or Dion/Svengali nuptials.Surrounding Andie MacDowell as an ex pat otherwise are welcome familiars from Brit dramas and comedies, such as tart-tongued Anna Chancellor. The plot twists towards the end feel very deus ex machina. But it wasn't until the credits came up at the end that I realized what might really be wrong. Just as with Sex and the City, the writer/director is male, here first-timer Scot John McKay, and I think he really wanted to do a script about three gay men, probably about them coming out in relation to their lovers and at work (the characters are a school principal, a cop and a doctor), which would have been a better and more interesting movie. The working title for the film was The Sad F*cker's Club which would have made its parallels with the gay Broken Hearts Club even more obvious.(originally written 4/6/2002) "},{"Title":"Awful in many ways, but not without redeeming features","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This film is something of a train wreck, yet I could also discern a pretty decent film struggling to get out, as I will try to explain.Esri A's demolition of this film is actually pretty much in line with my feelings about this film certainly, the plot was implausible; fine, a lot of plots are implausible.  What's harder to forgive is that the characters' *actions* are also implausible.*Spoilers in this paragraph* That Kate could forgive her friends after what they did is pretty far-fetched.  The scene in the hospital where she draws the curtains against them *is* believable, and that they fall out completely is also believable.  Yet they all end up as friends.  Similarly, the scene where mousy Imelda Staunton finally gives uberbitch Anna Chancellor a piece of her mind is quite powerful and well played; yet Imelda (the least likely police officer ever seen on screen) then falls in with Anna's new sabotage plans, which is just ridiculous.  And yet again, there is some poignancy in the vicar's gentle wooing of Kate, but the sudden turnaround stretches our credulity well beyond breaking point.So, it's a botched film, rather than a total disaster from the word go.  There is some good acting I think Andie MacDowell acquits herself honourably, and the excellent Anna Chancellor does her best with a toxically unsympathetic character; there are some good scenes too, and the cinematography and sense of place are attractive.And yes, there were a couple of funny scenes, including one of the best caught shagging scenes I can remember.It's a messy, disappointing film, but I've seen many worse, believe me... "},{"Title":"What bollocks!!!!!","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie was two hours of my life I'll never get back--not to mention the pay-per-view fee.Anne Chancellor plays a bitter, morose triple divorcee who seizes every opportunity to pop others' relationship bubbles.  Imelda Staunton plays a wishy-washy milquetoast with a sixth sense for picking losers (I wanna put my d*ck in your p*ssy right now--smoooooooth!!!), very much out of character for her law enforcement profession.  Andie MacDowell chastises her young stud for a drug-dealing conviction, then somehow forgets to use birth control herself.If nothing else, this film vindicates men as the inconsiderate oafish boors.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious at times but disturbingly amoral","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  It is interesting to see the wide range of comments.  I found the movie pleasant, on the whole, and found several of the scenes absolutely hilarious. But ultimately the characters are not sympathetic.  They destroy their friend's only chance at happiness out of spite and jealousy, then she quite inexplicably forgives them!  I found their boorish behavior, especially their habit of smoking in prohibited areas and throwing lit cigarettes anywhere they please, revolting.  The vicar, the only really sympathetic character in the film, is disgraced at the altar and no one seems to give a damn about him.  The film ends with the Andie McDowell character deciding to poison her baby with tobacco and alcohol as some sort of a perverted statement of independence.  I just don't understand why anyone would write such a screenplay or make a movie of it.  The only thing I can compare it to is the Absolutely Fabulous series.  Maybe it's a British thing... "},{"Title":"Good way to spend a Sunday afternoon","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I saw this with my wife on a Sunday afternoon at our local 'arthouse'. With only about 8 women and two men I was definitely in a minority. The women cackled throughout, and after a while I said 'to hell with it' and joined in. It is what it is, a good-natured romp with some gratuitous sex (is there any other kind?, flawed around the edges but overall a good 'laff' as we say in my part of the world. Andie McDowell, no doubt cast to help the budget, justified her casting, with a permanent bemused air due to (a) being constantly 'rogered', and (b) wondering what the hell an American was doing as headmistress of a posh English school anyway.I particularly liked Anna Chancellor, who was as sexy as hell in the scene where she tries to entrap Jed. The fact that he resisted her was one of the film's implausible moments - you would have died happy Jed!All in all very enjoyable and we will buy the video. "},{"Title":"Combo of '4 Weddings n a Funeral' n 'Woman's Guide to Adultery'","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Paris is great and the trip was magic.....but you'll have to see the movie to find out if the head mistress was deterred from her fling with the school boy.  And what a dish he is!!!  Think Brad Pitt with a little slum boy 'rough' charm thrown in.  And that latter quality is what will fool you.This is a comedy with some soap opera overtones, except that the writing was pretty smart.  I lost a bunch of lines, that others around me couldn't understand either, so sit close and away from popcorn munchers.The tall brunette even reminds me of the actress who played one of the adulteresses in A Woman's Guide to Adultery' and of course, Paris and parties are used as the foil and the axle around which the plot turns.I had to get married and divorced to enjoy my babies, but Andy has another solution.... not one she wanted.  The acting is good, and it's a fantastic movie for a woman dating a younger man to see....or see it with some contemporary who thinks he's got you hooked (if you're over 40 and female.)  Won't win any Oscars but a funny escapist kind of movie. "},{"Title":"Kenny Doughty is the new James Dean","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  He has it...more than any actor alive.  He actually makes Brad Pitt look a bit lame.  Very talented, very sexy guy.  The film plot is insulting to women but the sex is marvelous.  See it.  The last third, forget. "},{"Title":"complete waste of time","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Editing barely OK, some of the cinematography was OK. Acting was generally poor, and the story line was bare of detail, full of elisions, and generally boring. Older woman, yadda yadda, wild sex with young man, he's not cultured enough for her so her friends take her off to bone an old french guy, then when she wants to marry him the friends try to make a video of one of them seducing the other.This causes the young man to walk down a dark road at night and get run over and die.Then the older woman decides to marry her minister, but the friends decide to break that up as well. So they arrest her during her wedding ceremony.Naturally they all remain good friends forever.The male characters are about as carefully drawn as a Scooby-Doo cartoon, and the women are without histories, backstories, or motives.If someone gives this to you, don't watch it -- burn it. "}{"Title":"It's not as bad as men think it is","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" It's a pretty decent film, all told! I actually stumbled across it one afternoon. Clicked on the Blurb that Comcast had for it and They claimed it was the Cary Elwes version! LOL! Anyway. I Do agree with David from San Francisco about one thing. Anne Chancellor plays a character I'd gladly nuke if I could. Absolutely evil. Her role as Molly Cartwright seems to relish destroying happiness at every turn, simply because her personal views are so cynically skewed... Her gay ex-husband turns up at a party with his New Wife, (a Female! Gads!), And, their two naturally borne children! Add to this, her other two Ex's and Their 'trophy wives (who seem to have been sorority sisters!), and you Almost feel sorry for her when she douses herself with her wine! Out of shock and embarrassment at having not only her three ex's at the same party she's attending, but, also their happy families in tow, she's exposed as being in attendance when she yelps at the event of spilling her wine. Out of embarrassment for being alone, she grabs the nearest person, (a woman!), and starts Kissing her. Thankfully for her, the woman Responds in kind - and once the first kiss is past, the stranger goes in for another one - which is how Molly learns she's BI! Geez! Whatever! And, Andie's character lives 'happily ever after.. It's not nearly as bad as you would think though... Sort of a Four Weddings and a Funeral - Part 2 - only without Hugh What's-His-Name and the fact that the hot hunky guy/stud is Way younger than Andie's character and the fact that she goes from Uptight HeadMistress of a Posh School to Slut/Tramp/Slapper in a filmed nano-second; with this other guy... Really - it's Not as bad as you think - and - no - it's not Worse... It's just - different from what you'd expect it to be. But, I Have to Say - when Imelda's Staunton's character saves Andie's character from making a Matrimonial Mistake the size of a Mushroom Cloud, (aided by a Lot of Studly Young Policemen! Yum! LOL!), all I really wanted to do was tap Ms. Staunton's shoulder and ask, So- you can make them charge into a room like that Anytime you want to? It Really did have it's redeeming qualities! (Double Coupon days at that!) "},{"Title":"An amazing movie","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I really, really love this film and I'm amazed by all the negative critics it gets on here. Like many on here, it expected a light British, feel-good comedy, but what I got instead was way better and a total surprise. All three actresses (Andie MacDowell, Imelda Staunton and Anna Chancellor) are great in the roles of the three best friends who love to sit around drinking, smoking and eat chocolate while talking about their sad non-existing love life. All is well until Andie MacDowell's character falls for a much younger man. And then suddenly, the movie does a 360 degrees and the mood of the film changes completely. All I can say is that if you're looking for a movie that will make you laugh, as well as make you cry, than this is the movie for you because it really has both. "},{"Title":"Didn't Take the Plunge","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" This is a movie that held great promise but lost the plot somewhere down the line. I would have liked to have given it a 5 because of its sad shortcomings, but decided a 6 would be more fair, given the following things it had going for it - The music score fit the film perfectly and it was cleverly used in an engaging manner, both for comedic relief and for drama. - Well picked actors for the roles, the result being a very convincing and beautifully comprised picture of a British small-town. - Pleasant to watch, with delightful attention to detail.Unfortunately, these redeeming points are not enough. The film left me feeling cheated. Why? It was not brave enough. The movie would have been far more meaningful had Kate (Andie MacDowel) and Jed (Kenny Doughty)been *allowed* to stay together as a couple. By killing Doughty's character, the makers of this movie took the easy way out. They showed the world once again, that yes, it is STILL a taboo for older women to date younger men. (While of course it is perfectly acceptable for old men to date girls barely out of school, a theme prominent in movies for decades now) If Kate and Jed had remained together, in the face of all the adversity that they were having to face in the plot, the movie would have delivered a powerful message. As it stands, by killing Jed off, the movie became a bland, run of the mill movie about... what exactly? This is not unlike what happened this year with Brokeback Mountain. If the plot of the movie revolves around gay people disaster will follow.. Because Hollywood is not ready to portray happy, normal, healthy gay couples. (Nor an older woman-younger man relationship, apparently) A serious disappointment. Surely, this is not the middle ages? "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I'll admit, I contemplated renting this video several times before finally giving in and doing it. I think it was the title Crush that was deterring me from renting it earlier. It really is a silly title.But that's the only flaw I found in this darling movie. Andy McDowell was charming (she does torment very well). Imelda Staunton and Anne Chancellor were incredible as her best friends (and our comic relief)! These women tied this movie up into a very entertaining little package.I imagine those most satisfied with this movie after watching it will be the 'female of the species'. The females will relate to all of it.Enjoy the show, and the music! @-->-->-- "},{"Title":"An awful way to spend an evening","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is simply the worst film I have ever seen. I saw it with my wife and she hated it too. Save your time and your money. The plot was ridiculous and the characters lacked any credibility.It is a lazy film. "},{"Title":"If there's nothing else to watch...","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  The only thing that kept me watching this film was the highly aesthetically pleasing Kenny Doughty. Many of the things that happen in this film seemed ridiculous. Andie Macdowell was ok, but her tall, dark-haired friend seemed pretty unforgivable to me. The fate of the character Jed seemed shockingly stupid. The first hour or so is the only part worth watching. "},{"Title":"One of the most offensive movies I've ever seen","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  It gets 2 points for the cute and entertaining young bloke, but the rest of this is at best bland and at worst insulting. Implausible plot developments and characters make it both confusing and annoying. The ending made me want to scream.  "},{"Title":"Not Worth the time!","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie truly has no upside. My wife got it out of the local library and it pretty much spoiled the evening. After 45 min we switched off and watched something else. First of all it is rather boring. Not much really happens. There are only a few funny moments. The dialogs are unintentionally funny. Nobody would ever talk like these three woman. Andie MacDowell had definitely better roles. Some scene are truely pathetic. Not sure what the director was thinking.  "},{"Title":"Insulting to single women over 40, complete waste of time","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  As a single woman over 40, I found this film extremely insulting and demeaning to single women over 40, not to mention every other woman, of any age.  It was a sad, pathetic attempt by a man to write and direct a chick flick, and it failed miserably.  Andy McDowell isn't much of an actress to begin with, but given the non-existent plot (I hate to even refer to it as a plot) in this, she didn't have a chance.  There was no character development, no reason to feel sympathy/empathy for any of the characters, and no attempt to make the film in any way realistic or believable.  And then there's the obligatory male-fantasy of an attractive straight woman suddenly deciding to give lesbianism a try -- PLEASE.Not only do I wish I could get my money back for the DVD rental, I also want those 112 minutes of my life back.  What a ripoff. "},{"Title":"NOT SO BAD","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Everyone is saying they don't like this movie, think it's a train wreck, or watching it was a waste of time.  But its a sad love story that can be related to. Kate is embarassed to be dating such a young boy when she is a respected headmistress.  She finds it hard to deal with her possible love, when her true friends are pulling her away from it.  the end wasn't written well, but i still think its a great movie if you have ever had an experience with love that takes you as low as possible.Basically, when the worst happens to you, you want to have your friends to fall back on, and its great to be able to forgive them and try and live your life as normal as possible even if you are terribly sad. "}{"Title":"Cigarette smoking takes over","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT This dreadful film is not worth watching. If ever there was a blatant promotion of cigarette smoking and over indulgence in booze, this is the film. The film is basically a romance film between an older woman and a younger man and the interference of her friends. With friends like this woman has, who needs enemies? At the end of the film, she is friend with them again....highly improbable in real life. "},{"Title":"Avoid at any cost!!! Plz!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Ok, this has to be the worst movie I've ever had to sit through in my entire life. The plot is non existent and could be summarized on a stamp (a small one, font size 9 or 10). I bet the script was written by at least 5 directors because one alone can't possibly create a mess as unrealistic and stupid as this one. Plus the movie isn't funny at all. I mean c'mon guys...if this is meant to be a comedy plz tell me why noone in the entire cinema felt the urge to laugh or even giggle...not a single person (except for a few mock laughs in between). Maybe an audience of 18 to 45 year old people isn't the audience this movie is aiming at, I don't know. Oh and an extra note for the girls...if you're looking for romance (candle light dinner,...) you're looking in the wrong place. There's nothing even remotely romantic about this film \Save your precious money, don't spend it on a stinker like this one. ... don't say I didn't warn you. This movie isn't bad...it's worse. "},{"Title":"Disaster 3'rd act!","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Not much fun in this movie. Even though it starts out with very impressive editing, nice soundtrack and top performances, it soon goes on to be a slow movie about a 40-something woman with evil friends.When we come to the All Looks Lost Point and entering the third act, the movie completely drops and gets AWFUL! I couldn't stand it, I just had to fast forward to the end.This is a predictable movie from the beginning, but you get somewhat interested when they introduce the character Jed (Kenny Doughty), but as I said, it then goes completely downhill.Maybe one of the largest failures I've ever seen. What happened to the writer (John McKay) of this movie? He doesn't know how to create a good film, that's for sure. He should stick to directing - writing is not for him.1 of 10 - The last 20 minutes is a nightmare! "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy without any romance or laughs","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This was a mind numbingly predictable movie that totally wasted its highly talented cast. With a good script they could have produced something magical. With the plot they were given they had no chance. A truly awful movie. "}]