[{"Title":"Good for some laughs","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"51 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Before I saw this movie, I was turned off by all the negative reviews and the fact that it was a SNL spinoff. But I bought a used tape from my video store. Instead of war coverage and serious drama, this has become a ray of hope. Make no mistake, it ain't winning any Oscars. But the slapstick is funny, has great co-stars like Joe Don Baker and Chris Walken. It has a good plotline, a search for his family. It's a lot of laughs and fun for plebes at heart. Serious, deep people will be offended, but when we try to make humor serious and deep, we're in trouble. "},{"Title":"This movie is a garden...dig it!","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"44 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Joe Dirt is simply one of those underappreciated comedies. Having reacquainted myself with it recently (and repeatedly) after having not seen it in almost two years, I myself am beginning to realize that. Not only is it thoroughly funny, it is entertaining and fast paced. David Spade plays Joe Dirt, a kind, well meaning radio-station janitor with an unusual hairdo (mullet!) and extremely bad-luck. He shares his life-story with the listeners of the radio station, which mainly focuses around his never-ending search for his parents (who ditched him on a family trip to the Grand Canyon) and his unrecognized love for hometown hottie Brandy. Joe meets many unusual people along the way, has many misadventures, and as if you couldn't guess, sets himself up for many disgusting and painful situations. The humor is pretty low-brow, but who cares? The movie is funny and that's the bottom line. What I like about this movie is that I can just turn it on and let go. The movie is so well-made for a simple comedy. Spade wrote the script himself, and you can tell he took his time. Every event in the movie happens for a reason and alludes to something that will occur later down the road. Also, Joe Dirt is Spade's first likeable character. You actually feel for this doofus. Even though he looks like white-trash, he is still a good person. Which of course, leads to this movie's moral Good things come to good people. Or as Joe would say Life's a garden, dig it! or You can't have 'no' in your heart! Christopher Walken has a hilarious bit as Dirt's co-janitor at an elementary school that has been placed in the witness protection program and Kid Rock plays Joe's bully perfectly (I love the part where he reads the note just like those guys in high school who couldn't read past 2nd grade reading level). But Spade is the real star here. Too bad this character/movie never took off. I seriously love this movie. It is consistently hilarious, has dozens of quoteable lines (stuff that you say to people in your daily routine) and has an overall feel good vibe to it. I don't know how anyone can trash this movie. For one thing, it's an Adam Sandler production, you know what type of humor you're in for. And secondly The movie is called 'Joe Dirt!' There are no pretensions here, folks. I wish there were more movies like this out there. And although not everyone appreciates it, I am glad that I at least have this movie and can watch it a million times if I want to. Joe Dirt, you're my hero.10/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies I have ever seen...","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"50 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Dirt, played perfectly by David Spade, has to be one of the best comedies I have seen in the last 20 years. While the plot may be far-fetched, the movie does stick to it and is set up perfectly.Alongside Spade, Dennis Miller's cheap jabs at Dirt are absolutely priceless. His encounter with Miller sets up the whole premise for the movie, and the story begins. It takes you through different experiences Dirt has had from the time he lost his parents at the Grand Canyon all the way to the present.Christopher Walker also makes a great appearance in the movie.If you like movies such as Dodgeball, Old School, Tommy Boy, Black Sheep, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, etc... you will love this one. You have to judge this movie on what it is aimed to do, and that is tell a story of perseverance from Dirt, who gets picked on throughout life and keeps a good attitude, which is a welcomed message. And first and foremost, the movie is made to keep you smiling throughout, and for that it accomplished the goal to perfection. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Funny as hell","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"50 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yeah, this movie took a trashing from the critics, but what would you expect from a movie produced by Adam Sandler?  I had a blast.  Joe Dirt had a rocking soundtrack, I likeable lead character that you really want to beat up, a rockin' soundtrack, funny dialogue and situations, and the usual slew of Sandler humor; fart jokes, humping dogs, etc.Even though, about a half-dozen of these movies come out a year, Joe Dirt stuck in my mind mostly because of its hilarious premise.  Dennis Miller also shined as the Howard Stern-like DJ who rips into Joe every chance he gets through out the movie, with insuluts like, you are exquisitely pathetic and such.All in all, I really enjoyed.  Movies like this aren't aiming for Oscars.  They're just to make you laugh, which this one does.  Kid Rock also has a funny cameo as Robby, the bully who, like everyone else in the film, loves giving Joe a hard time.   "},{"Title":"Ya Gotta Love 'Joe Dirt'","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"38 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" For a typical low-brained Hollywood comedy of this era, it was a pretty nice film. Of course, few if any modern-day comedies are family fare and this one isn't either but the lead character is a gentle, harmless guy. David Spade is very entertaining as Joe Dirt, a down-and-out nice guy (but not exactly pure, either) who tells his tale of trying to find his parents to sleazy disc jockey Zander Kelly (Dennis Miller). Brittany Daniel is an attractive, likable female lead.It's a fast-moving hour-and-a-half. Some of the scenes are outrageous, such as a dog getting his - can I say this? - testicles stuck to the porch. Yes, it's good family fare!! Ha. Ha. No, really, this was a funny film and worth looking for if you need a laugh. I'm surprised there wasn't a sequel. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite guilty pleasures","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay, Joe Dirt doesn't have much of a plot and to say it loses focus is an understatement. But I really love this lighthearted tale.I thought David Spade turned in a wonderful performance as Joe Dirt and it was nice to see him not do his usual cynical act. Yes, it is campy and it was supposed to be. And it is stupid, it was supposed to be.The acting I think is good from all, although some are rightfully given straight roles as I don't think Brittany Daniels could handle anymore than what she was given.Anyway, there isn't a whole lot to say about a movie like Joe Dirt. I guess if you've liked Adam Sandler movies but only wished they might be a little less cruel then this is your movie.The atom bomb scene always kills me, I love this movie. You know a movie isn't all bad when you start laughing and you female friend starts looking at you as if you are mentally challenged.You can't have no in your heart! 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I braced myself for yet another film with low grade humour, plenty of bodily function jokes and not enough plot to go around.Well, 'Joe Dirt' has all that and more... but surprisingly it turned out to be not half bad.Perhaps the day of the preview caught me in a particularly good mood, because this story of a white trash loser searching for his parents who left him for dead at the Grand Canyon when he was eight was relatively enjoyable entertainment.The movie is told primarily in flashback; Joe stumbles into the studio of a radio disc jockey who coaxes out of him his incredible life story.  In the process Joe Dirt becomes a media darling as his story of woe and misfortune is heard by an ever sympathetic audience.This is another movie which relies on the gross and disgusting to get its laughs; dogs balls stuck to the front porch, being covered in excrement, blowing up atom bombs, consumed by alligators and much much more!The movie works for the most part because of David Spade's affable loser Joe Dirt.  He plays a character that is not a 100 miles away from his 'Just Shoot Me' personna - a loveable idiot.  He goes through life having all these setbacks - but he still maintains his positive outlook.The movie does lag a bit at the three quarters mark, but this is a minor quibble for a film that does what is sets out to with a lot more style than its lamentable cousins.A whole lotta fun6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Ish!!!","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I usually hold myself to a high movie standard. I usually would not consider a movie like Joe Dirt the cream of the crop. But like many other times in my life I was wrong. Joe Dirt is a fantastic heart-felt flick staring David Spade as a pathetic white trash orphan in search of his parents. He meets many a folk along the way leaving an impression with them all. I saw this in the theater and thought, wow what a funny movie. But then I caught in on Comedy Central a few years later and lo and behold I was hooked. Good plot, great humor, hot chicks, and even Kid Rock playing his white trash nemesis (it was a real stretch for him P). If you see this movie for 10 bucks at Walmart or Blockbuster do yourself a favor and buy it. It will keep you company on even your darkest nights.Life's a garden, DIG IT!!! "},{"Title":"Surprise surprise","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm no huge fan of David Spade and I tend to find the whole ex-SNL-star feature film genre lame and unfunny, but I happened to catch JOE DIRT while flipping through the channels yesterday afternoon and was intrigued enough to watch. And oddly enough I stayed intrigued for the next 90 minutes. The humor was crude, but rarely so much so as to turn me off, and the cast was very good (sure Dennis Miller was obnoxious, but isn't that his shtick?) but what surprised me the most was how caught up in the story I became. Sure it's farcical and impossible to take seriously, but for some reason I couldn't turn it off --- I kept hanging in there to see what would happen next. Even the slightly lame-ass ending didn't ruin things for me. I'd have to say JOE DIRT beats the crap out of similar, more favorably received movies like TOMMY BOY (which I found simply unbearable). Give it a chance. "},{"Title":"I choked Linda Lovelace. <Joe Dirt's T-shirt>","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Joe Dirt was a free rental from my local library and I was prepared, even anxious to totally dislike it, while passing a cold and rainy winter day inside.  While it is no masterpiece by any stretch, and uses jokes focused on every kind of possible emission of bodily gases, fluids, and solids, there is something about David Spade's earnest if simple portrayal of Joe Dirt that adds up to a rather fun and enjoyable film. Stir in pretty, sweet, and stacked Brittany Daniel as Brandy, Joe's unlikely best friend and future mate, and you have an enjoyable movie of almost no consequence. About the same lasting impression as watching an episode of Saturday Night Live on TV.About 2/3 into the film there is a scene in front of the abandoned home in Baton Rouge where Joe's parents used to live, and an old Cajun says to Joe in an almost unintelligble manner, Home is where you think it is. He says it three times, and Joe never does understand it, but that in fact becomes the whole moral of the story. Joe eventually finds his parents, finds out they left him on purpose 25 years earlier in the Grand Canyon while he was playing in a garbage can, and returns to Brandy in Silvertown, the postcard town that Joe had discovered years earlier.There is a lot in the way Joe Dirt is done that reminds me of Forrest Gump.  He is telling his story to a stranger, in this case Dennis Miller playing a radio talk show host. Joe, much like Forrest, bumbles from one seeming random place to another, and each time has a great influence on those he encounters. In each story there a beautiful girl he admires and secretly wants but doesn't think he is good enough. The scene I found funniest was the night Joe met Brandy. He was stealing hubcaps to get money for food, when the dog on the porch started barking. As he started to run off, Joe noticed that the dog couldn't move. It's testicles had frozen to the porch. (They used a stretchy prostetic similar to Jeff Daniel's tongue frozen to the ski lift in Dumb and Dumber.) Brandy came out onto the porch, Joe says to get some warm water and a spatula (No, not a fork, oooh...), they free the dog, Joe and Brandy are fast friends. "}{"Title":"Forrest Gump meets Jeff Foxworthy.","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Despite the fact that this movie was trashed by critics, Joe Dirt still makes me laugh every time I watch it. If you've seen other movies made by Adam Sandler, then you should know what to expect lots of low-brow humor and implausible situations. This movie definitely isn't for film snobs, but if you're just looking for a cheap laugh, Joe Dirt is definitely worth a rental.This movie tells the life story of a man named Joe Dirt (played by David Spade), the mullet-wearing, hard rock-loving embodiment of every white trash stereotype in existence. This is a very different type of character for David Spade, who usually plays sarcastic and bitter male secretary types as opposed to the likable moron he plays in this.As the movie begins, Joe Dirt is working as a janitor at a radio station when he is noticed by a Howard Stern-like DJ played by Dennis Miller. The DJ calls Joe Dirt into the studio and starts asking questions, intending to use the trashy janitor as a target for ridicule. It is here where we begin to learn the back story of Joe Dirt, beginning when he was a little kid abandoned by his parents during a trip to the Grand Canyon.After the initial radio interview, the story of Joe Dirt becomes a national pop culture phenomenon. Our hero is invited back into the studio to continue his story, which consists of his various adventures as he travels around the country looking for his long-lost family. During his travels he befriends the beautiful and kind-hearted Brandy (Brittany Daniel), is bullied by a arrogant jerk named Robbie (Kid Rock), teams up with an American Indian fireworks dealer named Kicking Wing (Adam Beach), and crosses paths with a school janitor with a shady past (Christopher Walken). You also discover that, despite the fact that Joe Dirt is a crude and ignorant individual, you can't help but find yourself rooting for him and admiring his ability to keep a positive attitude despite all the bad things that keep happening to him.I gave this movie a 7 out of 10. It's funny, even uplifting, and worth seeing at least once if you aren't offended by toilet humor. "},{"Title":"Better with age","Date":"6 March 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just thought that it was amusing reading the reviews all the way from 2001 to the present. This movie received almost entirely negative reviews when it first came out, but now there is nothing but positive reviews.It seems that most people that saw this when it first came out were expecting something closer to Tommyboy or Blacksheep, with David Spade portraying a sarcastic sidekick with little more to offer than the occasional zinger. Instead we have a great tale of an average Joe that makes keeps a positive attitude even though he is constantly thrown into hilarious (for us) situations.Whats the deal? It's a great film, maybe it was ahead of its time. "},{"Title":"The White Trash Equivalent of Forrest Gump","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Simply put, Joe Dirt is the white trash equivalent of Forrest Gump. Joe Dirt is not a sophisticated, Oscar worthy film like Forrest Gump, but it is still an entertaining film. The plot draws you into the story. Joe Dirt (David Spade) is a gentle, kind hearted white trash man who has had a tough life. His parents abandoned him during a vacation to the Grand Canyon when he was only eight years old. Joe has spent his life trying to find his parents and his home. One day while working as a janitor at a Los Angeles radio station, Joe finds himself retelling his painful life story to the sarcastic and sleazy DJ Zander Kelly (Dennis Miller). Zander Kelly and his audience quickly become fascinated by Joe's life story. Joe becomes a media sensation. Joe Dirt, like Forrest Gump, is an unlikely hero. Despite all the obstacles Joe has faced in his life, he remains positive and refuses to let go of the hope of finding his long lost family. Basically the story comes down to this goods things happen to good people, or as Joe puts it you can't have no in your heart!David Spade wrote the film with his long time friend Fred Wolf (who did some stuff for SNL, Tommy Boy and Black Sheep). Spade and Wolf were clearly meticulous in their writing. There aren't any significant continuity or plot errors. Each scene builds upon the last and builds up for the next scene. There is a lot of low-grade humor in the film, but there's also lots of physical/slapstick humor--remember this is a film starring, produced and written by SNL alumni.There is something about the plot that gets you involved in the story. This is the type of film you can put in your DVD player and lose yourself in the story for an hour and a half or however long the movie lasts. Joe Dirt is a lovable character, it's easy to empathize with him. I think this is a testament to the way Spade and Wolf wrote the script and the way Spade portrays the Joe Dirt character. Either way, Spade and Wolf did an excellent job writing this script. Spade plays a different character for this movie. If you're looking for the sarcastic, acerbic Spade character, you won't find it in this film. This time, he plays the nice lovable guy. Dennis Miller has the more stereotypical Spade character. Spade said he wrote Miller's character and based it upon what he would say if Joe Dirt was sitting in front of him. Kid Rock also appears in the film, he was good and funny! Joe Dirt didn't get rave reviews from big name film critics (this was an Adam Sandler/Happy Madison production and we all know Sandler flicks don't go over too well with the critics). I think was a rather underrated comedy. Joe Dirt is definitely worth watching! The reason why I gave this film such a high rating was partially because of the writing, portrayal of the characters, and simply because I like David Spade and Adam Sandler. "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest EVER!","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have this movie on DVD and have seen it over 50 times. Whenever I am slightly bored, I put it in and laugh over and over again. I love this movie so much that I look for everyday opportunities to drop movie lines into regular conversation. Phrases like,  No man, I'm cool.Joe replied with No your notRobbie continues to floor me to this day. I also enjoy watching this movie with the special feature commentary from David Spade again and again. The hair, the car, the poo, the girl, Kickin Wing, Buffalo Bob It puts the lotion on the skin!, it does what it's told! has me laughing in my sleep. I have rewound the carnival scene with G. Thorogood's Who do you love to the point of wearing out the reverse button. My favorite scene is the shortest scene in the whole movie, when he's hitchhiking and holding that sign (oh my goodness that hysterical with the green stonewashed jeans), the space peanut.... oh i could go on and on, but I have to go watch the movie again.... RIGHT NOW! Joe Dirt!, Joe Dirt!, Joe Dirt!, Joe Dirt! "},{"Title":"'Joe' is hilarious!","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a young boy, Joe David Spade got seperated from his parents Caroline Aaron and Fred Ward. Ever since then he's spent his life on a journey to find them. On his journey he meets a nice girl named Brandy Brittany Daniel, a Fireworks salesman named Kicking Wing Adam Beach, and a friendly janitor named Clem Christopher Walken. David Spade is great in this hilarious adventure/comedy full of crude humor. It also has a fantastic soundtrack featuring classic songs from Blue Oyster Cult, Cheap Trick, The Doobie Brothers, Lynyrd Skynyrd, Eddie Money, Joe Walsh, and more! "},{"Title":"Joe Deertay rocks more than the kid","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Forgive the title and you should find a warm, funny film that concerns an unfortunate yokel with a permanent mullet hairstyle (Spade) working as a cleaner at a radio station when a prominent DJ (Miller) sees the opportunity to exploit his pathetic story for the ratings of his drive-time programme. But the sorrowful tale earns a cult following as Dirt re-acquaints with his first romance (Daniel) and encounters an assortment of weirdos as he seeks to discover the disappearance of his parents when he was a child.Although in some passages Spade is perhaps too smart for his own good, he still pulls off the likable but hopelessly pitiful Joe Dirt (or Deertay as he pronounces it), and his encounters with Christopher Walken as a former mob boss in the witness protection programme, Brian Thompson as a creepy Buffalo Bill serial killer a la Silence of the Lambs, and future My Name is Earl trailer trash Jaime Pressly as a carney with whom he's sleeping and who might just be his sister (which prompts an hilarious scene).There's a number of memorable moments as Joe gets pushed around by the thugs of this world, while his endearing personality reaches out and inspires the rest, a champion for the underdog, as they befriend and protect him from further embarrassment and humiliation. The ending is satisfying and overall the movie hits the right note, merging good humour with dollops of sympathy, sincerity and even a couple of moving moments. Not what you'd expect from the title and personnel and well worth a look. "},{"Title":"A daily comment from Midget Emma Joe Dirt (2001)","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'll keep it short and sweet. Good if your looking for laughs. Not only is this funny but it has heart as well which is hard to find in comedies. A must see if your in the mood for a giggle.David Spade was very suitable for the role. Everyone had there moments that made me laugh. This is defiantly one of Spade's better movies. Better then Dickie Roberts.Joe Dirt is a good character. Funny,good hearted and lovable. By the end of this movie your heart would have been tugged at a few times.The supporting characters were just as good as the main character.I recommend it. A must for anyone looking for a decent comedy.6/10 "},{"Title":"Joe Dirt rises among the sod!","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nice guys finish first in Joe Dirt. This lowbrow, redneck, laugh fest grounds itself in the rude, crude, lewd, bowel movement-oriented gross-out gags of comedian Adam Sandler. Not surprisingly, Sandler's production company 'Happy Madison,' which also made Deuce Bigelow Male Gigolo, produced Joe Dirt. Predictably, Joe Dirt (*** out of ****) appeals to the mentality of an 8-year old in its fixation with all kinds of fecal matter, fart jokes , and big-breasted babes. Strictly speaking, guys more than gals will guffaw at the juvenile escapades of our eponymous character. Although scatological humor dominates this picaresque tale about our thirty something protagonist's search for the ungrateful parents who abandoned him at age 8 at the Grand Canyon, David Spade's sympathetic but half- witted hillbilly hero towers memorably above those lowest-common-denominator-jests. Aside from Dennis Miller's hilarious but obnoxious jeers at Joe's appearance and pedigree, Joe Dirt shuns mean-spirited melodramatics and contents itself with showing how our resilient hero bounces back from more hurts than anybody should have to endure.Unlike many Saturday Night Live TV spin-off features, freshman director Dennie Gordon's Joe Dirt succeeds because the David Spade & Fred Wolf screenplay features an actual story. Moreover, instead of making the jokes as he has done in the past, David Spade becomes the butt of all the jokes. Everybody slings mud at Joe Dirt. Spade's character resembles Buster Keaton caught in an Adam Sandler comedy playing Rob Schneider pranks. Rarely does anybody get Joe Dirt's goat because he acts so incredibly ignorant that he doesn't know when somebody has been done him dirty. Our underdog hero displays so much heart you can't help but like him. You'll understand when you get a glimpse at this mullet-headed misfit. His mendacious mom made him wear a rock'n roll star's wig because she told him he lost the top of his skull at birth! So, you dig looking like Jane Fonda in 'Klute?' one of Joe's callous critics ridicules him. Joe sports pork chop sideburns and reads Auto Trader magazine as if it were Playboy. He dresses tattered, acid-washed jeans and rock group T-shirts, and drives a 1970's pathetic puke-yellow Barracuda with a chain steering wheel and a footprint gas pedal. Predictably, clouds of oily white smoke belch from his ride's tailpipe. Basically, Joe is blue-collar material, the world's worst loser who triumphs against all odds in the end. He lives by a simple philosophy all I have to do is keep being a good person and good things will come my way.Joe is mopping floors at Los Angeles radio station KXLA where Howard Stern-style shock jock Zander Kelly (Dennis Miller of Bordello of Blood) works when one of his producers spots Joe. No sooner has Zander seen and heard Joe than he invites him as a guest on his show. During next four days, Joe recounts the events that brought him to Los Angeles while enduring Kelly's worse jibes. After Joe's parents abandon him in a trash can at the Grand Canyon in 1975, our hero lives by his wits in the woods until a beautiful country girl, Brandy (Brittany Daniel of Basketball Diaries) befriends him. Their meeting occurs under the oddest circumstances, one evening when Joe finds her dog has somehow gotten his testicles frozen to her porch. Every time the poor critter moves, his scrotum stretches like taffy while his testicles remain stuck to the porch. Joe uses warm water and a spatula to free the grateful dog. Naturally, Brandy rewards him, and the two become close friends. Meanwhile, a local bully, Robby (Kid Rock), who drives a Trans-Am, and Brandy's own redneck papa (Joe Don Baker of Walking Tall) do everything to run Joe off. After Brandy's worthless father shoots her dog, Joe decides it's time to begin his search for his parents. He drives off with the dog's ashes in an urn suspended from the inside rear-view mirror of his car.Along the road to L.A., Joe encounters a variety of eccentric characters. He discovers a la George Romeo's 1982 Creepshow what he believes is a flaming meteor. Instead, he learns it is large heap of frozen waste matter from a jetliner. The scenes of Joe hauling the alleged meteor around in a little red wagon are hilarious because we believe it is a meteor, too, until a pawnshop owner points out the peanut. Later, Joe meets Kicking Wing (Adam Beach of Mystery, Alaska), an American Indian who sells only sparklers. Joe wants to hire him to track down his folks. At the same time, he convinces Kicking Wing to expand his fireworks business and sell more than sparklers. The highlight of their exploits involves an atomic bomb they think they have found that turns out to be a septic tank. Inevitably, Joe gets drenched with sewage. In another sidesplitting scene, Joe stumbles on to a Silence of the Lambs Buffalo Bob wannabe serial killer (Brian Thompson of Sudden Impact) and runs into a janitor (Christopher Walken of Sleepy Hollow) in the Witness Protection Program. Probably the best computer-generated graphics appear in the vignette at Rosanna Arquette's alligator farm. Joe sticks his head into a gator's jaws and gets all shook up for a crowd of tourists.Veteran TV director Dennie Gordon of Ally McBeal and Nash Bridges, strings this anthology of antics together and miraculously manages to make it work. Gordon knows when to resort to crude jokes and when to focus on Joe's underdog status, and she gets the most out of the least. Other amusing tidbits of Joe Dirt's philosophy that stick are Life is a garden, dig it. Although Joe shares obstacles similar to Forrest's, he isn't really on the same wavelength. One thing nobody can complain about is the collection of classic rock songs that make the soundtrack. If a soundtrack were ever worth buying, the Joe Dirt is. Meanwhile, don't believe the snotty critics who are shoveling manure on this merry little movie, Joe Dirt rises among the sod. "},{"Title":"A Nice Surprise","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am not sure what was expected from this movie or why the people who did not like it did not like it, but it was a nice surprise of a movie for me. Occasionally some people get together and make an unexpectedly good movie and this was one of those time. With a good amount of humor and cuteness about it, and a surprisingly sympathetic performance from the normally acerbic David Spade it was a pretty nice waste of time, like Fifty First Dates was. There was some guttural humor (an atomic *stink*bomb), it was a well layered joke when you think about it, but it was (thankfully) no Farelley brothers piece of... well you know. It does not ask a lot of you and keeps you entertained. Joe Dirt is the lovable loser, on a mission to find out that home is where you make it (or to love homeboys naked). "},{"Title":"An absolute cracker","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm giving this film 7 out of 10 on the fact that it has made me laugh and laugh again. I have films like the Godfather, Scarface, Shawshank Redemption and others in my DVD collection but I can tell you I have watched this film more than any of those. As others have said this film does what it sets out to do, make you laugh, and that it does and then some.Its stupidity is great and the abuse that Joe (David Spade) receives is just fantastic. If you like watching a lovable loser get abused then this is the movie for you. Lots of laughs and memorable sayings, its a classic, 'Life a garden, dig it' and 'you can't have no in your heart' all coming from a white trash loser with a mullet who announces on the radio that he was 'jerkin his gherkin'makes for a laughfest. Highly recommended but don't expect to use your brain, juvenile amusement all the way. And Brittany Daniels as Joe love interest 'Brandy' is incredibly hot. "}{"Title":"Was VERY surprised by this one!","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went to this movie with a friend just to kill some time after work. I wasn't expecting ANYTHING from it, Especially after the very cliche' trailers they ran for it.It only took about 5-10 minutes for me to actually start enjoying the flick. And then when I saw that Dennis Miller was in I was fired up (I'm a big D.miller fan).In the end, my friend and I looked at each other and agreed, that was the stupidest movie we've seen in a long time however we both walked out with smiles on our faces.If I had to sum up my feelings on this movie to one word. It would be Endearing. "},{"Title":"This movie deserves much better ratings!","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Dirt - is not meant to be compared to movies like Schindler's list,Empire of the Sun,or The Shawshank redemption. It isn't fair to rate this movie a 2-4 because you rate those kinds of movies an 8-10. Movies should be rated in comparison with other movies in the same genre, and Joe Dirt is far and away, one of the best movies in its genre. If you don't like slapstick comedy type films, this isn't for you. However, the story line of Joe Dirt is far better than most slapstick comedy films.I'm not going to describe the story at all, as the other 184 people who commented already did that. What I will tell you, is that before I saw this movie, I disliked David Spade. I didn't find most of his smug, pretentious characters funny. Joe Dirt Single-handedly made me love David Spade. The story is great, the comedy is great, the scenery is great, the soundtrack is great; there really isn't anything to dislike about this film, and it's one of my favorites. 9/10 in its genre.It puts the Joe Dirt in the hole "},{"Title":"It's hilarious","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you like David Spade, you'll like Joe Dirt. It's the story of Joe Dirt,(David Spade)a kid who was abandoned by his parents. So he goes looking for them. Joe tells his story to Zander Kelly, a guy on the radio station. As he tells the story, he becomes famous. It's really funny. There's this one part where Joe finds a septic tank and he thinks it's an atom bomb. The cop takes the top off and a bunch of crap goes flying all over Joe. It's got a good soundtrack too. Joe Walsh, Lynryd Skynryd, pretty much anything that gets played on 106.5, the radio station. But I really like this movie. Not many critics like it, though. It's got a 9% on www.rottentomatoes.com. What a bunch of idiots...anyway, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Kick ass movie","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" this is one of the funniest movies i have ever seen (and I've seen a lot of movies)!!! everything about the film from his bizarre hair style, random celeb cameos, a crazy story line and great characters make it a fun film to watch. i suggest you get some mates round, open a few cans of beer and settle back for a night of fun, David Spade style!This was the first David spade movie i had ever seen and now I've almost seen all of them! He is a wicked actor who is totally under-rated. "},{"Title":"A well told story.","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Oh David Spade...yet again what you touch turns to gold. Joe Dirt is a well told story with more then it's share of laughs. It shows the good side of people as well as the ugly side in the way different characters treat the underdog Joe Dirt thru his life and adventures. Adults can enjoy every moment of the movie as well as kids, with some of the jokes going over their heads (I'm yer sister! I'm yer sister!). This is one movie that our family has watched over and over again and it never gets old. The musical score of the movie is exceptional! The music goes hand in hand with the movie scenes and while the movie itself needed no improvement, the music perfected the movie like good wine perfects a good steak. Takes it from a 9 to a 10 in my opinion. Believe it or not, this comedy will actually touch your heart and if you were not rooting for Joe Dirt in the beginning, you'll be rooting for him by the end. "},{"Title":"A decent comedy with some heart.","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wouldn't put this movie on a par with other over-the-top comedies like Zoolander (one of my favorites) but Joe Dirt has more than just a few low-brow laughs to offer. The main character is the very likable, albeit pathetic, Joe Dirt. The movie isn't just about the random cross-country meanderings of a clueless white trash janitor - as the promos would lead you to believe. Joe has a good heart and an upbeat attitude that have helped him through times that would have crushed most people. He's searching for his family (from whom he was separated during a trip to the Grand Canyon at age 8) and does some pretty good detective work to find them, while along the way inspiring some other lowlifes to do better by themselves. The story is told in the format of a radio interview that catapaults Joe into the hearts of the audience members. This movie can actually help you suspend disbelief temporarily and believe in the kindness of strangers without being overly saccharine and sappy (we can thank some of the raunchy humor for that). "},{"Title":"Humour=help","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 10 may be a slight over-statement for the film as a film but for the effect it had on me, it deserves a 10. I was a tourist in New Orleans when Hurricane Katrina hit and i watched this film in my hotel room just hours before the hurricane hit. It's humour and the lovable nature of the lead character really helped us to forget about what was coming.The hell that followed the hurricane itself, as part of a party of internationals who were under considerable threat of attack from the locals, was occasionally tempered by remembering funny bits from the film. It may sound a little corny but this film really did help me get through that terrible time. It is very funny-even if you're not about to face a hurricane! "},{"Title":"Love this film.","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I absolutely love this film. I've watched it countless times, and given the DVD to so many people. Its Basically a White Trash version of Forrest Gump. It has lots of big named actors, who don't just appear as cameo's, but help in holding the story together.Its never going to win any Oscars or ever be considered anything more then a Beer and Pizza movie with your buddies. But if your willing to accept that fact then you will enjoy it.Not to mention quoting it at every opportunity. Great fun for all the family.Life's a garden, Dig it "},{"Title":"A funny and heartwarming piece of cinematic innocence!","Date":"8 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am very harsh with movies and I automatically know when a movie is bad. Joe Dirt is a bad movie that's meant to be bad but for some reason I loved it (and I usually don't). Joe Dirt is a great character and in my opinion is one of the greatest heroes of cinema, because everyone loves Joe Dirt even if the critics didn't. He still found a way into America's heart. So I call Joe Dirt one of the funniest, dumbest, heartwarming films in years. Definitely better than the Superbad that's for sure. This also the best film or anything that David Spade has ever done. Joe Dirt will go down as a classic in cinema history, because it's already one in millions of people's hearts. "},{"Title":"It's not all snakes and sparklers.","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think the adolescent type humor in this film is what gives it it's actual humor. This film got bad ratings, but all in all it's a well made, well thought out flick. Much better than The Ladies Man, which was a hoopla of poop. I can't honestly see someone not laughing at Christopher Walken's role, or the Fireworks stand scene. The Buffalo Bill spoofs and cracks made it just flat silly at times, and that... that my friends, is adolescent humor. If you don't like childish humor, well this movie isn't for you. This movie has a lot of wit driven into it that a lot of people can't see because it's not their kind of humor. This movie is funny. Hands down. "}{"Title":"Joe Dirt King of the mullets","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just happened to catch this movie on television while visiting my dad. I wasn't watching for any other reason than it was on. I was quickly engrossed in the movie... it was hilarious. I know that some of the humor, if not all of the humor, was a bit juvenile and sophomoric, but I found it amazingly funny.Joe Dirt is a poor, dumb, southern hick with a permanent mullet sewn into his skull because he was born with no scalp... priceless!! David Spade plays the lovable loser whose sole goal the entire movie is to find his parents. On his journey to find his parents he goes through one comical ordeal after another. Even though David Spade is amusing anyway, this movie could have been just as funny with someone else playing the lead; it was that hilarious.This movie really takes a shot at rednecks and trailer trash. Of course there is some cliché and stereotypical stuff in there as can be expected, but it was done in a way to keep you laughing. "},{"Title":"Dumb, but Funny","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I kinda liked this movie. It's dumb, but it has some funny moments and a lot of heart. It's David Spade's first crack at playing a nice guy and it works pretty well. Joe Dirt is a guy who got abandoned in the Grand Canyon when he was 8 years old and he spends his life trying to find his parents and find out why they left him. It's a low-rent Forrest Gump type movie that has Dirt traveling the country, meeting odd characters, (including a great cameo by Christopher Walken as a member of the witness protection program,) and getting into and out of a variety of silly situations, such as finding a meteorite that turns out to be something a bit less celestial in origin. Nevertheless, Joe Dirt names the meteorite, drags it around with him and pledges undying loyalty to it. That gives you a taste of the humor in this movie - silly but sweet with the prerequisite poop and fart jokes for the younger crowd. "},{"Title":"Trailer does not do it justice","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This had the worst trailer imaginable.  This movie was so much better than it was made out to be.  The marketing people who set this one up were total idiots.David Spade is great.  He totally carries the movie.  His subtle comments throughout show that he is much better than just a white trash hero.  You like him so much.  The trailer makes him look like he is a lame, dumpy guy with a chip on his shoulder.  The movie is not like that at all.  I actually wanted to get a mullet like his after seeing this.Dennis Miller is fun along with Fred Ward and Christopher Walken.  It is great to see Joe Dirte tell the story in kind of a Forrest Gump fashion only instead of hating him, you like him because he actually has a soul. "},{"Title":"Forrest Gump for the gross-out generation","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is definitely one of the most underrated films I have seen. It has a great story and the gross-out humor is not overdone like it is in some other recent comedies. Like Forest Gump, Joe Dirt is a social reject because he is different, but he has managed to live through a painful and interesting life while still maintaining his optimism. Overall, this is a funny feel-good movie that is somewhere between Forrest Gump and There's Something About Mary. "},{"Title":"Previews don't do this movie justice.","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I saw the previews and commercials for Joe Dirt, I thought it was going to be a bad movie, but in all honesty, it was a really funny movie. Additionally, it wasn't just stupid humor, there was actual substance to the humor.  All in all, I thought it was a very good movie. "},{"Title":"A True Diamond in the Rough. Dig it!","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" While many may look at Joe Dirt and see a run-of-the-mill, low-class, gross-out comedy from a former Saturday Night Live star, nothing could be further from the truth. Despite the fact that it didn't fare too well in theaters and critics all but universally panned it, there is more to this white-trash tale than meets the eye.Boasting an impressive classic rock soundtrack and a host of off-key performances and cameos from the likes of Christopher Walken and Kevin Nealon, Joe Dirt revolves around the titular character, portrayed by David Spade, as he tells his inspiring and often hilarious life-story to a shock-jock (Dennis Miller) and his loyal audience across America. From being abandoned by his parents as a child at the Grand Canyon to finding companionship in a golden retriever and its stunning owner (Brittany Daniel) and getting sexually confused by a floozy whom he mistakes as his sister (Jaime Pressly), Joe's life story plays as fodder for those around him to mock, but in the end, wins everyone over with its inspiring message.Afterall, the key to this movie is its feel-good spirit. What sets this movie aside from so many other comedies in a similar vein is that it is uplifting and touching, while being utterly hilarious at the same time. Because it's a movie that makes you feel good, you'll find yourself watching it again and again, and thankfully, the humor never gets old, as even by your hundredth viewing, you'll still be cracking up at the often broad but simplistic humor. David Spade is playing a likable role for once, and while it went by virtually unnoticed by many critics, his performance is worthy of praise and shows that the comedian has range beyond his usual snarky smart-aleck type-casting. Bottom line Joe Dirt is both funny and inspiring, a rare combination. Dig it. "},{"Title":"A Classic Comedy For Sure!","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A classic comedy you can watch over and over with frequent chuckles with every viewing. On my second viewing, Joe Dirt qualified. (My Numero Uno classic comedy is still Animal House.)Yes, I know, Adam Sandler co-executive-produced it. The only movie he was involved in I liked was 50 First Dates. Most of the others were crude and gross-filled with fart and poop jokes for their own sake that appeal only to those under 12. Full disclosure I am more than 5 x age 12! But they seemed appropriate to this unlikely hero's story who despite one adversity after another, remained positive and prevailed. For those of you who rated it only 5 or 6, what would have made it a 9 or 10 for you? I usually see a movie and say, if only they had done so and so, or great actors, lousy script (or vice versa). But I thought it was a perfect gem and couldn't think of a thing to improve it except the soundtrack (a 7 which could easily have been a 10.) The script, co-written by the under-appreciated David Spade as the adult Joe Dirt, the acting and directing (the hardest part of creating a true comedy) were all spot on excellent. The top notch casting included many of our favorite actors in small, but perfect roles, including Patricia Arquette (where have you been?), Dennis Miller, Kid Rock (ouch, yummo!), and Christopher Walken. A shout out to the make up department (and acting) for aging the principle players over the 17 years the story unfolded. Per as the young Joe Dirt was perfect.I was shocked at the average rating of 5.3! I gave it a 10 instead of a 9 to bring the average up a fraction. See it again, re-vote, and tell your friends who love uplifting stories about overcoming great odds with humor and a positive outlook not to miss it! "},{"Title":"This is funny movie!","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Thanks to producer that he have found this script. This movie is funniest than 90 percent others you can see out there. I have pi.. my self watching it. This movie I can watch two times. No doubt about it. Faces, actors are all great. No fakes at all. They don't need to use some strange mouth moves to be funny - as others do in the comedy movies.I like the quotes White trash. Home is where you make it - You like to see homos naked?I would to give an example similar to this movie, but there is not. Ten points defiantly for this movie. "},{"Title":"Great Story With awesome characters","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is my favorite David Spade movie. It is the only movie when he is not Dick. And the story of Joe Dirt is great. Who does not want to sympathize with an abandoned red neck that has a mullet wig permanently attached to his head. And Waken come on your tone is all wrong you say it again Ill stab you in the face with a soldering Iron Dirt also carries around a ball of frozen crap and eats his food off of it. This movie is Hilarious. His is janitor that ends up with the sickest family ever. I an Indian dud that sell sick fire works, and extremely hot girlfriend, Christopher Waken, and some crazy girl with no finger. It is a happy and funny tail that actually makes me want to mop floors. This movie is full of hilarious twist and turns and the ending is the best, but the new wig sucks. I could have done without Dennis miller though I hate that guy. "},{"Title":"'baby you just ain't seen nothing' yet'","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" i watched this film a while ago now, which centres around a janitor named Joe Dirt, who tells his life story to a presenter on a radio show. Dirt is a full on redneck who lost his parents wen he was seven years old. He constantly goes through life getting picked on and beat up. His search for his parents is not a success, but they hear him on the radio and meet up for the first time in 25 years revealing they actually did not lose him they just left him. there is a happy ending but i don't want to spoil the film for you all. Go see this film its one of my my top 5 favourite comedy's, buy it don't rent it because your going to want to see it again and again 10/10. "}{"Title":"The best movie ever!","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While the movie Joe Dirt seems to ironically take a lot of crap in its reviews, I love this movie.  This movie is simply hilarious.  David Spade plays Joe Dirt with heartwarming flare.  And with supporting actors like Christopher Walken (who's always genious) and Kid Rock (in the ONLY role he was born to play) the movie weaves together great characters and situations into a story that will leave you feeling that Life's a Garden.  Dig it! "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever!!!","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think that this is the best movie ever.  True, it is stupid and maybe a little perverted but that is the kind of comedy that I find is hilarious. Another movie I think is great is Dumb and Dumber, so if you agree this movie rocks go rent that one.  If you don't agree, I'm sorry that you can't see the humor, but remember...Life's a garden dig it.  And keep on keepin' on. "},{"Title":"Not as poor as expected","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I expected Joe Dirt to be just as lousy as most of the rest SNL alumni offerings. Certainly, it's not great cinematic achievement but for mindless, juvenile humor it's not so bad. Christopher Walken parodies himself rather well, Dennis Miller is solid, and Kid Rock is so suitable for his redneck role. Brittany Daniel is not so convincing in her role as Spade's love interest but she looks amazing. If you've got an hour and a half to kill, catch it HBO or something. "},{"Title":"Great Movie.....Hilarious","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Much better than i expected.....Joe Dirt Delivers more than i could imagine...I sat in my seat and just died laughing over and over again....I wish David Spade Could Make more Funny Movies like this one and I think we need to See A joe Dirt 2 "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film was excellent. It had the laugh out loud funny parts, but it also had a touching little story as well. Set to the theme of The Wizard of Oz, the story tells of Joe Dirt's (Dorothy) quest to find his parents and home. Much like Dorothy, he does not realize that he had home and happiness all along. What I especially liked about this film was the excellent soundtrack. Say what you will about Mr. Dirt, he knows cars and he knows kickass music. If you want to see a funny movie that has a nice story attached, check this out. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"David Spade's best to date...","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A surprisingly entertaining film!  I don't consider myself a David Spade fan by a long shot, but he did a great job in the lead role of this film, and carried the film successfully.  Perhaps the patheticness of his character (Joe Dirt), and Joe's acceptance of this made him actually bearable for a change.  The film moves along quickly and smartly.  It was kinda like a cross between David Copperfield (the Dicken's novel, not the lame-ass magician) and Pee Wee Herman's Great Adventure.  I found it light, but still somewhat uplifting.  And good comedy writing - plenty of hilarious gags. The unusual cast choices (Christopher Walken, Kid Rock and Fred Ward to name a few) added to the film's quirkyness.  And the music (late Seventy's rock) also contributed to my overall enjoyment of the film.  My only negative criticism would be the weak, romantic sub-plot with Joe and Brandy, with the two becoming separated and Joe thinking he's been spurned by his one true love.  But, of course, everything comes up 'Dirt' in the end, as you would expect for this kind of light comedy.  Still, mostly creative and very enjoyable.  Not a surprise that it appears to rent well at my local video store, where dogs like 'The Mexican' are stacked up like unwanted children. Nothing terribly obscene here, so you can prob even let your kids (10 and up) stay up and watch it. "},{"Title":"My comments are positive towards the film.","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went into this movie a bit skeptical...especially after seeing that trailer showing David Spade setting off a nuclear bomb.  I was expecting a pretty lame movie(the trailer sure was).  Let me tell you, I was very torn about whether or not to see this movie last night.  I had to choose between hanging out with a hot chick or going to see this movie(the girl wouldn't come with).  I am glad I chose the movie. The movie was extremely funny and witty.  Actually, I think that the portrayal of Joe Dirt as white trash was excellent too...the author(s) either really outdid themselves researching white trash or they have a little white trash in their blood.  The blatant yet subtle details in this movie really made it.  I am planning on going to see it again.  David Spade was hilarious...as usual.  Christopher Walken was an awesome character to have floating around as well.  The soundtrack for the movie is nothing less than excellent.  The only complaint I have about the movie is it seemed like it moved too fast.  Pretty weak complaint huh.?.?  If you are looking for a fun way to spend a couple hours, I highly recommend Joe Dirt!  "},{"Title":"I'm cool..........no your not","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" David spade has done a few movies worth forgetting....Dickie Roberts for example, now that was bad...Joe Dirt on the other hand, this is more my cup of tea. The whole idea of the radio show was a neat platform for this movie, it kept things on two levels, and this really added to the story/progression of the movie. There is quite a few funny moments, mostly from Spade, but the odd Kid Rock line is laughable as well. Again cool story platform, and lets face it Jaime Pressley is the perfect eye candy....WOWSERSThis is a good little semi-classic in the stoner/comfort genre. It's not in my top ten, but definitely in my favs list.Chiggity check it!7/10 "},{"Title":"People who hate this movie Love the English Patient P","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just had to say that, because I just left a comment for the English Patient D Well I really don't understand why people are so critical of these types of movies. They are not meant to be taken seriously, nor literally. It's a comedy about Joe Dirt. The fact that it pokes fun at the whole white trash stereotype is what makes it funny. I mean that is what it is supposed to do. Come on even Kid Rock was in there, he may fit the white trash stereotype, but I don't think anyone would complain about his lifestyle. I thought this movie was hilarious, and even under the comedy is a bit of good IL' family/life values. This is one of those movies that you can watch over and over and still get a kick out of it. Life's a garden Dig It! Don't take COMEDY so seriously. "},{"Title":"Pure Rock!!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is PURE ROCK!!! Finally a movie worth seeing! F*%&* the 70s-it's so played out, I'm tired and bored. 80s style is due for a comeback! This flick is funny, and refreshing-no sissy whining in this flick!One of the funniest parts of the movie was when Joe Dirt tries to decipher the ramblings of a Louisiana Man Homeboy's make it, Homo's Fake it, Homeless & Naked-but it turns out to be Home is where you make it. What inspirational advice-advice Joe doesn't fully appreciate until the end of the movie.  "}{"Title":"Awful.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In Joe Dirt, Spade appears to be trying to create a loveable loser folk hero while telling of the character's odyssey-like search for his parents in a radio interview conducted by Dennis Miller. An unfortunate make-it-up-as-you-go junk comedy, Joe Dirt is sorely bereft of creativity and humor and wears itself out early on with nary a LOL to be found. Recommended only for die-hard Spade fans...if there is such a thing. "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was funny. I thought it was gonna be a dumb lame movie, but i was wrong. I give it 10/10. David Spade was funny and he always is. Kid Rock was good too. Though Jamie Presley was in the movie and they always have her play a whore character in the movie. I hope they start giving her better rolls in movies. Otherwise this movie was good.   "},{"Title":"Life's a garden,dig it!","Date":"5 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Dirt is a classic white trash trailer dude, that gets lost at the Grand Canyon when he's a kid. He tells his story of where he is today. A janitor at a radio station. The station ends up broadcasting his story and it ends up getting the listeners interested and becomes famous. This story is very humorous and has a bit of a love story in it.Yes, the humor is silly and often intentionally stupid, but I can't help but love it. If it's more cerebral or subtle humor that you want, you will not find it here (beyond the excellent mantra life is a garden, dig it, that is). The Joe Dirt experience is all about good laughs from silly jokes, wacky characters and ridiculous situations. Highly recommended for those who like 70's rock, nostalgic hair styles, and anyone who pulls for the underdog. Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I watched it for Walken, but ended up enjoying the whole thing.","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK, absolute silliness, yes. Yet, there was a depth to the movie that kept you intrigued, gripped.I watched this movie solely to see Christopher Walken's cameo and tag line threat. But by accident, gained an appreciation for David Spade who I have never paid much attention to in past.So once you come to grips with fact that this show is primarily a goofy comedy, and like many goofy comedies, plot weaknesses abound (why would one even expect a solid plot... duh). It is a succession of brilliantly executed comedic dialogues and settings. The naivety of the fireworks vendor's endeavors being a great example.And the fact that a number of more notable actors of the time would participate in the film (Christopher Walken, Rosanna Arquette, Dennis Miller), tells me that there was something more to it than just a silly slapstick comedy. They must have felt something bigger was being created. I feel it was. A bit of a classic that not only has clever antics, but a positive, uplifting message.I would recommend it. "},{"Title":"Far better than expected","Date":"5 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Dirt offers a lot of laughs, which is the raison d'être of any comedy. And there are many different types of humor sight gags, 1-2-3 punches, pratfalls, ridicule, absurdities, etc. Some of the humor is broad, raunchy, burlesque and low-brow, but other humor is fairly sophisticated. Some jokes are laugh-out-loud funny, while others are subtle. On a jokes per minute scale, the film ranks among the top. The film has significant and substantial problems. It is difficult to decide which is worse the title, the cover/poster art, or log lines like He came. He cleaned. He conquered, or Trailer trash wig-wearin' acid wash jean lovin' rock concert T-shirt sportin' hero. None really describes a movie that I would have expected to find particularly interesting and I made no effort to view the movie until fourteen years after its theatrical release, although I can remember seeing it at video shops and had several opportunities when I was at a loss for something amusing to view. The film is somewhat a parody of Forrest Gump, which is also a title that says little about the movie's subject matter, unless one is familiar with the book. But the FG producers were somewhat limited by the book's title, whereas the producers of JD could have been more imaginative and incorporated a superlative, an action verb or a recognizable archetype. The promotional artwork relied heavily on an image of a guy holding a mop. People who mop fill a necessary function, but they're usually relegated to after hours when they present less of a nuisance and distraction. In Bangkok, it's impossible to get through a day without encountering about a dozen people sweeping or mopping. Thais sweep and mop everything at all hours of the day and night and still leave their shoes at the entrance. But the reaction is usually to avoid the individual, not take an interest in what or why they are pushing broom. The promo lines fall somewhere between misleading and uninformative. Joe doesn't really conquer. Everybody loves jeans. The wig is a recurring gag that doesn't work or would be much more effective if the hair were natural. It's a bit gross and makes no sense that an adult would wear the same wig worn as a child. JD shines a mirror on the rest of society and holds us up to ridicule for our prejudices, assumptions and tendencies to judge others by superficial standards. These societal prejudices are personified by a radio shock jock played by Dennis Miller who delivers a series of zingers that seem less and less funny as the audience develops sympathy for Joe. Lampooning the audience is a risky form of humor and JD does it adroitly. The viewer is placed in the uncomfortable position of recognizing ones own biases. The movie offers quite a few talented actors in supporting roles that they embrace and play to the hilt. Production values are more than adequate with a refreshing lack of jiggly-cam shots. It's really nice to watch a movie where the filmmakers have enough respect for their audience to plan their shots and use tripods or other support systems for their cameras. "},{"Title":"Horrible, Below Average Film!","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" David Spade can be very funny and I was surprised to learn that Adam Sandler was attached to this project as a producer. This could have been really good. Instead, it fails on nearly every level and is a complete mess.The story is all over the place and this Joe Dirt character is a moron and NOT the kind you root for or care about. It goes for cheap laughs by using poop and testicles just for the sake of it. Kid Rock was obviously desperate for a paycheck, because his performance is terrible in this! It's not the worst thing I've ever seen but it's pretty disappointing. I laughed two, maybe three times, so it's not enough to recommend it.First it's dumb, then it's stupid, then it's super offensive, and then it just gives up halfway through. As a two minute SNL skit, this might have worked but as a full length feature film, it lacks any substance. Skip Joe Dirt and save those precious 91 minutes of your life! "},{"Title":"This is funny. Many good laughs.  Can't wait to see sequel this year........","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a cleverly written movie by Spade and an associate. Its funny and well directed. Oh sure as in any comedy there are jokes that miss but its only a few in Joe Dirt and the majority hit. I swore I would have nothing to do with Sandler movies but he's only an Exec Producer which means he invested some cash into the making of the movie and thankfully didn't write, direct or even appear. Thats the best I can say about this picture and what makes it worth an 8 and worth seeing. On the whole its funny and doesn't demand anything from its audience. BTW Brittany Daniel is another reason to see this movie for the guys, she is SUPER HOT! "},{"Title":"Funny in a sick way","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Because I like David Spade, I probably liked this movie better than a lot of people. He seems to play basically the same character whatever he does, but this character seemed different, and Spade should get credit for challenging himself. He is at his best when being funny, but he lacked something in the more dramatic scenes.And I can't say I liked every scene, but many scenes were enjoyable. In general, I like the type of humor here, but some gags were just too disgusting for me.Dennis Miller did a great job. While I know he has had a radio show since then, I don't know anything about it, but he proved he could do that.The audience for Joe Dirt's story added something. So many people seemed fascinated by him, and that added something to the movie.I liked Kicking Wing and the bizarre fireworks jokes. One went kind of overboard but this particular joke could be forgiven for a reason I won't give away.Brandy was not only a sweet girl but quite good-looking, especially in short shorts. And even if I don't like dogs, the dog added something too.Christopher Walken gave yet another weird but quality performance as a janitor who hired Joe when he needed work. It appeared some of his lines recalled other movies or TV shows. His story turned out to be quite interesting too, and I shouldn't give away any of the wacky twists.Jaime Pressly was another hot girl and more than just pretty. I have seen her win awards for similar characters, and I could tell she was more than just an ordinary actress. Whether I would have known this if I had seen this first I can't say.There was just so much silliness of the Jerry Springer and possibly Myrtle Manor variety (I've never seen Myrtle Manor) that I couldn't help but be happy at times. And then there were the warm and touching scenes, which made all the suffering worth it.And if you like classic rock radio, many of your favorites are here. I'm not really a fan of that kind of music, but some of it was appealing.It's not a masterpiece but if you just want to laugh and don't have any expectations, and you can handle really sick humor, this just might work. "},{"Title":"Dirt is the Correct Word.","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Dirt (2001) Dir Dennie Gordon / Cast David Spade, Dennis Miller, Christopher Walken, Rosanna Arquette, Kid Rock Joe Dirt proudly wheels a meteor down the street on a wagon. While eating his lunch on top of it, he makes ownership promises unaware that his suppose discovery is a large chunk of toilet waste. He is a white trash janitor abandoned by his parents and tells his story via radio. Director Dennie Gordon shows little promise as one idiotic scene follows another. Joe eventually finds his parents and discovers that they knew what viewers were aware of from the get go. David Spade is totally unsympathetic. Joe Dirt is even dumber than the poop scooping moron he played in Lost and Found. As a radio personality Dennis Miller appears anxious for Spade to say something remotely intelligent. Christopher Walken has the thankless role as a janitor in hiding. He should go into hiding after agreeing to be part of this junk. Rosanna Arquette appears at an alligator farm. Crude moments include dog testicles frozen to a patio. Kid Rock puts down his guitar to give us perhaps his biggest career blunder in appearing in what comes off as a really bad joke at his expense. Spade gets drenched in sewage, which is exactly where the film should be. Finally we are given a sex scene where he screams out, Sister! While locations are innovative, the witless screenplay lurks in the gutter. Better yet, dirt. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"What 'Freddy Got Fingered' Should Have Been","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I must say when I watched Joe Dirt On Crackle, I expected to not like it at all. But to be honest, this movie isn't all that bad. I'm very mixed on Happy Madison's filmography, but I must say this is one of the better films.The movie is about a Loser named Joe Dirt, whose parents put a wig on him at birth because his top part of his brain was showing. The story follows Dirt and he talks about his journey to find his parents, the people he meets and the crazy stuff that happens to him which makes him an overnight star.I noticed something about this film that made me really think back to another film I absolutely despised which I called the worst movie of all time. Freddy Got Fingered. For some reason, I started wondering why I thought about that movie while watching Joe Dirt, but then I realized something. This movie is what Freddy should have been.The problem with Freddy Got Fingered was the whole thing was supposed to be a gross out comedy. Grossing out it succeeds, but there was no substance to it. Joe Dirt has all the substance for a gross out comedy. Joe gets crap dumped on him, the film makes incestuous jokes, has a scene where they have to unfreeze a dog's testicles from a porch, you get the point.Joe Dirt's gross out humor works because of it's character. The character is likable but is sort of lame and has a reason why the gross out stuff happens to him and also, the story even though it's a cut and paste type situation, there is an actual story unlike Freddy where Freddy was just a bunch of sketches. The characters are quite cool. Kicking Wing and Clem being the most interesting played by Adam Beach and Christopher Walken. Walken's Clem is one of his most intriguing roles in the way he acts. Kicking Wing is also a fun character who we first meet as this fireworks store owner out in the middle of nowhere.The movie is quite enjoyable, but it made me yell out in frustration in some parts due to the stupidity of the plot. But that was actually quite fun to do. The Sequel is coming in July on Crackle and I will be definitely tuning in to see the film. Overall, Joe Dirt is an enjoyable gross out comedy film and is worth finding in a bargain bin.68/100 C+ "}{"Title":"Enjoyable light hearted entertainment.","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Dirt is one of those comedies that you will either like or dislike, and I found myself pleasantly surprised that Joe Dirt was an enjoyable movie. It's not a great movie, but it does not deserve the negative reception.David Spade plays the titular Joe Dirt, who is a janitor working in a Los Angeles Radio station who everybody regards as a loser. When shock-jock radio host Zander Kelly played by Dennis Miller invites him on air to talk to him. From there Joe tells his story about being abandoned at the Grand Canyon by his parents at the age of 8 and his childhood spent in a series of foster homes. Joe Dirt's story wins over listeners and Joe gains a large fan base as well as a new group of friends who like him for who he is, including an old childhood friend of Joe's named Brandy played by Brittany Daniel, a high school janitor with a mysterious past named Clem played by Christopher Walken, and an Indian tracker who calls himself Kicking Wing played by Adam Beach.Sure Joe Dirt is not the greatest movie out there, but by no means that it is a bad movie. There is no denying that Joe Dirt is enjoyable light hearted entertainment that certainly passes the time.Check out Joe Dirt and enjoy it for what it is.6/10. "},{"Title":"hated Dennis Miller, David Spade alright","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Dirt (David Spade) is a dirty janitor working in a Hollywood radio station. DJ Zander Kelly (Dennis Miller) interviews him for his show. Joe starts recalling his life since being lost at the Grand Canyon at the age of 8 (Erik Per Sullivan). He helps country girl Brandy (Brittany Daniel) get her dog's frozen balls off the porch. They become best of friends but he eventually leaves to search for his family. He befriends a soft spoken Indian Kicking Wing (Adam Beach). As a carnie, he catches the eye of trashy Jill (Jaime Pressly).I really hated Dennis Miller in this. I can't stand him and his fake radio show. It puts me off the movie right away. David Spade is somewhat likable. He's not really funny but he has some marginal charm. I would rather have just a straight up Joe Dirt adventure with his girl Brandy and sidekick Kicking Wing. "},{"Title":"Joe Dirt's a funny comedy classic !!","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Dirt is the greateeeeeest!!! Joe Dirt is very clearly an awesome and hilarious flick! I crack up every time I watch it! It's got countless funny moments and it's a real comedy classic!! David Spade is the greatest as Joe Dirt as he's the funniest guy around for the part. Joe Dirt is well-written and a well-shot comedy. Joe Dirt has a surprisingly heartfelt story to go with the jokes. Joe Dirt is a very visually bright movie. Brittany Daniel is very visually hot in Joe Dirt. She's amazing! Christopher Walken is so freaking funny in Joe Dirt. He's hilarious! Dennis Miller is right at home in his quirky and generous role as radio talk show host in Joe Dirt. Miller's role with Spade really makes the movie hit home. Jaime Pressly is seriously the hottest girl ever just look at her in Joe Dirt. Jaime looks unbelievably sexy, like always, as she is getting down and dirty with Joe Dirt. Kid Rock is great in Joe Dirt, really. Kid Rock can really act, not really. All of the cameos in Joe Dirt are funny and memorable! I love Joe Dirt! I'm watching it right now! It's so funny!Does ya mother sew? Boom! Get her to sew that! "},{"Title":"Fun with dirt, not fun dirt !","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I used not to expect much from (David Spade). But this time, it is different.The plot of the radio show is creative, with a lot of comic situations. (David Spade) is relatively funny, doing his serious moments rightly. The meaning of sometimes the journey is more important than its goal is unique and well served. The pace is vivid, maybe too vivid to make anything deep or touching, but it worked for making such a light comedy anyway, with kind of human character too. The soundtrack caught the 1980s spirit wonderfully, and strengthened the emotional side, if not carried it out.(Christopher Walken), who almost doesn't say no to any movie offered to him, is a good addition for every thing he's in, even if he's there for a few scenes, and obviously this movie needed a name beside (David Spade) to be sold. (Rosanna Arquette) did nothing memorable. Again, another name. OK, to sum it up, this is a case where (Spade) was the cast, and everybody else was in a cameo. That could have sounded bad, but surprisingly not here! THOUGH, WAIT A BIG MINUTE! Did this movie contain some really REALLY dirty humor? Well, HELL YEAH !The problem is that the nice movie we were talking about savored showing freaky and ugly stuff, while it could avoid it easily. For instance, instead of seeing the sweetheart's father's leg cut off, it was possible to see the train hits him to fly in the sky, then lands in a cactus plantation, something of that sort. Some, if not most, of the jokes are involving farts, blood, feces, private parts, sex, amputated legs or fingers, &#x85;to the end of the cheap filthy list. But apparently the writers, Spade himself and his buddy Fred Wolf, chose their road earlier, planning that as a big part, and if you have doubts; remember their movie's title !There is a plot hole concerning how the lead believed that his parents died 25 years ago, while he was told that they left their home 15 years ago?! And they never told us why those parents left their boy earlier? Or where is his sister? They just forgot these matters. The movie is beautifully crowded with many small chuckles here and there, like the man who says wisely Home is where you think it is while the lead mishears it, thinking it a totally another thing! However, it has one big laugh, and I mean the lead's dream of exploding a nuclear bomb for mere playing. That was genuinely hilarious ! This is a swift fun, with dirt. I love swift fun, but not dirt; especially when it's shown as fun ! "},{"Title":"A Hilarious Movie for Spade","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" David Spade is normally seen as the second man in all major comedy movies such as Tommy Boy and more recently The Benchwarmers. But this movie as well as Dickie Roberts really showcases what main star talent he really does have. I think Spade is a very good sarcastic comedian and that really develops on what kind of character he chooses to play in a movie. This movie really gives a new setting for Spade. this film Joe Dirt, that he wrote alongside Fred Wolf, is a very hilarious and quite memorable film to keep fresh in your mind for a long time to come. This was really a huge step for Spade, as this was his first starring role and I truly believed he pulled through and showed us how creative he truly can be. "},{"Title":"Take it for what it is - a Comedy!","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" You would think that such a simplistic premise would make for a crappy movie but it was hilarious. Lets face it, dumb rednecks are funny. There were some great supporting actors like Christopher Walken who as usual steals the show when he's on, and the Silence of the Lambs thing was absolutely golden, with Brian Thompson doing a great parody even though he only had a few minutes of screen time. The cameos are many, and the humor is wicked and pulls no punches. Some of it is outright dumb at first but is explained later on, such as the nuke which seemed so cheesy with 50's file footage....but it explains why near the end of the movie. Overall its good mindless entertainment, and Spade does a surprisingly good redneck. I think it helps that he's a skinny. I'm no big fan of Dennis Miller but as a supporting character he makes sense here, and mercifully he's more the straight guy than the unfunny guy trying to be funny (his normal role). Kid Rock is so redneck he reminds me of the locals around here. "},{"Title":"Well.....................","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK this movie was produced by Adam Sandler so it has to be good!!Well this is pretty funny but not excellent!!!David Spade was really funny in this movie and he had a lot of funny jokes.Also it has Christopher Walken and David Spade in it so it was really funny!!!!!The only thing is that well I ca't put my finger on it but it just wasn't one of my favorites.I think it was just because i was used to Jim Carrey,Adam Sandler, and Chevy Chase's kind of humor.I find David Spade to be funny but he just isn't like them.But this was a good movie and you should go out and at least rent it.You will get some pretty good laughs.Also the poop on the head part was HILARIOUS!!!!!!!!So go out and rent this! "},{"Title":"my favorite movie","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is my favorite movie hands down.Usually i don't like sappy movies like this,but something about joe dirt is just cool.From a good soundtrack,to the mullet hair cut(i had a mullet when this came out).One of the big draws is that chick who plays brandy,i mean DAMN!.And that sweet ass hemi he drives at the end,i wish i had one of those.Christopher Walken is funny as hell,and so is kickin'wing and the blonde chick who plays that southern hoe bag.And some really great quotes to.From walkens taxi driver talk to himself,to you got a problem speak into the mic,and i got back up mic right here blow,blow,and they ain't got no feedback.but the funniest quote has to be after the a-bomb scene.i got's the poo on me!over all,funny ass movie,buy it or rent it.and remember,lifes a garden,dig it. "},{"Title":"David Spade's Best...","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" *Warning Contains Spoilers.*Joe Dirt is a comedy about a loner with a questionable hairstyle, which is a wig, telling his story over the radio. The story is Joe Dirt goes to the Grand Canyon with his parents at 8-years-old and is left there. So he goes off to find them. His journey takes him from foster home to foster home until he is old enough to go out on his own. He meets people such as Brandy, Buffalo Bob (hilarious parody of the Silence of the Lambs), and a Indian firecracker salesman. Finally, at the end, he meets his jerk parents, threatens to kill himself, and has a happy ending.This movie is genuinely funny at a lot of parts. Such as the before mentioned Silence parody, the waste bomb, the turd meteor, and the school. However, there are also a few stupid jokes, like the dog stuck on the porch, any part with the annoying Kid Rock, and the very, very beginning. A side from some dumb stuff, this is probably David Spade's best. I give this movie four crappy tanks out of five. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Looking at the box i was expecting a total turd of a movie, but to my surprise it was a much different movie then i had thought it would be.The plot is actually somewhat original for these types of comedy's. The telling of Joe Dirts tale really sucks you in and makes you sympathise with him. And while all that is going on, you also get treated to a few pretty funny scenes.Now unlike many others, i have always thought that David Spades was a good comedy actor, (i especially enjoyed his movies with Chris Farley) and that feeling was only enforced after watching this.Also i have to say that Brittany Daniel is a great addition, perhaps not the best actress in the world, but she sure pulled off that role just as it was intended, very pretty girl.So in short, this is a complete no brainer comedy, which manages to add some dept and emotion into a pretty decent plot.Definitely worth recommending "}{"Title":"Joe Dirt","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Dirt is a comedy flick about the life of Joe Dirt (David Spade)who is your typical idiot in search of the parents that abandoned him on a family trip when he was 10. Starring (David Spade), (Brittany Daniel)and (Christopher Walken) Joe Dirt is your typical Spade movie that off the wall Just Shoot Me humor, very funny. The story was ridiculous but knew when to make you laugh and to make you sad, Spade just keeps getting better with age. Spade is becoming typecast but I just don't see him in a serious role which may make him talentless but I just cant get enough of his humor, fancy eating Burgers and Fries off a meteoroid thats actually a giant 100 year old feces, and the line about homo's naked! ha ha it's classic. "},{"Title":"New perspective on the inward search for acceptance","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simply put, a victim of short, yet terribly damaging and poor parenting, is abandoned and wanders through life alone seeking out his family.  His migratory lifestyle exposes him to richly diverse environments.  He learns to be uneffected by things that aren't important and gives many people advice that drives them to pursue things they want out of life.  Several scenes feature veiled parody of famous movie scenes.... sometimes well-veiled, sometimes not.  The humor is not sophisticated (surprise!) and the dialog seems well thought out.  There's enough fresh, non-obvious material to make the movie flow well.  I enjoyed it because there were very distinct drama and comedy threads that didn't collide and although the moral of the story was spoken to Spade's character quite plainly, his own life experience presented the conclusion. "},{"Title":"Funny Hair, Great Music....","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  David Spade proves in this one that he is funny, but not a leading man. Kind of like Dana Carvey when he did Opportunity Knocks and/or Clean Slate.Great music throughout the film and loved his nod to the great Eddie Money.Murphy is certainly an attractive women and I am surprised we have not seen more of her.The mullet is kind of a one joke pony that is ridden too hard, but still funny.An ok comedy, but don't expect to have to change your underwear after this one. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!!!!","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very very funny David Spade played a very awesome part in this movie the story is very funny and All the  lines were pretty good   "},{"Title":"Ya' Gotta Keep on Keepin' on... Life is a garden, Dig it!","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Surprisingly one of my favorite movies of all time.  Joe Dirt is the story of a white-trash loser that never loses his positive outlook.This movie has everything... Comedy, Drama, Mystery, Romance, Action, and GREAT music.  David Spade and Fred Wolf did a brilliant job putting this film together.Abandoned in youth by his parents at the Grand Canyon, We flashback in time with Joe in his search for his parents while he tells the story to Los Angeles morning DJ, Zander Kelly (wonderfully played by Dennis Miller). "},{"Title":"A hell of a lot better than it looks","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay, now when I was at a friend's house, she rented this movie and said that I should see it.  I thought, Oh, great.  Because I had seen the trailers and previews, and it looked really stupid.  But I was genuinely shocked at how good it was.  Here's a tip  If you want to see it, don't expect much.  If you don't expect much, then you will be surprised.  I was. "},{"Title":"excellent!, light hearted fun, stupid and funny.","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i loved this movie. my daughter and i watched it more than once. its unpredictable and funny. obviously not for the serious viewer. if you like the saturday night crew, wacky antics with a story line then this movie should interest you. i give it a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pay Dirt...","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First, I'm a David Spade fan...and I cannot think of too many other actors that could pull off a film such as this. A funny put at times boring and totally pointless quest by an abandoned 'white-trash' man-child for his Jerry Springer Showish parents. Dennis Miller is perfect as the shock jock, and I don't think I've ever seen anyone cuter than Brittany Daniel as Brandy.  "},{"Title":"It's a funny movie","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You could tell Adam Sandler was involved in this movie... Joe Dirt deserves the same cult following that Billy Madison and Happy Gilmore have.  Basically this movie achieved everything it set out to achieve...not much other than a bunch of laughs.  It was fast paced, eccentric and quirky, chauvanistic, stupid, and brilliant.  David Spade played Joe Dirt, a very Adam Sandler character, to perfection. It's not a brilliant movie- but most good comedies aren't, yet they achieve their purpose, and if you want a satirical comedy, give Joe Dirt a go. "},{"Title":"Refreshing...","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  99.9% of the comedies these days are aweful. Some are just notfunny. Some quickly resort to sexual humor, which appeals tosome but not many.It is refreshing to see a comedy that actually makes be laugh morethan a few times. While it's a far cry from some comedies I'veseen, it was well worth the watch.If you're not expecting a laugh out loud funny movie (and if youstill are these days, you have problems), you should be satisfiedwith Joe Dirt.The story is amusing, the characters are developed enough for acomedy, the jokes range from dull to hallarious, there is even anamusing little spoof of Silence of the Lambs. Overall a good watch.3.5 / 5 "}{"Title":"very strange but good","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i thought the film lacked depth plus i thought it was going to be a rubbish film.it was incredibly funny and heart warming. i was also shocked and delighted to see kid rock in the film.i thoroughly enjoyed his performance it was amazing.and i just thought he was a rock star. "},{"Title":"Stupid can be funny sometimes","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of them stupid movies that actually works, and makes you laugh. Actually funnier than Jim Carrey's movies in my opinion, without getting half as obscene (or using shock humor) to try to get a laugh. The story, though nonsense, works mainly because of the direction, the actors (and there are several big names, surprisingly), and the writing. Not a chick flick, but good ol' guy humor.... "},{"Title":"Truly was better than it should've been","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was very funny!  I expected sophomoric, bathroom humor, but was surprised that it flowed well and was not sophmoric.The gist of the movie was to always look on the bright side, be better than your past.Good movie, good laughs. "},{"Title":"Also better than expected","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just watched the DVD of this, and I thought I would be a silly, dumb movie, and I was right, but a good silly dumb movie.  After I watched it again for the second time in the same night with Spade's commentary, I wish they had made it an R film, so that many more of the jokes could be heard in it's full glory.  Also, maybe more shots of Brittany Daniel (absolute doll) and Jaime Pressley would be allowed.  Maybe this should be a directors cut of the movie, putting the jokes back where they should be, get rid of the leanings toward teens with the jokes, and go back more to the script.*spoiler*By the way, if you read this David - Revealing the bomb in the car was better at the end of the scene.My four or five cents (i.e. more than you cared to hear). "},{"Title":"Straight to video release that should have gone to the cinema, check it out.","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  oh man,this film had me asking the question why wasn't this released at the cinema, its produced and written by Adam Sandler and some crew that have done other movies with him, ie the HappyMadison movie company or somthin, and is just as funny as Big Daddy or Little Nicky.( in fact its better in my opinion.) it has almost cameo parts by the supreme king Christopher Walken and even Kid Rock who pulls off his jerk of a character perfectly, and whats best is that the main man David Spade manages to keep churning out the jokes all the way thru the film. this Film is as funny as hell and probly his best to date and is really worth cheking out if u can get hold of it.To get my point across, i would buy this film just to watch the p*** take of Silence Of The Lambs with a guy called Buffalo Bob keeping  David Spade down a well and doin things that come off ''Between u and me as just a bit Fer-reaky''anyways, whether u lot luv it or hate it i couldn't care less, but as a guide line i enjoyed it totally and have watched tons of comedies that come off about as funny as the godfather part 3, some of them being big releases, and so U HAVE BEEN WARNED. "},{"Title":"Earth is Dirt","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a dumb movie, silly as can be. It takes a while for the funny and gratifying nature of the film to reveal itself. Soundtrack, too cool. Filmography and camera, great. Joe Dirt covers the earth with a foolish scheme of human nature and the oddness of humanity. Notice the director has mostly TV series as past credits. If you want to see good professional actors act like idiots, then here it is. Be patient with this film and enjoy the timed story changes. Pathetically good. Truly, aside from the good acting, the soundtrack might as well be the label for a party. This may be one to see more than once. "},{"Title":"Much better than anyone could expect.","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The only reason I made the choice to watch this movie was thatI'm a fan of Dennis Miller.  What I got was not only one of hisfunnier apperances in a movie (not that that says much as hismovies haven't exactly been stelar), but an overall funny movie. Miller is a host of a radio show (with the sophisticated wit that hasbecome his trademark) who as a joke has Joe Dirt (David Spade),the resident janitor on as an interview subject.  Joe goes on to tella riviting, well at least interesting story of his life.  Here is where Iwould expect the movie to go straight down the drain but the storyis put together well to provide funny, gross, and shallowly dramaticparts to entertain like a normal movie but with none of theseriousness.  Sure if you would rate this movie directly againstothers it might fail, but strictly as a comedy it proves to be betterthan average which is much better than I expected. "},{"Title":" A Hilarious, Comic Movie!","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"                   ********CONTAINS SPOILERS********          Joe Dirt is a hilarious movie with humor and plenty of laughs. David Spade was great as Joe Dirt himself, and the rest of the cast did a pretty well job. I f you enjoy comedys, Joe Dirt is a must-see!!! I also like the part when Joe finds his parents, and it turns out he doesn't like thema t all, and then he wrecks their glass clown collection! I give Joe Dirt a 10 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"Pretty Funny","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't hear much about this movie after it came out, but I caught it on DVD. Its actually pretty funny. Dennis Miller is the narrator through out Joe's story. Christopher Walken's apperance add a lot to the movie. Listen to when he tells Joe about his past, hilarious. I would recommend renting it to get some laughs.  "},{"Title":"A lot better then I thought!!!","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Before I saw this movie a thought it was going to be stupid but it wasn't.It was a great movie and David Spade played great as a white trash homeless guy.He is this sweet person who if you looked at him you would think he is trash but once you got to know him you would like.Basically he tells you the whole story of his life.If you haven't seen this movie I recommend you do,this coming from someone who has seen about 5,000 movies easy.  "}{"Title":"Good Show!","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Never underestimate David Spade. He has a sense of comedy only certain people understand. His style is unique. Not the kind of comedian who would make you fall down laughing, but the kind with a subtle humor than can get past you if you're not careful. I was always paying attention to make sure I didn't miss the next scene. I loved the way it was based as sort of a radio show thing. Joe Dirt, describing his journey to find his parents. Dennis Miller was great. Poor Joe, so beat down by the world that he never stood up for himself. But he never let that stop him. Dogging across the country, finding clues, he couldn't let up his search for his parents that lost him at the Grand Canyon when he was 8 years old. Men wanted to knock him down, women wanted to hug him. Joe Dirt just wanted to continue his mission. Did he ever find his parents? Guess you'll have to see the movie! "},{"Title":"David Spade fans See this movie!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm a David Spade fan , and I loved the movie Joe Dirt.I can understand how some people see that Joe Dirt was a waste of money ,but that's their problem for not liking this kind of humor (no offense).It's a pretty simple plot  A man loses his parents at the Grand Canyon and then 20 some years later talks on a radio show about his life . So if you like David Spade movies , I'd go to the video store ,and rent it! "},{"Title":"Funny!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is much better than I thought it would be. It still is corny like you thought it would be. There is even camio appearances by Christopher Walken and Dennis Miller. To me it was so funny it felt like it was half an hour. But there are some gross parts that are really gross that I won't bother telling you though. But if you want to see a funny movie go see this one. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Dont over analyze and enjoy...","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't stand anyone who hates these kinds of movies because of what they are. Just enjoy it, dammit! And who was the arse who said it wasn't a stretch for kid Rock to play an illiterate redneck? That was below the belt man. And maybe, if you actually saw the movie, you'd realize that a lot more goes on than the mullet jokes. And for that other dude (bifcritic or something), the dog balls thing was funny. How dare you condemn the movie to go as far as say that they were mean and hurt the dog! Lighten up folks. Being an David Spade (yeah, i admitted it, namely because my head isn't shoved in my ass) fan, I really was expecting something stupid, but funny. Joe Dirt was so different, really. I mean, it was nasty and crude, but pretty funny. It also had an underlying message (I think......wait, no.) Anyhow, its was good 90 minute fun. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I knew this would be a good movie when I saw the previews, but it was actually much better. David Spade kept me and my friends laughing hard. My favourite part is with Buffalo Bob (a.k.a Buffalo Bill from the Silence of the Lambs). Joe Dirt is a dude who was abandoned by his parents at age 8. He tells a radio show host (Dennis something) his story. Joe is actually smart in this movie. They make him out to be an idiot in the previews, but he isn't. And then of course there were the crap jokes. Blessem! This is a great movie that even David Spade haters can enjoy. Really! "},{"Title":"It maybe Dirt, but it's not Trash","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the tradition of such films as Pee Wee's Big Adventure and The Muppet Movie, JOE DIRT is yet another entry in that vast pantheon of cinema, the road picture.  Thinly disguised as yet another one-joke, lowbrow rant on white trash; it is instead a sad rumination on abandonment and the rewards of authentic friendships.Journeying across America looking for the family who left him as a child in the Grand Canyon, David Spade successfully conveys JOE DIRT's  optimism and longing to find a family of his own. Along the way the variety of quirky characters he encounters share in his dream and encourage his travels.Lasting on the longer side of 90 minutes, JOE DIRT accomplished more in that time then I've seen recently in longer and more respectable films. Telling a complete story and relying on the tested device of reincorporation; this was a surprising tale of sincerity and hope, despite the graphic and sometimes disturbing visual humor that falls out of context to the films primary story. "},{"Title":"Joe Dirt not the typical David Spade movie","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There was a time when David Spade was known as nothing more than Chris Farley's smartass sidekick and no one thought he would ever be a leading man or did they if your like me you loved the man's comedy even then. He was David Spade the king of the smirk . So who ever thought he'd play a character like Joe Dirt. Joe at first glance seem's to be a movie that the flim producer the hilarious Adam Sandler was to busy to make so he called his old snl pal to star instead. The formal certainly seems that way. King of the white trash idiots Joe Dirt tackles a world of problems to be a winner and  in the end gets the girl of his dreams. But David Spade is smart enough to take the formalua that always intresting but do it completey differn't . Spade doesn't play Joe as a moron in fact he plays him as a likable little loser with a postive attitude and good christain values in fact Spade plays Joe so strait that at time it seems like he's in a drama . This movie is more about the character then the comedy but is still funny enough to remind you that David Spade is a tremendous  comic . Not as funny as The other Happy Madison flims but deserve credit for the risk Spade is taking of ditching his usual persona plus showing that he does have acting skill that he's never shown before.And a suppurting role by one of the best actors out there Chirstopher Walken Dang he's awesome. My grade A!   "},{"Title":"David Spade a genius in the tradition of Anthony Michael Hall.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The art of film can contain great moments of intellectual and clever humor, and has proved itself as a vehicle for some of the greatest comedy since Aristophanes. David Spade is no Aristophanes, or Anthony Michael Hall, even. In fact the mind reels when thinking that this terrible film came from the mind of a man who's greatest comedy breakthrough was...what? SNL's Hollywood minute...no...the GAP girls where he's dressed as a...no..that was Sandler.If this film can be truly called great...it must be up there with the other greats of film like,the Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle. I noticed that the film was actually written by David Spade, and explains why there are deep references to Joseph Conrad's Nostromo, and Melville's Billy Budd... Aww! Who am I kidding. This film makes Freddy Got Fingered seem like Chaplin's City Lights. Personally, I wonder if Dave Foley...I mean..David Spade can even spell Nostromo But I know. He had some money and he felt the artistic need to add to the rich tradition of great film comedy.Three words  in fo mercials.  "},{"Title":"so so","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie this weekend, it was okay but I will summarize it in my boyfriend's exact words, another Forest Gump, since most of the story is told while looking back on his past.  It was silly, and not as funny as I had thought it would be, it was so so, I won't watch it again unless it happens to come on while there is nothing else on.  I think Kid Rock played himself good, white trash.  David Spade was good in this movie, I just pictured the entire movie to be much funnier, but there were a few pee your pants scenes.  Over all it was okay. "},{"Title":"okay...but...","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Another David Spade fiasco, with several funny lines (most seen in the movie's previews) and some scatological humor tossed in between.Dennis Miller holds this flick together by reciting his contrived but interesting acerbic wit.  But Spade continues to search for a vehicle that captures his comedic depth.I really think it is out there.  Egos and poor script interfere.The problem here is that the movie and soundtrack attempt to develop the plot beyond what it is.  This is not a love story.  It is not pure comedy. It is David Spade showing us that with enough money, anyone can get an attractive girlfriend.  Cut the strings and show the crap or ask Jim Carey for advice.Joe Dirt is best seen when drunk, with buddies but not in a theater where one relies on audience reaction to motivate a response.This is a dud whose only fireworks are the atomic bomb on the trailer.  "}{"Title":"Although not shakespeare, here's the dirt on this warm hearted romp.","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Joe Dirt has been slammed relentlessly by the critics as unfunny and stupid. I went to see the film last night, and let me just say I found myself still smiling about it when I got home. Although it wasn't at the same level of comedy as Little Nicky and Deuce Bigelow, Joe Dirt was a movie with some very funny moment. It played over all as more of a feel good comic drama. It had some very stupid moments, but there are also many welcome Dennis Miller scenes and hilarious cameos. Although Joe Dirt is an idiot he is not a Kid Rock. You definitely feel for him and his story, and that's what really makes this movie. I guarantee that if you can sit through some really bad moments in the beginning then you'll come out of the theatre feeling good and having a new desire to grow a mullet cut. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly, Joe Dirt isn't all that bad!","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I walked into The adventures of Joe Dirt with my friends, it was trough peer pressure. I did not expect much more than immature jokes here and there, with not much story.But hold on Joey! While it did have its share of lame jokes, there actually was a story in this one. It had some drama in it, and you found yourself laughing, but also a tad saddened by his story. You found yourself cheering for Joe Dirt. Of course, some of the more emotional moments got ruined by adding a silly joke at the climax, but that's a typical guy reaction (like me), which is kind of weird. Making a joke in a emotional scene, just to show I'm not getting emotional.So this movie is definitely watchable, and enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really laughed at this movie.  In some parts it was so bad it was funny.  What else could you say about a David Spade movie.  But, Christopher Walken is still very funny and creepy and he makes the movie come alive. Speaking about making the movie come alive Brittany Daniel stars as well. At least give the producers credit for recognizing a beautiful woman when they see one.  So it's not all that bad. "},{"Title":"It's dumb, but it's fun.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Leave your brain outside the theatre for this one and go and have a good time. I loved Spade and his wacky adventures as a white trash dirtbag. There are some funny parts, some funny lines, some awesome hotrods, but mostly it's just a bunch of dopey nonsense. Chris Walken was a major weirdo (as usual!). The soundtrack rulz and so do some of Joe Dirt's T-shirts. "},{"Title":"The funniest thing about this movie was guest star Christopher Walken's hair.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps it's the fond memory that still lingers in my brain of the happy fluffy night I watched David Spade recently dole out stand up. He viscerally dissected the world around him with his signature cynical -razor- at- your- neck wit interwoven with his ever cunning transitions at a charity function.Maybe it's the foggy dream that was Tommy Boy...I should have hated this colossal pathetic attempt at movie making. Actually I did. But, still not Spade...Though I kept daydreaming the screen before me was a wide-screen TV and the channel changed only to catch Spade's face with the show title When good comedians go bad blazon across his mullet wig wearin' little head. One longs for the old DS from SNL days to review this movie. What would he have said? Ouch.This may be why I am kinder with my well chosen adjectives loaded up like a verbal arsenal to rip apart this film...The funniest thing about this movie was guest star Christopher Walken's hair. Bouffanted and in multi-shades of color proudly pompadoured atop the Indie legends scalp. For co-scripter comedy writer extraordinaire Spade that's not a good thing.That and what I refer to as the comedy life jacket afloat in this sea of mediocrity so odious Neptune himself would have drowned in it; Dennis Miller. Miller's scenes so intelligently orated that he , alone, kept you (in your case -me) from exiting to catch the 2-for-1 Chekhov paperback book sale at Borders downtown.Denny's a remarkable and brilliant in a way- over- their- heads way. A professional wordsmith that the predominantly 12-14 year old audience just kind of stared blankly upon, up on the screen. I, naturally, wailed aloud with giddy laughter, snickering in knowledge at his often obscure references ( Dirt's the Toyko Rose of the Trailer Park... or  Joe looks like Jane Fonda in Klute). The young pre-pubic hair Spade audience just glance over, semi-frightened of me , yet oddly saddened by the weird old lady alone in the front seat.Dennis plays an LA morning airjockey who interviews the sad mullet wig wearing cretinous vapid Joe Dirte. I wonder who wrote his interjections? The good parts of the movie? I would like to think, nay hope, Spade...Story goes Joe Dirt, ( a name given to the odd child by his father) has been left accidentally behind at the Grand Canyon during dysfunctional family vacation. Joe, eight at the time, wonders around in a depressing never ending search for his beloved parents. He stumbles into various towns. Meet various people in these small towns-all of which are exceptionally rude and mean to him due to his odd wig. He wears a mullet wig, due to some hideous-laugh-a-minute birth defect, sports Ac-Dc shirts, recites Auto Trader, adores Eddie Money and prefers pastel colored acid washed jeans circa 1983. Okay, that's funny for like five minutes- maybe.Joe's adventures include budding up with a fecesious meteorite, befriending an American Indian- gone- fireworks- salesman (Adam milkin' the heritage Beach), being a captive who's rescued in the nick of time from Buffalo Bill ( a Silence of the Lambs spoof- very well done but seemed restrained), and he meeting, and befriending, a purdy young viddle named Brandy (a purdy viddle named Brittany Daniel). Not in any particular order.Your lucky I even stayed for the whole telegraphed stock joke infested crapfest.Why'd ya do it David? You are such a treasure. Your mind to be left to a comedy school for future comics to study sarcasm and cynicism in it's highest and ourest form. Shame on you!Christopher Walken , as I mentioned earlier, makes a small cameo-esque role. His eyes shimmering, his hair laughable. He even does a little dance number for ya. Love this guy...Rosanna Arquette makes an appearance, as does Kevin Nealon. All pretty much there for Dave, but not necessary, or, particularly funny. Except, again, Walken's hair.Skip this wait for rental. I'd say make it a Spade Night but most of his movies (Tommy Boy aside) reeked like that blue light special purchase of sea scallops that been forgotten in the fridge door.Snack recommendation French Cries, Loserburgers and a whineeken beer.Starring David Spade, Dennis Miller, Brittany Daniel, Christopher walken and some folks who'd probably prefer there name not be mentioned.  "},{"Title":"I expected more","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Believe it or not I actually thought this would be a better movie than the usual ex-Saturday Night Live bunch puts out.  But they blew it.  David Spade,  whom I like more than any of the other SNL comedians who make movies, comes accross as annoying and stupid which ruin the film.I wish writers and directors making comedies would get over their crap and fart fetishes which have already become predictable and lame.  I hope this experience will not drive away Kid Rock who does a terrific job and makes us believe in his character. If there is one redeeming moment in the movie it is watching Brittany Daniel dismount a horse dressed in short shorts.  This scene is one of those special guy moments in film which momentarily allows us to escape from the stupidness of the film and makes everything seem just great.  But unfortunately it only last a few seconds and then we are back to the same old unfunny jokes.   "},{"Title":"Pretty Dang Funny!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I seriously thought this movie was going to be a bomb.  But I could not stop laughing through the entire film.  It was just plain awesome.  People will be quoting this film for awhile, so bring a pen and paper to write some good ones down.  Christopher Walken also made the film AWESOME, with his mobster like comments.  Chris Rock on the other hand, kinda sucked.  I really didnt like him in the film much, maybe it was because of his character. Anyways, its worth seeing, so go out and see it! "},{"Title":"I expected a 'dumb' movie, but...","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was looking forward to a 90 minute, leave-your-brain-at-the-snack- counter, type of film. What I saw was a cute family-type movie. David Spade as Joe tells his story of looking for his parents since they left him at the Grand Canyon when he was just 8 years old. He tells an L.A. based radio audience, over 3 days, of his adventures over the years; about the places he's been and the people he met. No matter what bad hand fortune dealt Joe Dirt, he always kept a positive out look on life, while still searching for mom and dad. Despite his looks, Joe has a good heart and could be someone to look up to. See the movie and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Much better than I had expected","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Going into this film, I expected another quirky David Spade movie and was truly not sure if I wanted to sit through it.  After watching it, I was impressed that it showed good character development, and more of a plot line than many of the recent SNL spin-off movies.  Dennis Miller really held this one together, with his interludes from time to time, and witty humor inserted into the story of Joe's adventures.  While I'm not sure if this would be my number one pick of the movies out at the current time, it really isn't all that bad. "},{"Title":"Funnier than Dickie Roberts Former Child Star, but I still find myself giving it the same rating","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember during my high school years, which ended just a few years ago, there was a classroom in the school with several movie posters up on the wall for some reason, and one of them was a Joe Dirt poster. That was how I first knew of this 2001 comedy's existence, a couple years after its release, but it would be years before I would actually see it. Weird Al Yankovic's song, Close but No Cigar was released in 2006, on his Straight Outta Lynwood album. The song is sung at the point of view of a guy who has been through three romantic relationships, all of which ended when he found the slightest excuse to break up with each of these women, and he dumped one of them when he discovered she owned a copy of Joe Dirt on DVD. However, even that reference didn't make me really want to check the movie out right away. It's been nearly four years since the release of that song, and about seven and a half years since I first saw that poster, but I've finally seen the movie. I saw Dickie Roberts Former Child Star, another comedy starring David Spade, earlier this year, and unlike that film, I did find some laughs in this one, but still didn't think it was very good.Joe Dirt is a hapless idiot who currently works as a janitor for a Los Angeles radio station and lives in a studio boiler room. Dirt is the surname his father gave him, and he cannot remember what his real surname was. His mullet is a wig that is stuck on his head, and the mullet haircut has long since gone out of style, but he can't get rid of his. Zander Kelly is a shock jock who has a show on this L.A. station, and Joe is sent in to talk on this show so people can laugh at his expense. On this radio show, Joe begins to tell his life story to Zander and all the listeners tuned in to the station, and viewers of the movie see it in flashback. When Joe was eight years old, he went on a tour of the Grand Canyon with his parents and was somehow separated from them. He hasn't seen his parents since losing them on that trip, and still doesn't know what happened to them. After being raised in several different strange foster homes, he came to the town of Silvertown, Idaho as a young man, where he met a young woman named Brandy and fell in love. Unfortunately, he also had to face a bully there named Robby, who was also intent on winning Brandy's heart, and did not appreciate Joe's presence. After Brandy's dog was shot and killed by her drunk father, Joe felt the need to leave Silvertown and search for his long lost parents. Even though Zander continues to make fun of him, Joe tells the story of his search for his parents and his adventures along the way.When it comes to the gags here, there certainly are some highlights, such as Joe Dirt finding out what the meteor he found actually is, and the lead character using what he thinks is an atomic bomb to scare the Grand Canyon tour bus company into giving him the list of passengers from the day he lost his parents. There were times when I laughed thoroughly and other times when I laughed very lightly or maybe just smiled. However, there are also some memorably unfunny parts, such as certain scenes showing Joe being bullied. These include more than one scene with Robby, played by musician Kid Rock, and also the way Zander Kelly, played by Dennis Miller, picks on Joe while on the air. I also found the part where Joe finds the dog with his testicles frozen to the porch a little uncomfortable, even if I didn't keep a straight face throughout that sequence. I didn't care much for the part where what Joe thinks is an atomic bomb turns out to be a septic tank and pours sewage all over him, though I did find the fact that the police didn't arrest him because they thought that was punishment enough fairly amusing. Other parts I didn't find very funny include the Buffalo Bob/skin lotion one and Joe getting food thrown at him in a school cafeteria. So, there are a number of funny parts in the movie, probably more than I originally expected, but there are also some fairly lame ones, and the humour is just mediocre for much of the film's ninety minute run. There were times when I felt like I would be giving this 2001 Happy Madison production a 6/10, but by the end, I decided I couldn't do that. Yes, there are some funny parts and likable characters, plus there certainly are fairly touching moments towards the end, but if they had done a much better job with the humour, Joe Dirt would have turned out to be a much more entertaining movie. "}{"Title":"Cute and even sweet at times but little more","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Here we have a rather live action cartoon of a film. Cute and even sweet at times but little more. If watching a stereotype (mullet headed white trash) perpetuated and quite literally made fun of (by no less than Mr. DennisMiller himself..the only remotely good thing about this film) for 90+ min is your idea of hijinx then you will certainly enjoy this film. Imagine a cute skit that is made bad by the fact that it just goes on too long...and you will be well on your way to understanding why this film does not work. Honestly though saying I don't like the film feels un fair as Its clear I was not the intended audience...said audience would have to be 13 to 15. "},{"Title":"Silly and basic but amusing enough to distract if not really be that good","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe was given the surname Dirt by his loving father before being abandoned in the Grand Canyon at age 8. His quest to try and find his family takes him into adulthood and into a job cleaning the studios of a talk radio station in Los Angeles. When a producer spots his sideburns, mullet and white trash manner he immediately rushes him into the Zander Kelly show where the DJ makes fun of him. To fill his show Kelly asks him about his life and Joe tells the story of his life up till this point &#150; a shocking and entertaining collection of adventures that proves to be a big audience draw.Although it is a very lazy device, using the radio show as a frame for the story means that the lack of development, flow or sense within the narrative; telling this story straight would have required a link between the segments that would have required good writing to make it work &#150; it was easier to just make it a story being told, that way it could jump around anyway it wants to. This device covers some of the problems but it is still weak and silly and is not the place to come for a story that you can get into. The humour is pretty basic but it is amusing without ever really being that funny; I laughed a few times but there was nothing that was out and out bad but just pretty basic. It did enough to distract me but I can't imagine that I would ever watch it again.The acting is basic but at least that matches the material. Spade is OK, not overdoing his white trash character too much and being funny without making the audience hate him. Miller is a poor character and he stops the radio sections working by being overly cruel to Joe. The support cast has enough eye candy in it to appeal to the teenage male audience, with titillation in the form of Daniel and Pressly (playing, would you believe it, a white trash floozy). Cameos from Kid Rock, Fred Ward and a few others add value but it is Walken that is the most memorable. Of course nobody is really that good but at least they match the tone of the film.Overall this is silly and basic but at least it is amusing rather than lame. I laughed a few times and that was just about enough for what I was expecting but it still isn't anything special or worth putting effort into watching. "},{"Title":"Stupid Funny","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Dirt is a true rocker. The only thing he rocks more than his music is his mullet. After being separated from his parents at the age of 6, Joe Dirt goes out into the world by himself, trying to find them. The adventures that he endures are in a story that he tells to Zander Kelly, a radio show host. Joe Dirt reveals the good, the bad, and the ugly of his future.The plot of the movie is good, nothing exceptional, but yes one thing leads to another. There is a good number of comedy in the movie, although the comedy is more child or teen related, rather than adult. Adults would find this movie immature, and yes that is true, but that's why you wouldn't go and see it.7 out of 10. Could of used better comedy sketches, but some funny scenes that mimic other movies were good. Joe Dirt's catch phrases will live on Hey, it puts the Joe Dirt in the hole. "},{"Title":"Watch this more than once!","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" After watching this movie the first time, I was pleasantly surprised and thought the story was interesting and kept you hoping that things would work out for Joe Dirt. Had some really great one liners from Joe Dirt, some of the stuff he does is just so trailer trash! I gave it a 7 out of 10 on first viewing - great but not a classic.After watching this a second and third time, I really think this comedy classic with James Spade is a shockingly neglected and under rated comedy. Not only is this film hilarious at times, but the way the story is told via the DJ who is always making fun of him, is simply great. You just feel even more sorry for him when you watch it again. And Christopher Walken is so great! He really should be in more comedy - the parts when he is talking to himself in the mirror, acting out his old mafia days, are true classic movie moments! And So what if the acting isn't Oscar material? This film wasn't expecting to win any Oscars for acting! And so what if the humor is toilet humour sometimes - sometimes this kind of humour can be the funniest - take a look at English comedy classics like monthly python, fawlty towers and the like - these all use a lot of childish or toilet humour, but they are still classics! Stop bashing this film - sit down with no expectations and watch it (again). If you don't laugh more than 10 times in this film, I'm sorry but you need to get out more. Some people just hate films so much that they refuse to laugh even when they know its funny, just so they can say they didn't laugh once - i think this is the case with many people and this film, especially some of the other people that have commented badly on this film! Go rent it now! "},{"Title":"Why this is one of my favorite movies","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie is a absolute masterpiece..OK maybe not to all but it is to me.Yeah this movie is corny and yeah this movie is not up there with the greats. But this movie will keep on keeping on. This story is one for all to see. A man born from nothing develops into a real person. There are so many movies that are out about non-reality based people but Joe is truly ordinary .. A man that doesn't quit....This is what i describe as the Saga of Dirty Joe..lifes a garden ..dig it and keep on keeping on and you cant have no in your heart simple lessons that we can learn from this redneck hillbilly white trash guy i have come to love 8/10  "},{"Title":"This harebrained comedy will throw you out of your seat!","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This sophomoric comedy presents all which it should &#150; immaturely styled jokes, crude sense of humor. Performances are outstanding! David Spade isn't his clever and witty self in this one. Anticipate familiar styles from crew such as Christopher Walken and Brittany Daniel. If you enjoy the Adam Sandler films, don't let yourself miss this one! Those who enjoy the sophisticated, and thinking types of humor &#150; expect to find yourself deeply dissatisfied or possibly enjoying something entirely different. If you already own, or happen to purchase the DVD, listening to the audio commentary from Spade and the director Dennie Gordon throughout the film is highly recommended! You'll definitely learn to have a deeper appreciation for the film, for instance it's very low budget really changes the situation.  "},{"Title":"Good comedy with lots of laughs","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"               David Spade was very good in his character of going on a mission to find his family of where they left him at the Grand Canyon when he was only 8 or 9 years old. This film gave ma lot of laughs and I was expecting it to be a plain out stupid movie with no common sense in it at all. Well sure it had no common sense in it but it was not a stupid movie. I loved the scene when Kid Rock makes fun of him and he runs home like a little girl. That was hilarious and the part when that crazy psycho kept him inside that hole like in The Silence of the Lambs. You have to see this movie. It's got a lot of funny parts and stupid ones but you'll have fun watching it, I promise you.8/10 "},{"Title":"Move over Steve Martin, JOE DIRT is in town!!","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was worth all nine dollars that I spent on it at the local store.  The movie has a lot of giggles and I found myself really liking this great SPADE flick.  Look for a great scene with Chris Farley as the security guard.I like the commentary as well........I will listen to them both. "},{"Title":"Inspired me!","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Joe Dirt's story, just like the audience in the movie, had inspired me. It may sound corny and I could care less about what negative things you have to say about that, but I'm not ashamed to admit that I really liked the movie. And the movie through its humor has a very positive message for a world filled with critics and negativities and ill-wishers. "},{"Title":"trashy","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  David Spade plays a white trash janitor at an L.A. radio station, whose mullet hairdo is just one of many personal oddities that make him the object of much ridicule. And the sanitation gig is just the most recent of Joe's many incarnations during a tumultuous life, which got off on the wrong foot when Joe was abandoned at the Grand Canyon by his parents as a young child. After stumbling into the on-air studio, Joe steadily recounts the sad and comical story of how he cared for himself and journeyed around the country trying to relocate his family, all while being prodded, teased, and eventually embraced by a sarcastic deejay (Dennis Miller) and a rapt listening audience. His travels involve stints selling fireworks, wrangling alligators, riding aloft in a car dealership display balloon, and being held captive by a Silence of the Lambs-style serial killer. Despite numerous setbacks and bruising physical injuries, Joe emerges from each episode with his spirit intact as he searches optimistically for his roots, and eventually for the chance to return to the one place he was accepted, a rural farm where the girl of his dreams (Brittany Daniel) awaits. Joe Dirt was funny, trashy, and dumb too. I loved Dennis Miller's character more than Spade's, too bad Chris Farley can't save Spade anymore. "}{"Title":"Why","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why do i love this movie I've watched it more times than any other dvd i own. which when you think about it it's really bad because i own some classics such as the back to the future trilogy and christmas vacation. Anyway I continuely have a conflict because i really want to watch this movie again and again. i just ran out of things to say except that this was also one of the first dvd's I ever bought which is also really insane. by the way the other movies were american pie one and two. later "},{"Title":"In a word dumb","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Or, in three words dumb, dumb, dumb.  Who on earth is this movie for?  I hardly think the people it parodies (commonly called white trash, though is it necessary to say white?  What would happen if someone tried using the term black trash in a movie?  But I digress--) see David Spade as a cultural role model.  Does it make people who don't consider themselves white trash, like Dennis Miller, feel superior?  There wasn't enough smut or car chasing to appeal to the young male hormone set, and Mr. Spade isn't a heartthrob to teenage girls...so I admit I'm very perplexed.Now, I fully admit that I watched it to the end.  I kept waiting for something to gel in the movie, and for some comedy to be generated.  Alas, I waited in vain.  Each vignette along the way was more pointless and witless than the one before.  There were so many unnecessary little events, like what happened to the dog.  How did that advance the story or reveal the characters to us?  It didn't.  It just seems to have been put there as filler, as was about 75% of the movie.As for Rosanne Arquette, her appearance in this sorry thing says it all about her career.  She's not a bad little actress and I wish someone would give her something more dignified than this kind of foolish role.  As for Christopher Walken...well, he probably just took his cameo for the lark of it, for the chance to have his hair shaped into a a big scary brown helmet.This turkey gets a 2 on 10. "},{"Title":"Silly Fun","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For those not in touch with their inner eleven year old, I'd say pass on this one and maybe check out something by Merchant The King Of Yuks Ivory.This is silly and unapologetically so. The comedy is broad, the jokes obvious and telegraphed from seven miles away. But it does work. Like Little Nicky, you go in expecting to turn brain off and just enjoy.The movie is the visual representation of what I picture whenever I dial the radio and come across one of those Classic Rock stations. Who listens to this stuff on a regular basis? Joe Dirt , who believes in the lyrics as gospel. It's a take-off on the music, the hopefulness of the innocent (a real switch for David Spade, as he would normally be the detached smart-aleck we see the disk jockey Dennis Miller playing). Some cameos to look for;  Kevin Farley as a security guard , yep, it's Chris' brother and you'll recognize him along with the other Farley brother John as a cop. The three sorority girl radio listeners, one is Bree Turner, who has done a lot of stuff but will probably be more recognized for Hyundai commercials. Sopranos fans will appreciate a fun quickie cameo  in this movie.Lighten up, since when did we become a world of detached critics who can't just enjoy a movie anymore without disecting it to death. This movie never claimed to be a great film, just a fun one. Now a film like Mariah Carey's Glitter which claims to be great but ends up as garbage, that is a more worthy target. "},{"Title":"very funny!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I do not know why you people did not like this. I thought it was great. It was very funny, inventive, and you can not help but to feel bad for Joe (David Spade) as he continues his oddesy for finding his parents. a must-see. "},{"Title":"If life is a box of chocolates, someone stole all the soft centres. I like the soft centres.","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Joe Dirt, the story of a mullet-wearing fellow telling DJ Dennis Miller about his cross-country journey to find his parents, is very much in the Adam Sandler mould (Sandler executive produced this here movie). But David Spade, who stars and co-wrote the tale, isn't nearly as funny and appealing as Sandler can be (and often is); the lack of a sympathetic personality means that when the movie tries to become all emotional on us, it doesn't really work - Forrest Gump this ain't.This means that the movie stands or falls on the standard of its humour, and unfortunately most of it is too crude to come off (Spade only getting hot for Jaime Pressly when he thinks she's his sister? Dogs getting their testicles stuck to a frozen porch? Joe Don Baker getting a leg lopped off by a train? A man covered in oil catching alight when he urinates next to a fire? None of which, ironically, would pass muster on Just Shoot Me!?). There are some moments that work, but not enough of them to make the movie essential.The '70s and '80s songs help a bit, but you can just buy the CD instead, and the presence of Brittany Daniel and Rosanna Arquette (who, unlike the equally alluring Sophie Marceau in Spade's Lost & Found, wisely goes uncredited) is welcome, though the latter and Christopher Walken are wasted. Ultimately, though, Joe Dirt is pretty scummy, facile and tasteless - but then again, what would you expect from a man who once went out with Caprice? "},{"Title":"Immature, unfunny comedy.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I cannot see what the fuss was about. When I saw this, I was expecting a hilarious, SNL type Adam Sandler humor movie. Instead, we have JOE DIRT. One of the most unfunny films in the SNL cast movies. This one is number three at the bottom. THE ANIMAL is second and the god-awful, horrid MR. DEEDS is the worst comedy I have ever seen. JOE DIRT was not as bad as that one, but still does not satisfy my craving for boat loads of hilarious, crude humor. There are sterotyped characters, punk rockers that don't know their asses from their elbows and stupid cliches you can see coming a mile away.When I read the reviews in the newspapers, I should have listened to them, all of them said to stay away. The previews show you the funniest parts of the entire film and cut around stuff to make them appear better. The film was not all bad, but BIG DADDY was much better. I still do not know why everyone tells me Oh my god, that movie was hilarious! Because, in my opinion, it was not. It was sometimes funny, sometimes not. To this day, that is still one of my favorite comedies. JOE DIRT is not all bad. The horrible MR. DEEDS managed to get two stars out of me, so luckily for JOE DIRT, I'm feeling extra generous, so I'm going to give it 3/5. "},{"Title":"Rockin' Soundtrack!!!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great feel-good movie with a rockin' sound-track. David Spade did an excellent job and it was great to see Roseanna and Joe Don Baker as well as Kathleen Freeman. I just love these funky, dorky kinda movies.  I almost wet myself laughing and crying. "},{"Title":"Makes you want to disinfect the negative","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Many films have an unpleasant taste; this one has an ENTIRELY NEW unpleasant taste - it's like biting into Scandinavian liquorice for the first time, wondering what the vile substance reminds you of, then realising it's a nasty flavour unto itself and doesn't remind you of anything.I suspect the film's vileness has something to do with the way it alternates between nastily insulting and fawning over its hero - the nastiness and the fawning are in themselves embarrassing, but taken together, they're disgusting.  It's as if the film can't decide whether it more desperately wants to feel superior to its characters, or its audience.  So it does both.  It casts us in the role of schoolyard bully's hangers-on, jollying us into sort of feeling a hollow ho-ho merriment as we watch the unpopular kid get made fun of (secretly relieved that it's him and not us, salving our consciences by telling ourselves that he's too dumb to realise what's going on, so it's okay) - then, suddenly, we're rapped over the knuckles for being so mean.  Why?  To the extent that we played along with all the lame and offensive white trash jokes (not a very great extent), we were only doing what we HAD to do if we were to stay in our seats and weather the movie.  The only alternative was walking out.  And yet, as with Scary Movie, it's quite possible that the writers feel they're better than us because WE watched the worthless, manipulative and pointless movie which THEY merely wrote. "},{"Title":"After 20 minutes I went zzzzzzzzzz","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't know which is worse this or any Pauly Shore movie. I didn't laugh once ( I smiled a few times ) and fell asleep after 20 minutes. My wife loved it. Brittany Daniel was the best thing this movie had to offer. A big thumbs down!!!! "},{"Title":"Funny enough","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fitfully funny, but a heck of a lot better than some of the crap being churned out by some of Spade's fellow SNL alumni (Rob Schneider in THE ANIMAL and Will Ferrell in ZOOLANDER come immediately to mind). What makes it work at all is David Spade, who had already proved himself a bona fide actor by the time of the late Chris Farley movies in which he costarred. Certainly a grabber for the kids in the house, if not all the adults. "}{"Title":"Horrible!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the worst I have seen in a while.  It is vulgar, stupid, and just plain gross.  When viewing it, one is treated to an image of dogs mating, countless masturbation references, and incest jokes as well.  It might be fun for those who enjoy mindless comedy or have a warped sense of humor.  Don't let your intelligence be insulted, skip Joe Dirt. "},{"Title":"It puts the lotion on! The feel good comedy of the year.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Joe Dirt is big time funny! From the beginning to the end, Joe Dirt (David Spade) is hilarious. Dennie Gordon, the director, painted Joe Dirt as a modern day Wizard of Oz. And guess whose humor I'm in love with, that's right, Adam Sandler's. This is the best comedy of the year. I grew up in the heartland, and folks, there are people like this. And that's why you love'm. Zander Kelly (Dennis Miller), the sharp tongued city wit, delves into the turning cogs of the urbanite's mind. Miller's play by play of Dirt's life was just funny; ...so Brandy is the Tokyo Rose of the trailer park? Brandy (Brittany Daniel) and Kicking Wing (Adam Beach) Joe's peers, do a wonderful job re-defining Dirt's lost identity, confirming him as a worthy soul. Brandy, as the name poignantly alludes to, is sweet and intoxicating through and through baby! Kid Rock played the backwoods bad guy, Robby, to the tee. Jill (Jaime Pressly), Joe's heterosexual street credentials, was the perfect south of the tracks southern belle every American boy dreams about....I wish I was back on the Bayou, rollin' with some cajun queen... We are Joe Dirt, he is our milieu, as Miller puts it. Christopher Walken (Clem, a janitor from Kansas City living in Louisiana via NYC mob ties) grounded Spade's character with his fatherly guidance and acceptance of Joe. And the way Gordon makes sport of Silence of the Lambs just puts this movie in my greatest flicks of all time. Eddie Money, Lynard Skynard, Blue Oyster Cult, Cheap Trick..etc, make an irresistible sound track. Joe Dirt took me back to a time-space in my life that I had forgotten about, and brought to mind the faces of those growing up around me that I quit looking for in my rear view mirror. This is the feel good movie of the year. It shows us, in a comically absurd way, that when we reach out to others, well, others reach out to us. Even the losers get lucky sometimes, and that's what America is all about. Hey babe, I'm a rocker, through and through.  10/10 stars...  "},{"Title":"It puts the lotion on! The feel good comedy of the year.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Joe Dirt is big time funny! From the beginning to the end, Joe Dirt (David Spade) is hilarious. Dennie Gordon, the director, painted Joe Dirt as a modern day Wizard of Oz. And guess whose humor I'm in love with, that's right, Adam Sandler's. This is the best comedy of the year. I grew up in the heartland, and folks, there are people like this. And that's why you love'm. Zander Kelly (Dennis Miller), the sharp tongued city wit, delves into the turning cogs of the urbanite's mind. Miller's play by play of Dirt's life was damm funny; ...so Brandy is the Tokyo Rose of the trailer park?Brandy (Brittany Daniel) and Kicking Wing (Adam Beach) Joe's peers, do a wonderful job re-defining Dirt's lost identity, confirming him as a worthy soul. Brandy, as the name poignantly alludes to, is sweet and intoxicating through and through baby! Kid Rock played the backwoods bad guy, Robby, to the tee. Jill (Jaime Pressly), Joe's heterosexual street credentials, was the perfect south of the tracks southern belle every American boy dreams about....I wish I was back on the Bayou, rollin' with some cajun queen...We are Joe Dirt, he is our milieu, as Miller puts it. Christopher Walken (Clem, a janitor from Kansas City living in Louisiana via NYC mob ties) grounded Spade's character with his fatherly guidance and acceptance of Joe. And the way Gordon makes sport of Silence of the Lambs just puts this movie in my greatest flicks of all time. Eddie Money, Lynard Skynard, Blue Oyster Cult, Cheap Trick..etc, make an irresistible sound track.Joe Dirt took me back to a time-space in my life that I had forgotten about, and brought to mind the faces of those growing up around me that I quit looking for in my rear view mirror. This is the feel good movie of the year. It shows us, in a comically absurd way, that when we reach out to others, well, others reach out to us. Even the losers get lucky sometimes, and that's what America is all about.Hey babe, I'm a rocker, through and through. 10/10 stars... Huebie Marsden "},{"Title":"The biggest shock?  I actually laughed.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So, I saw the publicity for Joe Dirt, and I thought to myself whew, that looks like a stinker.  But I had several friends go see it and tell me it was funny, so I checked it out, and I was surprised.Yes, it's stupid.  No, there's not really much of a plot.  But some of the gags work, especially if you (like me) live in Oklahoma or some other part of the Midwest and are used to seeing people like Joe.  When he rattles off all those firecracker names -- that's just movie magic, folks.I wish they would've gotten someone other than Dennis Miller for the 'shock jock', though.  His painful mugging for the camera and line delivery that almost comes with an elbow to the ribs was just too much for me.  Oh well.But other than that, there were some great redneck nuances that made this here landlocked fella appreciate the film. "},{"Title":"Has some hilarious moments.","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am surprise that this movie was so funny,because I have only seen Davis Spade as a sidekick comedian in movies such as Black Sheep and Tommy boy,so I wasnt sure that he was going to held this movie on his own.But then the movie started and showed me some of the funniest things in a while.The story is not good and the movie has times when it almost falls apart,but then the comedy rises it up again.See it and find out what I am talking  about. "},{"Title":"Below average","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Joe Dirt is a subpar entry in the idiot-loser-makes-good genre of movies made by Sandler, Schneider, at al. Now, idiot-loser-makes-good can be very funny when it's done well. But here, it ain't. The big problem is that David Spade has miscast himself. I don't know how, as co-writer of this film, he failed to see how wrong he is for the title role. His main strength as a comic is caustic condescension, but he's on the wrong end of it here. Spade is at his funniest when he is picking on pathetic losers, not portraying one.The best joke in this film is a Silence of the Lambs takeoff. The bit caught me completely off guard and made me laugh very hard because Joe Dirt, shall we say, doesn't quite grasp the magnitude of his predicament. And because the joke surprised me, I temporarily forgot that Spade is too smart to be that stupid. The rest of the time, I didn't forget, and that's what dragged down the movie.Oh well. At least it's harmless. "},{"Title":"Typically bad comedy","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  JOE DIRT (2001) Rating 4/10Joe Dirt is a black comedy. Not as black as you can get, but dark. I don't have a problem with that, in fact, I love black comedies. But only when they can build up to the laughter, when it actually means something. This is not the case in Joe Dirt, the comedy &#150; which is at times hilarious, at others laughably unfunny &#150; is just quick snippets and then back to the story that has David Spade looking for his parents. That is not entirely bad, but the story falls flat later on in the movie because it has no more supporting material. Other than that, the performances aren't that impressive; yeah, their not supposed to be because it's the enjoyment and the comedy that matters, but it would be nice to see some great performances reminiscent of maybe Peter Sellers in a modern movie. The film is also very unrealistic and in a 2-word summary, utterly stupid. In the end, this movie is hardly bearable, the laughs are few and far between and in between the laughs you wonder why are these people laughing at such typical rubbish? "},{"Title":"Could be much worse...","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"      It is not everyday you can dismiss a truly dumb film as a simple 'cute' film. Such is the case with the David Spade comedy &#145;Joe Dirt'. This is truly a small film that is surprisingly touching instead of being a true &#145;gross-out' film. The comedic film traces the life adventures of Joe Dirt (David Spade) as he travels across America to find his parents who abandoned him at the Grand Canyon when he was only 8 years old.      Yes, it has a lame script written by David Spade and Fred Wolf. But it is a funny and heartwarming tale that is surprisingly much better than anyone could have expected. Dirt retells his adventures by sitting in on a morning talk show whose host; Dennis Miller, is infatuated with his adventures and gives him the whole morning slot to retell the story. As the days go by, this mysterious man develops a cult following who finally aid him in his quest. Without giving too much away, this is harmless fun. Joining Spade and his madcap story are Kid Rock and Christopher Walken as a school caretaker with a mysterious past (No matter what this actor is in; he is fantastic. I would watch him peel bananas).      To be on the serious side for a moment &#150; does anyone expect Oscar-winning material to be presented here? What a viewer gets in this package is a simple story that tries to evoke laughter and compassion at the same time. The film is in the true tradition of &#145;The Waterboy' and  &#145;Deuce Bigalow' (It helps that they were all produced by the same people); yet it plays on a different tone than the others. While it still is filled with innuendo and crude humor, it pales in comparison to Deuce Bigalow's man-whore tactics and Waterboy's violence prone indemnities.     Therefore, this will not the best comedy one has ever seen but it is also far from the worst. David Spade sticks to his routine as a 6-year-old stuck in a 30-year-olds body and repeatedly uses his ultra-thin physique to invoke laughter. All in all, many will disagree with me, yet this is purely a film that kills 90 minutes of your day and clearly wants to deliver one message you will enjoy life better if you laugh at stupidities and stop being so critical. As Joe Dirt would say &#150; I dig it!   Giancarlo's Rating **  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" What else could you expect from the team from Saturday Night Live? Actually I had high hopes.  But the movie is not worth the money.  David Spade character comes off as annoying and unbelievable.  The directing and script writing were incompetent at best.  However, on the bright side Kid Rock is wonderfully believable as white trash.  And if your a guy seeing Brittany Daniel (Dawson's Creek) will certainly perk you up and get you paying attention.  However wait for the video.  "},{"Title":"a lot of bad movies ...","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Yes. There's a lot of bad movies out there, since the day cinema was born! Some avid book readers and theater goers, the true lovers of pure uncontaminated art and higher truth blame cinema of all things (amongst many other marvels of modern life and technology so to say) for being responsible for much of the madness and sin and decadence that goes around us today...How true that might be it is not quite clear. For all that can be said, well, there have always been truly rubbish books, bad operas and false religions and other cruelties and misconceptions around. The entire history of humanity is full of such big mistakes, so, cinema is no exception.Therefore, if there are good movies being made out there occasionally too, then Joe Dirt is one of them.As those who might happen to read a few posts under my name on IMDb may have noticed it so far, I do not write posts on every single movie I do happen to like when I see them once in a while and here or there. But I do feel I have to do a post on movies of this type.Movies that have a very funny storyline but the actual story itself is not funny at all. Or those that could have been ruined badly if made in a different way. (Many movies are like that actually and that is the purpose of having posts like this on IMDb as best as I am able to tell by reading some of other people's posts.)Joe Dirt is the story of our lives.It is the truth of most people's lives. Those who have lost parents in any way, or those who have enjoyed having parents but have been constantly ignored by them. Those who are hurt, those who do hurt, lost morals, twisted truths, abusive relationships of any kind and what not...I hope more people watch movies like this, and more people do think about what is being said in them, and if and when they get the message, I hope they are going to learn from it and make some changes in their ways of living and thoughts if it is so required of them. (It is so required of most of us I believe!) "}{"Title":"funny as heck","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" this movie kinda kicked ass i mean i don't think there was a part i didn't laugh at in this movie its one of my all time favorites first off u got this kid aka Joe dirt who has lived on his own since he was 9, then there a hot girl aka Brittany Daniels... smoking hot who loves a guy name Joe Dirt... that kinda gave all the dorks a chance to realize that u don't have to be perfect to get the hot girl anyway Joe dirt goes on a journey to find his parents running into all kinds of trouble and misfortunes to only find out the his parents hes been looking for and hoping that they had been looking for him as well didn't even look for him they just ditched him when he was 9 and thought nothing of it but in the mean time he finds fame, a family of his own in a series of funny events but anyway u need to watch this movies if u hadn't seen it and find out for your own self why i love this movie and you'll love it to if u have a sense of humor i give a 10 "},{"Title":"you people are too serious","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've read a few reviews of this movie and I'm astounded by all the negative spew that comes out of people for such a hilarious movie. I got a clue for some of you, lots of movies are made without the need to get an Oscar, have some hidden meaning or be artsy fartsy for critics. This movie was made for laughs and it accomplishes that fully, as long as you're not offended by a little raunch or immaturity. If you are offended, maybe you should come see me as I'm a professional counselor by trade and believe you're taking life way too seriously!! I find Joe Dirt to be a classic comedy in my collection. All my friends love it and find it delightfully sentimental too (added bonus, not necessary). I have no doubt this is David Spade's best and I thoroughly appreciated the introduction to Brittany Daniel (Joe Dirt's love)... man she's unbelievably hot!!! Anyway, this movie wasn't meant to be any movie masterpiece. It was supposed to be funny. I couldn't stop laughing all the way through it and it just gets better and better the more times you watch it. "},{"Title":"not so bad","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was thinking this movie was going to be pretty bad, but it's actually not.  There are some decent laughs, and it's hard to go wrong with Brittany Daniel AND Jaime Pressly getting major screen time.  The plot was thin but who cares?  There's a bit of a Wayne's World feel to this movie; it's not as funny but it has its own thing going on.  I was just glad the humor didn't go all Freddy Got Fingered or anything (though it did venture a bit in that direction at times).  4 out of 10 for me.C'mon Spade... you can do it!  ;-) "},{"Title":"Trashy and Stupid","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"    White Trash as people call Joe Dirt is an understatement.David Spade plays Joe, an average Schmoe, who just happened to be left at the Grand Canyon one day by his parents. So, young Joe grew up, leading a life of trash, and becoming a janitor at a radio station, where the host (Dennis Miller) realizes what a trashy loser Joe is, and realizes Joe is an instant listener-attraction.    Joe comes on the show, every day, talking about his life, and we see listeners crying at emotional scenes, and cowering at gross scenes, like where Joe finds the asteroid he has eaten off of (long story) is really compacted *waste* that was thrown into the atmosphere. Joe Dirt is remotely funny. It has a few guffaws, but that's it. No big chuckles, no laugh-at-loud moments. It was a real waste of time, and I don't recommend it. It is a synonym of the title dirt. It's plain filth. It's so gross and stupid it's not even funny.2/5 stars -- it had a good premise -- it could have been really original, tracing a janitor's life -- but it wasn't great, due a lousy script.John Ulmer "},{"Title":"possible one of my favorite comedy films","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  David Spade. I really dont like his movies until I saw this movie. I mean, what could be better than David Spade playing a classical-hard rock punk who is trying to find his parents. And I couldnt quit laughing and when the movie was over... i didn't want it to stop because it was so great..... TEN OUT OF TEN!!!! "},{"Title":"dumb story fun movie","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect with this movie except for it to be fun. It was a lot dumber than I thought it would be and certain moments aren't funny they're just dumb, however on the good side most of the movie is fun and funny. There's a lot of stars in this movie too such as Rosanna Arquette, Jamie Presley, Kid Rock, Fred Ward, and Christopher Walken. Overall I'd give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Why can't David Spade be funny in movies?","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A few weeks before I saw Joe Dirt, I watched David Spade's HBO comedy special and I pretty much laughed non-stop for the entire hour. It was absolutely hilarious. I rented Joe Dirt expecting more of the same, but instead I got to see a movie full of lowbrow humor (done badly), tired jokes, and horrible horrible acting. If David Spade is so funny as a stand-up comedian, why can't he be in a funny movie?. It would have been better to just see him do stand-up for an hour and a half rather than see him fall down, get hit with things, and make overdone jokes about white trash like he did this whole movie. "},{"Title":"David Spade is getting good at making the US look bad!","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, I guess this is a movie.Mostly it's an embarrassing attempt by David Spade to make fun of white trash folks.  He comes off as trying too hard, and getting very few laughs, even when he goes for the obvious bathroom humor variety of jokes.Dennis Miller is mildy amusing, but otherwise this movie is awful.  Save your money.  I don't even think it's worth a rental!  Thank goodness my friend and I did the matinee thing... At least we didn't pay full price for this bomb...  "},{"Title":"What do you expect?","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you go to see a movie by any of the Saturday Night Live alumni, be it David Spade, Adam Sandler or Rob Schneider, you cannot expect to see high brow comedy.  Expect light hearted, good natured, somewhat adult oriented fare for a PG-13, and you won't be disappointed.  Joe Dirt delivers this and, surprisingly, more.Plenty of laughs to go with an occasional tug at the heart.  Is there anyone who cannot identify with the irrepressible underdog Joe, as he works his way through life?  I was pleasantly surprised at this film.  Much better than his 1999 effort Lost & Found, Spade manages to be more genuine in his Dirt persona than expected.  The supporting cast is what you would expect for a film of this level, slightly more than adequate.If you go see this movie, don't expect to be bowled over by an intellectual comedy classic, just expect to laugh and have a good time.  Leave your pretenses at the door.JS "},{"Title":"Good music, hurtful movie.","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Good music, a real plus for someone who grew up in the 70's.But I found the film to be full of hurtful incidents that were funny only if one was cruel. It did get less bad towards the end. I'm sorry I wasted my money.  "}{"Title":"This movie is GREAT!!!!!","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Normally I find David Spade movies a little boring, however Joe Dirt was the funnest movie I've seen in years. Given, its plot was silly and the crtics said not to see it, I was belly laughing through whole thing. I never give advice on what movie to see, but see Joe Dirt. I can't guarantee that you'll love it, but give it a try you shuold give at least one laugh. "},{"Title":"David Spade isn't the best as the 'headliner'","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like most movies that have former SNL cast members, you have to like the comedian to like the movie.  Spade is a redneck, left in the Grand Canyon by his parents, and he spends the rest of his life trying to find them.  Not that good, but keep your eye on Brittany Daniel in the future&#133;..a natural beauty, at least I believe she's all-natural&#133;.you never can tell these days!  D "},{"Title":"dumb but fun adventure comedy","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Dirt (2001)5 word summaryWhite trash searches for parentsKind of a hard movie to rate, because it really isn't that good but I do enjoy it. It's a dumb adventure comedy but it is funny. David Spade isn't a great actor but he as comedic actions. Much like other of his movies (Tommy Boy, Dickie Roberts, Benchwarmers, Black Sheep) his performance isn't believable or well done but its usually funny enough to look past. It has some fun cameos and decent supporting cast, and some pretty hilarious lines and scenes. Christopher Walken was hilarious and almost more memorable than David Spade. It stays pretty constant all the way through, it has a bit of a drop off towards the end but other than that. So if you start watching it and after 15 minutes you don't think its funny, I think its safe to say you can turn it off, cause it's the same kind of comedy the whole way. If you are a fan of David Spades work this is a decent one that you will most likely enjoy this. The comedy and style of Joe Dirt is closer to that of Benchwarmers and Dickie Roberts than Tommy Boy and Black Sheep. "},{"Title":"A ripoff of mulletmania","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"   this film rips off the hysteria surrounding the current mullet fad.  it is no different from those lame i love mullets stickers that were marketed by another rip off artist. the original mullet expert can be found at www.mulletsgalore.com and goes by the alias j. furthermore, this film doesn't even portray a mullethead in the correct way, being that joe dirt was a pannywaste and always got beat up. he didn't even have a real mullet, it was a wig, and that in itself proves how fake and dull this film was... "},{"Title":"Kinda dumb fun","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just thinking about this movie made my IQ drop several points, so I avoided it until it came out on cable.  So, it was on, and I decided to watch it.  Sure, it was dumb, but it was truly amusing.  I had forgotten that Adam Beach was in it, and it was such fun to see him in something else(though it was more than a bit embarrassing, the guy can really act), and I wished that he had more to do.  I'll give it a seven, at least because the director had the good sense to put him in it. "},{"Title":"One of those movies where you look for your watch, knowing that you don't have one, quite frankly because its more fun to search than to watch the film.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  `The Adventures Of Joe Dirt'     (2001)0 *'s out of ****Reviewed by Matt Doolittle`The Adventures of Joe Dirt' is a horrible movie. `Joe Dirt' is about a riffraff janitor who tells the story of searching for his parents.  In his story he meets a girl named Brandy and for some unknown reason she falls in love with him.  The only thing in the way of a relationship, is Joe's stupidity and the neighborhood bully Robby.  Robby tells Joe that Brandy is in love with him and doesn't even like little dirty Joe Dirt.  Joe leaves Brandy's house and meets a number of people we couldn't care less about.  He eventually goes back to Brandy's only to run into Robby who tells him that they are married and she doesn't want to ever see Joe again.	This movie tries so desperately to be funny that it is just pathetic.  Happy Madison productions are always comedies but unfortunately they all lack one thing, the laughs.  I have no idea what David Spade, Kid Rock or anyone else was thinking when they made this movie and there is no doubt in my mind Adam Sandler had something to do with this.  He always has his way of turning a horrible idea into a movie that is even worse.   There is not 30 seconds of this movie that is funny or entertaining.  I usually can find someone to recommend any film to but this film is too bad to recommend to anyone.     "},{"Title":"Very Surprised !","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Before watching this film, to me it smacked of a cheap and tacky 'lets have a laugh at white trash' sort of a film. This was not to be the case. Apart from the slow start, the movie picks up half an hour into it, with some very funny moments and the surprise appearance of some well known stars, such as Rosanna Arquette and Chirstopher Walken. Joe Dirt doesn't require much brain power to watch, but it is a good laugh. Check it out.  "},{"Title":"It actually surprised me","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well i can`t say i expected too much from this movie, so maybe thats why i thought it was okay, well you don`t roll around the floor laughing all the time but its okay. But if you don`t have very high expectations about it, you should give it a chance. "},{"Title":"Better than Predicted","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is much much better than I predicted it would be. This is the first thing I said to my friends after watching the movie, there were also alot of dude, that was awesomes. I expected this movie to a stereotypical Farley/Spade Tommy Boy style movie, but it wasn't just that. Although it incorperated some of that same humor, it also threw in an incredible storyline, and a handful of well defined characters. I also enjoyed the use of characters from former SNL star's movies. This movie kept me deeply interested and not wanting to leave my seat. This movie should definently not be overlooked, even if your not a huge Spade fan, you still need to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Maybe a rental","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Joe Dirt was the second Jaime Pressly movie out this month so I couldn't wait to see it.  I had saw the trailer quite a few times and it looked like another great David Spade movie.  But when I did go see it I was a little disappointed.  Spade plays a dirt poor, mullet wearing, piece of pure American white trash that becomes the movies hero.  The storyline was actually really good, and it was hard not to root for Joe Dirt.  The thing that made me mad was Spade had to play a slow witted character, and the genius of his comedy is his great comebacks.  Without those witty comebacks the movie just seemed to go on endlessly.  The Adventures of Joe Dirt was hysterical and full of great gags, but the trailer was definitely more hype then the movie was capable of fulfilling.  The only high point of the movie for me was the 10 minute scene of Jaime Pressly as Jill.  Besides getting back together with Brandy, nailing Jill had to be the highlight of Joe Dirt's meager existence.  Who knows it might make a good rental! "}{"Title":"A touching yet funny story about man trying to find his parents.","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In Joe Dirt David Spade is the funniest I have seen him in a solo project. Christopher Walken did a good job for not being a comic actor. Britney Daniel and Jamie Pressly, need I say more. ALL IN ALL JOE DIRT is worth a trip to the movies. "},{"Title":"Worth a Watch","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you see this in the TV guide its certainly worth a watch. Nice story, some good gags and a girlfriend pleasing happy ending.Its not brain surgery, but it is well written and acted enough to quite happily pass an hour and a half.Ands thats all I've got to say about that. Well not really because I've got to pass 10 lines........Er.......Oh yeah..... Christopher Walken is, unsurprisingly great. He does a brilliant pastiche of his Weapon of Choice dance. Or is weapon of choice a pastiche of this? I cant be bothered to Google so it looks like this ones staying a mystery.....There we go. 10 lines. That wasn't so hard..... "},{"Title":"Once is enough","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had to watch this for the second time the other day, once is all you need. It's an OK film , it raised a few smiles with me and at one point I do believe I chuckled aloud. However, that was all. Joe Dirt is played by David Spade and is a rock loving country boy who was abandoned by his parents when he was eight. He has a huge mullet which is a wig that is fused to his head. He cleans at a radio station and they get him on air to tell his story and he becomes a huge celebrity. The DJ interviewing him is ridiculously rude, he wouldn't last long without a smack in the face in the real world. Joe's story is a big road trip where he goes to find his lost parents. There is of course a love interest and a happy ending. This is 100% a throwaway movie, watch it once then discard. "},{"Title":"Mop It Up.","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A janitor (David Spade) in Los Angeles tells his life story to a wild radio talk show host (Dennis Miller) over the airwaves. The flashbacks come immediately as Spade attempts to find his parents (Fred Ward and Caroline Aaron) after they left him (perhaps intentionally) at the Grand Canyon when he was a youngster. We see the titled character fall in love with the ultra-hot Brittany Daniel, get in trouble with Kid Rock (who lusts after Daniel himself) and meet all kinds of crazy characters (Christopher Walken, Jaime Pressley and Rosanna Arquette in particular). Gross-out jokes and toilet humor destroy all the momentum that the film had going for it early on. Spade and the cast do their best, but the substance is really lacking. A few laughs get overshadowed by waning messages and poor attempts at drama. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Funny  I liked it","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Much faster delivery of laughs than many prior comments might leave you to believe. If fan of early Steve Martin, well it's in that vein. Wacky but underlining serious wit about a spoiled media society. Talk about your ultimate underdog.....Joe Dirte (he added the e) gets just the right broad brushed look at the rejected & unwanted.  The radio interview format alone is enough satire.  Just kept rolling along, fast.  I'll never fear the A Bomb again -- best trip on that sinceHow I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb.       "},{"Title":"Great Flick!","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm gunna keep this short so people will read it. Joe Dirt was a great flick. I feel sad for those of you who didn't like it. I guess I could see why teeny boppers, those of you who hate the southern style, or southerners who can't laugh at themselves would find this movie hard to bare. I personally know or have interacted with quite a few people who remind me of Joe (Good hearted white trash) so this movie made me laugh my butt off! To all of you who didn't like this flick I say,loosen up people you should get out more. It must be hard to go through life with a since of humor the size of a black eyed pea. No one should think there self too good to laugh at Joe Dirt. I give it a solid **** out of *****  "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure because of David Spade","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I only watched Joe Dirt to see David Spade, and he pretty much turned out to be the only reason worth watching it. He was pretty funny acting in his mullet. Dennis Miller's appearance in the film was a pleasant surprise. His constant bantering with Spade was fun to watch. I wouldn't recommend the movie to many people, but there it is a guilty pleasure of mine. "},{"Title":"Breathless Poopmeteor","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.These experiments are very tricky, working with irony to the extreme making a character so helplessly clueless as to be endearing. Works easier with blond girls, but with things so exaggerated in the general area, most projects go too far. That was the case with `Freddy Got Fingered.' I think this one got it about as right as it could. It is not something you'd watch for the pleasure of the film itself, but for the fun of watching how close to the line it comes. That line is complicated because - like all such films - it depends for its success on the very same trailer trash mentality that it pokes fun of. This is a `Breathless.'Nice fireworks at the end. Rosanna Arquette appears as a redheaded crocodile wrestler's widow. Just think.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  it wasnt as bad as everyone thinks, well to them it is, to me it isnt, it was a cute little movie and david spade did a great and fantastic job as the main character, he was absolutely hilarious, it was a good movie, you should see it sometime! "},{"Title":"better than expected","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Saw this when it came out on cable.  Seems like it had been embarrassingly brief at the box office and panned by critics, so my expectation was that I would probably find it too lame to watch, but instead I was pleasantly surprised.  A bit of good silly fun, some sentiment here and there.  For me, light years better than the equally critically panned Resident Evil.  "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  David Spade is not a bad comedian.  In fact, he is quite talented.  Another one of those comic actors who can be funny if given good material, but obnoxious if given lousy material.  He co-wrote and stars in this new SNL spin-off (though I haven't seen any of the sketches).  Compared to many of these SNL clunkers like Superstar and The Ladies' Man I found this comedy--though not hysterically funny--to be surprisingly refreshing.First of all, it's a harmless comedy.  Aside from a few crude sight gags--one involving a dog's testicles getting stuck to a porch and another involving Spade getting human crap poured all over him--I found the film to be quite disciplined and not over-the-top.  Though the gags aren't Woody Allen material, they don't strive to rise to the top of the Crude-O-Meter and there are a good deal of laughs.  That's what you get when you spend a little time conjuring up what would work best in a scene, rather than scribble out the first cheap, predictable gag that comes to mind.  I'm surprised at Spade (who co-wrote the script) and didn't think he would go through with injecting some wit into his comedy.  Maybe all these other SNL alumni who choose the write and star in another movie could learn from him. And I never thought I would one day say that someone can actually learn from David Spade.The cast is great, too.  Christopher Walken has a nice little supporting role as a school janitor.  I would tell you more about his character, but I don't want to give anything away.  The point is Walken's the man!  He's one of those actors who dominates the screen whenever he's on and you think to yourself, Yeah!  Now we're cooking!  The beautiful Brittany Daniel, who played Eve on Dawson's Creek, graces the screen and provides great eye candy.  And of course, the man himself--Kid Rock!--plays a small part.  I just wish Spade would've written his character as a musician.  I know that would be a poor excuse to have him perform one of his kick-a** songs, but who cares?!!  Dennis Miller is funny as always, playing the shock-jock who brought Joe to fame.  He plays a pretty significant role and appears in a good portion of the film, which is great since I'm a fan of Dennis' schtick.Joe Dirt is not a great movie.  At times it's lame, at times it's crude, but the key word is at times.  The film often delivers, and though you may not be laughing the whole way, you will have a good time without having to withstand a barrage of crudeness and stupidity.  The plot is about as implausible as you can get, but for an entertaining comedy like this I'll let it slide.  Don't let the previews steer you away; Joe Dirt is good, clean fun.My score  7 (out of 10)       "},{"Title":"A funny film","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've just seen Joe Dirt starring David Spade, and quite enjoyed it. Don't think it will win any Academy Award, but still is a good movie in its own right.  Some old friends are evident - Christopher Walken from Sleepy Hollow, Fred Ward from Tremors, and Rosanna Arquette from Desperately Seeking Susan (see her fingernails/talons in Joe Dirt!).  Joe Dirt has a moral to it, which is not too apparent; it is also somewhat of a detective story.  Altogether, a funny film. "},{"Title":"It has some very nice and funny moments","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  David Spade plays the hero of Joe Dirt in Joe Dirt as a white trash guy so white trash he has a white trash beard.  His saga has him on a radio show with Sir Dennis Miller, as he tells his story of how he was lost at the grand canyon at 8, and has spent his whole life looking for his parents. The film is sporadically funny with Spade in fine form, even if the film at times is not as funny as it is overly-dumb.  Still, there are the moments, in particular with every scene with Miller, Kid Rock (even if he might be a tad overrated) and Christopher Walken who gives the film it's best lines.  Another nice thing by the way, the film has heart, which not too many SNL films have.  B "},{"Title":"Unoriginal, but silly fun","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Saw this yesterday--definitely goofy, of course, but I like goofy.  Joe's actually a very sweet guy, who's not nearly as dumb as everyone seems to think.  He tells his story to the always entertaining Dennis Miller, and while there really aren't a whole lot of surprises I laughed a lot, and found myself rooting for Joe.  Christopher Walken is hysterical as a half-crazed janitor, the girls look good, and Fred Ward and Brian Thompson have funny cameos.  Turn your brain off and you'll probably like it. "},{"Title":"Like a roller coaster, it has ups, downs, and parts that make you want to vomit.","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is somewhat like Forrest Gump meets There's Something About Mary when it comes to its overall theme Lots of gross humor and a sympathetic hero who doesn't quite seem to be running on all his cylinders but maintains a cheerful, optimistic attitude anyway. David Spade does a fairly convincing job at this role. This movie is also peppered with memorable characters, even if most of them appear only for a few minutes on-screen.The movie is told through various segments and flashbacks, which often appear to be something of a mixed bag.  Some of the early parts especially tend to fall flat, particularly a few with special effects out of a B-movie, but they definitely get better as they go along.As a car enthusiast, I can't leave out the numerous unusual cars in this movie. Joe's beat up Dodge Charger Daytona is played by a Charger which is definitely in better shape than the movie would lead you to believe, but the props department still managed to make it look like a quintessential white trash mobile. Whoever came up with the idea of sticking a chain link steering wheel on it might want to go into hiding, though, as there are quite a few Mopar fans who might want to kill him for that touch. Other noteworthy muscle cars in the movie, nearly all of which are in much better shape, include a dark orange Hemi Road Runner convertible, a late 70's Trans Am, and a gorgeous mid 60's Impala convertible. It's not worth the full price of admission if you want to see it only for the cars, but muscle car fans might want to consider renting it when it comes out on video or taking a look at it in the discount theater, even if you don't care about the plot.Although sometimes it seems like this movie is trying to be Forrest Gump with a mullet, it falls a bit short of that goal. The gross humor doesn't have anything that quite matches the hair gel scene, but some of it comes close. It's not really a bad movie. But it's not really a must see, either. "},{"Title":"WHAT???","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Clearly a bad, slow and boring movie, with hilarious parts. One of the worst funniest greatest movies ever. Nipples. Anyway, it was pretty bad. Midgets. It was ok at times...someone said better than a Jim Carrey movie....well that's just wrong...oh so wrong its right and by right i mean horribly wrong.  "},{"Title":"Poor Kid Rock.","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A movie like The Adventures of Joe Dirt is not the kind of movie that is going to trick you into thinking that it is something worth watching, the way movies like Armageddon try to. David Spade is almost universally associated with low thought comedies, but like Joe Dirt, these are not always all bad. Joe Dirt is the type of movie that comes across as a goofball comedy that is not likely to be very believable and certainly will not promote much cognitive activity, but I respect it because there is a place in the entertainment industry for movies like Joe Dirt. There is a place for bad comedy in the movies, and the reason that I don't hold Joe Dirt's status as a bad comedy against it is because it doesn't try to be anything else. There are so many movies these days that could so easily have slipped comfortably in with this country's truly great films had it not been for the addition of stupid, stupid love stories or idiot comic relief (a glaring recent example being Pearl Harbor) that it's refreshing to see one come along every once in a while that knows where it stands.That being said, I would like to also point out that I certainly have little to no respect for Joe Dirt outside of knowing its place. It is a comedy full of bad jokes that either are looking for a cheap laugh or, in a disturbing amount of occasions, are making jokes about things that really shouldn't be joked about. The movie is about a guy named Joe Dirt who is proudly the most redneck person you could ever hope to meet, whose parents abandoned him at the Grand Canyon when he was 8 years old. It is not that easy in this country for an 8 year old to get through life on his own, but mostly because it would not be too long before he was picked off the streets by a shelter or the police or any number of institutions. I doubt that he lived in the woods until he was old enough to pretend he had enough of an address to get a job, although that would certainly account for many things about his appearance and demeanor.After being noticed by a radio show that badly needed some sucker to laugh at for a few hours, Joe gets a spot on the radio show talking about his life, which at first starts out as a hilarious joke for the DJ (Dennis Miller), but ends up capturing the heart of the DJ and the audience and earning Joe several more days of air time to tell his story. He talks of when he went out in search of his real parents, leaving us already aware that he didn't find them or didn't care to know them once he had met them (given the fact that he still seemed pretty parentless), at first accurately portraying what a pathetic person he is, but ultimately his struggle becomes apparent and he starts to come across as some weird sort of tragic hero. Well, a goofy comedy's version of a tragic hero, anyway.As has been one of Spade's most prevalent skills throughout his career, in Joe Dirt he capitalizes on his weaknesses, making us laugh at how pathetic Joe Dirt is and, at the same time, how easily Spade can portray this kind of person. Kid Rock has a bit part as anther redneck who is trying to steal away from Dirt a stunningly attractive blonde who has probably the most inexplicable attraction to any person in any film in the last 20 or 30 years. This might be considered the point in the film where it switches from the realm of mil romantic comedy and goes full force into the world of science fiction, fantasy, and horror.Kid Rock plays a character that he is familiar with in real life, a tire-squealing redneck with little to no education and the total conviction that he is the coolest thing on earth. Unfortunately, by playing this character, he emphasizes the already prevalent detail that his taking a role in this film is an obvious attempt to switch over to acting and away from his flailing musical career. Overall, Joe Dirt has it positive moments. There were parts of the movie that were genuinely amusing (although not very many at all), but unfortunately there were also an enormous amount of parts that were supposed to be funny but were not even by the furthest stretch of the imagination (such as anything involving septic tanks shaped like missiles and buried mysteriously in the desert or anything about Joe's exposed brain).Someone thought, for example, that it would be amusing to have Joe Dirt say that he was born without the top of his skull, with his brain exposed, which completely mystifies me. This is a completely backwards step in developing the character of Joe Dirt (who they are trying to present as a normal guy underneath his astonishingly dorky exterior), and more importantly, it's not at all amusing, it's a horrible way to try to generate gross out humor. Maybe the writers forgot that people in real life are born like that. Maybe Joe, unlike the writers, sacrificed the top of his skull at birth for some sort of care for his fellow human being, and on top of that (no pun intended, of course), they throw in a hideous mullet wig that Joe has miraculously worn all his life.So let's recap, Joe Dirt was born without the top of his skull, he was fitted with the most repulsive wig that must have fallen out of the 1970s, he was abandoned by his parents at the age of eight, and now spends his life mopping floors and being laughed at by anyone he comes into contact with (including us). When you consider the human side of the movie, the comedy drains away, which is ironic since the human side is exactly the part of Joe Dirt that the movie tries to bring to light. Joe eventually finds his parents, only to discover from them within a matter of minutes and while surrounded by TV cameras that okay, okay, they left him at the Grand Canyon on purpose, leaving us with the feeling that the last hour and a half was a complete waste and the feeling that, had the writers not so obviously been complete morons, Joe Dirt really had the chance to have been a worthwhile comedy. A slim chance, but a chance nonetheless. "},{"Title":"An utter waste of your time","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was on HBO. I had never seen it before, so I gave it a look. What an utter waste of time. The people who wrote and acted in this movie should be embarrassed to have people come to know they were involved in it. One of my favorite actors, Christopher Walken, actually took a paycheck for being in a movie with Kid Rock. For shame. Horrible! "},{"Title":"phew....what a load of manure","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has to be the worst movie that I have ever seen! (Of course besides Manos  Hands of Fate)  I thought that this movie would be amusing but it was a huge let down.  I thought that it would be half as funny as Tommy Boy (if not better) but I was sorely mistaken.  People started this hype about the movie but after 30 minutes I couldn't stand any more.  I am an aficionado of movies and this movie should be avoided at all costs!  I didn't laught once and I didn't even crack a smile.  If your looking for a funny movie rent Mallrats, Clerks, or Friday.  Mallrats and Friday might not be good movies but they are creative and funny.  And once again, don't even touch this one because unless you are a huge David Spade fan, you will almost surely hate this movie as much as I did. "},{"Title":"waste of film","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Is david Spade paying you people to say you laghed at this?  The unimaginative sludge that passes for jokes reminds me of the skits we came up with in 9th grade for class assemblies.  The fact that two grown men who do this for a living came up with this loose, slow, disorganized, uninteresting and unfunny movie makes me want to weep.  This film felt like it was thrown together over a weekend.  Take a funny piece of American experience  white trash, HA!  Now repeat for 90 minutes.  If you find this movie funny, there is a comical genius named carrot Top who made a movie a few years back I'm sure you would love. "}{"Title":"COME ON HOW BAD CAN YOU GET?","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  IM 11 years old and all my friends loved this movie! I have to say it had some good parts but they werent with david! david spade does his worst job ever!!!!!!! David plays a redneck kind of person. He did horrible at it! I almost fell alseep during the end and everything! Yes its that stupid. He does everything twice and its not really funny. i bet even die hard spade fans will hate this. so i say please dont see this. it is really bad!  "},{"Title":"Puerile trash signalling the end of a career.","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My girlfriend and I laughed 3 times throughout Joe Dirt. Three times only. Between the two of us.  Simply put, this is the worst movie I have seen in a theater all in all of 2001.  I expected stupidity, and I got it.  I was gambling on that stupidity being of a humorous type, and I lost. Big. I'm perplexed how a movie this bad could get made.  It's just bad. And depressing to watch. Stay away from this. Save your money. Rent Billy Madison again.  Even if you've seen it five times already, it'll be funnier the sixth time than Joe Dirt is the first time.  "},{"Title":"Title says it all.","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Joe Dirt was an endless barrage of toilet and sex humor and also a waste of money. Yes there was a time when I found this kind of thing funny, but that time was over after I grew up. Don't get me wrong the occasional toilet joke is funny for a while but not for an entire film. This movie is royally bad and doesn't get any better as the film goes on. Through the entire film I don't remember laughing at all, not even a giggle. It's quite a shame because on the preveiw it looked like such a hilarious movie. It's quite a shameful disapointment and personally I would expect much much better from the same team that brought us Duece Bigalow Male Gigalo. Oh well, just take my word for it and don't waste any money on it. "},{"Title":"Film falls flat.","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First of all, let me clarify that this film does not do a good job of developing a plot.  Most of the actions which are critical to the plot are those involving Joe's search for his parents.  The fact that Joe does not understand where his home is seems trite to me, and lets face it, if I were shacked up within a hundred miles of Brittney Daniel, I would probably know where my home is at.  Another thing is the Dennis Miller comments. Although I can agree with that Dennis Miller can be funny from time to time, his portrayal of the jackass radio host is a far cry from Howard Stern (whom he immitates very poorly.)  The way that the director sets his character up, the viewer actually begins to hate Dennis Miller.  I saw the movie at the theater, and at times there were yawns and growls coming from the other viewers simply because we had to hear more Dennis Miller.  The lamest part of the plot occurs when Joe finally finds what he is looking for, and spends about two minutes resolving what takes an hour and a half to build up.  The one thing which saves this movie is not Dennis Miller, nor is it the pretty Brittney Daniel, who is in the film for about a total of ten minutes, it is Christopher Walken.  Christopher Walken's character Clem is absolutely hilarious.  So basically I paid 8 dollars to see three minutes of Christopher Walken saying hilarious things.  I'm sorry to say this, but the movie would have been better off as an SNL skit.  I'm also sorry to David Spade who is normally an above average actor.  If you want to see good David Spade, go to the video store and rent Lost and Found  I feel this film falls flat for one reason, David Spade is not playing the role of the sarcasim machine, but rather Dennis Miller is, and this does not gel because David Spade does sarcasm with the best of the best.  Don't go into this movie expecting to see the usual Just Shoot Me David Spade, or the Tommy Boy David Spade, because in this movie, David spade acts more like a shier version of Damon Wayans chracter Blankman.  Not worth a dime without Christopher Walken, with Walken, worth a dollar fifty matinee! "},{"Title":"Not Good --- just dirt","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was hard to watch.  I saw it in the movie theaters.  Then a few days ago I saw it again.  Yes, it still stunk.  First off, David Spade needs to find something to bring his star status back up, and fast.  This movie does nothing for him, except maybe make him the laughing stock of the movie world.  Sure, the storyline is workable, maybe with a different cast and less mullets.  And maybe with a lot less Kid Rock.  The guy couldn't act worth anything.  I think he should stick to singing.  Yes, stick to singing.  Dennis Miller also does nothing for me.  I don't like him as an actor, so I held a grudge when I watched this movie.  But who knows, this might be the perfect cast for you.  But for me this movie was a bomb.  I won't be watching it again.Grade D "},{"Title":"Great premise but the disgustingness of some of the jokes ruined it for me.","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Let me begin by saying I thought the concept was quite good. I'll also say I liked Joe Dirt himself, he was hilarious and odd as he was, there was something strangely appealing about him. This is the type of movie that would normally appeal to me but the strength of the movie's premise was brought down by one bad joke after another.Why do so many comedies with really good premises feel the need to go off into stupidland with nonstop bad barf jokes and cruel humor? I wanted to enjoy this but the crudeness and cruelty of some of the jokes started to make me actually queasy. There's funny and then there's just plain gross. The subject matter was interesting enough, the acting good enough and the characters plentiful and colorful enough so that the bad humor wasn't needed-or at least so much of it. I found a lot to like in the movie and so might someone who hasn't yet seen it but if one doesn't have a high tolerance for this kind of gross out humor I don't see how one can really get into this.The best thing, for me was Joe Dirt himself who was funny enough alone. There was so much here that wasn't funny, merely disgusting and crude that I could never I don't think watch it again unless I fast forward through many scenes. In spite of the horrible unfunny humor though, if one has a strong stomach and can handle the constant gross out stuff they might like this rather odd tale. I can't argue with the acting or the premise but this is not good as a pure comedy. My rating is, sadly 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Was this someone's high school drama project?","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie gets the distinguished honor of being one of the few movies that I couldn't sit all the way through.As far as comedies go, I think I'm a very generous viewer.  I like the dumb comedy like everybody else.  This movie past my threshold for pain.The script was bad.  The dialogues between characters seemed forced somehow.The acting was bad.  Spade just didn't seem to put much imagination into his character.I couldn't laugh at this material. "},{"Title":"Can't recommend the picture solely on the hairstyle, so...","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Happy Madison formula is one I am growing to wholeheartedly detest. It is becoming so much of a muchness I begin to dub their films as anti-character studies, meaning they always focus on such a degenerate of a human that it becomes impossible to laugh at them during their misfortunes. Happy Gilmore, I felt toyed with, given a character who screams and yells and is clearly in need of some mental help, and felt like I was a bully laughing at a character who wasn't all there. Bucky Larson Born to Be a Star left me disgusted that such an inhumane, inept, and socially unacceptable character had gotten his own feature length film and was doing things that didn't constitute for human on any social level to laugh at, that I nearly lost all faith that a good movie could ever be made by anyone even involved in the film. And as for The Waterboy, all I can say the character was easily the most unlikable of the unlikable for that year.Joe Dirt is more of the same formula, only manipulated slightly. Construct a character, ugly, indecent, and such an easy target for bullying and make him the lead character in a comedy so we can follow him along on one contrivance after another just to watch the poor sap become the butt of every joke. The manipulation of the Madison formula comes stems from the Joe Dirt character himself, who is mildly likable for one reason; he is not abusive, violent, or incorrigible. He has been given every form of hell, that his way of closure is just peacefulness and passiveness. He can actually be a fairly suitable misfit role model for Bucky, Happy, and the Waterboy, although that may be pushing it.But on with the movie; David Spade is Joe Dirt, in an unfortunate role after two hilarious ones in both Black Sheep and Tommy Boy. He is the hardcore, outrageous, mullet-headed (it's a wig by the way, since apparently he was born with a cracked skull) dolt who works as a custodian for an LA radio station, and resides in the luxurious boiler room of the joint. In a spur of the moment decision, Joe Dirt is forced to join the verbally abusive shock-jock Zander Kelly (Miller) on the radio (the character seems to have picked up David Spade's smart-ass qualities from Tommy Boy pretty well), where he is forced into talking about his life over the course of the next few days live on air.So we are presented with flashbacks with occasional interruptions of Dirt's childhood, where he was abandoned at the Grand Canyon by his parents, when he met the most beautiful girl in the world (Daniel) and her mean-spirited boyfriend (Kid Rock), along with trying to cope in a world where he is unwanted.The audience can vaguely side with the man because he is one of the few Happy Madison anti-character studies that doesn't make humor out of the character bringing things on himself. Instead, it focuses on the idiotic things the character says throughout the picture as a means to act tough and make humor out of the contentious interactions he has with others. He is an inept idiot, and one that confuses the audience. This is where the paradox of Madison films comes to life; we are supposed to root for this character during oppressive times, yet laugh when he is made fun of.David Spade is fine as the character, sometimes but rarely striking any laughs, and the atmosphere is muggy and brutal, like in many Sandler films. Sandler is not in the film, but has a producer's credit on it, and many of his regulars like Allen Covert and Kevin Nealon make quick appearances in, so the film replicates the close to home feeling they always have.I suppose if you have liked previous Sandler features, you're likely to enjoy this one. The main problem with Joe Dirt is, like its character, it is so desperate for attention that it will go to great lengths to achieve it, never erecting some form of credible discipline. The script becomes monotonous, as the character collides and travels down the long, straight road to the next comedy setup, the jokes are mild, unoffensive, and muted because of the rating, and Spade's performance is less than commendable. Although I wouldn't mind seeing that hairstyle again.Starring David Spade, Dennis Miller, Brittany Daniel, Kid Rock, Allen Covert, Kevin Nealon, and Christopher Walken. Directed by Dennis Gordon. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films out there","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember seeing this movie when it first came out in 2001 and it was by far one of the worst films I think I've ever seen. David Spade can be funny at times but in this film he worsen't funny at all. The script was lousy, the actors were awful and the story was terrible. This was a complete waste of film, time and money not to mention that the movie was not even funny or amusing and David Spade could have done a heck of a lot better cause some of his films are actually good but not this one it was horrible and boring and a complete waste, So my advice is If you haven't seen this film yet then don't bother because it's not worth seeing at all. "},{"Title":"A lesson in how NOT to write a comedy","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For anyone with an interest in storytelling, and comedy writing in particular, Joe Dirt should prove an interesting subject for study. First-time director Dennie Gordon joins forces with screenwriters Fred Wolf and David Spade (who also plays the film's title role) to give us a feature-length lesson in how to produce a comedy that is virtually laugh-free.  Apparently it's very simple  just a few fundamental character and plot misfires, and voila!  Unfunny comic gold!Joe Dirt is perhaps the saddest sack in America.  A hopelessly out-of-touch piece of poor white trash, Joe favors acid-washed jeans, hair-band T-shirts with cut-off sleeves, and a fluffy mullet wig (it covers an exposed brain pan, and he's been wearing it since he was a baby).  He is currently a janitor at an L.A. radio station, but this is just the latest pit-stop on a sprawling, country-wide search for his parents, who abandoned him at the Grand Canyon when he was eight years old.  During his quixotic travels, Joe befriends a Native American fireworks merchant (Adam Beach), almost becomes a mass murderer's latest victim, becomes an American cult hero, and gets a lot of crap dumped all over his overblown hairdo.  Literally.Good raw material for a comedy here.  From the good-natured Hee Haw, the foibles of backwards white America have been a great source of humor for years, and from the first scene, with Spade tooling down Sunset in his ugly two-tone beater, waving at chicks and totally oblivious to his own ridiculousness, Joe Dirt seems to be gearing up to give us a rootin'-tootin' time.But then what happens?  As little Joe goes on his search for his folks, he is constantly set upon by bullies who beat him up, pick on his clothes, and generally treat him like a loser.  He pines pathetically for a ripe young country lass (Brittany Daniel), sulks over the miserable lot he has been left by his abandonment, and at one point even contemplates suicide.  In other words, we're supposed to take this guy SERIOUSLY.  We're supposed to (shudder) CARE about him!  Gordon, Spade, and Wolf are clearly hoping we'll be inspired by the way Joe rallies against all of his obstacles, both self-generated and imposed on him by his sorry circumstances, and cheered by his ability to elevate himself above his station and become a true man of honor.WRONG!  We want to watch this clownish loser to fail!  We would ENJOY it! Or we could, if the filmmakers had gone the right way with the character. The central problem with Joe Dirt is that Joe seems to be ASHAMED of who he is.  He knows he's a loser, he realizes he's ridiculous.  It's not funny to watch a clown who knows he's a clown; it's like he's sitting in the audience with us, shaking his head at his own pathetic state.Think for a moment about the rollicking, rip-roaring comedy that Joe Dirt could have been if the filmmakers had pushed their instincts in the opposite direction.  Imagine Joe even more comically grotesque  play up the white-trash stuff more, the incessant reading of Auto Trader magazine, the intimations of incest, the love of gaudy '80s hair metal.  What's more, make him absolutely, utterly IN LOVE WITH HIMSELF.  In love with his crappy car, in love with his grotesque sideburns, in love with his low taste in all things.  Who needs a character who thinks he's as pathetic as we do?  It would be much more fun to watch an UNREPETANT ridiculous loser maniac.  As last year's Me Myself & Irene already proved, it's virtually impossible to make a comedy in which we're supposed to laugh with contempt at characters we are later meant to take seriously and (gag!) care about.I don't care if Joe finds his parents.  I don't want to see him getting his scrawny butt kicked by liquored-up country boys.  I don't even want to see him in the country, period!  Put him in the CITY, where he's a one-of-a-kind specimen, where he can really do some damage.  Have him be the one kicking butt!  Don't wimp out on the incest jokes!  Crystal meth in the basement! A beat-up Marshall amp instead of a living room chair!  Heck, make his dad a Klansman!  Go nuts!  Make us HATE this guy!  Then we'll laugh at everything you heap on him!  Then he's really a loser, and we can LOVE him being a loser, instead of wanting him to win.  Then I'd laugh.I don't mean to get so fired up over this, but I see comedy after comedy doing this, trying to get us to laugh at a character we're later supposed to spin around and root for.  The reason Dumb and Dumber was one of the funniest films of recent years is because Peter and Bobby Farrelly did not sell out their characters by ever making us take them seriously; the integrity of their idiocy was maintained to the last frame, and we were able to laugh loud and long as they constantly shot their own legs out from under themselves.  Sadly, as Irene indicates, it's a lesson they have forgotten, and Joe Dirt represents just another film that follows suit, another picture with the right idea and the wrong execution.Admittedly, Joe Dirt has one great moment, a sight gag that made me laugh so loud I was ashamed of myself (granted, this may be because I was the only person in the theatre who laughed).  In making up fliers to inquire about his parents, Joe describes them rather badly to the sketch artist.  The result  his mother's drawing looks like exactly like the Night Stalker, Richard Ramirez, complete with pentagram on her palm.  This joke comes completely out of the blue, and has a gratifyingly nasty charge sorely lacking from the rest of Joe Dirt.  And now that you know the money gag, go rent Dumb and Dumber again instead of shelling out seven bucks for this dud.  Comedy is nothing if it lacks the courage of its convictions.  "}{"Title":"This movie is not funny, don't see this.","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"       As we made our way to the drive in I wondered how I was going to take the movie Joe Dirt. Well, as respectable as I could be I sat and quietly watched the whole movie. At the end of it not only was I angry that I had wasted my money but I was also mad that I had sat there quietly, because I didn't laugh once!     This Jay Leno/Adam Sandler type humor film stars David Spade as a guy with a mullet trying to find his parents. The story is cheesy and the mix of nostalgic and sappy music helps drill that into your head. None of this really matters though because you know the makers of this film would say Oh, we were just trying to make a funny movie, not win an oscar. The only problem is the movie isn't funny... at all. The jokes can be seen a mile away and the delivery of them are unoriginal and haphazardly done.     The thing that bothered me the most though was how my enemy was in this film. The decadent, no talent Kid Rock plays himself; a redneck idiot that picks on people and has ten words in his vocabulary. His character is also not funny and very irritating to watch.     I used to like Adam Sandler movies(Yeah I know its terrible.), but he is becoming increasingly predictable and less funny as he gets older. Joe Dirt is dirt, and the next movie coming out of this studio The Animal I'm sure will be even worse. Joe Dirt is a midget short of a Kid Rock video and a million jokes short of being viewable. I give this movie a 1 out of 10. Don't see this!  "},{"Title":"So utterly painful i don't want to talk about it for that long. Zero Stars (out of four)","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  JOE DIRT / (2001) Zero Stars (out of four)By Blake FrenchJoe Dirt, is easily the worst movie of this year to date, with Saving Silverman, See Spot Run, and Down to Earth at a close second, third, and fourth place. This is an amazingly bad film, one of the few I can think of that doesn't improve on the chore of starring at a black screen for 93 minutes. Joe Dirt is a rehearse in walking through a pile of feel-good smut; a production with ample depravity of such retched proportions it is almost immeasurable. It is such a painfully awful experience, I really do not want to waste my time writing about it for that long.Joe Dirt is brought to you by one of the most prestigious production companies out there-not! It is called Happy Madison. It is behind cinematic milestones such as Deuce Bigalow Male Gigolo and Little Nicky. Many of the people behind the scenes, including Adam Sandler as an executive producer, are no strangers to the SNL death sentence for movies. The film is also complete with the likes of  illustrious actors, including David Spade, whom himself has made several previous contenders for worst picture of the year, such as 8 Heads in a Duffel Bag, and Lost & Found. He may have finally secured a top rank with Joe Dirt. David Spade is at the center of the film, in almost every damned scene-but of course he is he co-wrote the movie, after all. The story, if you can call it that, follows a scrawny red-neck janitor at a local radio station. His parents, while on a trip to the Grand Canyon, see their opportunity and abandoned him at only eight years old. Since then, he has been picked on all of his life. We don't feel sorry for him, however, because the movie tries so hard to make us feel sorry for him. It holds a gun on us and forces us to pity this character. That is not the way to induce empathy for a main character. Even if this concept did work, however, Spade always plays his character like he never gets the joke. We see this over and over, therefore, humor becomes repetitive humiliation, and, as we saw earlier this year in Say It Isn't So!, that is simply not funny.The radio station's popular, loud mouth, annoying talk show host, named Zander Kelly (Dennis Miller, from HBO's comedy series Dennis Miller Live), discovers Joe and puts him on air for a few laughs. Then the plot mulls us through an agonizing history of Joe's misfortunes in life. His profound achievements range from his young love life, searching for his parents, ridicules by the local country boys, an encounter with an Indian (Adam Beach) who sells fireworks, a sexual adventure into the pants of who could be his long lost sister (Jamie Pressly), meeting of a local school custodian (Christopher Walken), and the owner of a small alligator farm (Rosanna Arquette). As I glanced through the credits at the joyous ending of the film, and studied the cast credits on the invaluable Internet Movie Database, I found it funny how actor Rosanna Arquette, who has a significant part in Joe Dirt, is unrecognized. Accident? Doubtful. Perhaps she withdrew her name from the credits due to the shame she may have felt after watching the overall product? I do not blame her. I would have done the same thing.The film is not without good intentions and a compassionate heart-or so we hear. I think kids need to see the message, quotes David Spade. Work hard and get what you want. Ironic how Spade has so much confidence in the film's moral content. Since Joe is a hard worker, he is a great role model, right? But Mr. Spade, what about the scene where (spoiler ahead) Joe realizes the woman he just had sex with is not his sister. She states that they can have sex again, since he now knows he is not practising incest. When he cannot become excited, she decides to scream you're my sister repeatedly, stunningly arousing him as they once again have rough sex. Obviously Spade believes incest is wrong, but imagining incestuous deeds is a great deal of fun. This is the kind of character with the morals Spade believes kids need.Throughout Joe Dirt we see more gross out humor than even the Farelly brothers could have created. There are the obligatory scenes in which Joe ends up as the target of other people's jokes, and his own stupidity. There are variations on the old poop jokes. One has Joe tied to a rocket, covered in feces (that looks like partially melted, flavorful, creamy, soft serve ice cream). In another, he treasures what he believes to be a comet, but turns out to be a hardened pile of excretion. Oh, yeah. And there is the disturbing scene where an innocent canine gets his genitals frozen to a porch. As the dog tries to stand, whimpering and whining, his manhood extends and becomes stretched. Funny? I don't think so. Even funnier is the caption at the end of the film that declares no animal was hurt during the production. No kidding? For a minute there I thought that the cheap, discolored, elastic looking rubber was actually the dog's scrotum there... "},{"Title":"pure torture","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just when I thought I saw the worst movie ever made, Freddy Got Fingered, this piece of garbage comes out. Mind you I find David Space to be a fine comic actor. I liked him in Tommy Boy, Dickie Roberts and on Saturday Night Live. He's also always a great guest on the Howard Stern show but this movie was so bad I don't even know where to begin. The mullet jokes wear thin after the first five minutes and the slapstick humor is really lame. Poorly written and directed there is absolutely nothing funny about this film. The fact that this movie also stars Dennis Miller and Kid Rock goes to show how desperate they must have been to agree to make a film this poor. "},{"Title":"Please... make it stop!","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I would rather be defiled by a syphilitic chimpanzee than be forced to watch this movie again.  I thought David Spade in a mullet wig could carry this movie.  I was wrong.  Nothing could make up for the lack of funny jokes and terrible acting by everyone in this film.  This is why all SNL alumni (except Sandler, Akroyd, and Murray) should be disallowed from making movies. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I've ever seen","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ATTENTION!  I want everyone reading this to know that it's over.  You've killed it.  It's not funny anymore.  I am of course talking about `mullet humor', and it must be stopped.  A while back, mullets were kind of an in-joke, a kitschy piece of odd humor that only some people understood.  Today, It's gotten so out of control that people think any odd haircut classifies as some type of  `mullet cut', and that the word itself is inherently funny.  The relentless overkill of this novelty has sucked the very last fleck of humor and camp-fun out the `mullet humor' genre.   Gee, this reminds me of another genre that is bereft of life  one-dimensional character driven comedies starring `Saturday Night Live' has-been's and never-will-be's that plague the theaters. The new disaster `Joe Dirt', pathetically combines these two dying trends.  When will they stop?  I mean, on the poster for `Joe Dirt', it says, `FROM THE PRODUCERS OF 'DEUCE BIGALOW  MALE GIGOLO', like it's some kind of selling point.  In the back of my mind, I hoped people would learn from such flops as `Little Nicky' and `The Ladies Man'. But somehow David Spade and executive producer Adam Sandler manage to squeeze out this piece of crud.  It's the kind of movie you scrape off the bottom of your shoe, only to have the cat eat it and regurgitate it back up later on the living room floor.  But I'm being to nice. With no plot to speak of, let's just say that the whole movie is based around the fact that they'll hope you'll think Spade's mullet is funny for an hour and a half.  (movie spoiler  It's not!) Just when I thought I couldn't hate this movie anymore, Kid Rock shows up.  And only God know why.  Playing an illiterate redneck must have been a stretch for Mr. Rock. Adding insult to injury is the fact that Chris Farley's brother makes an eerie appearance alongside Spade, which to me was more tasteless than the repeated fart jokes. But the most disturbing fact of all, is that people around me in the theater laughed at this movie.  Note to David Spade    I liked this movie the first time.....whhhenn it was called....wait a minute.  I never liked this movie the first time. "},{"Title":"Simply a simple waste of time","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Adam Sandler produced it - that should be a warning. The script tries to recycle plotlines, gags and other things from other, better movies. The actors behave as if they were insane and seduced by drugs at the same time. This dirty comedy is aseptic, it's awful, it's stupid, but it's not funny at all. Just a waste of time.  "},{"Title":"I'd Rather Eat Dirt Than Watch Dirt","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The experience of viewing this flick is much akin to the scene in the movie where Joe Dirt gets hit by a giant turd that falls from the sky. But unlike Joe Dirt, who mistakes the crap for a meteorite and only later discovers what it truly is, the viewer knows that this movie is nothing more than a pile of crap from the beginning. But what should one expect from the director of an Olsen Twins movie? Did people actually encourage David Spade into believing this character is even remotely amusing? David Spade should have been killed and buried along with Chris Farley, just like in Ancient Egypt the servants would be entombed along with the Pharoah, because its painfully clear that Spade's career died along with Farley that day. RIP Beverly Hills Ninja (which could be viewed as a double feature with this film for 2 hours and forty minutes of an utterly retch-inducing experience). You won't laugh so hard you will cry. "},{"Title":"Ughh, It was torture!!!","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm 13 almost 14 and my friend convinced me to watch Joe Dirt with her....what a waste of time.I kept checking the clock to see how much time was left. I enjoy a variety of movies, from cute chick flicks like, Bring It On or Sweet Home Alabama, to Die Hard and the Matrix.I love light-hearted funny movies but this was pure TORTURE!I enjoyed only one part of the entire movie...the credits, which meant, it was OVER!Spare yourself and go see something worthwhile, life is to short to waste an hour and a half or so on this movie. "},{"Title":"The worst film I have seen in a LONG time....","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I gather this film is a spin-off from Saturday Night Live which we don't see in England. If this is the standard of comedy currently coming from that programme then someone should drown this puppy PDQ.Joe Dirt has not got a single funny scene in it. It is boring, predictable and cruel (without being funny). The film is fractured into various ideas that the script writers dreamt up for Joe to achieve his aims and put together in a pointless, haphazard way. The film cannot decide whether Joe Dirt is a hero or an object of ridicule. There are no redeeming features whatsoever.Do not see this film.Saturday Night Live, try harder... much harder.  "},{"Title":"Easily one of the worst movies ever.","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Words cannot describe how terrible this movie is. I saw it on TV late at night and watched it because it was the only thing of interest on. I ended up turning it off after 20 minutes or so because it was so awful.It is an unfunny mess of a movie that is an insult to humanity. I now realize why this was playing at 11 pm on some obscure channel I'd never heard of. DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE. It made me physically sick to know I'd never get back the 20+ minutes I'd wasted with this piece of you know what. I would rather watch every single Twilight movie back to back than one second of Joe Dirt. I hear they are making a sequel. May God rain fire from heaven on Hollywood before that happens.This is in my top 5 for the worst movie of all time. "}{"Title":"grounds for moving out...","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You HAVE to see this movie! my roommate said, as if he were talking about an eternal classic on the order of Citizen Kane. But he wasn't talking about Kane. He was talking about Joe Dirt.This is the kind of movie that members of my misguided generation think is great comedy, presumably because there's just nothing funnier than mullet jokes and watching David Spade haul around a chunk of crap that he thinks is a meteor. At best, this brand of garbage is a guilty pleasure. But if you find brilliant comedy within this film's tacky confines, I fear for you. Pretty please, go out and rent a movie that's actually good.  "},{"Title":"Unwatchable.","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You'll have a better time stubbing your big toe and watching itbleed. Had there been any apparent good intentions, one might gowith the flow and find something in this train wreck to enjoy.Instead, the film reeks with a cynicism and  lowest-common-denominator point-of-view that results in a totalwaste of time. "},{"Title":"One word......HORRENDOUS!","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Unequivocally the WORST comedy I have EVER witnessed.My God, the fact that this sites viewers have THIS MOVIE higher rated than Ace Ventura When Nature Calls is RIDICULOUS...Blah... "},{"Title":"Steaming Pile of Crap","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This steaming pile of crap wasted, not only 45 minutes of my life, but countless dollars which could have been used to feed the needy.  The movie has no distinguishable plot line, really bad acting and jokes that went nowhere.Not only should rednecks and white trash be offended by this movie, but anyone with a smidgen of good taste and humor.  I returned the DVD to the rental store within 50 minutes of renting the movie, along with a warning to any and all who would listen to stay far, far away from the movie.  The only redeeming value is that it did include Christopher Walken ( a great and hilarious actor), and that for every DVD made there is one less Backstreet Boys album to pollute the airwaves.David Spade should be ecstatic because his career can only go up from this point. "},{"Title":"Possibly one of the worst movies I ever saw","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This flick is pointless, plot-less and completely unentertaining. Joe Dirt is about 95 wasted minutes of your life that you'll never get back. Avoid this loser if you can. "}]