[{"Title":"Not bad, but not great!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" While most of the reviews were negative, this review is a positive one since I am a sucker (no pun intended) for vampire tales. THE FORSAKEN is a throwback to such 1980s classics as THE LOST BOYS, NEAR DARK, and THE HITCHER. While it's not nearly as good as those three flicks, it certainly is an interesting and occasionally intriguing picture. Unlike most teen horror films that have come out in the past five years, it is smart, original, and is actually scary at times. It's a fun horror movie that isn't perfect, yet still worth watching for its somewhat new take on the vampire tale. However, one can't help but get the feeling that THE FORSAKEN could have been so much more and it might have been had it not been heavily edited before its release due to the political climate at the time. Something tells me prior to being edited to death by the studio, THE FORSAKEN was something special. There are moments where one can see a better movie in the mix. Hopefully one day there will be a director's cut so audiences can see what J.S. Cardone originally intended the film to be like. I give it 5/10. It's not bad, though it's not great. "},{"Title":"an older user's review","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  SUMMARY  B-movie.  Men under 30 who consider themselves outsiders will dig this road trip to Hell.  Others, pick another film.WHY I SAW IT  I'm too old for this film, but the young ladies in my local Roswell fan club wanted to see Brenden Fehr  (Roswell, Final Destination) and Kerr Smith (Dawson's Creek, Final Destination).  WB fans, watch for the cameo by Sara Downing (Courtney Banks on Roswell and star of the upcoming TV series Dead Last).THE STORY  Ambitious, dutiful Sean is paid to drive a Mercedes sports car from L.A. to Miami.  In this road movie, he encounters quirky characters in the deserts, canyons and plains of the Southwest.  The pace picks up when he meets cynical slacker Nick and they rescue traumatized beauty Megan.  The reluctant alliance of these mismatched people anchors the story as events go from disturbing to terrifying.IDEA CONTENT  None of the common Hollywood refusal to recognize evil as writer/director J.S.Cardone pits ordinary guys against vampires who once were human cowards who saved their lives by becoming demons.  Even more loathsome are the human criminals who serve the vampires and disguise their crimes as those of serial killers. News-junkies will be reminded of American and Russian politicians who pose as friends of the common people.  With their organized-crime partners, they trash the economy and society while putting the blame on selfish consumers and greedy businessmen. Those who know mythology will recognize the classic sequence of Ominous Foreshadowing, Leaving Home, Wilderness Journey, Crisis of Decision, the Mighty Action, and Personal Transformation.ESTHETICS  Slightly-flawed, down-to-earth script skillfully alternates horror with humor, terror with sexiness. Well-chosen music. Several beautiful actresses.DIRECTION  Downplays charisma in favor of realistic performances from well-cast actors.EDITING  Muffled sound in one scene.  Well-paced, well-cut action.  The night chase by two carloads of vampires stands out.WHY IT'S RATED R  Four-letter words. Topless and nude starlets.  Merciless bloody violence, not graphic enough for the splatterfans.MY VOTE  For this subgenre and intended audience, 8 on a scale of 10. "},{"Title":"Good, dark sub-genre flick","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Forsaken opened here (the UK) yesterday with very little fanfare or publicity. Not being a big vampire movie fan, I went to see the film more out of curiosity than anything else. I was pleasantly surprised. The picture, written and directed by J S Cardone, attempts to drag the vampire film kicking and screaming into the twenty-first century. Of course, this in itself is nothing new. Over the past few years we have endured a number of films that mix the standard bloodsucking fare with the more modern way of life, so much so the collective movies have spawned their own sub-genre. Cardone's film stands out, though. More subtle than 'From Dusk Till Dawn' and a hell of a lot more convincing than last year's 'Dracula 2000', The Forsaken unfolds with a po-faced seriousness often lacking in the modern horror film. So much so that Cardone's film emerges as a dirty, dark, grubby little feature which mercifully eschews ironic, post-modern banter and throw-away comedy lines in favor of a sustained and bleak atmosphere. The film has many strong points. Despite both leading men coming from successful teen-oriantated television shows (Kerr Smith from 'Dawson's Creek' and Brendan Fehr from 'Roswell'), The Forsaken never feels like a teen horror movie. It is rough and unpolished, dark and mean.The cast are solid. Smith makes for a sympathetic hero and Fehr convinces as a man with a mission. Schaech steals the picture, though, as the head honcho. Looking a lot older than I suspect he actually is, complete with a grey wisp in his hair, Schaech wanders through the film with an air of quiet menace that serves the picture well. His jagged, sculptured face tells a thousand stories and he restrains himself from overplaying. One interesting fact about the movie is that, as far as I am aware, there are no shots of glaring fangs in the movie, no sharp teeth. The only 'vampirism' I can recall seeing were Schaech's elongated finger nails. Fresh.Of course the film is not perfect. It is littered with sudden outbursts of loud, obnoxious songs obviously placed to market the soundtrack album. Which is a shame, because the score, when heard, is really rather good. Schaech is under-used, and the gimmick editing employed to signify his murderous rampaging is confusing and redundant. The film will not be to everyone's taste. Too off-the-beaten-track for mainstream audiences and not enough splatter for the gore-hounds, the film is left stuck somewhere in between. The film also contains a number of misjudged scenes that border on being needlessly nasty and vile. The killing of a state trooper is particularly grim. But these are minor gripes. The Forsaken is a good film that, I suspect, will be loved or loathed by anyone who takes the time to watch it. I loved it. "},{"Title":"Kerr....","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not a fan of Dawsons Creek, by that I mean I never got to see it but if I can ever watch it I will, but I have heard of Kerr Smith and it was the only reason I watched this movie. What I found, however was actually a really good and in parts scary, sexy, vampire movie. People say it's not original, I think it is. The vampire lore has been modernised (modernized) very well in certain tv shows, but Forsaken Desert Vampires really did scare me, and I felt something for the poor people who I felt were just like me in this horror nightmare being chased by vampires. If you dont like great acting, scary scenes, drama or great music than don't watch this movie, cause it has it all. Plus it has Kerr in a singlet and cars, what else do you need?? I was 17 when I first saw it, and think it's great for people in and around that age bracket. "},{"Title":"It's an alright film, nothing special, nothing scary, just wanna be Lost Boys in the hot deserts","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Gosh, I remember seeing this movie when it was released in the theaters, a friend from school and I both are just the biggest vampire movie fans you'll meet. You name the vampire movie, I've probably seen it or at least have heard of it. So we naturally saw the trailer for The Forsaken and didn't even hesitate to see this movie, it just looked so awesome. Ever since The Lost Boys, we haven't had a really good teenage vampire movie that could be a new classic for my generation&#x85; well, sadly this failed. Now honestly it's not a horrible movie, but it just didn't thrill me. The story isn't anything special and the cast is pretty forgettable, I'm not digging the make up effects they had considering these vampires didn't have any fangs at all, but I didn't feel like my time was totally wasted.Sean is driving cross country to his sister's wedding when he picks up Nick, a hitchhiker who happens to be a vampire hunter hunting a group of vampires led by Kit, one of the Forsaken. The Forsaken are a group of French Knights that during the First Crusade made a pact with the demon Abbadon to live forever. Nick was bitten by a vampire but thanks to a drug cocktail the vampire virus is kept at bay. Nick is hunting this particular Forsaken he believes him to be the one that his strain of the vampire virus is descended from and that if he kills him he will not eventually turn into a vampire. At first Sean is less than willing to indulge his new acquaintance, but then they find Megan, a girl Sean finds he is attracted to, bitten and left for dead by the vampires. Nick also proves he is telling the truth by killing a vampire, Teddy, by exposure to sunlight. When Sean is infected with the vampire virus, their only hope is to kill the vampire leader before it is too late.The Forsaken is just alright movie, the reason I say that it didn't totally waste my time is because it did have a couple good scenes here and there. I thought that the scene where the guys and the girl go to the hotel room to find out if the girl was bitten by a vampire and get some sleep, then they see the vampires go into the room across from them was pretty intense. The vampires of the movie were pretty decent as villains, but Simon Rex as this sort of updated retarded Reinfield, it's like if Reinfield and Forrest Gump had a child, it'd be Simon Rex and he just didn't get enough character development for us to care at all about him. There are still things that need to be fixed with the script, but I wouldn't say this is a horrible movie, I would just say that you shouldn't go out of your way to see it.5/10 "},{"Title":"gouge your eyes out before entering the theater","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is pure excrement. I thought I was watching a very bad episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer.  Even worse, I found myself in a movie theater which meant that I couldn't change the channel.  The movie tries to redefine the vampire elements, but instead poorly churns out the same old story.  No one will care for its uninspired plot or irritating characters.  Pointing out all of the films logical flaws wasn't even fun.  Instead, it made the experience even more excruciating. This film is definitely up there with U.S. Seals as one of the most painful movies I have ever watched.  The original From Dusk Till Dawn had more vampire action in a fraction of its second half than this abomination.  If you want to watch a film about vampires, pick any vampire movie except this.  "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Young man (Kerr Smith) delievering a car to Florida picks up a hitchiker (Brandon Fehr) along the way who manages to get Smith mixed up and eventually bitten by a group of vampires. Well casted horror film offers realistic performances, nice atmosphere, good editing, well chosen soundtrack, some interesting twists to vampire folklore, and one of the sexiest casts to appear in a horror film in quite some time.Rated R; Graphic Violence, Nudity, Profanity, and Sexual Situations. "},{"Title":"Nice Budget, shame about the story.","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" You know, sometimes you'll see a B-movie horror flick where the story really grabs you and you think, man, if they just had a better budget, cast, effects, this really could have been something. Then in turn you'll see a movie with a decent cast, director and money to spend, but its obvious the script was written two days before shooting began.I'm sorry to say that the Forsaken is more of the latter and less of the former. For us boys, there's plenty of explosions, car chases, the odd bit of nudity, but the plot is so wafer thin it falls to pieces at the first breeze.As a 'popcorn' 'no-brainer' of a movie it's pleasant enough, the cast perform well with what little they've been given, but for me personally the ending felt like it had been 'tacked on' in a rush. That and the fact the whole thing feels like a marketing ploy to earn a sequel spoiled it for me really. Still if you're at a loose end and you like your horror flicks might be worth a watch for Johnathon Schaech (Star turn in my opinion) as the head vampire. Just don't get your expectations up. "},{"Title":"'B' movie","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just picked up this film while perusing the horror section at my local video store.  The box states ...sexiest vampire movie since 'The Lost Boys'!.The only things those two films have in common is that they're both aimed for a teen audience, both seem to have a 'token female', and both are rife with homoerotic subtext.This film is, without a doubt, a 'B' movie.  It is most definitely not the best vampire film I've ever seen, and it's not even the best 'B' vampire film I've seen.  But if you go into it expecting a 'B' movie, you'll enjoy it.  It's even better if you make fun of it a little, ala Mystery Science Theater 3000.It wasn't a film I would buy, or even rent again.  But as something to throw in on a cold, rainy night when I had nothing better to do? Enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Well...*spoilers*","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A b-rate horror movie that has vampires...the only reason it had a little more appeal was because it had Kerr Smith from Dawson's Creek and Brendan Fehr from Roswell...however i felt sorry for Izabella Miko.  It seemed as if she was one of the characters and then when you watch the movie, she speaks twice and it is about 5 to 10 lines at the last 10 minutes of the movie.  Instead she seems to be the expected blonde who runs around and screams.  A fun movie, not that big on effects or plot line, it's fun hour and a half.  But please don't go see this movie with any expectation of this being anything more but entertainment...so go see it, but take it for what it's entertainment value is, a fun movie. "}{"Title":"Loved it and plan to see it again.","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was great.  Didn't have too much of the mystical mumbo-jumbo, while still adhering to a lot of vampire lore.  This movie, while similar to Blade and many other vampire movies, brings new blood to an old story.  Let's face it.  The vampire tale has been told about every new way possible.  While it's true it's very gory, this one combines some of the old and some of the new for a unique affect.That and the slashyness of it made my day. "},{"Title":"A terrifically trashy vampire horror treat","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" While driving a delivery car across desolate desert badlands backroads self-absorbed twentysomething slacker Sean (amiable Kerr Smith) winds up running into both scruffy vampire hunter Nick (an excellent, charismatically ragtag turn by Brendan Fehr) and a deadly bunch of age-old itinerant bloodsuckers led by the smoothly malevolent Kit (the terrific Jonathan Schaech, who's wonderfully wicked in a juicy full-blown nasty villain part). Opening with the arresting image of beautiful blonde babe Izabella Miko washing blood off her bare breasts in the shower, culminating with an exciting explosive climax, with a handy helping of graphic gore, raucous roaring rock music and rousing vehicular action sandwiched in between, this delightfully down'n'dirty low-budget Grade B exploitation horror flick sizes up as a tasty trashy treat. Writer/director J.S. (The Slayer, Shadowzone) Cardone elicits sound performances from the entire cast (veteran late, great character actress Carrie Snodgress in particular contributes a lively last reel cameo as a feisty old battle axe), keeps the unflagging pace fast'n'furious throughout, and, most importantly, delivers the unapologetically lowdown sleazy goods with a winning dearth of pretense and a hugely satisfying surplus of rip-snorting panache. Moreover, there's a marvelously positive and optimistic statement about the redemption of Generation X in this movie Sean starts out as strictly interested in achieving his own immediate goals in life, but by meeting Nick and joining forces with him to fight the vampires he overcomes his initial selfishness and thus redeems himself in the process. Cardone persuasively makes the point that the allegedly lost and hopeless Generation X has a latent capacity to amount to something; all they need is the right stimulus to spark them into action. Since I'm often perceived as a member of this lost generation, I found this message to be both very refreshing and extremely heartening. It's nice to know that there are a few filmmakers out there like Mr. Cardone who haven't totally written us off as a lost cause. A splendidly scuzzy and snappy dilly that's one of my favorite fright features of the early 21st century which even comes complete with some pertinent social commentary about modern youth. "},{"Title":"The Easily Forgotten","Date":"24 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Best write a review before this movie escapes my memory and dissolves with the passing time. Sean (Kerr Smith) works in Hollywood as film editor (mainly preparing trailers) and as such isn't exactly overflowing with cash. Hence when he lacks funds to attend his sister's wedding in Florida he decides to take up an offer by a repo office to drive a classic Mercedes to Miami. Main two rules - no hitchhikers and no reckless driving. In movie logic - those are the two rules that will definitely be broken during the course of the movie. Even more so that along the way he picks up a bum vampire killer called Nick (Brendan Fehr) and a catatonic chick Megan (Izabella Miko). Which only puts him high on the feeding list of a gang of bloodthirsty vampires led by Kit (Johnathon Schaech)...The scriptwriter tried to input some new life into the whole vampire genre by introducing a new myth concerning their creation (connected with the crusades) as well as giving it a great backdrop for prospective sequels (with three more 'original' vampires waiting to be vanquished. Trouble is that the movie itself is so cliché ridden that the freshness just isn't there. Actingwise all the people in this movie do a decent job and have a cool enough feel to them that it makes the flick enjoyable. But the dialogue and direction of The Forsaken is very traditional horror filmmaking (with no real atmosphere behind it) and that in itself makes it a competently done, but forgettable experience. Additionally they are no real action or horror scenes which really stand out and in general you feel more like you are being served a pilot of a television series than a movie itself.The biggest fault I can find in this movie is the character of Megan, who gets involved in the plot for no real purpose, sits around catatonic for most of the movie and doesn't even have a romance with the hero. After all this she just walks away in the penultimate scene never to be heard of again. Totally pointless character played by a passable Izabella Miko (not too pretty and does nothing with her character to make her memorable - given she was supposed to lie around motionless for the majority of this movie). Much more eye-catching was the vampire Cym (Phina Oruche) who must have one of the most sensual lips I have ever seen in cinema... "},{"Title":"Vampire Flick With Little To Offer","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The movie seems to take a little of The Lost Boys and Near Dark and regurgitate it all into your nowadays mundane vampire movie. Little originality shows other than in introducing drugs you can take, known as the cocktail, to stave off vampiric infection. The story has a couple young guys driving around in the middle of nowhere. They run into an infected girl and the vampires responsible for her doomed existence. What ensues is a ridiculous game of cat-and-mouse falling on a flaccid and incredulous conclusion. Don't expect much in the way of transformations or other special effects as this film rides on a modest budget. I give the actors credit for their part in trying to support a plot with little future. 4/10 "},{"Title":"baaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaad","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this film has nothing good going for it!! the most creative scene and the most interesting of the whole film was in teh first 5 minutes when sean goes to pick up the car and from there it was all down hill. i had to force myself to not switch it off, i dont like quitting films half way through but i really really really wanted to on this one. the direction was atrociously bad, the camera work was mostly ok but the direction of the actors was terribly. it was a giant pile of w**k. the plot was dumb, and kept dragging out when it should have finished. if you cant make 87minutes with your plot, you change the plot to make it work for 87 minutes, you dont keep dragging it on and on by having someones car die or just have them conveniently wander off. it was a dumb dumb dumb film and i am glad it is over and i never have to watch it again. "},{"Title":"OK but forgettable desert vampire flick","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  With a plot heavily indebted to John Carpenter's Vampires and also Kathryn Bigelow's Near Dark this is an OK desert vampire movie aimed squarely at the teen market.  Surprisingly amount of nudity for an American horror film of this period but all the racy gore scenes are toned down by the use of rapid editing so you can't make out what is going on properly.  Vampirism is explicitly associated with AIDS as characters are infected and have to take drugs to delay the full blown effects of their bites.  Various plot holes abound and some of the exposition is simply laughable - especially a rapid-fire dialogue scene in which the origin of vampirism as deriving from 8 knights in the crusades is explained; the filmmakers would have been better excising this.  But, with the vampires just nasty cyphers who kill and be killed (rather than in Near Dark where they were just as nasty but at least properly characterised) and sulky heros who hide their emotions behind their dark glasses (I agree with one of the other posters that there is a hidden subtext that the Kerr Smith character is gay) this is a bit of a bore and I found myself hitting the fast forward button somewhere around the half way mark. "},{"Title":"Damn good and original","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Kerr Smith and Brendan Fehr played their parts well, Simon Rex made me laugh a few times, John Schaech made a great, nasty villain, great action, very original w/ telegenetics and vampires salivating blood, Izabella Miko made a good jump from Coyote Ugly to this movie.Credit goes to Tim Jones and J.L. Schell for putting together a score the gave the movie an extra boost(one of the best I've heard)8/10, It kicked ass "},{"Title":"A B movie that's fun to watch.","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is NOT a great movie.  But I think it is a fun movie.  It has an interesting take on the origin of vampires.  It's bloody in a very sloppy kind of way.  I laughed at a lot of it.  Low budget, no name actors, a classic B Movie style.  WAY better than John Carpenter's Vampires. "},{"Title":"Yeah okay it's trashy...","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ... but then what do you expect? It's a Vampire movie, it's about killing, eating and having fun. And quite frankly I had more fun with this movie than with most other movies I have seen lately.Not Oscar Material, but hey, it is definitely way better than other movies like Driven. "},{"Title":"Amazing vampire flick","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have always had an obsessed with vampires. This movie I have loved ever since I have been little. If you enjoy vampire movies with a lot of blood and mean vampires(Not ones who sparkle) Then this is for you.It's about Nick and Sean who meet a mysterious blonde girl. They get sucked into the world of vampires in the middle of the desert. I think the acting is wonderful. Johnathon does an amazing job as Kit (He pulls off being a vampire, looking sexy and scary and also having that it factor to lead the group of vampires). I wouldn't look past this movie at all. It does follow the line of The Lost Boys, John Carpenter's Vampires and Near Dark. This vampires are vicious and vengeful which makes for a good vampire flick. "}{"Title":"way entertaining","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" despite the fact that Comcast only gave it 1 star, I decided to watch this movie one recent rainy Saturday afternoon, and I was pleasantly surprised.first, a disclaimer even though I'm a 50-something female, I apparently have the movie tastes of a 12-year-old boy. I loved Route 666 with Lou Diamond Phillips, and and I never miss Wishmaster 2 when it's on cable.but if you, like me, like guilty pleasures, you will like this movie. it's a buddy pic with a desert vibe and rather a lot of bloody vampiric action, so--something for everyone! the acting is--competent, let's say. Brendan Fehr, who plays Nick, is actually pretty good. (I see he also starred in another favorite guilty pleasure, Final Destination.) and the two main characters are pretty appealing you like them and root for them.when talking about a good-bad movie I always say Well, it's not Citizen Kane or anything but in fact this movie was far more entertaining than Citizen Kane. if you find yourself at loose ends on a rainy Saturday, check it out. "},{"Title":"Better Than Twilight","Date":"17 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I first read the plot description of The Forsaken, I was not expecting a whole lot. However as the story unfolded, I was pleasantly surprised at how good the movie was. The movie starts with Sean (Kerr Smith) who works at a studio cutting trailers. To earn a little extra cash on the side, he takes a job of driving a beautiful Mercedes across country which also happens to coincide with the fact that his sister is having a wedding at the destination as well. Along the way he meets a mysterious hitchhiker named Nick (Brendan Fehr) who, it turns out, is on the trail of a very nasty vampire (played to great effect by Johnathon Schaech). Nick has apparently be bitten by the Forsaken (as the vampires are referred to) and in order to save himself from becoming the undead, he must kill the master vampire before its too late and he is not the only one as they soon meet up with Megan (the beautiful Izabella Miko) who has also been cursed and left for dead by the vampire gang. To make matters worse, Sean becomes infected by accident when Megan passes the curse on to him. Due to the desert setting and outlaw nature of the vampires, one will see the obvious influence of Near Dark on the storyline and while this film is not quite as good as that movie, its not as bad as some people have said. The dialog is pretty decent and intelligent for this kind of movie and there is pretty good direction and camera shots by J.S. Cardone. Add some really cool car chases to the mix and you have yourself a good teenage vampire movie, something that seems rare these days with the introduction of Twilight. So, if you're looking for a decent horror flick to kill 90 Min's, check out The Forsaken. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Vampires","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The similarities between this one and a movie by John Carpenter are more than apparent (as other users have stated here too). John Carpenters movie is much better (and even that wasn't a milestone). Maybe with the new vampire craze right now, this would have been successful and I don't think that it must hide between some of the Twilight moments (especially during the second part of the series).But as it is, this just isn't really good. The action might be the best on hand here, but the characters, the dialogue, the story overall are just that bad, that you are actually wasting your time. There is one scene, that is the most insane ever. (only real spoiler ahead, concerning one scene) A human is playing chicken with a vampire ... and the vampire steers his car away ... Really? Like really? If you still think you don't mind complete madness like that being in the movie, than go ahead and watch "},{"Title":"Watch this film, if you got nothing better to do.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You better fancy either Brandon Fehr or Kerr Smith, to enjoy this Vampire-Road-Movie. Nice to watch, but not very inspired. A nice advantage for director J.S.Cardone to blow up cars, houses and people, but even the special effects are slightly preposterous. And so is the plot. Not even the actors seem to take it serious, so it appears to be some kind of college-theatre on screen. "},{"Title":"Extremely dull vampire movie","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Plot - I won't get too much into the plot of this movie, because it's really just a flimsy skeleton-of-a-story to bring together a handful of hip and gorgeous actors and actresses. Really, the story is about a couple young fellas in the desert who end up becoming involved in a plot to kill a gang of outlaw marauding vampires. That's the sum of it, and I won't tell ya how it ends up.Impressions/observations - What I will discuss is the meat of the movie and why this movie falls extremely short of a good solid vampire movie. First off, I was very disappointed in the way the vampires are portrayed in this movie. There is absolutely nothing supernatural about them - they don't have superhuman strength, don't fly, don't really have anything about them that makes me believe that they are supernatural predators. They are about as ordinary as a gang of unruly youths, except that they have to be killed only under certain conditions. But I don't recall ever seeing them do anything in the movie that would suggest that they are, in fact, vampires. Not only do they carry guns to kill people with, they need cars to get around. I mean, this movie really gave the vampires a very mortal feel to them. They got lots of attitude and desire for blood-letting, but then again so do the thugs in a Charles Bronson movie. If you want supernatural thrills and chills - this movie falls flat on its face. It's just a reason to get a couple young hunks and an attractive girl together in a plot to kill some rather boring vampires.Gore - Not nearly enough to satisfy horror movie die-hards. The gore really comes down to maybe a few buckets of fake blood, but nothing to pop your eyes out or lose a kidney over. The killings are very non-traditional killings for a vampire movie - relatively tame with minimal blood. Too many scenes that cut away to another scene just as you'd expect so see some guts flying out. Again, compared to vampire movies like the very bloody and gruesome Underworld trilogy, this movie is very very tame.Nudity - A few scenes involving the attractive lead actress. I particularly found these scenes rather annoying - nonsensical nudity tossed into a movie, and from a girl who's entire character is nearly comatose and sickly. Although she is pretty to look at, the lead actress's character is so paper-thin and shallow that all she really is in the movie is a silent and underdeveloped persona that, through some odd and contrived arrangement of the plot details, needs to be in the movie. I don't mind actresses baring their skin when the role calls for it, but please folks, put it into context of a movie that makes sense. The first images of the movie showing her in the shower washing off the blood from her body was, in all honesty, nearly the point I wanted to throw the remote at the television and give the movie no further viewing. But I held back my inclination and decided to give the movie an entire watch.Action - Lots of it. Car chases, explosions, all the stuff of low-budget movies. There is nothing in this movie we haven't seen on a single episode of McGuiver. Again, the action is plenty but nothing remarkable. All pretty standard here.Overall - I gave this movie 2 points out of ten, and primarily because, for a vampire movie, it is a step backwards. This movie adds absolutely nothing to the vampire genre and actually mortalizes the vampires. For most of the movie, I was thinking OK this is a joke - we're all going to be told at the end of the movie that they really weren't vampires all along. But they were vampires in the end, just extremely boring vampires that were way to human for my tastes. No fangs, no special powers, nothing supernatural about them. And please, hip does not equal scary. "},{"Title":"Trash....and not in a good way","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I truly hated this movie. Not just a little, *a lot*. A *whole* lot. Yeah, it started promising. It went down hill from there. First off...exactly why was the head vampire scary? He had none of the charisma or sex appeal of Jerry Dandridge or David from the Lost Boys. He wasn't really that menacing or dangerous. Hell, I don't even remember his name, although I'm sure he did have a name. He was just some guy who was a vampire. *Wow*, I'm shaking. Second...I couldn't care less about any of these characters. If I don't care, the movie's dead anyway. Back to these so-called vampires. I guess that's my biggest beef with this movie. I didn't like them. I'm the person who wants the vampires to win. It's sick, I know. They weren't even hate-able, though. A vampire movie is supposed to have blood in it too, right? I'm not asking for buckets, but please...gratuitous gore does not a vampire movie make. Neither does gratuitous T&A. Perhaps I would have liked it better if the vampires had fangs. Nah, I doubt they would have even been able to do a good feeding scene then either. Unfortunately, this movie is missing a whole lot more than that. "},{"Title":"This is the worst vampire movie I have ever seen.","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a complete waste of my time and money. Throughout the whole movie these Vampires use a weapon to kill people. Not once Do you see them bite anyone to kill them, as do the more traditional vampires. They display no signs of super strength. If the hippie looking fellow didn't tell us they were Vampires, we would never know what they are. To me they are just a bunch of free loading weirdo's, which is another thing, I have never seen a movie, where the vampires are poor. They don't even have a decent car to get around in. If you are on this site trying to find a movie to see, I strongly urge you to skip this one, or you can just kick yourself afterwards.  "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE IS THE REAL THING. VERY SCARY YALL!!","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so super cool i ate my popcorn with one hand. then there were many explosions that i had never seen before!! the  vampires were so cool that they sucked the blood with a crazy straw!! SLURRPPP!!! AWESOME!!!!! they should make a sequel where these vampires meet blade and j-lo meets the mummy!!!! A+++++ P.S. i have a light sabor "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I first thought this was going to be another cheesy, teen-horror flicks.  But it wasn't so bad!  I ended up loving the movie, and a sequel should be in the works.  I recommend this movie for all who enjoy a good teen-horror flick *better than Scream trilogy and I Know What You Did Last Summer and its sequel I Still Know...*  I give it 4 and a half stars.  Brendan Fehr's performance warrants that alone. "},{"Title":"The For-STANK-en","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Complete waste of time. Horror movies are only good if they are well-made. This is not one of them. Bought this hunk of garbage at the store for $1.99 on a gamble. Well - I lost that one. I must have been influenced by the hot pic of the chick on the cover..but know what?? She didn't look anywhere NEAR that good in the movie. What a waste. "}{"Title":"Some good action, but overall a ripoff","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Forsaken has a guy who cuts trailers going across the country to go to his sister's wedding.  But in Texas (oh, of all places) he runs into a hitch-hiker who gets him into trouble when vampires start hunting them down. Some things in the movie not seen before (like a naked woman in a shower not being arousing, of course considering the blood) and some good action and stunts, but the plot seems like it's done before; this film was done better when John Carpenter did vampires (think about the similarites). Time waster deluxe.  C+ "},{"Title":"Desert blood-spill","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Forsaken follows a young film editor who takes a cross-country trip from Los Angeles to Florida for his sister's wedding. Along the way, he picks up a hitchhiker on his way to Texas for unknown reasons&#x97;but he gets more than he bargained for when the two come across a disoriented woman at a truckstop. Turns out the hitchhiker is a vampire hunter, the girl is infected, and there's a cult of desert vamps seeking them out.I saw this film years ago back in 2001 when it was released, and recently revisited it almost fifteen years later. Often ranked among film buffs as one of the worst post-millennial vampire movies ever, The Forsaken is a hodgepodge of traditional vampire elements with revisionist intentions that don't quite work. The film's greatest idiosyncrasy is that the vampires here are fangless&#x97;instead, they were more of a cult of blood drinkers who carry a virus that turns those who come into contact with it. The fact that the vampires in the film are not really vampires in the traditional sense seemed to have elicited extreme reactions from genre fans. I'm not what I'd consider a hardcore vampire film lover, so I was able to accept this on its own merits, as unusual as it is.While the script is a bit clunky and the character relationships seem arbitrary and at times underdeveloped (this is most apparent in the film's denouement), it does evoke a dusty, creepy desert atmosphere. As beautiful as the desert is, let's be honest deserts are creepy. They are no man's land&#x97;desolate, expansive, and dangerous&#x97;and that is something this film gets right. The vast landscapes, long two-lane highways, and dingy desert truckstops are captured fantastically. It largely cribs this atmosphere in co-opting the tradition of road movies, and many have compared it to The Hitcher, although I think it aesthetically looks more like John Carpenter's Vampires (also set in the desert), from which it borrows liberally.The film is nicely shot, with direction from J.S. Cardone, who began his career with the bizarro '80s slasher film The Slayer, and would go on to script and direct the atrocious remakes of Prom Night and The Stepfather after The Forsaken. For all intents and purposes, the direction here is decent, and there are some great images and scenes interspersed throughout. Kerr Smith and Brendan Fehr ground the film as the two male leads, while Izabella Miko is fantastically weird as the mute, traumatized victim of the vampire gang. Jonathan Schaech seems miscast here in my opinion&#x97;the role of the vampire leader seems to call for someone who is legitimately intimidating on screen, and he's just not&#x97;he's ridiculously sexy in this, but he isn't scary. China Oruche plays his mad sidekick nicely, and Carrie Snodgress probably turns in the most notable performance as a gun-toting desert redneck.Overall, The Forsaken is probably not as bad as you've heard it is. It's an entertaining and atmospheric road flick that is legitimately fun. The truth is that it's an average revision of traditional vampire territory, and the amount of flack it's gotten over the years is largely due to the disgruntled vampire fans who want their vampires served a certain way. All in all, it's a decent, bloody desert romp from the early 2000s. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Functional vampire movie","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Sean (Kerr Smith) is taking a week off to go to his sister's wedding. To help pay, he gets a job delivering a vintage Mercedes. In the desert, he reluctantly pick up hitchhiker Nick (Brendan Fehr) who turns out to be hunting vampire Kit (Johnathon Schaech).As a vampire story, this is perfectly fine. Schaech is certainly a very creepy guy. Izabella Miko is super hot. Smith and Fehr are good TV stars. It's a functional horror movie. There are good number of explosions, but not excitingly shot. There is a good amount of blood, but it's not scary.If there is a problem, it's that it's not big enough to be outstanding. It's not gory enough for the gross out fans. It's not exciting enough for the action fans. And it's not scary for any horror fans. It's a bit of all of them and excel in none of them. "},{"Title":"Don't Forget Your Fangs","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Bitten, bloody, and beautifully naked young Izabella Miko (as Megan) survives a vicious vampire attack, which kills the rest of her family. Meanwhile, handsome California film student Kerr Smith (as Sean) gets a week off work, to attend his sister's wedding. Without much money, Mr. Smith arranges to deliver a $50,000 Mercedes cross-country, to Florida. He is advised not to pick up hitchhikers. But, sexy Brendan Fehr (as Nick) desperately wants to ride in Smith's car. The sun's killing me, Fehr complains. For gas money, Smith agrees to ride with Fehr.Like many vampire films, The Forsaken works best as a collection of fantasies for the early teenager. Since it's rated R, you had to sneak at the theater, or wait for the quick coming DVD. Young TV attractions Smith (from Dawson's Creek) and Fehr (from Roswell) have great chemistry as the same-sex hook-up; their relationship falls safely into subtext, however. Fehr's subtle attraction is unrequited, with Smith coming to favor the mouth-wateringly nubile Ms. Miko. Gratuitously naked and (mostly) catatonic, Miko is the fantastical female sex object.The predatory Phina Oruche (as Cym) and beautiful Alexis Thorpe (as Teddy) also titillate - and, it's fun to see these two women (who briefly graced Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Dark Shadows universes) as bloodsuckers. Snake-charmer Johnathon Schaech (as Kit) is a to die for head vampire; his day driver Simon Rex (as Pen) doesn't suck, sadly; but he is very helpful in fixing speeding tickets. In one of her last appearances, veteran actress Carrie Snodgress has a small role. Writer/director J.S. Cardone corrals it all effectively, without too much originality.****** The Forsaken (4/27/01) J.S. Cardone ~ Kerr Smith, Brendan Fehr, Johnathon Schaech, Izabella Miko "},{"Title":"No Fangs","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hey although the movie is based on vampires, but in the entire movie not a single monster showed up his fangs. Even in biting scenes no teeth shown,,,, Guess what? Call it vampires or cannibals?But overall, the plot was interesting, with some more effort the movie could have been more enjoyable. I enjoyed John Carpenter's Vampire. Was quite a good plot and awesome acting too. The John Carpenter baddie did outperformed the forsaken baddie. But still, my kinda story and good acting from all star crew. I would like to see more of such great plots coming ahead for all vampire fans.I give it 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Comparsion","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is NOT the vampire movie of scariness, darkness, or mystery but this is probably one of the best vampire movies with well- developing dialogues that bond Sean and Nick's relationship together. Originally, Sean does not like Nick, the hitchhiker. An infected female that holds a telepathic connection between them and the vampires, is who unawarely motivated Sean and Nick to stick together as team. At the end, they are not giving up each other and instead they fight together in order to break the blood strain. In the dialogues between Sean and Nick, there is a obvious building of trust in one and another. Sean develops the willingness to believe the legend of original vampiric strain when he is, like Nick, infected. It is not a typical movie which infected ones are slain but instead, they were treated with some medicine. Instead of he is a vampire, it was he's inflected with a blood disorder.That is when a part of reality kicks in. In addition to why I enjoyed this movie is that there is no romance undertones to the movie like many other vampire movies. "},{"Title":"Minor, but watchable","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Very similar in conception to the WB TV series Supernatural, so much so that I wonder if there's some direct influence. Suffers from an annoying hero who does everything stupid in the bank and a faceless sidekick. On the other hand, there's plenty of blood, some gratuitous nudity, and plenty of action. Movie obviously owes a great deal to NEAR DARK and, of all things, JOHN CARPENTER'S VAMPIRES, which wasn't that good in itself, but there you are. Carrie Snodgress wanders on screen for about fifteen minutes to liven things up. Movie is often very stupid with all sorts of plot holes, but it's never less than watchable, despite it all. Check it out, just don't expect all that much. "},{"Title":"Take Near Dark throw in a little Hitcher and get The Forsaken","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I first heard about this film I figured just another stupid teen vampire movie trying to imitate The Lost Boys. However after finally seeing this film it turned out to be more of a remake of the vampire flick Near Dark with elements of The Hitcher thrown in. This movie isn't what I would call a masterpiece but is still able to be entertaining and some what interesting. The plot is nothing new to the vampire genre a guy picks up a hitch hiker who turns out to be a vampire slayer, the main guy gets bit and they go about trying to hunt down the master vampire, along the way they find a girl thats been bitten by the master vamp and bring her along with them using her to lure the master vamp to them, much like what happened in the John Carpenter flick Vampires. The only scene that stuck out in my mind is the car chase other than there's nothing here you couldn't see by watching Vampires or Near Dark. Overall an entertaining vampire flick that kept me interesting from start to finish, nothing really that hasen't been done before. If you enjoy check out John Carpenter's Vampires or Near Dark. "},{"Title":"Vampires shouldn't be using shotguns","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie starts out quite well but get worse and worse. We get to follow a young man who's driving a car from Californa to Florida. He picks up a hitchhiker who turns out to be a vampire hunter and a girl who's been bitten and is turning slowly into a vampire. This film's big problem is that the vampires behave more like ordinairy gangsters than vampires. They use shotguns and aren't mysterious and menacing which vampires should be. There is a background history in the film that explains where the vampires come from and how they became vampires. That's good. That's what you want out of a vampire film; mystery and supernaturality. Not uncharismatic vampires driving around in cars and using shotguns. "},{"Title":"What starts as a teen road movie evolves into a nightmare fight against supernatural beings.","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best things about this movie is that the viewer is kept as natural/real (as opposed to supernatural) as the leading actor. The director establishes normality very well before diving off into the supernatural.During the start of the movie nothing truly out of the ordinary happens. The car breaks down, he loses his wallet, coming up short on a long trip excuses picking up a hitchhiker promising to pay for gas, and even helping out a menacing-looking teen gang, all could have happened to anyone. Subtle hints are are dropped as to what is behind the scenes, but it's not until later in the movie that the hitchhiker/hunter explains what is really happening to the characters around him. Up to that time much of what happened is quite natural.(One of the problems with people labelling any movie a vampire film is that others will have preconceived ideas about how it should be. It would be best if those viewing this movie did so without anticipating a vampire film. Teen horror is more what I'd call this, so as not to spoil it for others.)Synopsis A young man wants to kill two birds with one stone, deliver a car and attend his sister's wedding. The person responsible for the car orders him to deliver it without a scratch and not to pick up any hitchhikers. After losing his wallet and having to fork out for repairs to the car from the cash meant for his sister, he picks up a hitchhiker because he offers to pay for the gas.*spoilers below here* The hitchhiker is really a slayer/hunter of vampires. Character dialog seems to be used a lot to quell any anticipated irritation in the viewer as to why things are not going as the viewer would wantThere's a time and a place for everything.Says the main vampire, meaning it's not yet time for the main showdown. This is a kind of underlying theme in this movie. A lot of information is revealed, gradually, on a need-to-know basis only, as the movie progresses, climaxing in the ultimate battle between opposing forces. The settings are also quite as remarkable as the inclusion of a classic car the old style motel room and surprising the compassionate old woman living with spiders in glass cages. All woven together nicely to make a memorable movie. ... as always, it's hard to please everybody, especially when people approach a movie with preconceived ideas, but I'd love to see anyone do better with young talent and a tight budget. Other movies that might interest those that liked this one Innocent Blood, Dracula 2000, Vampire of Brooklyn, (JC's) Vampires, Lost Boys, From Dusk Till Dawn 1, 2 and 3... (in that order) but none of these are as good as blockbuster of the genre Near Dark. Still, definitely 8 out of 10 for a good effort.  "}{"Title":"Not a bad vampire movie, but not the best","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I sat down to watch this movie, I was expecting a mediocre, overly gory B-vampire-movie. I was surprised to find such a well-filmed, well-edited overall pretty good vampire action-horror flick. The plot is OK, but it's mostly just there to put the characters into the situations which allow for action and/or horror scenes, involving the vampires. However, I thought it did a good job of explaining the vampires, and making it seem reasonably credible that these creatures could actually exist in real life. The acting is OK, but no top performances. The characters are well-written and diverse. The dialog was very well-written, especially for this type of film. The soundtrack, mostly consisting of rock, is quite good, and fits the scenes and the overall mood well. The movie is fairly entertaining, but fails to be a truly good, thoroughly well-made film. Some parts just seemed to lack a little too much work. Overall, a decent enough vampire flick, but a tad predictable and quickly forgotten. I recommend this to fans of vampire films, and fans of action films altogether. It's not great but it's worth checking out. 6/10 "},{"Title":"yay!","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie rules. I think it's awesome how they take a new look on vampires and how the bite infects humans. It's also great how you can only kill vampires on holy ground. Most vampires are the usual. Oh you can kill them with a stake, garlic, silver and all that bullcrap. This vampire movie was way different and I like it. Plus the characters are awesome. The way the vampires bite humans is different too. Usually vampires bite their victims on the neck and it's over with. In The Forsaken they bite their victims anywhere. Oh, the vampires also don't sleep in coffins which get's really old after a while. The only movie that coffins for vampires is good in is Interview With the Vampire. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I LOVE(!)this movie! I only saw this movie because of Brenden Fehr and was sooo glad that it was good. The Forsaken was so cool! All the actors did really well. (Brenden Fehr and Kerr Smith in particular). Everything about this film rocked. I recoommend this movie to anyone (though you may have to be able to handle a little blood). Other than that this movie is amazing and scary and everything a vampire movie should be. "},{"Title":"If you liked Carpenter's Vampires...","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched The Forsaken on OuterMax. I had heard somewhat mixed things about it, but it turned out to be fairly entertaining. The acting was pretty good considering it was mostly filled with people from the WB. The plot was entertaining, but kind of a direct copy of John Carpenter's Vampires. The special effects are pretty limited, some nice gore effects. There's plenty of blood and nudity, pretty much what any vamp flick needs.Kerr Smith plays the main character, Sean. Kerr's probably best known for playing Jack McPhee, the somewhat gay guy on Dawson's Creek. I've only seen one episode of that though, so I mostly know Kerr from his role in Final Destination. He seems to be fairly talented as an actor, cause all three parts I've seen him do have been pretty varied and different. Brendan Fehr plays the hitchhiking vamp hunter, who was also in Final Destination, as well as being on the show Roswell. Brendan was decent, but he didn't really pull off a good vamp hunter in my opinion. Izabella Miko picks up where the teasing left off in Coyote Ugly (i.e. she's actually naked in this, quite a bit even). Other then her nudity, there really isn't much to comment on. She's either unconscious or a freaked out mute through 90% of the movie. The coolest character and best actor I saw in the movie was Johnathon Schaech, who was also in The Doom Generation, who plays the lead vamp. He reminded me a bit of Benicio Del Toro, the way he looked and acted.The plot was so close to Carpenter's Vampires, that it could be plagiarism. Take the Vampires script, make the actor's younger and a fewer number of them, then tweak it around just a little bit, throw in some elements from Lost Boys and Near Dark, and you have The Forsaken. The only saving grace really is, unlike Final Fantasy, which was a boring rip off of Aliens, The Forsaken is actually kinda entertaining. The vampire mythos seems kinda subdued. I didn't really see any fangs, just funny looking eyes and they did bite people. Although it seemed more like they were just biting people more then they were drinking their blood. The only way to kill them was sunlight or decapitation, and there was something about hallowed ground that I sorta missed.There were some cool gore effects. A guy's heart got ripped out, and a vamp chick's head got blown off. The sunlight death effect was pretty cool, and typical. The usual flailing, screaming, and bursting into flames, again very reminiscent of Vampires. They must have had some kind of strange contact lenses for the vamps, cause they're eyes looked pretty funky. Other then that, they sprayed some cool looking blood around, which is always fun.Overall The Forsaken is very similar to Vampires and Near Dark. If you're a fan of either of those, you'll probably enjoy this flick. However, it did have some severe lack of originality problems. The ending left it wide open for a sequel, too, so who knows.  "},{"Title":"Nice BloodSucking Flick","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've heard from a lot of people that the forsaken is a dumb movie but it's actually  not that bad. It's nothing special, but it's easy to watch and it's kinda exciting. The black girl was so ugly, she was one of the scariest people ever. The forsaken had a good soundtrack. I would give it 8/10 "},{"Title":"Best Vampire Flick Since 'From Dusk Till Dawn'","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, it's that good. It's no masterpiece, but it's fun to watch and it's not pretentious like the latest vampire movies.Johnathon Schaech looks and acts great, as well as Brendan Fehr and Kerr Smith. In fact, the acting is exceptionally good and the direction is at least decent. It seems that everyone did their best.The good thing about 'The Forsaken' is that it knows it's a B movie and it doesn't try to prove that it's anything more than that. When Vampire movies attempt to become artistic, they look ridiculous. The desert setting, always a safe bet, works fine and helps the general atmosphere. It even resembles some of the 80s vampire movies, which is good in my opinion.Anyway, if you're into that sort of thing, give this movie a try. It's hunderds of times better that Carpenter's ('From Dusk till Dawn' ripoff) 'Vampires' or even 'Blade'.9/10 "},{"Title":"Loving it.","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie. It brought a new concept to the Vampire Myth that I hadn't thought of before. A lot of people didn't like it because of some excessive nudity or excessive blood, but I didn't think it was excessive. Very good movie. Actors were awesome. "},{"Title":"nothing too good, enjoyable fresh version of vampires","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I won't say much, this is quite typical light-weight vampire horror. But I have much to argue with those who defend the purity in vampire stories. I mean, hey, c'mmon! all this rules are ridiculous anyway, apart from being ultimate cliches. Other than this, its nice killing of time. Nothing original. "},{"Title":"Off the catwalk","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Frankly, at 40 I'm too old for teen vampire flicks! Having said that I found myself being very cunningly entertained by 'The Forsaken'. So what if all the cast look they just stepped off the catwalk of some really up-market fashion show, they make sense in their parts and the camera genuinely loves them. The plot is devastatingly silly, but come on, so are vampires! Relationships, interaction is all well observed and cinematography is brilliant. You can safely go rent it for an entertaining late Saturday night in your couch. "},{"Title":"yuma, arizona!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Honestly, the only reason I went to see this film was that it was filmed in my hometown of Yuma, Arizona. (And the surrounding area, of course.) I didn't really have high expectations but those of us who are from such a small town tend to support one another. I ended up really liking this movie. It was entertaining and it wasn't just another bad vampire movie. The storyline was unique enough to set it apart from the slew of other gory vampire films I have seen in my lifetime. It was great. It did not try to be anything it was not. And I can appreciate that. I liked it so much, I bought it. "}{"Title":"Better than I expected!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Anymore these days I find myself approaching the Horror section at my local video chain with great trepidation. There have been too many times that I have been burned by a groovy looking hologram box display or a four-star A-list film that really should have been better suited as a straight-to-video release. These flicks usually involve some guy with a hook who goes around imitating old Halloween gags on various must-see-TV film stars.I had passed by the Forsaken over a dozen times throughout the course of my journey. But it was a Tuesday night and Smallville was a re-run so what was I to do. With a heavy heart I reluctantly took the video up to the counter. The clerk gave me a wounded gaze and I sorrowfully dipped my head in shame muttering, I know. I know.Regardless, I took the film home and popped it in ye olde VCR. (No way in hell you were going to get me to spend DVD rental prices for this.) But much to my surprise, this film ISN'T HALF BAD!Yes half of the cast are the surviving characters from Final Destination that's true. And granted, the remaining half are the drippings sloughing off of waning TV hits like Dawson's Creek and Felicity. But by gum, I LIKE this movie!It doesn't offer too much in the way of originality or even plot for that matter. But the scenery is really sharp, the music is kicking and the characters are almost interesting. I really got a kick out of the character of Nick. This is the LAST guy on the face of the Earth that you would ever expect to see as a Vampire hunter! It's actually quite a refreshing change of pace for once. Typically your vampire hunters are tough acting black martial arts stars or kewpie doll California blondes. But this guy looked like he just stepped out of the Betty Ford Clinic. Nice touch.I'm not going to bore you by giving forth a long-winded summary. But let's just say that as far as vampire movies go, you could do a lot worse. Remember kiddies, if you go in expecting absolutely ZERO, then the only place you can possibly go is UP right?Cheers, --The Headhunter "},{"Title":"More action than horror","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I like this movie because it was a vampire film and lots of action into it instead of lots of horror.  The acting is similar to watching popular teen shows and that's why they aimed this movie to teens and the nudity is not bad at all.  The violence has bloody scenes but needs some brutality and style.  If anyone is disappointed in this film, try watching Gangster No.1, it's not a horror flick but ten times more bloodier than this movie!    "},{"Title":"Sick Movie","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I never seen such weak vampires in any vampire movie so farseeing the reviews about 50/50 good/bad, just decided it is just plain bad. The idea is fun , but the deaths of the vampires just too easy.i wouldnt recommend it to anyone  "},{"Title":"Bad A$$","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I heard that this movie wasn't very good.  I thought is rocked!!  Besides Blade I (Blade II sucks), and Dusk till Dawn, this is the next best vampire movie.  I'm not sure it was worth the 9 I gave it but I thought the score it had didn't do it justice.  Overall its a good movie, not a classic but one that you could def. watch a few times before getting sick of it. "},{"Title":"Dracula was wrong","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was fair, going with a couple of twists and some cool heroes is okay.  Some of it a bit cheesy, not too mention making any other vampire movie you have ever seen null and void its still okay.  Forget what you have learned from any other vampire movie this ones in a league of its own. Action sequences are very cool but leaves some of the finer points a blank. Probably should make this one a rental. "},{"Title":"Not to be taken too seriously","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 91 min.This is a slightly unusual vampire road movie, for what I gather was a low budget flick the director has done a good job. The telepathic virus idea is a bit goofy but similar ideas crop up elsewhere e.g. Star Trek Voyager (the time hopping deathship).Gore is good and not excessive, for a Hollywood movie the topless scenes are unabashed (more like a french/european movie). If you take it as a black comedy it runs better.Not going to set the world alight but good for a wet night.6/10 worth watching "},{"Title":"Nothing New","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In a crowded subgenre like vampire movies, you have to have something fresh to stand out and this movie made no attempt. It used every new-modern cliche about vampires that have been thoroughly played through in other vamp movies.There are so many ridiculous plot holes that it's painful to actually sit through the whole movie. Once you get past the plot holes, it is predictable to the very end.When they couldn't think of anymore terrible lines that the actors could force out, they showed some girlie-chest or explosions.Lastly, **SPOILER** I have never seen a vampire be so menacing in such a non-supernatural, thug type way. Since when do vampires choose to attack people by way of 9mm instead of fangs? Is that supposed to be scarier?I gave this movie a 2 out of 10. If you have never seen any other vampire movie before, then this may offer something fresh for you personally. As for the rest of us, pass it on up for... well, just about anything. "},{"Title":"Forsaken? Anyone that wastes time on this B movie is definately forsaken!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Now, before I slam this movie too hard, please realize that I am a HUGE fan of Vampire movies. My movie collection contains many movies about our favourite movie monster. However, not even me, the superfan of vampires could get into this total ripoff of a movie. I am very surprised that John Carpenter did not sue the makers of this flick! You see, this is basically a teenage version of John Carpenter's Vampires. The whole premise of that movie is used again in this joke of a film.Two young men, one a young man on a cross country road trip, the other, a vampire hunter, come across a group of vampires. They find one of their victims (a young blonde woman), who is slowly turning. The vampire can telepathically connect with this woman, who freaks out, and bites our young friend, thus leading him down the path to becoming a vampire also. Sound familiar? I thought so.This movie would not be bad if John Carpenter's movie was not made over two years ago, however, it was, and it is definately the superior here. Please, do yourself a favour and stay away from this flop, or you will definately wish that one of the vampires in the movie would just jump out of the screen and put you out of your misery!Go and rent John Carpenter's Vampires or The Lost Boys for a really entertaining vampire movie.  "},{"Title":"Bad, but not in a good way","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When you have vampires shooting shotguns, you know you're in trouble. Why this movie didn't go straight to video is beyond me. Although if they actually make sequels like they set themselves up to do at the end, those will definetly never see the inside of a theatre. The script is just plain bad. Without looking at the credits I knew it had to be written by the director. Listening to the commentary, he confirmed my guess that he was a pompous knucklehead. You know what the J.S. stands for? Just sucks.  "},{"Title":"Average or so","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not the greatest vampire movie, but it was watchable.  It featured a different type of vampire, which was fine with me, but it was just a little too convenient that their car stalled near an old graveyard for the final battle.  I would have preferred it if they set a trap for the head vampire instead.Because it's a vampire movie (one of my favourite genres), I gave it a 6/10.  If the movie was available at a cheap price, I would likely buy it.If you're wanting to see a better vampire movie, check out Dracula 2000, Dracula, John Carpenter's Vampires or Shadow of the Vampire. "}{"Title":"a decent one","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was an average vampire movie, featuring a man making a cross-country drive to attend his sister's wedding and winds up being bitten by a vampire. He, a hitchhiker, and a traumatized lady (both of whom have also been bitten) then seek out the source of the bloodline to kill it and rid themselves of the vampire virus. You really have to suspend disbelief to get into this movie, but I thought it was ok.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Excellent acting and cinematography","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Characters(Actors) and story line is excellent. It would be nice to see main characters perform in a sequel. This show would be great on television and a weekly program too. I can't wait to buy this movie. "},{"Title":"It wasn't the best vampire movie","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  But it was an oddly great movie!! It wasn't your ordinary teenager-style movie as I found it very original that the setting was in a desert as the vampires had to hide in the trunk to prevent sunlight exposure. I also remembered Brendan Fehr and Kerr Smith (the heroes of this movie)from Final Destination, that is why I saw this movie.  Kerr Smith does a good job of going from an aggressive character in Final Destination to a more humble character, Sean, in The Forsaken. But Brendan Fehr stole the cake for this one as he had the coolest character in the whole movie, and he was very convincing as the hard-nosed hero of the movie.  It was a bloody movie but not as gory as the typical horror movie (but Kerr Smith does cause someone's head to explode in one part though). Like I said it isn't the best vampire movie but unlike Dracula 2000 or John Carpenter's vampires --It survived and turned out good (behind From Dusk Till Dawn and Blade) "},{"Title":"A movie with teeth","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  J.S. Cardone's movie The Forsaken, on the surface, seems like yet another cheesy teen horror flick.  Yet, once the movie starts, it grabs you and never lets go 'til the end.Sean (Kerr Smith) is on his way to Florida, when he runs into Nick (Brendon Fehr), and becomes involved what seems to be a cross-country vampire hunt.  Since I want you, the reader, to see the film, that's all the plot I will give away.So what makes this film different from the rest of the cheap vampire flicks? Unlike recent garbage (like John Carpenter's Vampires and Dracula 2000), this film has a wonderful story line, which delves into vampire folklore (which I am REALLY into, by the way) and gives the bad guys more attitude, rather than just making them look like walking stiffs.In general, I found this movie incredible.  My rating  4(out of 4) "},{"Title":"This was a tight movie","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie because I recognized the two stars (Kerr Smith and Brendan Fehr) from Final Destination.  I liked their vampire hunter(Fehr), It was cool that this was the first movie I've ever seen where a vampire hunter drinks beer and smokes weed. And on top of all of that he kicked ass.  I also found it funny how Kerr Smith could go from a dick-head like character in Final Destination to a nice guy type in The Forsaken.  I don't want to give it away but the movie was cool "},{"Title":"A small step in the right direction","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Really just a b-movie, it's not too bad.  Though it stars lots of pretty-boys, and WB kids, the film is dark, and actually pretty bloody. It's no classic, but I really thought the middle of nowhere setting was pretty effective, and I want to see more straight forward horror movies.  I don't know if I'd watch it again, but I thought it pretty good, I thought the actors did a pretty good job, and I loved how Kerr Smith's character apparently worked for Troma, with all their posters on the walls!  "},{"Title":"Fors-aichin'","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although there's an awful lot not to like about this flick, there's enough redeeming qualities to make it worth a seeing. It's bursting at the seams with cliches, and is much too much like Near Dark (a movie I was never nuts about). However, it's a post-Lost Boys vampire movie, and at no point do water guns filled with Holy Water make an appearance!!The cast is mostly adequate Kerr Smith (from Final Destination, one of my favorite recent horror flicks) is okay as the hero, and Simon Rex (former MTV VJ/Gay Porn star) is surprisingly effective as the Rensfield character. However, the villain (who quotes Metallica lyrics while stalking) is a dud. He's supposed to be hundreds of years old, but displays the empty-headed vapidity of a grunge rocker and all the frightfulness of a Kinkos employee (plus he's played by Jonathan Schaech, an actor I never could stomach). The vampire hunting character is not quite as lame, but does resemble a little kid trying to imitate Tyler Durdin (and failing, natch). There's also a thankless role for sexy Izabella Miko. She gets to sweat and pant and scream a lot, but that's about it. She gets a few lines of dialog towards the end, but not a good enough role for me to not feel guilty about enjoying her many nude scenes. There's a lot of gratuitous nudity in this, and some gore, too, which was quite refreshing in the current neutered film world we live in. Throats are slashed, women spontaneously combust, a heart gets ripped out, a guy gets blown away by a shotgun and then is set on fire, plus a gal's head is blown away and we get to see the chunks hit the floor. Like most modern horror flicks, the editing gets really choppy whenever there's violence, which is always annoying (and ironic in this case, as the movie's main character aspires to be a film editor!). There are also lots of car crashes and explosions, if that's your sort of thing.There are other little bits I liked in this All the Troma posters that appear. The neat shot where a car disappears over a hill and then doesn't re-appear where it should. The tons of missing posters at the gas station. The flies on the window of the hotel room. The bad guy using a snake's venom as a drug. The boiling vials of blood in the hospital room.So while The Forsaken doesn't break any new ground, it seems to have been made by well-meaning people who genuinely like horror movies, and is better than the recent Dracula 2000. It's worth a look-see. "},{"Title":"A great, weird teen kill horror thriller","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Forsaken I think is so far a very underrated teen kill movie. The story focuses around Kerr Smith who works in a movie studio. On the road he meets the vampire killer (Brendan Fehr). After that Kerr is bitten by a vampire they have to search for the head vampire (Johnathen Schaeh). This is a really great movie. It also very graphic. I would recommend this movie to anyone above the age of eighteen. This is one movie you certainly don't want mom to see.9/10 "},{"Title":"you need more than a lot of blood to make a vampire flick","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Sean, (Kerr Smith) an editor of  B-movie trailers, takes a road trip to Florida for his sister's wedding when he picks up a hitchhiker named Nick ( Brendan Fehr). Nick is hunting down the vampire gang responsible for infecting him with their deadly blood virus. On the flip side of the coin, the gang led by Kit (Johnathon Schaech) are on the hunt for fresh meat. Joining Sean and Nick for the ride is Megan (Izabella Miko) a pawn in this vampire game.I remember seeing the trailer for this movie a while back and thinking this might be a good movie.  Trailers can be deceiving.  The movie starts with Megan in a great shower scene that is very eerie. This is the general tenor of  horror films in that we get this girl in trouble from the get go and we're suppose to feel for her until she is ok. The movie didn't short change us on this element.  You wonder what happened to her that she is covered with blood and babbling. From there, we are swept into the world of Sean as he takes off on the road and meets Nick and later Megan again. The writing and directing is the main problem with this movie. For example, when we meet Sean we get the feeling  he had a well organized life. He takes off on a trip and now he's in the company of girl on the edge, a group of blood suckers, and one vampire hunter. Yet I never got the feeling that his life had turned upside down. True, he said it had,  but it happened so quickly that it felt as though he was driving to it intentionally. The rest of the movie is filled with stagnant dialogue and cinematography that goes nowhere. Another thing that bothered me with this film is the way Megan is handled in the script. This girl is given morphine and is basically out of it for a major portion of the movie, then all of a sudden she is competent enough to drive away in a car. There is also another weird discrepancy in that when they get to a house, Megan is out of it again, so the lady that owns the house takes her in and put her to bed.  The sick deranged Megan, after being of no help to the story and walking around in daze wakes up and does some very good, clear, competent story telling for a girl that just woke up from a drug induced daze.  J.S. Cardone attempted to make an intelligent vampire movie free throw but missed the hoop entirely. You won't find any demonic faced vampires in this film. You get nothing more than the knowledge that they are vampires. I will give him credit on the history of the vampires and I will give him credit on casting a young hunter. It would have been very easy for him to cast an older hunter to give credibility but he didn't.As for the acting, I think the script got in the way of the actors.  Kerr Smith has done some very good acting in the past (especially on Dawson's Creek) and he doesn't suck in this, but I don't feel like he was given the room to go anywhere in this film partly because the film didn't go anywhere. Brendan Fehr (Roswell) told us why he was there and that was it. I didn't believe a word he said past that.  Johnathon Schaech has to be the most boring vampire leader in the history of vampire movies.  In the trailers, we are led to think that Cym (Phina Oruche) is the leader and you have no idea how much I wish she was.  I actually found her to be alluring even though she had little dialogue. Miko proves that it doesn't take that much talent to make it in the biz these days. You must be thoroughly learned in the fields of yelling, crying, convulsing, screaming, and having a great bod.In my film criticism class, we learned that you have to look at a few things when you review a film. The first being what genre is the movie in and does the end product justify it's placement. You also have to look at what the movie is trying to do and say and ask yourself if it is doing that. The Forsaken has one major problem. It plays itself as a  horror film, yet it's not scary or suspenseful. You can't call it an action picture because there isn't any. As for what it was trying to do?....Well as I stated earlier, Cardone tried to make an intelligent vampire film and didn't reach his goal at all. This movie has nothing to say or a theme.  The Forsaken leaves it's audience feeling intellectually drained and financially shortchanged.  I hope the actors can redeem themselves in other projects. "},{"Title":"Nice low budget thriller","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Forsaken is one of the best low-budget horror flicks i've seen in a while.  The story concerns road-wary vampire hunters tracking down a group of the bloodsuckers to try to stop the spread of the virus they carry. Although the story is nothing new to the genre, it is handled with style by director Cardone and the cast is top-notch and carries the film along, despite an obvious low budget. The low-budget in the end gives the film a grimy realism that so many films strive for but seldom achieve. Definitely one of the better horror flicks recently in an era where mindless slasher movies cheat fans out of any type of reward. Recommended. "}{"Title":"I've seen better...","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Where do I begin? From the beginning I suppose.The movie was alright, but I have seen better 'vampire' movies than it. I'm young, 19 years old, so I don't really pay attention to old vampire movies, but the best 'vampire' movies I have seen was THE LOST BOYS, J.C. VAMPIRES, and BLADE.The script was not written as well as it could have been written. The acting was alright, but I did not need to see nude females. The scenerio was basically right on the money. The plot could have been thickened!Out of 10, I rate it as a 5. The movie did have 'some' good scenes. "},{"Title":"I went in expecting good trash ....and I got good trash.","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this last night.  I dragged a few of my friends with me and of the four of us, there were only two who liked it.  Well,  I was one of the two. This is a return to form for horror.  It's the type of film that would have been ideal for a direct-to-video release, but I'm glad it went to theatres. It had all the qualities of a late-night HBO movie and this was why I loved it.  It had lots of blood,  a dry, dusty setting, actors you've never really seen before,  characters that you really don't care about (although I did like the vampire hunter), nearly every cliche in the book (although they did stay away from the crosses and the garlic), and an ending that leaves the whole thing wide-open for a sequal.I loved the techniques used by the diretor.  There are a lot of fast zoom ins and quick cuts to keep your attention.  Although the film never really succeeds in scaring us,  there are a few moments of heavy suspense.  There is also a lot of humor.  The vampire killer is such a likable guy,  you kinda feel like you know him.  He could easily be one of your beer-drinking buddies.I only have a couple of complaints and they're pretty minor.1.)  I think  that the head vampire should have been more of a tough guy. I mean this guy was kind of a wuss.  He always had this look on his face that made me want to knock the hell out of him.  He was also a bit too nice.  HE let them go way too many times when a nice fight would have been good to see.2.) I think the gore level could have been upped a bit.  Oh yeah, there was plenty of blood,  the ketchup flies in this one like nobody's business. But I just think there could have been more flesh-tearing and head ripping.Well, those are my only two complaints.  I really enjoyed this film. It's really what I would expect from this sort of thing and anyone who comes out of the theatre not liking this film probably didn't know what they were going to see to begin with.Oh,  one more thing Orgy fans be on the lookout.  During the beach scene, Ryan Shuck makes a cameo as a smart-assed,  beer drinkin', surfer type. He's pretty funny, actually.  (his character)    "},{"Title":"Good first time round","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is good the first time round but after that it's a complete dud. **Spoiler Warning**There were really only two vampires and they never showed them turn into vampires.  I think they just wanted to save money on effects.Go see something else.  Don't waste your time on this one.   "},{"Title":"Big Disappointment , Save your money","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was looking forward to this movie when I saw the trailer. Well, let me compare this movie to Vampires. Vampires is about 3.5 times better. In the very beginning of The Forsaken it opens up with a girl in a shower covered in blood bathing. Now I thought this has some freaking potential . It went all downhill from there. I really wanted to just walk out it was so bad. And I am a huge Horror buff. Go rent dracula 2000 instead ! Now that wasn't a bad flick. "},{"Title":"NEAR DARK ripoff for teenage boys","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The sexy girl gets a lot of face (and other body parts) time, and the sweet virginal girl bats her eyes at our heroes, but neither one has very many lines. This is a testosterone-driven flick for boys only. The Fearless Vampire Hunters take a break from Dawson's Creek to drive a Mercedes around in the desert outside of Texas. Johnathon Schaech looks mighty sexy with those feral cheekbones and silver-streaked hair. I just went because I had a free pass. Wait for cable. Better yet, rent Kathryn Bigelow's desert undead classic NEAR DARK. "},{"Title":"WELCOME TO THE NEW ERA OF HORROR MOVIES!!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First off, I would just like to say that I WAS reluctant to see this movie at the beginning.  Almost every review I read either said 'A new all-time low for vampire movies' or 'A new all-time low for horror movies'.  After a lot of pushing from some of my friends I went to see it and was in total shock.  As you may think, since the 'bad guys' in the movies drink blood, they are vampires, right?  wrong.  This movie puts a whole new spin on blood-sucking creatures of the night and does it with style.  The story is explained in the movie so if you want to hear this bad ass plot line GO SEE THE MOVIE.  Unlike every other horror movie in the business this one does what made me the happiest.  It didn't use the corny one-liners like every other vamp movie I've seen (but this isn't about vampires, im just giving an example).  The movie never slows down, and when you think it might they throw in some very awesome graphic violence.  Everything in the movie is made so realistic it almost makes you believe that when you leave your house something's going to jump on you and bite your neck.  This movie is a definite 10/10 from me, and I guarantee it will be from you to if you see it. So go see it....NOW!! "},{"Title":"simple refreshing bloody gore","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There is a simple plot to this story, and it sticks with it.  Lots of violent bloody gore, naked chicks, flames, and gunfire.  It is actually kind of refreshing to have a classic teen horror flick that doesn't choke on it's own modern cowardice.  The on screen flashes representing dreams and flash backs irritated the audience as usual.  The legend of the nature of these vampires is a little different, and that seems to help bring the old stories up to date with modern medicine.  The plot holes, continuity errors, and stupid mistakes the characters had to make to drive the story do hinder the quality as a movie.  This is a little better than most in that regard.  The acting is up to the job, and the comedic relief is well done.  The entertainment value to the audience varied widely from person to person. The score was effective at creating tension and drama.  If you like the genre, this will be okay, but it will be better with tempered expectations.  "},{"Title":"Vampires....Again","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Forsaken is a choppy and derivative horror flick that offers a fair amount of entertainment for genre fans, IF they don't expect anything highly original and don't think about the story too much.  Shamelessly cribbing from Near Dark, The Hitcher, John Carpenter's Vampires, The Wraith and about a dozen other thrillers, writer/director J.S. Cardone has fashioned a slick-looking pastiche aimed squarely at the same teen crowd that eats up TV fare like Roswell and Dawson's Creek (there are cast members from both of those shows in this film).  If you've seen any of the aforementioned films, you'll pretty much know what to expect.Diverting, but not essential viewing.  My rating   ** stars "},{"Title":"Vampire Eye Candy!","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Forsaken is a fun movie, loaded with lots of vampire eye candy of both the male and female persuasion.  Jonathan Schaech (or however you spell it) makes a marvelous lead vampire, complete with killer jawbones and wicked gray streaks in his mop.  A cool lead turn from Kerr Smith as well, who definitely has the mojo to carry similar films in the future. The unknown chicks are fun as well, either shrieking in terror or showing those teeth and ta-tas with reckless abandon.  A good time is had by all, even the victims.  Check out MTV vet Simon Rex playing a hillbilly dope affectionately referred to as the retard.This movie is reminiscent of The Crow in its visual style (heavy on the shadows, the strobes, the flashbacks, the color saturation) but owes almost its entire plot to John Carpenter's Vampires.  The two guys, the desert, the listless blond, the bad-ass brunette bad guy, the psychic link...it's all there.  But this movie stays cool where Vampires goes for the lame joke. The only moment where I had to giggle was when the luscious Mr. Schaech resorted to singing Metallica's 'Enter Sandman' a cappella.  Entirely appropriate, but still a little dumb.  To the movie's credit AND disdain, check out their entire new explanation of the vampire origin.  It's a little flimsy but entirely original.This is definitely one of the better additions to the teen horror genre that has gone mighty stale lately (with exceptions like Final Destination and Teaching Mrs. Tingle).  It even made some of the grown-ups in the audience jump!  A fine new addition to the vampire genre.  Not quite up there with the best but certainly not drowining with the worst (can you say Nadja?). Enjoy it with someone you want REALLY bad.... "},{"Title":"Finally A Decent Vampire Flick","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  NNNNOOOOOOO!!!!! This is what you might find yourself screaming when someone mentions another horror movie aimed at teenagers, I am no different.  There have been good (Final Destination) and BAD (everything else).  The Forsaken can be added to the stack of good horror films.  The acting is decent, the story line is a bit predictable, and the cinematography and direction borrow heavily from other films, but it is fun.  You can't expect to find a great film here, if you do you will be let down, but if you just want to suspend your reality for 90 minutes, you should have fun.P.S. Izabella Miko is hot Kerr Smith and Brendan Fehr are cool and Jonathan Schaech looks old and hairy "}{"Title":"A cool movie that delivers a hit!","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Forsaken is an awesome movie. It's gory and it has a plot. I just plain love this film. I'm adding it onto my favorite horror collection. Along with Final Destination, The halloween series, and the friday the 13th series and now it's The Forsaken.Everyone must go see this movie! My grade for this film is a B+. Have fun watching it. I know you will! "},{"Title":"This is all about survival of the fittest.","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nice quick shower scene with girl washing blood off her whole body, and a flashing on the road made me think that I was possibly going to be in for a treat with a vampire movie featuring WB stars. I was not wrong, as we got a real bodily treat in this one.Sean (Kerr Smith) is delivering a Mercedes 450 SL from L.A. to Miami to attend his sister's wedding, and he picks up Nick (Brendan Fehr). They run into Kit (Johnathon Schaech), and we find out that Nick is a hunter. I assume a vampire hunter, as Kit and his gang look strange. We soon find out they are not the biting-on-the-neck kind of vampires, but the rip-your-heart-out kind.They pick up Megan (Izabella Miko) and we find out about Nick, while we enjoy Megan's body.There is a lot of explosive action as they drive across Texas to escape the vampires.Oscar nominee Carrie Snodgress (Diary of a Mad Housewife, Iron Jawed Angels) appears in one of her last performances. "},{"Title":"Quenching the blood thirst.","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Nothing new here (as it reminded me of an hybrid of  Near Dark (1987) and Vampires (1998), plus a pinch of The Hitcher (1986)), but this ultra-sped up, angular and slick (although keeping dirty n' gritty due to its desolate location choice) contemporary vampire tale knows its target audience and plays it accordingly. I didn't have a bad time with this little b-grade item actually, but it sure does feel aimless and it didn't fully grab hold of me.Writer / director J.S. Cardone does a sturdy enough job, and constantly floods the screen with rapid-editing slices to make the blistering action, and disorienting spell of the situation seem more exciting. Sprinkle in some bloody gore and bare skin. Now you can't go wrong. These fitful shots might cop a real shellacking, however it seems to work in favour with its context as Cardone's material has the magnifying glass on the MTV generation. In the long run it's quite an up and down ride, as it seems to want to balance out its lean action with some character development. It wasn't too bad on that front, but a lapse or two towards the dying stages shows up prominently. There was some well-conceived ideas in certain sequences, and Cardone's cutting direction is about the timing, and setting up the hovering threat into well constructed spontaneous action, and darkly nasty spurts. The cinematography is spaciously done when on the road, and frantic during the harsh times, and the pounding soundtrack keeps the brooding tone.Oh no a young good looking cast, but where credit is due the acting was above average. Kerr Smith and Brendan Fehr's appealing, fine tuned lead performances, superbly counter-punches Jonathan Schaech's elastically vicious and sensual vampire part. The stunner Izabella Miko doesn't get up to much, but there for eye candy. Carrie Snodgress is rather enjoyable in her cameo part. The rest of performances are solid, and Phina Oruche is a hard one to forget. "},{"Title":"The night has an appetite.","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ~Spoiler~ The Forsaken is a vampire movie that had a lot of potential to be cool but fell short. This is probably J.S. Cardone's best film and more than likely his biggest hit. It borrows a little from better vampire movies and that's where the film suffers. You can tell Cardone was going for a Near Dark vibe and some story elements are exactly the same as John Carpenter's Vampires. In Hitcher fashion, Kerr Smith is driving a car through the desert that must be delivered on time. Because he's short on gas money he picks up hitchhiker/vampire hunter Brendan Fehr and the movie starts to pick up. Johnathan Schaech leads vampire clan that is after our heroes. Schaech is a good villain and I like him as an actor, he just has deliver some cheesy lines. I felt embarrassed for him when he has to sing Metallica's Enter Sandman. But he makes up for it with the rattlesnake scene. Despite the cheesiness, it's the buddy rapport that makes this movie good. Fehr and Smith have a good chemistry together and, to be honest, I wouldn't mind seeing a follow-up with their characters (the movie is somewhat open-ended). They'd have to bring more originality to the table however. If you're really into the teen movies from this era, I'd say check it out. You could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"Movies are bottom of the entertainment food chain for me. Not bad, not brilliant, very average.","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Forsaken starts with Sean (Kerr Smith) getting a job where he has to deliver a car across country to Miami within five days with the added bonus that he can attend his sisters wedding on the cheap. While on his journey a guy named Nick (Brendan Fehr) ask's him for a ride & he'll pay for the gas, being a tight little git Sean accepts. Unfortunately for Sean this decision turns out to be a bad one as Nick is in fact hunting Vampires that roam the desert in an attempt to kill the Forsaken, a head Vampire named Kit (Johnathon Schaech) who spreads the Vampire virus. Along the way they encounter Megan (Izabella Miko) who has been bitten & is close to turning into a Vampire herself, she bites Sean so he also becomes infected with the virus which means he too will become a vampire unless they destroy the source of the virus. Nick uses Megan as bait to lure Kit & his gang into the open where he can put an end to their evil blood-sucking ways...Written & directed by J. S. Cardone I thought The Forsaken was a decent way to pass 90 odd minutes but wasn't anything special or spectacular. The script takes a lot of modern cinematic Vampire themes & ideas, it's a sort of mix of the likes of The Lost Boys (1987), Near Dark (1987), From Dusk Till Dawn (1996), Blade (1998) & Vampires (1998) all of which are better than The Forsaken together with the standard isolated desert road trip type setting of The Hitcher (1986) & Thelma & Louise (1991), there's nothing original or nothing we haven't seen before in The Forsaken that's for sure. The character's are your typical teens, the dialogue tries to be hip & modern as it refers to the likes of MTV. To it's credit the film moves along at a fair pace & isn't boring although I'd hardly call it exciting. There is also a criminal lack of Vampire action & lets face it that's the only reason we're watching it, isn't it? The Forsaken is one of those films which is perfectly watchable & entertaining enough in it's own right but within five minutes of it finishing you'll have forgotten all about it.Director Cardone, who directed one time British 'Video Nasty' The Slayer (1982), does an OK job but it's hardly the most exciting film to watch. There are a lot of dull sandy yellow desert shots which give the film a bland look. There are a couple of OK car chases & a few decent explosions but again it's all rather average & middle of the road, it certainly doesn't get the blood pumping that's for sure. Gore wise The Forsaken is a disappointment, there is one scene where someone has their heart ripped out, someone has their throat slit, someone has their head blown off with a shotgun & there is some blood drinking but that's it & Cardone directs with fast editing cuts so you see the absolute minimum he can get away with. On the IMDb's main page for The Forsaken there are some still photo's from the film including one where Sean is holding what looks like a jar of eyeballs, well I only saw it a few hours ago & I'm positive this scene never appears in the version I watched so maybe the film was cut for an 'R' rating or something.With a very reasonable sounding $5,000,000 budget The Forsaken doesn't look like it, sure there are a few action scenes & explosions but other than that it's rather dull & unadventurous. The acting is quite good here actually, I liked Schaech as the main villain & the two young leads were likable enough. Despite being in the film for most of it's duration Miko doesn't say a single word until the final 10 minutes or so.The Forsaken is an OK time-waster, it's perfectly watchable but there are many better Vampire films out there so why would you bother with this? If your a horror nut like me then yeah give it a go but more casual viewers would be advised to think carefully first. Just about worth a watch but don't bust a gut doing so. "},{"Title":"WB generation horror flick isn't bad.","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Young man driving through the American west runs into a band of vampires and picks up a hitchhiker who's hunting them down.The Forsaken is nothing new, in fact it recalls a number of 80's classics like Near Dark (1987) or The Hitcher (1986), but it does stand as a pretty entertaining vampire movie never the less. Like 1987's Near Dark, this film also tries to avoid many of the old-fashioned vampire clichés. Director J.S. Cardone delivers some good action sequences and the occasional touch of style to this film. It benefits from some good gore FX and a good rock soundtrack.The cast is decent enough, the best being leading man Kerr Smith and Johnathon Schaeca as the intimidating leader of the vampires.A decent little flick, even if it's not particularly original.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"An 80's style like horror film.","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In what is probably best described as a B movie vampire picture given the theatrical treatment, KERR SMITH plays an film editor, who, driving coast to coast, picks up a hitchhiker that is really a vampire slayer & whom he teams up with to try & destroy a whole nest of vampires in the desert. Despite the gorgeous photography & messy vampire kills, THE FORSAKEN is essentially a remake of NEAR DARK, but is only half successful, while the actors worked well together & the direction was pretty good for this type of film, all in all it's ultimately forgettable, there's not much happening in the picture & the film comes off as sleazy at times, making it feel more like a direct to video B movie horror effort, which like I said above is basically what this is, die hard horror fans may want to see this however, but others need not apply. Not a complete loss, because there are some interesting things in it, but not to involving.**1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Good movie, Great film","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Another vampire movie? This one has a fun take on the genre. There's your classic Hunter, your unwilling Hero, and your Damsel in Distress. The movie gets away with all its clichés by never taking itself too seriously and working well within the limits that a vampire movie imposes-- that is, although there is a fresh take on things, the vampire scenario is still as believable as a vampire scenario is going to be... if you follow. There were a lot of extras I really enjoyed too. I liked the way the director used music to introduce (and then go with) the different characters. I also liked the light, comic-book feel of the movie. I found it really easy to know who to root for/against. There were quite a few scenes that had a frame-like style to them; they were quite artistic. The colours, guns (!), and cars also made this a very stylistic film.I haven't read any other reviews for the movie yet. I'd actually never heard about it 'til tonight when I picked it up at movie sale. I'm glad I bought it and can foresee it becoming a movie night favorite.7/10 "},{"Title":"Run-of-the-mill vampire flick *minor spoilers*","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is exactly that. Bucket-loads of gore, naked teens, familiar plot ('we have to find the original source' etc.) big guns and a main vampire that looks and acts annoyingly like David Boreanez (aka Angel). Although the acting isn't terrible it is typical of this genre which has now been bled to death.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A vampire film....no more no less!","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Depending on one's level of literate imagery, one can take a smattering of each of the more intelligent reviews here - I think there are five!- just add water and hey you have it, THE FORSAKEN A profile!Rather than re-hash the oft-trumpeted theory that THE FORSAKEN is basically a sprinkling of film-making self-indulgence, i.e. the movie directed from within...by technologically wannabe superior and no doubt self-opinionated film-fledglings, lets just say that the news isn't all bad. obviously a part-updating of THE LOST BOYS (Hell, it even mentions this on the cover) why else would it be called THE FORSAKEN? (LOST????  is there a connection there?   I think there is!)Kerr Smith is Sean, heading cross country to his sister's wedding on the far coast. Mid desert he picks up drifter-but-you-know-he-isn't Brendan Fehr who, God, what a coincidence - knows a vampire when he sees one in the best Corey Feldman tradition. Plot runs mega thin when they come up against Miss Mouse - Megan (Izabella Miko) who has been bitten in a seriously rude part of her anatomy. THAT scene in the motel room and bath is plain awesome...rampant soft porn! I nearly wore out the VCR on Pause.  Like all bitten but not yet turned young things, she is more than just a pretty pair of mammaries (and GOD, they are that!) She is of course on-line with the fanged one and indispensable in tracking his whereabouts.Harking back to the imagery bit I mentioned....we have the cool desert barbecue bit (AGAIN curiously similar to the beach carnage in THE LOST BOYS) where the organ removal scene might be referenced as the film within a film concept, ripping the heart out of the real-time action! I toss that in for no particular reason - just occurred to me!As always, the film winds down to the final rather low-key confrontation as our beaten and desperate heroes pray that Peter Cushing has one last trick up his sleeve!  But hey guys, I gotta say I've seen way worse than this! No one is ever going to top TO DIE FOR, FRIGHT NIGHT, THE LOST BOYS and NEAR DARK being the quartet of vampiric brilliance (lets toss in Christopher Lee's DRACULA too) As far as THE FORSAKEN goes you're looking somewhere between COUNT YORGA VAMPIRE and Wes Craven's DRACULA 2000. "}{"Title":"A decent vampire based road movie","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The last film I saw at the cinema was 'Long Time Dead' and then a week later I saw this on DVD.  Where is the justice?  This film is just head and shoulders above the British film and yet it's not the one on general release.  A generally unknown cast put in a moody and creditable performance in a pretty good vampire road movie.  Of course there were similarities to 'Near dark' and at least a nod of the head to John Carpenter's 'Vampires' but if you're a fan of the genre and don't mind your vamps without fangs then give this a run, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Brillaint Vampire Film!!","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"                    The Forsaken is a wonderful movie with great acting. Kerr Smith was great as Sean, as did Brendan Fehr as Nick, and a great performance from Izabella Miko as Megan. This movie actually scared me, I don't know why, but it has something about that creeps me out. J.S Cardone was excellent at his directing and knew what he was doing. If you liked The Lost Boys or Dracula 2000, this is a must-see. As for me, being a horror fan, I had to see this movie. I liked it so much I bought the DVD video! The Forsaken will scare the heck out of you! I give it a perfect 10 out of 10!!!!!   ) "},{"Title":"Wow! This is really GOOD.","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Forsaken has recently been released over here in the UK with no 'real' publicity or anything for it, except for a couple of magazine reviews, etc. which is quite a shame considering it's a good movie. I'm not really too keen on Vampire movies. I mean, some are okay, like this one and Dracula 2000/1, so I can tell you The Forsaken was definitely better then  expected.The Forsaken stars, Kerr Smith, Brendan Fehr, Izabella Miko and Johnathon Schaech. You'll know them all from the likes of Dawson's Creek, Roswell High, Final Destination, Coyote Ugly and That Thing You Do. All of them are really good here. Izabella Miko doesn't really speak much though.The movie is about Sean, (Kerr Smith.) a young guy who has just taken some time of work to drive across the country to attend his sisters wedding. On the way he he picks up a hitchhiker, Nick (Brendan Fehr.), who's vampire hunter, wanting to track down a group of  vampires that feed on people. Along the way, they run into Megan, (Isabella Miko.) who has just been left for dead by the vampires. The decide to use her as a lure for the vampires. Sean ends up becoming attracted to he though. Further into the movie, Sean ends up being bitten by Megan and gets infected with the vampire virus that Megan and Nick have. Now, Sean, Nick and Megan must try and kill the vampire leader, Kit (Jonathon Schaech) so everything can be right again.The directing and script in The Forsaken are both very good, which makes this movie a very exciting one and I give it an 8/10.  "},{"Title":"the guys were hot, but the film wasn't that hot","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Usually when I see a film, I see it if there are actors or actresses I like starring in it, or I see it for the advertising. I mainly saw this movie for the hot guys in the film. I love a good horror movie and I wasn't too disappointed with this film. But I think it just started to lose my interest by the middle of it because it got really noisy and the action was hard to follow. I liked the hot guys in it and I was glad to see them working all together in one movie. But other than that, it was very predictable. But see it for the hotties if you must. "},{"Title":"A great, great movie.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Going into this movie, I wasn't expecting much. The fact that there were a mere 12 people in the theatre didn't raise my expectations at all either. But the trailers looked cool, and I like both road movies and vampire movies, so I gave it a shot. Am I ever glad I did. This movie was incredible! It puts a whole new spin on the vampire lore, and brings it into the 21st century. Without going into plot details, I'll just say that it is very clever. Two minor complaints about the movie. 1) The lighting in some scenes is poor, and you can barely make out the shapes of the charactors (But this is only for a short period of time. 2) Brenden Fehr is in dire need of a hairbrush throughout the movie. His hairdo was so ugly it was actually distracting! These minor glitches aside though, incredible movie, not just a Next generation's Lost Boys and a kickin' soundtrack. 10/10  "},{"Title":"The title says it all","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie should be forsaken. In a word awful. I was embarrassed to be sitting in the theater (which was almost empty). Have you ever seen Near Dark? Yeah, the really good modern vampire movie. Have you seen John Carpenter's (pretty bad) vampire movie? Have you ever seen the poorest excuse for a vampire movie rip-off? Then you can save your money. Don't even wait for this on DVD. Skip it all together. Rent Near Dark if you haven't seen it, or even if you have, the money and time will be much better spent.   "},{"Title":"Blood and gore and nothing more...","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I think this is the only movie I've seen that has had the title card over some breasts.  This has blood and gore and nothing more. There isn't much of any interest at all, to tell you the truth. Nothing new is added to the vampire mythology. And it's not like there are any exciting fight scenes, or hunting scenes, or anything like that.  It's a half-hearted vampire movie. Is there even any fangs?The only good vampire movie to have a small number of vamps is Dracula and Shadow of the Vampire. This one has 3 vamps and they're not even interesting. Alas, I believe more could not have made up for much.I love b-movies too, but this one has nothing to offer. Except that chick from Coyote Ugly's bare breasts. Hate to say it. D A N "},{"Title":"Beyond the rape and explosions... watch Near Dark Instead","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Beyond being way darker (as in lack of brightness) than the trailers make it out to be, the movie is a lame mix of Near Dark (vampires in the desert) and a Troma film.  Saw it at the free preview night and I wanted my money back.I'm not spoiling anything by saying that it has way too many explosions, and for those 16 and under, a few breasts (that is, when the women aren't stripped/killed a/o raped - something that got tedious after the fourth set of jump-cut flashbacks).  The plot is a bit contrived - a rehash of stuff from Blade.  And yes, they do use the dumbest line in a movie yet the source of the origin (hint to screenwriter buy a thesaurus, they mean the same thing).  To top it off they leave some of the characters and plotlines unexploded for a sequel.Find something better to do with your time - watch Dracula 2000 (a masterpiece of film compared to this).  At least in that movie the female lead talks, instead of stumbling around like a strung-out junkie with autism. "},{"Title":"The Forsaken","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Prolific director JS Cardone(Alien Hunter;Shadowzone;Outside Ozona)brings us this profane Midwestern vampire tale with attitude starring Kerr Smith as, Sean, a young editor of trailers for a low-budget movie company who takes a car delivery job from Cali to Florida, but his journey is disrupted when he unfortunately picks up a hitchhiker, Nick(Brendan Fehr)who just so happens to hunt bloodsuckers. The head vampire, Kit(Johnathon Schaech)he's looking for is of a specific number called The Forsaken, a clan who accepted an offering from a demon and hence were cursed to only walk the earth at night. Sean and Nick come across a young woman, Megan(Izabella Miko)who has been bitten by Kit and is slowly going through the process of turning as the vampire who left the virus in her continues to live. While trying to cool her body(..Nick, who has been bitten and must also find a member of The Forsaken before he himself becomes one of the undead, notifies Sean that Megan's blood is burning so her body temperature must be cooled)Megan bites Sean's hand leaving Kit's virus in him. So now Kit's death is of major importance because not only does Megan suffer as long as he remains alive, but Sean also is threatened to become a vampire. Nick, appropriately enough, encountered a doctor who had been bitten and was given knowledge of certain drugs which can slow down the process of turning into a vampire. But, the drugs can only last so long so finding Kit and exterminating the source of the blood disease is of utmost importance. But, Kit as his own brood, two female bloodsuckers and a dim-witted subservient day-driver(Simon Rex), who travel with him so Sean and Nick, with Megan used as bait, will need to find holy ground for a legitimate stand-off. Ina Hamm(Carrie Snodgress, rather wasted)just so happens to live in the middle of nowhere with her house stands on top of a Spanish graveyard..perhaps this is indeed the refuge they need as a base to fight Kit.The film doesn't pretend to be anything else but a horror tale of innocents plunged into a battle against a predator who holds the keys to their salvation. It's too bad this was made in 2001 because Cardone's trashy little vampire film would make perfect drive-in fodder. Schaech's presence as a charismatic and sexy male vampire really adds a great deal to this particular film as does Phina Oruche as his black sex slave Cym who attacks bloody throats with ferocity. Rex will earn chuckles as a rather simple-minded human watcher often saying Okeydokey when ordered by his boss to commit murderous deeds to those who threaten them. Particularly memorable is the murder of a cop who pulls Rex's Pen over for speeding, insists on seeing what was in their truck, receiving a shot-gun blast to the chest, and subsequently is burned alive on top of the hood of his police car. The attractive cast is headlined by Smith as the young hot-shot stud with a big bright future in the movie industry whose life is changed by a fateful drive into a most dangerous situation, and Izabella Miko as the doe-eyed innocent whose family was obliterated by the evil clan and bitten by Kit who must settle unfinished business when one of his vampire chicks didn't follow his command of killing her. Fehr was a bit too young, I felt, for the part of vampire hunter who knows an awful lot about the history of this breed of bloodsuckers..I often wondered just how he received all this information. But, I guess Cardone was perhaps motivated by the studio to fill his cast with beautiful people so Fehr was selected. The opening of Cardone's film sure sets the tone of this flick, a zombie-like Miko showering the blood from her gorgeous naked body. She's later undressed by Nick attempting to find the vampire bite as Megan lies comatose from the virus raging inside her. Miko is either asleep or mute for a good portion of the film but Cardone utilizes her vulnerability, youth, and beauty quite well..very photogenic. There's a very nifty image of Miko's Megan with her hands pressed up against the back window of Sean's car as they drive away from a scene which nearly killed them. This film isn't all that original and seems to evoke the spirit of Near Dark, but I thought Cardone uses the setting at night really well and there's a nasty streak this film has that worked for me. There are some unnecessary images propelled into the action from past scenarios which distracted me a bit, but certain gory bits are effective like how vampire bodies explode when in contact with sunlight too long, and a shot-gun blast to the face which does some serious damage. The Forsaken would probably make an appropriate double feature with John Carpenter's Vampires. "},{"Title":"Watchable desert vampire flick.","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" While traveling cross-country Sean picks up a hitchhiker named Nick,a mysterious,pessimistic fellow with no direction.They encounter a freaked-out girl whom Nick seems to know how to help. Come to find out,the girl was recently bitten by a vampire and will completely turn into one in a few days.Nick had the same thing happen to him and thus recognized the symptoms;he's been postponing the inevitable through a cocktail of drugs that can stave off the vampire virus for a while.If he can find and kill the vampire who bit him,the virus will go away.The Forsaken is a fast-paced vampire flick obviously influenced by Kathryn Bieglow's Near Dark.The film features a decent amount of blood and nudity.The acting is fine,unfortunately The Forsaken is never scary.Still if you want to kill some time give it a look.7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"John Carpenter's VAMPIRES meets NEAR DARK","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film by J.S. Cardone, who directed SHADOWZONE,(an Alien-ripoff fittingly) has all the B movie essentials Beasts, Breasts, Blood !The story is very closely a mesh of John Carpenter's VAMPIRES and NEAR DARK - both are in that subgenre of Modern Vampire-Westerns .Most of the time this concept results in hokey crappola . Vamp-Westerns are not new ! Ever see BILLY THE KID VRS DRACULA(1968)? There is another 60's vamp-western, a B&W, real good, can't remember its' name though .This movie rises far above that drive-in fodder . A brand new concept for the origin of the vampires, that still retains the supernatural elements . But, if as they say, crucifixes and wooden stakes don't work, why do they need to kill the lead vampire on 'holy ground' at all ?Beyond that, these vamps aren't PC , except in there rainbow coalition compliment . These vamps are not sensitive, they are vicious predators who rape and kill for the pleasure of it all . .They even casually kill a really hot blonde they abducted -(One note a continuity error; the blonde they abduct from the desert party has white short pants on in that scene, then when they bring her to the motel, she is wearing gray shorts . "},{"Title":"Awful (spoilers)","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" What can I say? This is definitely one of the worst movies I have ever seen. It has no likable characters, a poor story and poor execution.SPOILERSThe story suffers from a number of plot holes. Example, Nick has supposedly been tracking the vampire gang for months. He knows that they can only be killed by sunlight or decapitation, yet his only weapons are a handgun and a knife! He had plenty of time to pick up a bladed weapon suitable for decapitation, so why doesn't he have one?Plus, it is stated several times that the Forsaken can only be killed on hallowed ground. Yet they still need a human to drive them around in the day. So sunlight kills them anywhere? So when the head vampire dies at the end, it didn't need to be on hallowed ground? So the 'quest' to reach it was pointless. And yet again we have the 'dawn to mid-day in seconds' cliché found in so many vampire movies.My main reason for seeing this was Izabella Miko. The way she is shown on the forefront of the video cover suggests that she has a big part. Yet she is completely wasted as she spends 99% of the movie in shock. She is used in the film merely as a way to lure the vampires (yet another cliché- woman bitten by vampires who has a psychic link to them). Not to mention the gratuitous nudity which I despise. She deserves much better than this.The protagonists treatment of Megan (Izabella) is abhorrent and leaves the audience with no sympathy for them at all. I was really hoping that Nick would die and that is not right. We are supposed to cheer the 'heroes' on, not hate them.Avoid this movie like the plague. "},{"Title":"Highly under-rated Vampyre flick!","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I found this movie to have a solid story, sound performances, and believable execution.It has all the basic elements of a good vampyre movie, and for once, here's a movie which follows the basic rules of the genre. I realize any director can change the Universal Monster Rules any way he wishes, but as a fan of the genre, there are certain expectations one looks to have honored in a vampyre film.While it's not the best vampyre movie out there, it is highly entertaining, and deserves much better than the 5.whatever it got here at IMDb.com.If you liked this movie, I also recommend The Lost Boys, Underworld, Van Helsing, Near Dark, Modern Vampires (a horror comedy), My Best Friend is a Vampire (a horror comedy), and John Carpenter's Vampires.It rates a 7.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've read alot of comments about this film mainly bad comments but when i watched this film i found it quite good i've always been into vampire movies and i can't say this was one of the best ones i've seen but i did like it. Brendon fehr and Kerr smith play their roles very well.some parts are a bit unbelievable and i think they should of done some research before making the movie. "},{"Title":"bad, bad, bad!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The cover promises us 'In the tradtion of the lost boys.'. If by that they mean, they both have vampires in them, they they are right. If they mean it is a similar plot, structure, as witty and every bit as good they are dead wrong! I regret renting this forgettable piece of trash, it is d-grade shlock at its worst! It is boring, tedious, and not one redeeming factor! It is far to long(only 86 mins!) but every one of those mins is like having your legs dipped in hot oil! DO NOT SEE! "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was expecting a truly dreadful horror film judging by the reviews. It's no classic, but it wasn't the bomb I was expecting. It's about a young man (Kerr Smith) driving a car from CA to FL. He's told not to pick up hitch hikers. Naturally he does (Brendan Fehr). The next thing he knows, he's being chased by a gang of blood thirsty vampires. The vampires are called the Forsaken and have a real stupid origin (which I won't get into). The film moves very quickly, I jumped twice and it's occasionally VERY gory. Unfortunately the film also has tons of misogyny (all the female characters are monsters, victims or sex objects) and tons of gratuitous nudity (all female of course--in one particularly repulsive scene a very ill girl is stripped practically nude to find the bite marks on her). Those scenes are unpleasant and not necessary. Still, the acting is not bad (Smith and Fehr work well with each other) and the direction is nice and flashy. So...no great movie but never dull--if only the female characters had been treated more respectfully! "},{"Title":"On Vacation, So No Editing.","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.There are some plot elements of this film you should look out for in the beginning. Our hero, Sean -- probably gay -- is the trailer editor for Canyon Films (which you can see from the door). In real life, that is Conrad Hall's company, the two-time Oscar-winning cinematographer. Hall won for `Butch and Sundance,' and `American Beauty' and is a giant talent in Hollywood. So right away, you know a key awareness in this film is religious issues associated with light and heartbeats (in film terms lighting and editing). Sean is supposed to be editing the trailer for `Kid Zombie,' (an obvious reference to the target audience) and takes a week away to attend his sister's wedding on the other coast.It is a crude framing, at about the low level of skill shown elsewhere in the film, but very clearly deliberate. The notion is that this film is a film about flash editing, and the controller of that heartbeat is INSIDE the film. That's why we get the disappearing girls in the corvette, which can be explained no other way than the magic of immersion, rather like entering Toontown. The best of the Freddy Kreuger films used this device as well. So did the recent `Cut.' Actually lots of recent horror. Some pretty rich stuff to play with such framing, but here only superficially tapped the telepathy; the film-as-taxidermy `holy ground' at the end; the entering of yet another world (inside the vampire world which is inside the film world) to raid the redneck dunebuggy campground, the taking of the heart out of that world...Anyway, since the film is about editing, one can comment that though the kids making it try valiantly, this film would have been improved enormously if the editor had been, well, not on vacation.Miko is a mere mewing mammary manikin, but Phina Oruche (alone in the cast) does some real acting. Her job is to draw victims away from the light, and also serve as the errant Crusader's concubine. Note the new origin of vampires this film creates Cursed crusaders, which makes Phina's malevolent Moor meaningful. (How long will it be before Hollywood allows Arab girls to be sex objects?)With a little bit of such work on the part of the viewer, this film can be watchable, and more. "},{"Title":"Such a GREAT modern B movie!","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is perhaps the most entertaining vampire film to hit in twenty years.  Not because it's particularly scary, well-written, or convincing, but because it's perfectly entertaining and extremely high-paced!  Have FUN when you watch this movie! "},{"Title":"Ripoff of John Carpenter's Vampires","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I've seen worse John Carpenter ripoffs, but this one is pretty blatant. It didn't even really bother ripping off one of Carpenter's better movies, which is kind of perplexing. Still, it was watchable, despite the director's best attempts to drive me off.The Forsaken stars two TV actors alternately chasing after and being chased by a vampire. The vampire is actually one of the forsaken, a group of blah blah blah, who cares. Yes, there a bit of back story that sets straight all the incorrect vampire myths, tells us their weakness (sunlight), and the rules (must be killed on holy ground). Strangely, if they must be killed on holy ground, I don't understand why they care about sunlight. If sunlight can kill them (they hide during the day), then why do they need to be killed on holy ground? Do they die in sunlight, then instantly come back? Who knows. It's a bizarre plot hole that the director never sought to explain.Like Near Dark, which it also rips off, the vampires are updated to modern times. They use guns to kill people, hide in cars during the daylight hours, etc. It was fresh when Kathryn Bigelow did it, back in the mid 1980s. 15 years later, it's not so fresh.The soundtrack was detestable (full of Nu Metal), but, luckily, most of the music only played for a few seconds, before it faded out. I had blocked out memories of that era, and I resent being forced to experience it again. Without the music, this movie might have gotten a 6/10, but I kind of doubt it.Should you watch this? Sure, I guess. If you're obsessed with vampires, want to watch eye candy prance around, and you miss early 2000s Nu Metal. Otherwise, I'd say... skip it. It's not exactly bad, but there's nothing to recommend. Just stick to Near Dark, Blade, Vampires, or even Anne Rice's melodramatic soap opera, Interview With The Vampire. "},{"Title":"Vampire flick for the MTV generation","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After viewing this garbage called The Forsaken, I know why and how it was made. This was not made for any movie fan, horror or otherwise. This was made so that teenagers can ogle at the hot stars, none of whom possess the ability to act. All they do is preen about the camera looking like they're doing a photo shoot (this is acknowledged in the film, although it's meant to be taken seriously. Believe it or not, it's true.). There is nothing worth watching here.A young guy named Sean (Kerr Smith) is on his way to his sister's wedding in Florida, when he picks up a hitchhiker named Nick (Brendan Fehr). On the way, they pick up a girl who seems to be OD'ing, but really, she's infected with a virus that will eventually turn her into a vampire. While trying to save her (temporarily), Sean is bitten. Fortunately, Nick is a vampire hunter, and infected himself. Now they have to track down the main vampire whose subsequent vampire-lings bit them in the first place, which would cure them.The story is flat to begin with, but writer/director J.S. Cardone makes it worse by breaking the rules that he made. A story doesn't have to be plausible (vampire stories never are), but a film has to have a set of rules and follow them, otherwise it will seem as it is making the story up as it goes along. That's what happens here. To make matters worse, all of the dialogue sucks. But I guess that's expected with a cast this bad.As the hero, Kerr Smith is really bad. He can make the girls go ga-ga, but he can't act. His co-star, Brendan Fehr, fares better. Of all the characters in the film, he actually becomes someone worth caring about...to a point. It's hard to describe Izabella Miko's performance, because she doesn't say much. For about 90% of the time, she has one of two things to do scream, or act like she's really drunk or high.But in terms of acting, Kerr Smith comes across as Laurence Olivier when it comes to Jonathan Schaech, who plays Kit, the main vampire. He's atrocious. His attempts to act menacing are so bad that they would be hilarious if they weren't so painful.And if the film wasn't bad enough, the effects are cheap. This is meant for the brainless ADD viewer. Random flashbacks, zooming images, and more atrocious effects hurt the already terrible film. Worse are the special effects. The gore is obviously fake, and the explosions and crashes are cheap.There's no tension or scares of any sort (okay, fine. One scene elevated my pulse up one beat per minute). Just the hope that the movie will end at some point.Avoid The Forsaken. "}{"Title":"For The Eye Candy Only","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film offers a more real take on the life of a vampire, minus the cartoony stuff like the mirrors, the shape-changing, the pointy teeth and tons of other stuff that most people associate with vampirism. The problem is, this film only ended up PROVING that all those cartoony things may be what is needed to tell a successful vampire tale. It follows on man who, on the way to his sister's wedding across the country, ends up tangled in another man's mission to cure himself of a vampire virus. Lots of car chases, blood, over-the-top acting, and eye candy galore (see Brendan Fehr and Simon Rex) Don't pay to see this film, but if you're bored and don't feel like looking for the remote, go ahead and partake. Just don't expect much. "},{"Title":"Decent entry, if not overtly spectacular","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Forsaken isn't all that original, but it's not bad either.**SPOILERS**While traveling through the desert, Sean, (Kerr Smith) suffers a flat-tire and is forced to delay his trip until it's fixed. He picks up the friendly hitcher Nick, (Brendan Fehr) and continues on his way. Together, they find the infected Megan, (Izabella Miko) who still hasn't turned yet. Nick reveals that he's a vampire hunter, and a group they ran into earlier, led by Kit, (Jonathon Schaech) is one of the original vampires when the curse began spreading hundreds of yeas ago. After a series of encounters forces Sean to believe the story, the three of them team up to take down Kit and his team.The Good News This isn't that bad. It moves in spurts. Nothing for twenty minutes, a big chase and a narrow escape, then back to nothing for a stretch, which can work if the material surrounding the chases is good. To a degree, it does. The idea of having to hunt down a vampire of this one's scale and importance is pretty clever, especially when it could've been a Dracula clone. The fact that it doesn't is a testament that they wanted to go in a fresh new territory. When it comes down to it, the action in here is pretty good. Several chases on the highway are among the more involved ones, and the final one is perhaps the best, as it's two-part structure is pretty exciting to watch. The ending confrontation is nice and features some memorable sequences to balance it out a little bit with the less-than-stellar opening sequences. Keep it in mind, though, that they all could've been done a lot better than what they ended up using. Inside there are great flashes of brilliance that indicates this could've been a better film as well, and it's frustrating that it doesn't act in that way. The plot has potential, the action is bearable, and it just acts as a harmless Sunday afternoon film, and the moments are pretty much there.The Bad News Even though it picks up considerable steam in the later half, the initial introduction of everything comes pretty slowly. It takes a while before any vampires actually show up. Too much time is taken up with the exploration of the desert and getting Sean to believe the story that the film takes a while to get going. The action scenes at the beginning of the film are pretty lackluster, and are quite a letdown when compared to what they could've been. That right there sums up the film pretty good as well it looks good and has potential to be better if they went all out for it, but instead, they play it safe and it doesn't hold up to what it could've been. Even without all that, the film's biggest mistake is it doesn't really give the vampires anything to do. Sometimes, it seems as if they aren't really vampires at all, as they aren't bloodsuckers or anything like that. About the only reason we know they are is because it tells us they are vampires and because they die by sunlight, but otherwise we don't really know as they don't engage in any vampiric activities. Had they been given more screen-time, this might've been resolved.The Final Verdict Had they gone all out with the intriguing plot of the film, this would've been a little better instead of some wasted potentially great film. It's still got a certain charm to it, and it won't set the vampire world on fire, but it isn't as bad as some say. Give it a try.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity, a brief Rape scene and mild drug use "},{"Title":"This movie's got bite!","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Another horror thriller with a hint of seductive wile. This movie is like a cross between John Carpenter's Vampires and The Lost Boys put together. You got this film trailer producer who has to go to the East Coast to his sister wedding and he get to take there a Mercedes Convertible to the widow who's requesting it. It was quite interesting when he sees the two young ladies, which the blonde flashes him. To me that's enough to cause an accident. The question is, where did they go? After the blowout, he encounters a hunter of the undead, and sees a '69 Dodge Charger. A lot to see and the adventure is on course. There was a lot of blood in this movie, a lot of sex and a lot of detail of how the story goes. Just one thing that gets me, will there be a sequel to The Forsaken? Since the hunter didn't kill the vampire that bit him, it is a possibility there maybe more vampires he has to kill to rid himself of this curse? See for yourself. Rating 3 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"This is What We Were Afraid of....","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In 1000 words or less describe the redundancy of what is happening to this world.  This movie is what people could call the worst that has ever been imagined, but that would be insulting to even the worst of the movies. This movie makes Glitter look like, well, glitter  something important that says something that is necessary about the human condition.  Now that that is cleared up, lets just say that this movie is bad.  End of the statement, and that is the nicest thing I can now say.  "},{"Title":"A nice surprise.","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've often stood before this film in the video store in silent contemplation. The box art implies another post `scream', politically correct, horror flick with hot chicks that tease but never please and less gore than an episode Barney. The first 30 seconds of this movie shatter any illusions of a common `teenie horror' film. The story follows a young mans journey through the American southwest enroute to Miami. His trip is sidetracked by vampires. The story is simple and nothing new. Here's what made this film work 1. Breathtaking footage of the southwest landscape. 2. Realistic, well written dialog. 3. Likeable main characters (the most unlikely vampire hunters to hit the screen, not nearly as badass as Blade but far less annoying). 4. Hot chicks not afraid of a little nudity. 5. Gore Gore Gore, quite possibly the best `exploding head from a shotgun' scene ever filmed. This film delivers all that a good B film should. It has an almost independent film feel to it. They definitely stepped outside the recent Hollywood horror box for this one. A very pleasant surprise from what I'd expected. Many reviews claimed the gore level was low, I have to disagree. Some of the scenes are just plain disturbing. Well worth checking out, ignore the box art and rent it. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Bood-sucking vampires prey on teen TV stars. Never seen that one before...","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although not the biggest stinker of the season (see Freddie Got Fingered), this is definitely no award winner. Somewhere between Vampires, Near Dark, and Lost Boys, this vampire-in-the-desert flick seems to borrow elements from every B horror film out there, without stooping to the levels of some recent teen horror flicks. It's about a guy named Sean (Kerr Smith from Roswell and Final Destination), who is delivering a vintage Mercedes cross-country, while trying to make it to his sister's wedding. He meets a hitchhiker named Nick (Brendan Fehr of Dawson's Creek), who turns out to be a vampire hunter. They meet a beautiful nameless girl along the way (Izabella Miko from Coyote Ugly) who infects Sean with a vampire virus. The only way to get rid of it is to kill the source before he transforms permanently into a vampire. The source is Kit (Jonathan Schaech of That Thing You Do), the leader of a group of young vampires who prey on travelers. Sounds pretty bad, doesn't it? The acting isn't all that bad, the special effects are pretty cool, and Izabella Miko topless is a definite bonus for the guys, but it also has enough plot holes, bad lines, and predictable moments to keep it from being a memorable summer film. If you're a big fan of cheesy teen horror movies, check it out. Otherwise, wait to rent it if you really want to see it.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good, A-class vampire flick.","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You look at the previews, you look at the video cover, I know what you're thinking  standard, pop culture horror flick involving teens and aimed at the teen market.  It has its sort of a slick, pop culture feel to it, but I feel there's a lot more than meets the eye.  And I was even more impressed after hearing J.S. Cardone's insightful commentary.  Don't get me wrong, I've seen films with impressive commentaries and I still didn't change my opinion of them (i.e.  Josie and the Pussycats, Get Over It, American Virgin).This isn't your garden variety, in-your-face, blood-and-guts vampire flick, though it is very gory.  Those who are not used to these films might find it excessive, but those who are will probably take it for granted.  But how can you have a vampire flick without blood?  Exactly.The film stars Kerr Smith, who's famous as the homosexual character Jack on Dawson's Creek.  I know it's predictable that a director would cast a well-known teen heartthrob as the key performer, but he's quite good as our reluctant hero.  Not one of those let's-slay-those-bastards superheroes we find in most films of this type.  On the road, he bumps into another one of our protagonists--Brendan Fehr from Roswell--who has an extensive knowledge about these blood-sucking creatures lurking around.  I liked how Cardone didn't want to go through the standard route.  No stakes through the heart (a cliche even John Carpenter didn't feel like withdrawing when making Vampires).  No crosses.  No garlic necklaces.  The sun's still a weapon, but if we were to get rid of that, we'd be pushing it.Jonathan Schaech is devilishly appealing as the head vampire.  I don't know her name, but that African-American girl who plays one of his fellow blood-suckers--WOW!!  There is a good deal of female nudity, so I'm sure girls will be sucking their teeth at certain scenes.  Of course, I didn't mind.  Not just because I'm a male, but because it wasn't gratuitous.  The opening scene has our female lead covered in blood, trying to wash it off in the shower.  But what were we supposed to do?  Have her shower with her clothes on?If there's any criticism, I would say the film could've used more humorous touches.  At times, it feel inspired by such teen vampire flicks as The Lost Boys--the only thing is that movie had more of a sense of humor and ended with one of the funniest lines I've ever heard.  It tends to take itself too seriously at times, but overall it's an exciting journey and one hell of a ride.  I've seen tons of bad teen horror movies in the past years, so I would've been asleep during the first few minutes if this were anything less than original.  It has a good sense of freshness and originality to it, and I think it really sticks out in its genre--though I wouldn't consider it one of the best.  I liked the soundtrack, too.  The score is really good, with some hip tunes by groups like Metallica and Uncle Kracker mixed in here and there.  I may sound sadistic, but I think that blood-lusting love scene between Schaech and that black girl is really cool and original, and like nothing I've ever seen, and mixed well with that Uncle Kracker song.The Forsaken is a movie I would gladly recommend for those--like me--fed up with the usual crap in the horror market these days.  Those who cherish this genre will probably love it even more.  Strap yourself in for one wild ride!My score  7 (out of 10)       "},{"Title":"BAD!!! BAD!!!! BAD!!! Warning, might contain spoilers.","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was very dull and in poor taste.1- The whole nude girl shananagins, just didn't work. I mean did she really have to be naked in every scene.2- The scene in which the vampire is putting the gun in the Boy's mouth, the boy willingly opens his mouth.3- This movie is really bad. "},{"Title":"What a shame...","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  the money they wasted on this movie could've feed starving kids in Africa.Everything about this film was rancid. How in the hell did this film get funding? I mean what person gave a green light to this god-awful wannabe vampire flick. The acting was not up to par..the person who played the main vampire was the only good one and Kerr did a good job. If you want to see a good vampire film..PLEASE I'm warning you dont go see this one. "},{"Title":"redeemable qualities","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  well, first time I saw 'the forsaken', it was exactly what I wanted to watch at that moment something low-budget, simple plot, simple setting, you know. I was expecting a little more, also a little less, so I guess this film left me somewhere in between. yes, the comparisons to 'near dark' and 'the hitcher' are undeniable. not too sure about 'john carpenter's vampires' - maybe asides from being set in the desert. same goes for 'from dusk til dawn'. I mean let's face it, this is not the best vampire film I've ever seen - it wasn't 'the hunger' or 'nosferatu eine symphonie de gruens' or even 'from dusk til dawn'. as far as road movies go, it was no 'easy rider' or 'the doom generation'... but its down-and-dirty, rock n' roll mixture of road movie with vampires does work well. what I like the most about this movie is its simplicity, which in my opinion will make it a videostore cult sleeper. I was also happy to see that this was no anne rice rip-off, and that it wasn't connected to the dracula myth in anyway. my complaint in this regard is that instead of always trying to explain where vampires come from, this movie would have been so much better if they *didn't* try to explain anything. just the simple fact that this gang are vampires, who don't fly and don't have fangs, who aren't scared of crosses and garlic, who live in the desert and stalk on whoever they can - would have been good enough. what you see is what you get kind of thing. the film could have used a bit more gore, too. I know that if I was a hot-rod driving vampire who quotes metallica, I'd rip my victims apart every chance I get. and who ever said a vampire couldn't use shotguns? oh, and izabella miko is so cute (and naked) in this movie that it might just well be a good reason enough to see this. anyhow, personally prefering art-house & repertoire fare, I usually am quite picky with the dvds I add to my collection, but I got this one anyways. it stands out rather nicely, and a perfect film to watch during those hot summer nights at 3am. "}{"Title":"On no one's Oscar short list, but . . .","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  . . . Forsaken is a good, solid, highly watchable B-movie.  I honestly don't understand all the critical hostility toward this film.  You see a movie with the tagline The night . . .has an appetite! and you're expecting -- what? -- Citizen Kane?No, it's not any great cinematic achievement.  Yes, it does owe thematic debts to both Near Dark and The Hitcher.  But like those two movies, what it DOES manage to accomplish is to play with our expectations a little bit -- to step outside the box of generic Hollywood so-called horror films like I Know What You Did Last Summer and From Dusk Til Dawn.  The shots and the editing are imaginative, the plot is a clever twist on vampire movie conventions, and the movie in-jokes are clever.  And I don't know about the rest of you, but I LIKE my horror movies with nudity and gratuitous violence.  (And that, Wes Craven and Robert Rodriguez, means violence of the non-cartoon variety.)  It's a horror movie, fer cryin' out loud!  Besides, a lot of the gratuitous violence in this particular horror movie gets inflicted on Jonathan Schaech.   What's not to like?My prediction is this Forsaken's reputation will get better over time, and will continue be watched by those who appreciate a quality genre film long after better reviewed nonentities like Scream are, well, forsaken. "},{"Title":"The Worse Movie of the Year","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just would like to tell you DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY ON THIS MOVIE!!! I work at a movie theater and saw it for free and I thank god that I didn't pay for it. Yes, there is some nudity...but not enough to make the movie even O.K.. And I'm sorry Mr. Corey M. Turner this is nowhere near Friday the 13th.If I had to grade this movie. I would give it a F---.DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY SEE SOMETHING ELSE!!!!  "},{"Title":"Direct script rip-off of John Carpenter's Vampires (1998)","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The script for this movie is a shameful rip-off of John Carpenter's Vampires (1998). It's almost as though the entire endeavor is a remake with Vampires cast's understudies. Considering how bad that movie is in the first place, that is not a compliment.I'm just consistently floored that writers can get away with obvious plagiarism and someone still is foolish enough to finance the production of it.Unfortunately, this reality is not restricted to forgettable films like this one, it's essentially the state of entertainment today. "},{"Title":"A Decent Vampire Movie","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  the movie started out ok a little bit slow but after the first 10 minutes or so it was fine.Kerr Smith and Brendan Fehr were good in it every one was ok when you think about it acting was there unlike some movies i`ve seen where the acting was dung for example (hotel) & (resident evil). this is a far superior Vampire movie to some i`ve watched and i`ve seen a lot of them it`s one of the more decent one`s.the only thing i didn`t like about the movie was the music it could have had some decent music in it but that`s a small thing to complain about the only thing actually.the best part of the movie was the end (as in the way it ended) i`m not going to say how it end`s incase anyone hasn`t seen it yet. but the last scene was the best ending i`ve seen in a long time all i will say is this it`s a cliffhanger it reminds me of John Carpenter`s way of ending movies. dont worry i haven`t spoiled it for anyone who hasn`t seen it yet i wouldn`t do that to anyone unlike some i know.rating for this movie 8/10 rating for the ending 10/10. "},{"Title":"What a bad movie","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I went to this movie hoping for some good fun.  And there was some good fun to be had, but it was buried alive in crap.  The script bears most of the blame, the dialogue hurt to listen to, but one shouldn't lead out flat camera work, iffy direction, and some poor acting.  There was some nasty homophobia (strange for a genre that's normally homoerotic) and women in this movie barely spoke.For a much better movie along the same lines, rent Near Dark, which is an altogether better movie in every way I can think of.  "},{"Title":"Spend the $10 on charity","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Pretty awkward film with poor characterization and over used cliches.It does not fit vampires to be on the road.  Somehow I did not get totally bored but it was close and I had to restrain myself from walking out of the theater the first 45 minutes of the film.  Movies like this were done frequently in the 1970's but now?????  Film-makers, please jump into the new millennium. Avoid this film if possible, like all vampires that happen to fall in your way.  Give the $10 to charity, I should have.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I've ever seen","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am a purveyor of Sci-Fi and B horror flicks, but this movie was a complete waste of my time. It wouldn't even be on my rental list after knowing the quality of the picture. Perhaps if the movie tried a little harder at being a low budget film it might have worked, but they really tried to make this a legit film. Lots of blood and gore but no real special effects to warrant any praise. Even the sequel to Dusk till Dawn (Texas Blood Money) was a better flick, and that went straight to video.  "},{"Title":"I saw this because of Izabella Miko","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this for Izabella Miko, but I found it actually very amusing.  There were many funny parts in this movie, (this made up for the lack of horror).  I think that this movie is worth seeing on matinee, and you'll probably agree that this should rank under comedy than horror.  Also, alot of unexpected nudity, in the most nonsexual way. Oh yeah, and I'd rather be watching Driven than this. "},{"Title":"It never quite gets to the stage where it grates but The Forsaken is a rather ordinary and frightless horror.","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Vampires have certainly come a long way over the course of cinematic history, indeed textual history as a whole. What started off as a secluded and rich count living in a massive castle in Eastern Europe has gradually become less and less as the years have worn on. Eventually, vampires would be of Hispanic decent as seen in From Dusk Till Dawn and of African American decent as seen in the Blade films, but there are probably earlier still examples of these two types. In The Forsaken, the vampires are of the teenage variety &#150; a far cry to what vampires as a whole began as which makes the idea of these different, post-modern 'types' of vampires look a little silly and like a gimmick. There cannot be much surprise then, when The Forsaken comes across as something equally so.But there has to be some honesty about this comment and that is that I was enjoying The Forsaken up until a certain point. In the long run, the film is nothing special and when essence of familiarity and formula begin to creep into a film that few will even have heard of, let alone seen; you know it's struggling. Although the film falls into that genre of horror, you feel it does less so for the fact that it is genuinely creepy and more so for the fact that mere vampires play an important role in its plot line. The narrative drive for the film sees one of very few vampire leaders left amongst them hiding out in dustbowl America &#150; it is this lead vampire, who has a pretty nasty back-story from over in Europe, that Nick (Fehr) is charged with hunting down and killing for sake of all mankind. Innocent bystander Sean (Smith), who is on his way to his sister's wedding, gets caught up in this extremely small scale war and will suffer as a consequence.I know the cliché is that you shouldn't pick up hitchhikers and films like The Forsaken really hammer home that idea. Yes, you don't know if they're crazy but it could be worse, they could be the harbinger of a story revolving around the apocalypse. If Wolf Creek told us not to hitchhike because you never know who's picking you up and The Hitcher told us not to pick them up in the first place, then The Forsaken has an equal message of morality emphasising what not to do if someone wants a ride &#150; notice Sean's weakness was the offering of money by the third party; is this a further hidden message about the sin of greed? But this adventure will not be so easy for vampire hunter Nick, who reveals himself at a nicely timed point in the film amongst some nasty scenes involving a girl that is 'turning'. Nick may be way too young for my liking to be such the veteran vampire hunter he says he is we'll all have to go along with it. It turns out these nasty caricatures of teenagers who have been going around teasing Sean and Nick over uncharged car batteries and causing carnage at stoner beer picnics are indeed all part of a gang that fronts this lead vampire that needs to be gotten rid of.But while this idea for a story feels old and outdated, it is remarkable how ordinary the execution for it here actually feels. The idea of a post-apocalyptic world is a scary one and the scenes in which mere mortals are on screen are sparse and over quickly, one or two of which meet their grizzly demise in double quick fashion &#150; the best being the state trooper, a figure of authority and power dispatched relatively easily by the antagonistic vampires. This helps build whatever atmosphere the film needs to make us mere mortals look smaller and less powerful; a race that would not win the war if that's what it came to. But The Forsaken is a film whose best scares are incidences like a particularly large spider creeping towards a young and defenceless girl in a compromising situation as well as the lead villain using a snake to bite his arm in order to achieve some sort of 'high'. The film is all very low key and should not be viewed as an exercise in scares.Along with this, the evil-doers in The Forsaken are either established as individuals of a French (European to the wider extent of things) decent or are black females as seen in the case of Cym (Oruche). It's this biting and somewhat childish way of pointing the finger at Europe as the source for the evil-doing and casting a black, British girl for the role of the chief villain's blood hungry, seductive girlfriend. The Forsaken is a film that starts out promising; gradually gets sillier and then ends with an explosion before establishing a disappointing new order in which we discover nothing really has been achieved. But at least the film moves on the character of the vampire as a whole they can attain a mere rush over a poisonous snake bite to the arm but when it comes to sunlight, they're still screwed. With this in mind, the sequel might as well have vampires whom can withstand a machine gun clip to the torso but have a character throw a piece of garlic at them, and they run scared. "},{"Title":"Wasn't this John Carpenters Vampires?","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This has the exact same plot as Carpenter's movie so it must be a Hollywood idea of I have no real ideas myself so I will just steal someone elses.  This is just a teen version of the above film.  It has nudity and not real good acting.  It can be fun at times but not enough.  All in all an okay film. "}{"Title":"Horrible, just horrible","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I love the vampire movies, even the fun low-budget ones. Unfortunately this is just trashy and dull, trying to be cool and managing sadly well - Forsaken fights with the garbage like From Dusk Till Dawn and John Carpenter's Vampires to be the worst (non-porno)vampire movie ever made. There is a group of sadistic vampires, led by so irritatingly lazy-eyed and slimy rapist that I wanted to pull his nose, gratuitous violence, no style or fun... Admittedly there's no James Woods or Quentin Tarantino making their my-character-is-a-sleazoid-routines, but very pretty Alexis Thorpe is wasted in her blink-and-you-miss-it-role as a female vampire. "}]