[{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'The Muskateer'","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The star of the show is Justin Chambers and he gets incidental billing which is ridiculous despite his lack of acting skills. More good and bad newsBAD - Having a weak lead actor is not the way to have box-office success. Stupid dialog doesn't help either, along with the Rambo action mentality in which the good guy doesn't get hit from close range.GOOD - Some of the action scenes were spectacular, the best swordplay I've ever seen. The ones at the beginning and the end of the film were the best, with some incredible stunt work. This is beautifully photographed, too. Tim Roth was a good villain, as usual, and the heroes - even if they couldn't act - were fun to watch. The language is tame in here and the film should be rated PG, not PG- 13. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?!","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Just really, really, really bad!First off, this film is too much action, not enough story.  The first time we see D'Artagnan fight, there doesn't seem to be any point to it, other than the fact to let us know that he's this amazingly (and somewhat unbelievably) skilled swordsman and fighter.  He also escapes the situation way too easily, thanks to pathetic bluff and a cut away.The only saving grace in this film (in my opinion) is Tim Roth, who had to make due as best he could with a very bad script.  But he looked cool (the only person in this film with any fashion sense whatsoever).  Although later in the film he appears to have borrowed his Aunt Ida's - Sunday church revival meeting hat.Stephen Rea, who I usually find extremely enjoyable to watch - came across as very ineffectual as the Cardinal Richelieu.  Instead of being the great evil and manipulating mastermind, he almost seemed the puppet of Tim Roth's Febre...a character I've never heard of before, who seemed to fill the role previously occupied by Rochefort, as the one eyed man who killed D'Artagnan's father.(oh for Tim Curry's Richelieu)Justin Chamberlain is incredibly dull in this movie, and never seemed to show any emotion.  It almost seemed like he sucked the life out of the actors around him.  His character comes across as a thinly veiled Bruce Wayne.  A young boy who watched his parents get murdered in front of him, but could do nothing.  He's taken in by the kindly older friend of his father's.  He then grows up and trains himself to be the best fighter, to become a hero and stop what happened to his parents from happening again.Athos, Porthos and Aramis might as well not even have been in the film. All of the Musketeers were portrayed as drunken, miserable, arrogant, lazy jerks.  Apparently D'Artagnan is the only one who still holds the ideals of the Musketeers.  It seemed like Athos was only there to avoid the question - Shouldn't there be 3 of them?  He didn't do a damn thing.  They gave all of his character traits to Aramis, and Aramis the wouldbe priest was nowhere to be found.King Louis XIII and Queen Anne were in their late 50's (huh?) and were childless.  Okay, where do Louis XIV and Phillipe come from then?  I somehow doubt that a woman in her late 50's in 17th century France would be up to having twins.  As far as I know, they should have been young, and not even married yet.The Musketeers all seemed closer in age to their Man in the Iron Mask selves, than their Three Musketeers selves.  Athos even had grey in his beard.You would think that the King's Musketeers could have afforded to dress better.  Everyone looked like a bum...and there were a LOT of bad hats in this movie.  D'Artagnan looked like he should have been riding the range in 1880's Oklahoma.  And don't even get me started on the mullets.  Did everyone in 17th century France grow up in the 1980's?  The hair extensions on Justin Chamberlain were pretty bad too.The romance between his character and Mena Suvari didn't make much sense, and seemed very forced.  Although it gave D'Artagnan an excuse to go skinny dipping so the bad guys could kidnap his girlfriend.Bad bad bad dialogue.  When Mena Suvari threatened to cut off someone's balls...I pretty much gave up all hope.The action and fight sequences were way over the top.  Apparently the Cardinal makes sure his men are well versed in the fine art of - How to engage in a swordfight while hanging 100 feet in the air one handed from a rope in the rain and not fall to your death.  The final fight between D'Artagnan and Febre (in what we dubbed The Ladder Room) was too much. It seems the ladders are strong enough to support two grown men who are jumping and balancing on them, but are powerless when it comes to the mighty rapier blade.  It got to the point where I was thinking - for crying out loud, would you just stand still and fight already!D'Artagnan also has this amazing horse that appears out of nowhere when he whistles (despite having run off in a different direction earlier, or having been left lying in the road practically dead that morning).What I found interesting is, it seems that the Musketeers all bought their cassaque cloaks at Disney's The Three Musketeers wardrobe sale.  They looked EXACTLY like the ones worn by Kiefer, Charlie and Oliver...right down the length, colours and embroidery.One of the most confusing moments came when it looked as though a character had been fatally shot, only to remark - I'm not dead.  But there is no clear explanation as to why they aren't dead, and show up later no worse for wear.I guess the palace kitchen staff are very stupid, as none of them realize that some of them have been replaced by imposters, nor does anyone notice that one of the waiters is wearing a sword...well okay, one person notices, but that scene is silly and kinda creepy.Oh and the swords are all pretty ugly.  I'm also trying to figure out, why if they hired a Hong Kong fight director to do all the choreography, did they also have a sword master?Well that's my Musketeer rant.  As always that's just my opinion, I could be wrong. "},{"Title":"Kung Fu Musketeers just don't seem to cut it...","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Musketeer really did the novel it was based upon no justice what so ever. The movie had incredible stunts and great fights...if you were in the Matrix. These fights are the only reason I give this movie a rating of four.There is no acting what so ever. Tim Roth, although he can play a great villain, he shows barely any emotion. Justin Chambers is the same way. I'm sure he didn't perform those stunts such as the ridiculous scene where he is pictured jumping from saddle to saddle across moving horses.This movie brings nothing to the table except fancy martial arts. Keep in mind this takes place in old France. I don't recall the Musketeer's learning how to fight while rolling across wooden wine barrels.If you are desperate for a fight scene, be my guest. There are certainly some good fights going on in this picture. Everything in between is just a joke. The Musketeer is not the worst movie ever made, but it's far from great. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"25 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The thing is that The Musketeer is not only the absolutely worst adaptation of the Alexandre Dumas novel's I have ever seen. What is more for me it's also a very strong contender for being called one of the worst movies ever. Actually this rubbish has nothing to do with classic Dumas' Three Musketeers. For unknown reason screenwriters changed simply everything and in the result they got silly and laughable story filled with numerous plot holes and anachronisms. Dialogs look like they were written by a modern teenager and somehow characters development was totally forgotten. No one cares about movie's characters, they're uninteresting and pathetic while the whole movie is emotionally flat practically all the time. Poor direction leave room only for pointless action with ridiculously made in Eastern style fight scenes sometimes mixed with silly jokes. Add to all this horrible acting and most likely you'll get a well-deserved position in your all-time worst list. Absolute waste of 40 million dollars as well as your precious time and money. Avoid it as a plague.2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Has its highs and lows","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This is a movie that really doesn't know what it is. For one thing, it seems to try and hang on to some parts of the story by Dumas, and yet it also is an entirely different story. Seemingly, the only real similarities are the names of the characters. This movie would be much more effective if it was entirely its own story, and not using the names of the famous characters. The reason? This movie totally dashes the names of those characters.The most unsettling part for me was the fact that the Three Musketeers are nothing like themselves. Porthos is not the least bit arrogant or over-the-top. Aramis isn't religious at all. And Athos does not even remotely resemble the character in the book. Sadly, Justin Chambers makes a better d'Artagnan than Chris O' Donnell, but only because he doesn't do any acting at all, which is better than the profuse overacting of O' Donnell. And Stephen Rea is a good actor, but his character isn't remotely as menacing as Richelieu should be.With all of that said, if you just view it as a movie, and try to block the actual story out of your mind, it can be entertaining. The fight scenes are very well done, and the pacing keeps the viewer interested. Perhaps this movie could have been really good if it was about the story of a musketeer NOT named d'Artagnan, and his unique adventure. But since it tries to be an interpretation of Dumas, it falls miserably short. As a movie, it is so-so, but as far as an interpretation of the famous story, it is absolutely terrible. "},{"Title":"Not great, but entertaining","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  If you are a fan of swashbuckling, this is not a film to miss, as long as you are  able to overlook the bad acting and the obvious Asian influences in the fighting.I have seen worse films. Most definitely. The rating of 4.2 is much too low for this  movie, I think a 5.5 to 6 is more appropriate. It's not a great movie by any means,  but it does have it's moments.The opening swordfight in the resturaunt is the best in the movie. At least it was  the most believable with the exception of the barrels. I found the ladders and  some of the ropeplay in the Versailles to be much more unrealistic. However I  tend to like movie due to the sophistication of  the choreography, because I am  involved in fighting choreography too. "},{"Title":"Light Fare","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I've seen most of Hyam's films. Dreadful they are, and this one too. At least so far as story, score and acting. But you knew that.But here, his lighting is very appealing and to my mind actually redeems this, especially if you see it on a big screen. There's nothing original that I could see, especially on the _movement_ of the camera. But if you just look at the pictures, they're quite enriching. Not a must see, but definitely some gems, rather like much `classical' music It's banal, but oddly hypnotizing in its chocolately overtones.Two minor points. The sound editing is pretty adventuresome and is equally rich. And not just the thuds of skulls but the jangle of chains, squeak of leather, splashing of bathwater against Mena's back. And then there's Tim Roth. He works, not just walks through as Deneuve and Rea. I'm convinced that he is not a bad character actor, but that he acts as a bad character actor acting a part above his head. We know he can act, certainly the best in this cast `The Cook, 89,' `Vincent, 90,' `Rosencrantz, 90. Once you see him there, you see that he acts the actor not the part. Check out his solution to the face puppet of `Planet of the Apes.'  "},{"Title":"Average but better than some","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I for one don't understand how people can rate this as a 4 or less and then say Eraserhead is a masterpiece. The whole reason the movie was called The Musketeer is it pretty much has no relation to Alexandre Dumas' classic novel. The 1973 Three/Four Musketeers is about as close to the book as we're going to get. This movie the acting is hampered by really stupid dialog. It made George Lucas movies look literate. The action is great, but completely out of historical reality, then again its a movie, not a documentary. Entertaining? Yes, I thought so. Not as much as seeing Oliver Reed and Micheal York. As bad as the lead was, he was Oscar caliber compared to the absolutely useless Chis O'Donnell in the 1993 version. Given a choice between the 1993 version and this movie, I'd take this one.If you want a good swashbuckler, stick to Errol Flynn, or even Mask of Zorro. If you want Musketeers see the 1973/74 version. Better yet, just pick up the book. "},{"Title":"How to lousy a beautiful story","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" You'll get a one for that. I got it for 'free' from my DVD rental company and I wish they hadn't sent me that piece of crap. I found most of the actors awful topped up with bad acting, bad plot, bad music, bad dialogues.I cringe to see how Alexandre Dumas masterpiece has been disfigured. D'Artagnan is very handsome but totally weak, doesn't have the attitude. And what really really annoys me is this Louis XIII and Anne d'Autriche were supposed to be in their mid-twenties at the time the story takes place. Deneuve? Mesguich? They must be joking. The only exception is maybe Tim Roth who is the only convincing character with brilliant acting.I can't find anything that'd really make it worth to watch. It tastes just too damn American probably made by amateurs who have no pride in doing quality cinema. A substandard supermarket product for the masses. "},{"Title":"A Resounding Dud","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I doubt I need to explain the plot. It's Three Musketeers, nuff said. However this time, it has action choreographed by Hong Kong master Xin Xin Xiong (martials arts buffs among you may recognize the name).Neat production values and some interesting kung-fu/swashbuckling set pieces, like sword duels on the side of a tower or across ladders, aside, this is a really dull, lackluster version of the classic adventure (at least W.S' mess had some steampunk thrown in, and even Disney gave us the forever badass Michael Wincott and a rather amusing Oliver Platt). OH BOY, OH BOY, where to start? Well, the performances are flat-as- shot-tires all around, with the normally terrific Stephen Rea as a seemingly always monotone Richeleu being especially inexcusable. Mix that with thin characters that aren't engaging or lively in the slightest, and a plot that oversimplifies the story absurdly to focus solely on D'Artagnan, making the other Musketeers almost redundant, as well as even more lifeless (the witty repartee and banter, as well as 'All for One' friendship that almost every other version has? Completely Absent). And as if this cake needed more icing, the utterly generic score from the otherwise talented David Arnold (Stargate, Sherlock) that doesn't do much adrenaline pumping, nor has any real whimsy or levity to it.In the end, this is the text-book definition of 'unnecessary'. The concept of swashbuckling + kung fu should make for, at least, good cheesy fun, but when that is the ONE and ONLY thing your movie has going for it, you have officially failed as a film maker. "}{"Title":"Fun popcorn muncher","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I'm a huge Dumas fan and watch every one of the adaptations but I missed this one originally. Just caught it on netflix and it's nowhere near as bad as it's made out to be. Yes, the lead is a little off and there isn't much chemistry between him and Mena Suvari who isn't at her best either. The wire based fight scenes look dated and there are a few scene pacing problems.But overall this was quite fun. There *is* chemistry between the Queen and D'artagnan thanks to Catherine Deneuve who exudes star quality in every scene she's in. There are some nice performances from most of the character actors, the original 3 musketeers are great, and the humor if not the plot is very in keeping with the book. I first thought this was a made for TV movie because of the credits at the beginning so I wasn't really expecting much and this definitely beat my expectations. The movie looks good and aside from a few characters most of them seem fairly real, the balance between schtick and too- serious was handled well.Overall, too many faults to be a classic but definitely enough class and fun to be very entertaining. Recommended for fans of period movies and the tongue in cheek dramedy. "},{"Title":"Tim Roth steals the show....","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  (WARNING THE FOLLOWING OPINIONATED REVIEW BY A SMALL TOWN MOVIE FANATIC CONTAINS EXPLICIT SPOILERS) * The plot outline can be read elsewhere, and you can also find it from other user comments, so I'll just jump into some of my ideas. Tim Roth has great moments as the blood-thirsty renegade Fabre. His dialogue with young D'Artagnan during the movie's opening scene are especially entertaining. And who could forget his conversations with Cardinal Richelieu? (I'm about to butcher some quotes here, so Musketeer fans, prepare yourselves) CR Without killing anyone, I want you to embarrass them. F What if I - must kill someone? Then the Cardinal says rather apathetically Well, if you must, you must. Then later in the film the Cardinal becomes angry with Fabre's exploits and Fabre says Are you going to damn me to hell? I'm certain that's where I'm going, perhaps we can finish our conversation there? Chilling. Francesca's threat to her incest-driven uncle about cutting off his *gonads*, and then feeding them to the pigs made woman all over the world cheer in unison, I'm sure. Steven Spiers as Porthos also gives a good performance. The physics seen in the more outlandish action sequences pulls me away from the movie, realizing it's only a movie. But in the end, it IS telling the fantastic tale of the valiant Musketeers, so see it, enjoy it, take it back before the store closes... ONE FOR ALL! AND ALL FOR FUN! "},{"Title":"Acceptable on its own limited terms","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I dissent from the negative comments based on comparisons to the novel, or earlier  Three Musketeer movies. This movie has no pretense of remaking the novel, or earlier movie versions ( the Michael York/Raquel Welch version is a classic). It is, at most, a modest prequel, designed to capture young action viewers, and romantics ( Justin Chambers/ Mena Suvari); dirty old men ( Mena Suvari); and Deneuve fans (as all men ought to be).Mena Suvari is wooden and ornamental, but Chambers here is at least as good as Heath Ledger in A Knight's Tale. Deneuve is excellent as always. Tim Roth is a definitional villain, although Stephen Rea is a weak Richeleau. Lesser knowns as the other musketeers , and the French actor as  Planche, add spice.I am a sucker for swordfighting movies, so loved this one.There are many worse choices in your video store. "},{"Title":"A Must Miss Film","Date":"8 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Musketeer is a film very loosely based on Alexandre Dumas' classic novel The Three Musketeers.It stars Catherine Deneuve, Tim Roth, Mena Suvari, Stephen Rea, Nick Moran, Bill Treacher and Justin Chambers.The movie was directed by Peter Hyams.The Musketeer was set in 17th-century Paris.A dashing swordsman named D'Artagnan finds himself at odds with the powerful forces taking over France. He sets out to avenge the murder of his parents and finds his country cleaved by chaos and civil unrest. His heart softens only for Francesca, a fiery peasant girl who claims D'Artagnan's heart on sight. D'Artagnan, after witnessing his unarmed parents slain by the evil Febre ,grows up wanting to be a musketeer, one of King Louis XIII's loyal protectors. Upon arriving in Paris, however, he finds that the Musketeers have been disbanded by order of Cardinal Richelieu, who is usurping the king's authority with the help of his lethal henchman, Febre.Traveling to Paris, D'Artagnan verbally spars with witless quip- spouting musketeers Aramis, Athos and Porthos. D'Artagnan heads off guarding the queen, who is traveling incognito as a commoner on her way to meet Lord Buckingham. The evil Febre, his leash held loosely by the evil Cardinal Richilieu, wants to kill the Queen in order to sow unrest and war, which would create opportunities to profit, a war between France and England.The Musketeer is a film that relies mainly of cheesy action scenes mostly on cheesy and unrealistic swordplay.Aside from that,it also has poor story that makes minimized Dumas' classic into a forgettable novel. Acting is decent and the editing presents somewhat a confusing story.Overall,The Musketeer is a MUST MISS film. "},{"Title":"BIG, BIG DISAPPOINTMENT - on a scale of 10 negative 12","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  How criminally fraudulent to steal Dumas' character names (as well as his own) and do a completely different story. This sort of stupid plaigarism insults the audience as well as Dumas and cheats children too young to know the real story, one of the major classics in all literature. Criminal, fraudulent, pompous!!! And then to waste all that time, talent and money on a truly bad movie. Not only was the script false to the subject, it was unbelievably crummy. Bad dialogue, stupid things happening, terrible casting...The costumes and the scenery were lovely, more waste.About that casting Stephen Rea is a highly respected actor with an impressive body of work, but he's no Richelieu! Richelieu needs intensity, majesty, flair, not a blank-eyed little haus-frau look. WRONG. As someone else pointed out, the queen should have been very young which, alas, Denueve is not. WRONG. (She would have been a fantastic Richelieu.) Aramis looked about twelve and was just too, too valley girl. Porthos was a powerful presence but is supposed to be the big buffoon of the Musketeers. The tiny glimpses we got of Athos never permitted him to deliver the promised complexity Musketeer fans know and love. WRONG. WRONG. WRONG. As for sweetie D'Artagnan, arriving in a great lumbering coach really suited his level of macho. Again, the boy may be just dandy in the right vehicle. This ain't it.Even the fabulous Tim Roth, fabulously got up in noisy black leather and a great pheasant feather, just played the same old villain he'd done in Rob Roy with a change of wardrobe.Do you get the feeling I hated this movie? I grew up on movies like this pretends to be, in the 40's and 50's. My first 3 Musketeers were Van Heflin, Robert Coote and Gig Young with the most irrepressible D'Artagnan, Gene Kelly. The Michael York version in the 70's was probably the most glorious ever made. The 90's version with Chris O'Donnell was nice and splashy and fun, too. But this one? As you've never seen it before... You got THAT right. And if this is the only Musketeer movie you've ever seen, you've never seen one at all. Find one of the others, any one and you'll see what I mean.I just hope we never see anything this dreadful again. I wish somebody could sue the production company that paid for this swill and get all evidence of it destroyed.To give credit where it's due, Jean-Pierre Castaldi playing Planchet and that great lumbering black coach of his were wonderful. For that and the scenery, I rate this a minus 12 instead of minus 20 on a scale of 1 to 10. "},{"Title":"Stupidly played","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Woha!As a french literature passionate, I have to say that I was expecting not much of the free interpretation of Alexandre Dumas' novel. Well, believe it or not, I was dissatisfied!My God! What a way to start a movie. The action is fastly going (Too much, not much valid info except for his father's death) at the beginning, then cut by a 1960's Batman like generic.God... I though I was dreaming. Then, I hoped for a bit of intellectual challenge. Then, AGAIN, they missed that.I mean, all those who actually took the time to read the novel (which, obviously, the scriptwriter did'nt), will be very disappointed to see Athos as a barbarian, Athos as... well... no one, cause he didn't do much... Porthos was... just... not Porthos (which is supposed to be a friendly, but dumb swordman). D'artagnan was... just not Gascon at all... And, please... Mena Suvari... as... Francesca... Woha, I never though a story can be SO screwed!And, please, Suvari, don't accept roles of this kind... You just don't fit in.Anyway, please, instead, go at the library and buy The Three Musketeer original version. You will actually see a good story )And, please, Producers and Production company, don,T invest money in this kind.I bet you that I can make a better movie with the same budget in 2 years, believe me.Next time you want to produce a Musketeer movie, think about actually read the book, hire good actors and, please, do not hire this chinese martial art expert (though, I do not contest your abilities as a Stunt Coordonator, but please, not in a movie based in FRANCE in the RENAISSANCE)Thank you! "},{"Title":"How do you say What a load of rubbish! in French?","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" There is a famous Woody Allen joke in which he boasts taking a course in speed reading and then finishing War and Peace in less than an hour.It was about Russia.It looks like scriptwriter Gene Quintano (author of Police Academy 3, 4, 5, enough said) used the same approach with Dumas' classic he skimmed through the book in twenty minutes and managed to understand the story was set in 17th century France. Oh, and some characters have the right names.Roth, Rea and Deneuve sleepwalk through their roles, probably focusing on the rich paychecks for which they accepted to be humiliated. Useless Athos, Aramis and Porthos might as well have been cut. Mena Suvari is unspeakably atrocious as Francesca - they even got the name wrong (it was Constance). As D'Artagnan, a mopey Justin Chambers is awful and miscast.Set-pieces are over-the-top ridiculous, with an overblown direction by Peter Hyams - who somehow managed to make two decent movies (Outland and The Relic), but is otherwise responsible for some really horrible stuff. The Musketeer makes the embarrassing Disney version look like a masterpiece.2/10 "},{"Title":"The Musketeer","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" i have to admit that i actually bought this movie. i am a big fan of dumas books, particularly his exploration of 17th century France and the illustrious band of musketeers. when i saw the commercials i was exstatic, because the sword play looked fantastic.having now seen the film, i can say that the fencing is its only redeeming quality. the sword play is fantastic - particularly the bar room barrel scene and the final showdown. the battles are fast, furious, and exciting. Unfortunately, however they are few and far between. In fact, there are only two in the entire film. Also important to note, the enjoyment of these scenes are marred by the poor lighting. While the battles are gripping they also leave the audience wanting - for a better glimpse of the action.The costuming and the attention to grime is noteworthy. it paints a realistic picture of France - not the overly romanticized scenes and backdrops seen in other musketeer films (disney's 3 musketeers, and iron mask).Aside from the costuming and sword play, the movie is horrible. The lines are delivered poorly as if someone were whispering on the side, you talk now. The musketeers were drunkards - and not those that those who follow the genre have grown to love. the musketeer story in fact, might as well have been thrown out - for it resembles nothing of dumas's original tale, save the blue frocks and silver crosses.if you see it, see it for the action, and then go, knowing it will be hard to see. "},{"Title":"Turned it off after 20 minutes.","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The DVD case had more presence then Justin Chambers. After the first laughable act, I fast-forwarded through the rest to see how embarrassing it would get. Tim Roth and Steven Rea look bored throughout. The fight sequences are few and far between. The direction is lifeless.But at least it looks good-cinematographer turned director Peter Hyams once again proves he has no business helming a picture.Life is too short for crap like this, avoid at all costs.  "},{"Title":"Horrendous glop","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" 1. Forget anything you might even have heard about the book by Dumas. It will not be in the movie, though it preposterously enough claims to be based on that book. (Poor Dumas, spinning in his grave...) Based means in this framework that a few names from the book will be used, that's all.2. Forget anything you might have learnt about the historical period this piece pretends to be set in.3. Please store your brain in a secure place. You will not need it if you are going to watch this movie -- in fact, if you do not tuck it away someplace safe, serious damage will probably occur. The plot holes, misconceptions and pure idiocies do not just mar the film, they ARE the film.4. But what about all the cool action? Sorry, no, even a head without brain can tell the fighting scenes clash in style and are too over-the-top to be enjoyable too much an add-on which has nothing to do with the story or anything else for that matter. They fail to be exciting and only feel like a cheap trick to lure audiences to the theatre with the latest fad. Yawn.5. I won't even mention the acting. Can we spell paycheck? (Dear Catherine Deneuve, how could you?!)Again, Hollywood amazes me. Not in a positive sense I'm afraid... When will they learn that too much of everything actually can be TOO MUCH, thus spoiling the entertainment?My recommendations Read the book, or if you are not the bookish type, see any one of the following movies instead* Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon* The Princess Bride* The Horseman on the Roof  "}{"Title":"just read the review","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Somebody said they could have tried adding something new to the story, I have to wonder if that person saw the fight scenes which were very eastern influenced, something new could have been added, the musketeer was pulling moves I've seen in Jacky Chan films when was the last time you saw that in a film. Its not fantastic but It doesn't try to be the best film ever it's going for entertainment value.  Alot of people whined about the script and dialogue, this film is a pg and has many childlike attributes the stereotypical hero saves the day and the damzel essentially it is a family film do disney films recite shakespere dialogue?  NO thats because making it to complicated would cut out the biggest part of the target audience.  Compared to todays standard of films I don't think this is any worse than stuff I find in my local video rental place, great sets, great costumes a mixture of ideas which seems to work well.  One problem I would agree with is that at times the fight scenes are not shown off very well at all, parts are to dark and camera angles are not always good but generally it's watchable and you see the best parts.  I would recomend this film for the entertainment and enjoyable value of it not bad at all.  Another period, martial arts film I would recomend is brotherhood of the wolf, that offers a little more in terms of script but less in terms of swashbuckling.     "},{"Title":"Swashbuckling Buckles under the Film","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  seems a well intended tribute to the original film , but lacked depth  in my view. not enough time for depth i suppose when you are in the air slicing about with a sword every 3 minutes.  if you like bruce willis style car chases shootem up films, then you'll like this, ( unless you are find it too cultural for yourself) ) Myself, i found my mind wandering during it to such things as   I wonder if my socks will match if i look down and other more fascinating thoughts. "},{"Title":"Not for Everyone","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Ok, I've read a couple of reviews and comments on this movie, and one topic keeps coming up...it's all about D'Artagnan...hello...the name of the movie is The Musketeer not The Three Musketeers.  So many others complain that the movie does not follow the book.  Well I hope those who made those comments actually read the book and actually listened to the movie preview...The Musketeer is supposed to be a re-imagined version of the The Three Musketeers not a page by page re-enactment of the novel.Ok, I'll admit some of the fight scenes were ridiculous but nothing that the film-maker didn't warn the audience about,so unless you went into the movie theater blind folded or never saw a martial arts movie, you knew what to expect from a martial arts movie director.If you haven't read the novel, I recommend you do, it is an unforgettable experience.  D'Artagnan was an arrogant young man, and he spoke dryly, as Justin Chambers portrayed his character in this movie.  Justin still has a lot of maturing to do as an actor, but nonetheless, he did a good job at capturing D'Artagnan's character as Alexandre Dumas might have invisioned him.It is obvious that the screenplay writers did not write word for word, they simply summarized the most important scenes from the novel.  D'Artagnan watching his parents get murdered, him seeking revenge, wanting to become a musketeer like his father, the way he met Athos, Porthos, and Aramis.  The political atmosphere of the time was the same as it was in the book, and our antagonist, was of course as evil as a summarized version can get.What about the cinematography?  Yes it was dark, it was in a way, the director's way of making a movie that was packed with ridiculous action and two well choreographed fight scenes a little more serious.  France was at its worst with Spain and England ready to declare war.  Hunger and poverty plagued the country.  The movie had to be dark, characters had to be in the shadows, this was not the happiest and brightest period of France's history. In his novel, Alexandre Dumas makes it clear that his novel was not just about an awesome adventure but also about history.All in all, I like the movie,I am not ashamed to admit it.  It was fun, and re-imagined, so people should not get too caught up about the story line. One question still remains...why is it that people get all caught up in Justin Chambers' looks?  Did people complain about Christopher Reve in Superman or Val Kilmer in Batman, lets admit it, people like attractive protagonists...hello...this is Hollywood!!! what do you  expect? "},{"Title":"Could It Be the Worst Musketeer Film?","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Musketeer (2001) Dir Peter Hyams / Cast Justin Chambers, Tim Roth, Mena Suvari, Catherine Deneuve, Stephen Rea Embarrassing joke that is more content with the sound of clashing swords as they are pulled from their hilts. Title indicates oneness with Justin Chambers witnessing the death of his parents by a ruthless leader who still bares the scar the boy left. This pathetic charade has been used in eighty million other dumb Musketeer movies. It attempts to copy the wonderfully choreographed action of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon but instead it presents the most embarrassing fight sequence to end any movie. This comes off a long list of Peter Hyams directed crap including End of Days and Sudden Death. Acting is horrible with Chambers as the hero and Tim Roth in one of his worst performance as the villain. Mena Suvari's role consists has her being caught naked in a bathtub. Haven't you ever seen a naked woman before? she asks as Chambers turns away respectively. Such idiotic hints of innuendo are juvenile in this poorly produced junk. Finally there is Catherine Deneuve who leaves us wondering what an actress of her class and stature doing in a piece of sh*t like this. There have been commercials for dog food that have been better produced than this. This garbage should be buried some place where it will never surface again. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"nice fights but muddled storytelling","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" It's France in the 17th century. King Louis XIII is weak and manipulated by Cardinal Richelieu (Stephen Rea). D'Artagnan loses his parents to Richelieu henchman Febre (Tim Roth). A grown d'Artagnan (Justin Chambers) goes to Paris to join the Musketeers. He finds the loyal order disbanded by the deceitful Richelieu. He befriends Porthos (Steve Speirs), Aramis (Nick Moran) and Athos (Jan Gregor Kremp). He falls for the Queen (Catherine Deneuve)'s chambermaid Francesca (Mena Suvari).This version tries to marry the classic French literature with eastern martial arts stunts. The fighting is impressive especially the ladder fight. The acting is muddled with many unfamiliar faces. The story and the construction is messy. Everything is muddy and brown which strips the picture of energy. Other than the fights, nothing is achieved in this new interpretation. "},{"Title":"Cobblestone streets, torches, the Musketeers and modern-action techniques","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Loosely based on Alexandre Dumas' classic adventure novel The Three Musketeers, 2001's The Musketeer stars Justin Chambers as d'Artagnan who, as a kid, witnesses his parents murdered by the wicked Febre (Tim Roth). As a young man seeking justice, he travels to Paris and hooks up with the three Musketeers (Nick Moran, Steve Speirs and Jan-Gregor Kremp). Meanwhile he takes a fancy to fiery chambermaid, Francesca (Mena Suvari), who is the daughter of the deceased seamstress to the Queen (Catherine Deneuve). Stephen Rea plays the corrupt and despicable Cardinal Richelieu.While people love to loathe this film I enjoyed it quite a bit. It was directed by Peter Hyams (director of 1999's End of Days) and comes across as a less-grim Conan tale switched to 17th century France and plays like 1995's Rob Roy with a kinetic Indiana Jones flair, albeit set in France rather than Scotland. The tone is essentially realistic until the swashbuckling scenes take place, which are dynamic, but totally over-the-top.If you're a fan of the Conan, Rob Roy, Indiana Jones, Sinbad and Zorro flicks I think you'll appreciate this movie. It's as good or better than most of them. No kidding. Beyond the thrilling action sequences, there are a number of great or near-great elements Chambers plays a great protagonist and Roth the perfect villain, the latter proved in Rob Roy (he's just as wicked here). Not to mention, the lovely Mena is formidable as the babe. But it's the excellent sets and mood that I like most &#x96; the cobblestone streets, torches, horses & carriages, villages, castles and 17th century costuming. It's inexplicable that Chambers didn't go on to become a star, like Brad Pitt. The film runs 100 minutes and was shot in France, Belgium and Luxembourg.GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"An Insulting Dumas Adaptation","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The main centre-piece to the 2001 addition to the Three Musketeers adaptation simply titled The Musketeer is that they set the bar low by replacing old style French sword play with ancient Chinese sword play. But this exhibition is only featured near the end of the movie where the lazy art direction is nothing more than an array of dark, isolated cramped rooms with ladders aplenty. Our hero is an incoherent mumbling protagonist D'Artagnan (Justin Chambers) as he engages into battle with the evil homicidal manic Febre (Tim Roth) in a fight to the death where our rivals awkwardly crash and stagger in a narrow room and just for flawed entertainment, they play teeter-totter on a ladder balanced onto a beam. Like all the other action scenes in this movie, the final battle lacks in any kind of engaging or exciting value. All that campfire lumber is crammed and scattered all over the place makes the fight scenes very hard to move around. What makes matters worse is that the editing is frenzied with poorly constructed jump-cut rhythm. The choreography is one of the most graceless and confusing display that I have seen in a long time. It also lacks in enthusiasm and cheerfulness. The death scene near the end was also displayed quite mundanely you wouldn't know what hit till it bites you in the lower crevices to the human anatomy. Peter Hyams is the director of this insult to Alexandre Dumas and also served as the cinematographer. The film may look old school, but it serves as a new school denomination which means the old school fight scenes are replaced by new methods to fit the modern spirit. For instance the wide-view angle of a royal carriage being drawn by horsemen and a castle is being under attack falls into a disjointed mess and makes you ponder what has just transpired and the scene-setting logistics never panned out to begin with. Also in terms of dramatic integrity, it has trouble deciding whether it wants to be filmed as an old school Errol Flynn traditional costume period piece or the more modernized MTV with the more modern language and movements. The end is neither seems to work. In the performance department, Justin Chambers looks and fit part quite authentically. But one he opens his mouth, well that's a whole different neck of the woods. His voice is so monotone and dry, that he's less entertaining than watching paint dry. Mena Suvari fares better as his peasant lover Francesca and has a gleaming bit of charm in her eye, but the lines fed to her in the script written by Gene Quintano is enough to make you want to poke your eyes out with a stick (especially a blatant sexual remark while dressed in period piece apparel was what took the cake). To the supporting cast members, Catherine Devenue was the best performer here as the kindred Queen of France who along with Francesca was held captive by the evil Febre (Tim Roth). With grace and style, Devenue was everything you would expect in an Alexandre Dumas novel. Stephen Rea is the second in line to great performances here as he captures the political state of mind in the time period as the equally diabolical Cardinal Richelieu who want nothing more than to overthrow the power of the King and Queen. And finally Tim Roth looks and acts too much like a villain character in cartoon show and just can't seem to play off his role because his performance is too far out there from reality. The most accurate thing about The Musketeer is that the city of Paris was waddling in its filth as the cobblestone roads were saturated with mud and debris and the taverns are filled with drunken slaves and slobs. It makes you wonder why our leading stars are meandering these condemned streets in clothing that looks quite uncomfortable? Hey? Am I missing something here? What's the point of me reviewing a movie about The Musketeer without giving mention to the swashbuckling triad The Three Musketeers? I mean D'Artagnan's allies Aramis (Nick Moran), Porthos (Steve Speirs) and Athos (Jan Gregor Kremp) are only on sporadically, there really isn't much to talk about here. There mentioning is just a mere cry for help to appease the die-hard action junkie. Sure their iconic battle cry All for one and one for all can be echoed through the realms of this film repeatedly, but it never comes to full effect. "},{"Title":"A swashbuckler/martial arts hybrid which is so busy trying to serve up spectacular action that it badly fumbles everything else.","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Hmmm... an attempt to combine swordplay with martial arts, a period swashbuckler from French literature with a Hong Kong style of action film-making. An odd fusion of influences, for sure. Many viewers will be turned off by the idea even before the credits roll, but I wanted to give the film a chance before judging it. Alas, this is one of those occasions where the mocking critics are proved right - The Musketeer is a huge disappointment, a dispiriting romp singularly lacking in wit, entertainment or any sense of meaningful narrative. It avoids a one-star rating simply because a couple of action sequences are interestingly choreographed and Tim Roth is good as a vile villain. On every other level the film is an abject failure.Raised by former musketeer Plachet (Jean-Pierre Castaldi) following the murder of his parents, D'Artagnan (Justin Chambers) grows up dreaming of becoming a musketeer himself. Unfortunately, by the time he is old enough and skilled enough to go to Paris to fulfil his dream, the musketeers have been disbanded by the scheming Cardinal Richlieu (Steven Rea). Richlieu is busily manipulating events in France, trying to create uneasy tensions between his own country and Britain and Spain, with help from his sinister one-eyed henchmen Febre (Tim Roth). Febre is the same villain who killed D'Artagnan's parents, and his blind eye is a direct result of an injury inflicted upon him by D'Artagnan as a boy. D'Artagnan manages to persuade some ex-musketeers to rise up and fight back against the political plotters controlling the country. Eventually, Febre becomes so drunk with power and bloodlust that even Cardinal Richlieu realises that he cannot control him, so he asks D'Artagnan and the musketeers to stop him. With the life of the Queen (Catherine Deneuve) and a young chambermaid (Mena Suvari) at stake, D'Artagnan attempts one last desperate bid to destroy Febre in his lair.The cast is an impressive one Rea, Deneuve, Castaldi, Suvari - plus other faces like Nick Moran and Michael Byrne - are all established actors with a good body of work in their back catalogue. Alas, they are almost entirely wasted here - Gene Quinatno's hopelessly muddled script gives them nothing to do, since it's only interested in filling the gaps in as cursory a manner as possible between the action set-pieces. Only Roth does anything remotely three-dimensional with his character. It's peculiarly hard to follow what's going on much of the time, since all scenes involving exchanges of dialogue are clumsily fumbled. The fight choreography is at least pretty good, even if it does look rather amiss in a period swashbuckler like this. The climax, involving an elaborate series of stunts on ladders, is the highlight. Overall, though, The Musketeer is one big, unwieldy mess which never catches fire as a piece of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Really Lively Version","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The actor playing D'Artagnan is a weird mix of charisma and banality but this is a thoroughly entertaining movie thanks to the period feel, Tim Roth's dastardly villain, the talent of the supporting cast, the execution of the action scenes, and the wit in the dialogue and certain scenes - alligators in the sewers is a nice, knowing touch. The fact the fight scenes are kung fu with swords is okay. Gene Kelly as an athletic D'Artagnan back in the great days of Hollywood established one template; Richard Lester's two Three Musketeer films with Michael York as D'Artagnan established another, witty, historically accurate template. The Young Guns guys didn't do a bad job and there have been numerous other versions - did I dream a terribly overweight (but still wonderful) Gerard Depardieu as Porthos in one version?So - I've seen many a Three Musketeers film and this does not disgrace itself in their company.But tell me again how come musketeers - who, er, fire muskets/rifles - are always so great with a sword? "},{"Title":"One For All And All For One","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Some folks may'have not appreciated the version of the the Musketeers as it didn't have Michael York as d'Atagan or Fay Dunaway as M'Lady or other actors of renown. However, the intrigue centered around the palace at Versalles. In this case case though the queen was in love with Bukingham and she had taken one of her pearls from her necklace to give to Buckingham as a sign of her love. Cardinal Ricileu played by Charleton Heston learned of this and tried to have the queen implicated. That was that movie. This movie was just as entertaining. It may not have had the big name stars but the Palace of Versallies was the center of the intrigue. The plot was different but the action was nonstop. d'Atagan proved to be the better swordsman and musketeer. So cut some some slack and enjoy a film for it's own merits not some preconceived ones. "}{"Title":"an action movie","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" An adaptation of Alexandre Dumas's world, An action movie version made by an action team (Moshe Diamant (production), Peter Hyams, ... )This movie gives us, besides a certain originality of this adaptation, an umpteenth version, which falls very quickly in most easy screen writing clichs. A story of revenge (murders of family members of the hero by the bad), Planchet a weapon master guide and finally just for serving as transition because once adult D'Artagnan, Planchet quickly found again his place as servant. Constance became Francesca?? Monsieur De Bonnacieux became a sewerman for facilitate the intrusion of companions in the palace, the queen wades through the sewers and plays a woman of the people ... The poor drama is expected to highlight the action scenes.Like a good action film and screenplay of action, too longer and too many action scenes come easily are the culmination of history. The control of the action scenes is widely demonstrated.Shot in the southwest of France's natural settings are well highlighted.An interesting distribution with the pleasant and reassuring presence of Catherine Deneuve, Jean Pierre Castaldi a surprising and very fit for Planchet one of his best roles I've seen, and especially Tim Roth always a credible and more than convincing with a large presence for play the bad guy.Note the role of Tim Roth, Febre, the name is reminiscent of the Count of Fere also alias Athos, D'Artagnan offers something quite unusual a adventure of the three musketeers without Milady. Because Febre is Rochefort and Ms De Winter together, with all its pure evil thing of Ms. De Winter.Another title would have been welcome, a story of D'Artagnan and the musketeers. The story was modified just for the intrigues of the era are just used as the backdrop for an action film. This movie is well directed and entertaining.The goal is reached, but despite the entertainment, D'Artagnan is a film that can easily be omitted.jeliosjelios@hotmail.fr "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"8 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" All movies must be considered within their context, and The Musketeer is one that would benefit enormously if viewers were to judge this film on its own merits. Given the tradition of wonderful Musketeer inspired films, this one has the best stunts and fight scenes I have ever seen. All of the sword fights are quite good, and some is absolutely brilliant. Furthermore, I challenge anyone to find a modern movie with better horse stunts.The acting in this film is not as bad as some reviewers make it out to be. Justin Chambers (of Grey's Anatomy) is capable in his role, and one would be remiss to simply dismiss either Stephen Rea or Tim Roth's performances as anything other than quite good. Even Mena Suvari is entertaining in this film.This film will never win any Academy Awards, but it is an entertaining film. If you happen to see it playing on cable or in your video store, give it a chance; you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Never trust a trailer","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie because the trailer looked so damn cool! Based on the trailer for this flick, it looked like it might be exciting.  Wrong!  Critics often speak of thin plots on which to hang action sequences.  Of course, in most of those movies, the action is so frquent that the average fan might enjoy the flick anyway.  This seems to be one of those movies, except the action sequences are few and far between.  I didn't even sit throught the whole flick.  I was that bored.  "},{"Title":"Never trust a trailer","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie because the trailer looked so damn cool! Based on the trailer for this flick, it looked like it might be exciting.  Wrong!  Critics often speak of thin plots on which to hang action sequences.  Of course, in most of those movies, the action is so frequent that the average fan might enjoy the flick anyway.  This seems to be one of those movies, except the action sequences are few and far between.  I didn't even sit through the whole flick.  I was that bored.  "},{"Title":"Wildly Entertaining!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I like movies that entertain me, and this one certainly did.  Not every line in the movie is great, but it's a flurry of action from just about start to finish.  It also had a great villain, a guy you love to hate.  If you like swashbuckler movies give this one a try. "},{"Title":"I saw it for what it was, and I thoroughly enjoyed it","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  From the moment the opening credits hit the screen, I knew exactly the type of movie that I was going to see, and I enjoyed every minute of it. The old fashioned opening, the bad acting, the awesome fight scenes, all of it clearly pointed to an old fashioned, Errol Flynn, swashbuckling type adventure film. Even though all my friends hated the movie, I had a stupid smile on my face because I had an open mind about what I was watching. Great movie? No, but it was a fun and interesting movie that reminded me of the old action films I used to watch when I was a kid.  "},{"Title":"Classic Hong Kong action, brings a jaded genre back to life.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I was very surprised by this film, it reinvents the traditional swashbuckling 3 musketeer story with D'Artagnan cast as a hero by himself. Instead of the usual soppy muppet. And it really works!Tim Roth is brilliant, A classic baddie with a touch of humour who simply loves the role.But what really separates this film from the rest, is its action sequences. The introduction of Hong Kong style tightly choreographed fight sequences, wipe the floor with the usual one on one swashbuckling duels.In fact this film reminds me of the classic Once upon a time in China series, the ladder fight is clearly drawn from that.The mix of Hong Kong action, classic Wild West stagecoach routines and the historical french setting work brilliantly. It could almost be Once upon a time in France.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie To Watch at Home","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I thought that the movie was an original version of the classic novel. It incorporated great fighting scenes that were out of this world. They looked as if they were some kind of asian/western/ fencing techniques all blended in with awesome stunt men. Also the story had a nice pace, the only problems were that the characters were underdeveloped. Mena Suvari had a great part and also great chemistry with Dartagnon (Justin Chambers) and I would have like to see more of the romance, but it was short and vauge. I would recommend this for a movie to watch at home or maybe on PPV, I don't know about spending more than that on it.  "},{"Title":"Must See","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie was not your run of the mill musketeer movie and that is what made it great.  Not to the extent of absurd but to the level that inspires dreams.  Ignore all those that complain about it not following the book. Certainly ignore the Keefer Sutherland version.  Grab the DVD at your local store, enjoy a unique adaptation of an old story and be prepared to be amazed by the wonderful fight seens. "},{"Title":"It was a good movie","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I don't understand why everyone doesn't like The Musketeer.  The movie wasn't supposed to be Dumas' story made into a movie, but rather another story that his inspired.  This story isn't the three musketeer, but rather one musketeer who has a different story to his life.  The movie was good. Granted the acting was not the best, and there wasn't much of a story to it, but you have to give the movie credit at least in the choreography.  These were some of the best stunts I have seen in a movie that was placed in historical western Europe.  The Matrix and Crouching Tiger had magnificent choreography, but in the movie they wanted you to know that they were martial arts experts.  The beauty of this movie is that western Europe did not have a fighting style like the oriental martial arts, so the merging of European weapons and genre with an oriental style of fighting made the fighting scenes in this movie excellent.  Think of just 5 years ago, back in 1997, before the Matrix was made.  There weren't fighting styles much like this outside of kung fu movies but now everyone is doing it.  So when someone mixes eastern and western fighting styles, they think it's horrible because it's not the norm, or how they actually fought back then.  What I say is that it's a movie, and that's what this movie was made for, people who go to movies for the sake of movies, not for the historical accuracy or if the fighting is not historically correct.  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie because it was not the norm.  I enjoyed it cause I was tired of seeing D'Artagnan in the other musketeer movies being such a goody goody.  This movie was made to be not the normal musketeer movie, and they did an excellent job at doing so.  But it seems that some people cannot accept this fact, or accept different derivities from the classic.  This movie wasn't made to be Alexandre Dumas book made into a movie.  It is a variation made away from the norm.  That is why I very much enjoyed this movie, and that is probably why so many people dislike it. "}{"Title":"Why'd you give it a 1?","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Who really cares about the movie's accuracy? When you saw the previews on T.V., didn't you think it would be pure action/no story? Why'd you see it if you wanted a good story? I thought it had great choreography and  good story by itself. Who cares if it didn't follow th book? "},{"Title":"Not THAT bad, but bad","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I think the comments on here are a little on the harsh side. There are good things about the film. It's probably right for younger viewers, the photography and lighting is good, the suspense is okay, Mena Suvari looks much better than she did in American Pie. Tim Roth will never make a bad villain, and the guy who played Cardinal Richelieu was thoroughly enjoyable too.Okay, that said...The character development is the real problem here. Athos, Porthos and Aramis never did anything cool that the rest of the corps didn't do. There was no reason to care about the old dude that died in the fire. Mena Suvari was just an artificial media construct, a strong-willed woman with no development, nothing leading up to the meaningful events making me appreciate why she was the way she was. So she was just a hot young female body plunked into the middle of the film.Acting all-around, was okay. But...The one big sin about character development that is unforgivable, in my opinion, is that d'Artagnan was a big badass from the minute the 14 years later... fades from the screen. This is why Alexandre Dumas novels are not martial arts movies. d'Artagnan is the inspiration for Luke Skywalker. He should start out as an awkward youth, knocking things over, stuttering, stammering, looking like a future shish kabob. The audience should be surprised by his development into a skilled, worthy musketeer. Michael York did this beautifully. Even Chris O'Donnell offered something here, and he can't act nearly as well as Justin Chambers. But NOOO...we've got Xing-Xing Grand-High Whatzisface doing the choreography here...so everyone's gotta be a friggin' Jedi Super-master from the get-go.It kills the story. It's a disaster, because it's settled early on that everyone who swashbuckles in this movie, is going to swashbuckle just as well or just as poorly as the choreographer and director want them to, and duels will be fought and won and lost to the convenience of the story. The audience's perceptions are relegated to insignificance.THEN they COMPOUNDED it. The final siege of the castle...jeez... if anyone thinks that's okay, and they went on to rag on Phantom Menace, I'll see to it they hear from me. They just had the good guy and the bad guy fight, until they felt we got tired of it, and the bad guy just died. Like painting by numbers. It's a shame because up until then, the movie wasn't that bad, and a lot of people contributing to it were doing more than satisfactory work...but a bad ending just leaves a sour taste in your mouth. That's probably why it's getting castigated so much here. "},{"Title":"I'm all for The Musketeer!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie! Justin Chambers (the thing won't let me put his characters name) is determined to become a Musketeer after seeing his parents murdered. 14 years after he goes to Paris. Only to find that there are very few left, with little help from others he proves he can hang in with the best... With f/x similar to The Matrix, this is a quality movie, with stories of adventure, love, trust and what's most important.  "},{"Title":"Easily one of the worst adaptations ...","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I've always enjoyed a movie of this type ... but the Musketeer as an utter disappointment.  I'm the kind of person that usually sits through a movie regardless of how bad it is.  This time around, I was screaming for the rewind button before half time.  I did watch it to the end (don't really know why).  Spent the time laughing and mocking the remainder of the movie with my friends.Rent anything but this.  Its better than navy seals, but not by much. "},{"Title":"...to be 7 years old again...","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I recommend this movie to anyone with a youngster who likes Indiana Jones, Star Wars, and X-men sort of movies. At such a young age I doubt they would be able to tell the severe quality deficit this movie suffers from. Anyone above the age of 12 should be able to pick up on the fact that this movie is a dull, thoughtless, disaster.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst adaptations of the Musketeer's Stories!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  We all know that the year 2001 was not a good year for the movies. Do not get me wrong not all of them were bad in fact some of them were good or even great, but those are far and few between Unfortunate for The Musketeer it was not one of those lucky few that were good or great movies. Well enough with the ranting, time to review this movie As usual the bad news; This has got to be one of the worst adaptations of The Three Musketeers book and movies. Like the Disney version this one strays away from probably even further than the Disney version of the story, but the Disney version (**&1/2 out of ****) is  surprisingly good and this new one is surprisingly bad.  (maybe not surprisingly bad.) One needs to remember that movies based on books, based upon can can mean anything. One example is the Devil's Advocate, I read the book and saw the movie (which I really liked, *** out of ****,) but the movie is totally different from the book. The major thing that disappointed me about said movie is the fact that action was too much like watching an episode of the A-Team. It is like the A-Team because there are a lot of harmful things flying through the air and only a few people if that many are/were seriously hurt, damaged, killed, or showed signs of the consequences of the violence. The action in this movie is merely filmed as eye candy or to look pretty for the camera or the audience. Don't get me wrong I like action and violent films. The second problem I had with this movie was the script, it seems everyone is along for the paycheck and for a ride. To add to this, there is little or no character development, they are basically one dimensional characters even the leads are poorly written. A third problem is the lack of character development of the other Musketeers, frankly I was a little disappointed by how little they were in the story and how little their characters were developed. the forth problem I had with this movie was the cinematography and action choreography. I like most Peter Hyams films especially The Relic, but this movie and the End of Days have not exactually been great movies not even good movies. Then there is the action choreographer Xin Xin Xiong, Jackie Chan and Jet Li called they want their props back. It is truly amazing how many props there could be for a movie set during the 1600 to 1700's. There are some good things about this movie. The first good thing about this movie would be that because of Peter Hyams direction some of the action scenes look pretty good. The second positive thing about this movie is that the actors do a good job with what they have to work despite the poor story and script. The third thing is the always beautiful actress Mena Suvari. This movie did not totally suck, mainly because Man in the Iron Mask was worse. I give this movie *&1/2 stars or a C-. Thanks for your time and attention.  "},{"Title":"Eh.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Well, it had the stunts.  That was nice.  But...everything else was pretty awful.  I mean, really...just...awful.  The acting was incredibly forced and unnatural, the plot somehow managed to turn a classic novel into something nearly unwatchable, and in general, every time something happened on screen, my reaction was, Eh.  That pretty much sums up the film...there's just no content whatsoever outside of the nice-looking stunts.  Basically a film you can watch, look at the stunts, say, That looked nice, and move on with your life.  Fast-forward through the rest...don't get caught watching it where you can't, in a theater or on TV, or you'll be bored during the stuff that doesn't involve swordfighting on top of wobbly ladders or rolling barrels. Eh. "},{"Title":"worst film I have seen in a really long time.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Half way through this film I just started laughing.  The actoring was horrible, the action scenes were boring and there was nothing of interest in the store.  There are so many errors in the action scenes that I started to view this film as a comedy.  It is so bad its funny.  They spent all their time on the stunts and none on the story.  I am so glad that I didn't waste my money to see this in the theater.  Don't waste your time unless you want to see a really pathetic movie. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I think that most of the bad points in this movie have been noted by everyone else however I thought that I would add a few extra points.1) Firstly the whole movie played like the ridiculous fight scene in Sudden Death between Van Damme and a mascot. (Surprise surprise, directed by peter hyams)2) I find it hard to believe that no one realises that the last fight scene was a complete rip off of the many times superior Once upon a time in China (Jet Li) finale. Xin Xin Xiong (the choreographer in The Musketeer) was actually Jet Li's stunt double and actually appeared as another character (Club Foot) in sequels of that movie.3) The movie never really started. How can such a well told tale become so stale and actually have major plot holes? Haven't they had years of practise? Didn't they watch the other versions? oh well..well, thats it. Bad, bad movie. Bad, Bad director... "},{"Title":"Horrendous","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Normally, I disagree with the nit-picking that is done to movies.  Half the time people will pick one thing they hated about a movie and forget to enjoy the movie in their quest to make themselves feel better.That having been said, I will not watch this movie again.  The trailer was excellent, making me want to watch the movie.  It was the only riveting thing about the movie.  None of the characters were memorable, and none of them evoked any emotion whatsoever from me.  The editing was terrible, and I could never tell if something I saw was going to hold true in the next second or not.  Enough has been said about the lighting, so I will simply focus on the editing and the story.The story contorts badly to try to maintain a plot.  I can find no reason why, in the first scene, the villain rides off after being hit in the eye instead of ordering his men to slaughter the boy, or even doing it himself. This is forgivable only in that it is intended to start the story, however, I would have had the villain send men after the boy only to run into the old man.  The first scene after the hero is 'grown' with the boy stealing seemed very contrived and unbelievable.  It seemed to serve only as proof that he can now take care of himself and serves no purpose whatsoever in furthering the plot.  Later, when they have the queen and are being chased, the hero drops black powder onto a tiny bridge to stop the villain.  If the intent were to blow up the bridge, it certainly isn't portrayed as believable, since any horse could easily jump the tiny ruined bridge.  If the intent were to create fire that they can't run through, black powder burns quickly and turns into carbon almost instantly, creating a flare-up for maybe 5 seconds at the most, certainly not enough to make the villain turn around. Near the end, when the hero is about to assault the castle by himself and his friends ride up, including the old man in the carriage with the hero's horse tied to the rear, the director actually allows you to watch an entire scene of him talking to his horse where the hero is already wearing the tabard of the musketeers before it's even given to him in the very next scene.  Then, while on the ropes, not only do you watch the travesty that is the climbing scene, but you can visibly see the hero drop his sword, only to be carrying it the very next scene.  After he gets to the top, the love interest is shot, only to whisper to the hero that she is alright, and from the appearance of the dress, it's as if she's wearing some sort of bullet-proof vest, which is the only assumption, as she appears later completely unharmed.  The final hero vs. villain scene is horrible as well, not only is the fight scene stolen from a fight scene in 'Once Upon A Time In China', it is hashed up and abruptly stopped.  One minute the hero is at the bottom of the ladder, and the villain is coming down after him, and the next the hero is standing underneath the villain looking at him, and the villain is dead.  No death scene, and no hint, other than the obvious fact he was impaled on some sort of sharp object, is given.  This scene served as the deathblow to a poorly done climax.  Alone, these are little things, but you add them up and it goes from being a good story to not even good entertainment value. "}{"Title":"Unbelievable, I really mean it...","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie was entirely unbelievable, and certainly *not* in a good way. The fight scenes were difficult to follow, or even see, and the gimmicks that were included in them were just plain silly. I think the room full of ladders that just so happened to be part of a fight scene got me the most. Oh, look! It's a ladder factory! I think I'll just fight up on these dangerous ladders instead of jumping down to the nice firm ground... The acting was just as bad as the fighting. The characters struck me as flat and unconvincing, and much of the script seemed stilted and fake. And please, crocodiles in the sewer of France? Did they import them from Africa? Normally I enjoy adaptations of the Three Musketeers. Heck, I even liked the Disney version to a point, despite the cheese. This one, however, failed to please me in even the slightest way.  "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  What a lousy movie!  Did the producers ever see the end product?  How could they release this crap.  (Spoilers, if this thing could be spoiled, are ahead.)  Didn't D'Artagnan get shot while in the river.  What happened to the wound?  Didn't Francesca get shot in the chest?  What happened to the wound?  Young D'Artagnan meets with an old man then 14 years later D'Artagnan, as a young man, is still with him though the old man did not age and seemed to be wearing the same clothes.  Why did the The 4 Musketeers have to sneak through the sewers to get into the castle when minutes later swarms of homeless waltz right in.  And why did the King and Queen have to escape, from their own palace, through the same sewers then appear back in the palace the next day.  Was sewer time booked and the director just had to work it into the script.  How was Febre actually killed?  The climatic scene where the really bad guy fights the good guy, the scene anticipated throughout the movie, is so poorly handled that you aren't sure how the bad guy was killed.  And the scene of climbing the castle walls on ropes.  The Batman TV show had more realistic rope climbing.  This was a ridiculous movie. "},{"Title":"Watch something else!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Truly an awful movie. I probably watch 100 movies/year, and this would definitely rank in the bottom 10%, maybe the bottom 5%. Not long after the movie started (I watched it on DVD), I started watching the timer on my DVD player. Bad sign. Kept watching timer, wishing it would at least get to the hour mark. Hoped movie was less than 2 hours long. Know what I mean?This movie had no character development. I never cared about any of the characters, because they hadn't given me any reason to care.Fight scenes were mildly entertaining, but way overrated.Plot was lame.Scenery was pretty. There, I finally found something to praise.Seriously, unless you need to watch 500 movies/year, skip this one. There are far better uses of 2 hours of your time than to watch this movie. I can't think of anyone it would appeal to, at least no one over 10 years old. "},{"Title":"the trailer was better","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  My expectations grew every time I saw the trailer but when I was in Canada September the 9th in Halifax and saw it two months earlier when it came to theatres in Iceland (where Im from), but when I saw it I was so disapointed that I stared at the seat in front of me just to keep busy.  Avoid this movie at all cost. "},{"Title":"You guys need to lighten up a bit","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I went and saw this movie in the theatres and I loved it.  I read all these reviews you guys are writting and they make me sick.  If anyone should shoot down the movie it should be me and I'll tell you why.  Have any of you read the book?  I imagine a few of you have.  Ok, then how many of you have read ALL the books?  How many of you even knew it was part of a series that is about 6 books long (or 3 or 4 depending on if you version was cut up)? I've read every book by Dumas in his D'artagnan Romances series and  I loved all his books.  When I saw this movie coming out I realized that it wasn't going to be close to the true story line but you know what...I DIDN'T CARE! People don't make movies true to the storyline of books.  It never happens. Disney failed when they did their rendition of it and so did everybody else. Give it up you guys.  Go and see a movie and enjoy it because it puts a smile on your face and you leave wanting to pull a sword on someone that looks at you funny.  I loved the fact that they threw in Xin Xin Xiong cause it smacks a nice twist in the movie.  I say stop your lousy reviews and remember that movies were meant to be watched and enjoyed. "},{"Title":"a guilty pleasure","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  OK, I know this film got just about the worst possible reviews from everyone, everywhere, but for me it was great fun to watch. It's one of those guilty pleasures, the wannabe blockbusters with a bad script, worse actors and cheese written all over it, which flop disastrously at the box office and get rented out about once a year from your local video store. However, if you correctly anticipate the film as one of this kind, and expect nothing more, then you'll be more than pleased with it. Yup, the script is pretty dire. The story is nothing if not formulaic, and the acting is wooden from the entire cast apart from Tim Roth, who does a decent baddie. There's a big climactic fight scene, the heroes win, d'Artagnan gets the girl and everyone goes home in time for tea. It's a recipe for a turkey, but surprisingly the trimmings taste very good indeed. For starters there's a lively, brash score  la Superman, great costumes all around, authentic-looking sets and very nice production design.  Secondly the action is intense - the fight scenes are quite amazing, on a par with things like The Matrix and Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. Some of the fights even have a comedic Jackie-Chan-type element to them which is very well done. It's a shame, because the film could have done a lot better than it did, and it seems like they ran into some problems while making it - it feels like it was intended to be a grandiose two or two and a half hour epic, but had to be brutally edited down to under two hours for some financial or contractual reason. There are lots of scenes which have noticeable chunks hacked out of them, leading to minor plot holes and a sense of discontinuity. Casting was also a problem area, with French, English and American actors sounding very French, English and American, and quite inappropriate alongside each other. Inexperienced crew, or money problems, or something else? I don't know, but D'Artagnan deserves better. It deserves to be a cult flop like Starship Troopers or Waterworld. At least that's what I think, so don't blame me if you're not included in this particular cult. "},{"Title":"The worst film of the year","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is by far the worst movie I've seen this year. The musketeer or Matrix in France? I can't understand how a director like Peter Hyams can sometimes do fims like Capricorn 1, 2010l Outland and then this. That begininng with D'Artagnan watching how his parents are killed, Planchet who is like one of this kung-fu trainers of the early Jackie Chans films.... Please, save your money "},{"Title":"This was not the worst one made.","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I thought the plot was excellent as well as the special effects. The stunt choreography was very well done. The actor who played D'Artagnan did a good job at it. I thought the movie was well cast and looked like it was fun to make. I would definitely want this one in my film library. "},{"Title":"Not worth going to the cinema","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I didn't expect much from this The Musketeer, but I got less than I expected. In my opinion it's simply bad written and bad directed. It's one of those films that make you constantly wonder Why is he doing things like this? There's an easier way!. There are some fighting scenes you get to appreciate, but the rest seemed just too much illogical to me. Only the presence of Mena Suvari added, for me, a positive weight to the whole package. "},{"Title":"Great, if you're a 10-year old.","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Being a real fan of the period, having loved the Hornblower and Sharpe TV-series, I was really looking forward to this movie. Even though I didn't like the Planet of the Apes much, I had high hopes for Tim Roth's acting as I liked him in both Tarantino's Resevoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction.Alas...it was not to be. Let's keep it short, as the movie isn't worth a long review.The storyline is predictably silly, the fight scenes are idiotic and clearly designed on the basis of Jacky Chan's success, but without the humor (leaving???), the acting is sometimes mediocre, but mainly bad.I can go on...I can even explain in depth, but I will just say this If you are a boy of around 10, rent the video. Go on...its really cool.If you're anything else (grown up 10-year olds do not count), just skip this movie and read Alexandre Dumas' book - it is a LOT more enjoyable. "}{"Title":"A Saturday afternoon matinee movie in the old tradition!","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"       This movie's detractors seem to miss the point.  The Musketeer is not a re-telling of the great Three Musketeers story.  It is simply a story set in the TM universe.  It has great costuming, sets, and photography.  The plot and acting are certainly sufficient to entertain.  I mean, hey people, this is Saturday afternoon matinee fare and it's fun!  Alexandre Dumas (pere) would approve! "},{"Title":"A big joke...","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  What the?!?! Where in the nine hells did the creator of this movie took his ideas? Everywhere but from the three musketeers, I think... That's the worst, and I mean, the WORST adaptation of the musketeers I've ever seen... The anime series were better than that! ONE good point about the movie the stunts. That's all. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen.","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This has to  be one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I am not sure how martial arts and kung fu fit into Dumas' story, but I know that it was certainly out of place. Despite a great performance by Tim Roth, I wanted to leave 10 minutes into the movie. I do not recommend this to anyone. If you want a good story abut the Three Musketeers, READ THE BOOK. This should be in the Worst #250 of all time.  "},{"Title":"Save your money wait for the video release","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worst and loosest adaptations of The Three Musketeers yet. The scenery and swordplay were good. The best actors in the movie were the seasoned ones (Tim Roth for example). Nick Moran and the actor playing Porthos were also well cast. Mena Suvari and Justin Chambers need to take more acting lessons. Catherine Deneuve and Jeremy Clyde gave fine performances but too old for their parts as was the actor playing Planchet. The actor playing Athos was terribly miscast. For anyone who likes good adaptations of the classics please see Richard Lester's 1974/75 Three and Four Musketeers with Michael York,George Sidney's 1948 version with Gene Kelly,the 1999 video stage play and the 1961 two part French production and the 1978 Russian version.If you like silents see the Douglas Fairbanks Sr. version. The Musketeer also cut out the Three Musketeers worst enemy Milady de Winter,the Cardinal's beautiful murderous femme fatale agent. If you don't want to see another version of Three Musketeers then either buy or check out the book online or at your local library. "},{"Title":"Original actions sequences in a not so original movie","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie surprised me. I went to see it because there was nothing better showing but it wasn't to bad at all. Ok, the story itself is nothing special for this kind of movie but to my opinion the fighting parts of the movie were. Although not very realistic they are very fast and original. Enjoyable! "},{"Title":"heh? One word BAAAAAAAAAAAAD","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  You have seen most all of the fight scenes in the commericals. And there is very little else to it. Not like the book either...the fights even had contunity errors! BAAAAAAAAD! Pointless action flick but I like swords so, and medevil stuff..so I'd say 2.5 just for the swords  LOL....I think it should have wondered directly to the video rental...but so should of 90% of all the movies that have been released this year.... "},{"Title":"The hype?  Screw the hype.","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Musketeer was hyped to be a very exciting sword weilding movie. Although the movie did have some (maybe 3) great fight scenes, it lacked everything else.  The acting was horrid.  The script was un-developed. The Characters were stupid.  The movie was bad.  So... what else is there to say?  Not much.  I really liked Tim Roth in this roll.. but that could be biased becasue I like Tim Roth.  I'm not sure yet.  The last fight was very well done.  Unbelievable... but well done.Final thought.  If you taken out all the crap in this movie, you would have had 3 sword fights and a naked Mena Suvari.  That's it. "},{"Title":"An awful movie","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  A historical drama for kung-fu movie fans (but not enough action to satisfy them). The sets are good but everything else sucks1. Script. Cliched in the style of that most cliched era - the nineties.2. Acting.3. Forgettable leading man shown up by several of the supporting actors.4. Very weak and not at all threatening Richlieu.5. None of the spirit of the book6. Not as good as any previous version7. Laughable fight sequences. You can suspend disbelief in kung-fu movies but not historical dramas.8. Did I mention the appalling script?9. No muskets!10. Much much more...1950s B movies were better than this. We did end up laughing at it on occasions but it's not funny enough for bad movie night!  "},{"Title":"Worth Seeing","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  It was no Three Musketeers but it was a good movie. The storyline was ok and the characters were pretty one dimensional but Tim Roth was amazing as Fabre and the action scenes were great!  If you're a real musketeer fan this film is worth a look.   "},{"Title":"A messy patchwork","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Why do they do this?  Take a great story and make such a poor movie out of it.  It looks like someone put it together in an afternoon. You think Hollywood would know how to make a decent movie by now.  The camera shots look like they were made from a cam-corder at times, because the scenes were either shot from too far away or too close.  They are edited together in a very choppy manner and we can't really appreciate the work of the stunt people. (Watch The Mask of Zorro if you want to see how it's done)However, I found myself really hoping that it would get better. Come On! it's the Muskateer's!  They had some good casting, but no direction.  And what was with that final duel?  Where's the witty repartee?  The drawn out battle through many rooms and locales?  It was anti-climactic to say the least.It honestly looked like they sat down at a table and took five great stunts and tried to put some kind of a story around them. And WHAT! was with the opening credits?  It look like a bad tv version of the old Wild, Wild West intro. "}{"Title":"All for naught.","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  If you have to choose between a) icepicks under the fingernails b) seeing this movie... think carefully before you answer.  Hopefully the Count of Monte Cristo scheduled for later this summer won't be half as bad as this. If you do end up choosing (B) then watch for anachronisms like use of the metric system in the 17th century... "},{"Title":"A terrible excuse for a film","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This film has so many flaws I do not even know where to begin except at the beginning. The trailer suggest an exciting film which I'm sure is responsible for the opening weekend success. The title sequence is dark and odd, reminding me of Wild Wild West and the film itself is just boring, populated with heartless acting and shadowy, dark action sequences where you can't even tell what is going on. The main actor (Justin Chambers) is horrible and fails to deliver any type of quality performance. In fact, the film is so choppy, it is a chore to even keep up with the lackluster plot. Quite simply, the worst musketeer movie ever made. Far short of The Man in the Iron Mask and not even as fun as The Three Musketeers. "},{"Title":"What Book Was This Based On?","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Dear Reader, I don't know what book this movie was based on, it couldn't have been based on Duma's classic the Three Musketeers. They're nothing alike. d'Artagnan (Justin Chambers) was never fully seen. The fact that his hat not only never came off (even when he was flipping and hanging upside down) but that it covered his face all the time made me want to leave.I came to the theatre to see a movie, not a bunch of shadows. Then there was Mena Suvari's character. The character's name is supposed ot be Constance, yet here it was Franchesca. It didn't match up with the book at all. She's supposed to die in the end, yet here they were all well. Febre goes crazy, and you get the feeling that Tim Roth simply had nothing better to do. This roll would have been good for him if the character had been more developed. As it was, he was just the crazy guy who could fight well. The whole movie rushed from one major event to the next, seemingly repeating scenes and being truly predictable. Personally, i think i could have spent my four dollars on fries and a drink. However, i will give some credit to the choreography. The final fight scene was amazing and i couldn't tear my eyes of the screen, so I'm giving it a 4/10. It had it's good parts, i especially liked the queens character. Thanks, Maria "},{"Title":"Too many one-liners, too many effects","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Too many one-liners. Also, the fight scenes are overdone. Pioneered in the Matrix, using cables and wires was very plot effective. The characters were in a world created by computers and they were 'bending' the rules as they could because they have an imagination while computers do not.  The effects of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon looked less realistic, but the setting of the movie is supposedly in fantasy so it's allowed. In the Musketeer some of the scenes are TOO fantastic. The only fight scene that was entirely realistic is during the banquet/kitchen brawl.  The first tavern brawl was a little fantastical, but would have been tasteful.  The ropes/tower scene dragged on way too long. And the ladders would have been good if they didn't go into the balancing act on old rickety ladders that surely would have crumbled under the weight of 200lbs at each end.I give it 7/10 though, just cuz I like sword fights. "},{"Title":"I only liked one thing about that movie...","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I thought it was a terrible movie. The only person who could act in that movie was Tim Roth and he was hardly in it. I think the movie could have been better if they had a different script and a better cast (except Nick Moran who is a really cool actor). "},{"Title":"Not Good","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Musketeer was a miserable attempt at a movie and I am still in shock that I spent $5.50 matinee on this piece of garbage movie.  The acting was terrible (especially by Mira Suvari, as well as the lead character). The story was full of clichs and effortlessly predictable.  And the final fight where the bad guy gets his coming death?  Not even that good.  He should have at least been thrown off of the tower.  I will say, I am a fan of the oh-so-clichd movies where the hero avenges a close one's death, ala this movie, however, I am NOT a fan of this movie.  Worst Movie Ever.  "},{"Title":"Maybe the worst ever","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  One would think it would be impossible to butcher Dumas' tale of romance, heroism and swordplay more than Disney's misguided attempt in the late 90's.  Sadly, that has been proven not to be the case.XXX's wire-fu acrobatics are poorly suited for this kind of swordplay, and as one who greatly appreciates fencing as the Science of Kings, I have to say it would have been nice if this film had any.  At all.The Musketeer is shot so dark, so murky, so impossibly moody that there is nearly no swordplay visible--and what little IS visible is lost among swirling capes, teetering ladders, and and apparently cross-eyed opponents.  And not in a ooh, cool kind of way, either.  I say cross-eyed because it's nearly the only thing that explains how five men with swords can miss one with only one--and he spread-eagled between beams on the ceiling of a bar.  I'm not kidding.It's also nice to see an actress as talented as Mena Suvari have an opportunity to take a break from actually acting.  I'm sure she's earned the rest.It's called The Musketeer because there is precious little time to the remaining musketeers.  Porthos is a useless git, Aramis is less a lover and more a cardboard Mandy Patinkin-wannabe, and Athos gets two belligerently drunken lines.  I could go on but what's the point.  I thought Final Fantasy would be the worst film I would see this year.  I was wrong by an order of magnitude. "},{"Title":"Maybe the worst ever","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  One would think it would be impossible to butcher Dumas' tale of romance, heroism and swordplay more than Disney's misguided attempt in the late 90's.  Sadly, that has been proven not to be the case.XXX's wire-fu acrobatics are poorly suited for this kind of swordplay, and as one who greatly appreciates fencing as the Science of Kings, I have to say it would have been nice if this film had any.  At all.The Musketeer is shot so dark, so murky, so impossibly moody that there is nearly no swordplay visible--and what little IS visible is lost among swirling capes, teetering ladders, and and apparently cross-eyed opponents.  And not in a ooh, cool kind of way, either.  I say cross-eyed because it's nearly the only thing that explains how five men with swords can miss one with only one--and he spread-eagled between beams on the ceiling of a bar.  I'm not kidding.It's also nice to see an actress as talented as Mena Suvari have an opportunity to take a break from actually acting.  I'm sure she's earned the rest.It's called The Musketeer because there is precious little time to the remaining musketeers.  Porthos is a useless git, Aramis is less a lover and more a cardboard Mandy Patinkin-wannabe, and Athos gets two belligerently drunken lines.  I could go on but what's the point.  I thought Final Fantasy would be the worst film I would see this year.  I was wrong by an order of magnitude. "},{"Title":"Maybe the worst ever","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  One would think it would be impossible to butcher Dumas' tale of romance, heroism and swordplay more than Disney's misguided attempt in the late 90's.  Sadly, that has been proven not to be the case.XXX's wire-fu acrobatics are poorly suited for this kind of swordplay, and as one who greatly appreciates fencing as the Science of Kings, I have to say it would have been nice if this film had any.  At all.The Musketeer is shot so dark, so murky, so impossibly moody that there is nearly no swordplay visible--and what little IS visible is lost among swirling capes, teetering ladders, and and apparently cross-eyed opponents.  And not in a ooh, cool kind of way, either.  I say cross-eyed because it's nearly the only thing that explains how five men with swords can miss one with only one--and he spread-eagled between beams on the ceiling of a bar.  I'm not kidding.It's also nice to see an actress as talented as Mena Suvari have an opportunity to take a break from actually acting.  I'm sure she's earned the rest.It's called The Musketeer because there is precious little time to the remaining musketeers.  Porthos is a useless git, Aramis is less a lover and more a cardboard Mandy Patinkin-wannabe, and Athos gets two belligerently drunken lines.  I could go on but what's the point.  I thought Final Fantasy would be the worst film I would see this year.  I was wrong by an order of magnitude. "},{"Title":"Horrible Horrible Movie","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie expecting something awesome and spectacular like the preview showed it to be.  But, as I soon found out, I was in for a bit of a surprise.  The very beginning of the movie is terrible and the opening credits make you laugh hysterically.  Tim Roth does the only decent acting job.  The action scenes are decent, but there are very few of them and some just incredibly unrealistic.  Bottom line...DONT SEE THIS MOVIE!!! Save your seven dollars for a good movie. "}{"Title":"Not for the purist","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  First off, let me say I liked the movie. Second, allow me to say that while the credits state that the movie is based on the work by Alexander Dumas, it is more accurately adapted from the Disney version. Despite having only character names in common with the French, it was worth the matinee. The three veteran musketeers, Athos, Porthos and Eramus are reminiscent of the portrayals in the '76 version (starring Michael York), taking the place of complete side characters. The action, heavily influnced by Hong Kong action movies, was well done and refreshing in the setting.So, as an action flick not bad. But don't expect the  novel "},{"Title":"ARGH!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  One word embarrassed. I'mm embarrassed for Catherine Deneuve. I'm embarrassed for Tim Roth. I'm embarrassed for Stephen Rea. I'm even embarrassed for Mena Suvari. By the time we got through the opening credits (which show various shots of various scenes of the movie we were about to see), my friends and I knew this was a stinker. Actually, we already had a feeling when we saw the tv ads but thought we'd give it a shot. Actually, the opening credits were almost like the credits of an early-80's made-for-television special Sunday Nite movie.The first scene already was a foreshadow of the uninspired acting, the uninspired story telling Little D'Artagnan gives some dude a nasty facial scar...hmmmmm, I wonder if that guy will remember it and they'll fight to the death at the end of the movie?, and just overall cr4p this movie was.I mainly went in to see the action scenes. Too bad the camera was always too close to see anything, not to mention that fighting in the dark just doesn't translate well to the screen either.I just spent 10 bucks to see Two Can Play That Game in the theatre. That was 10 times more enterntaining than this sad excuse for a movie. "},{"Title":"HORRIBLE.....","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  WHO keeps giving this man budgets?  ALL of his films have been horrible... I don't know if he is trying to do too much with shooting and directing, but whatever it is - his movies SUCK...  The acting is shabby, the lighting is horrible, the cinematography is sketchy and the direction is terrible. STUDIOS - with all the talented filmmakers waiting to be discovered STOP giving this man money... "},{"Title":"All for one and...all for one","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The title should be a warning. By making the rest of the Musketeers simply a supporting cast for the lead character, you have completely destroyed the reason for their strength, and therefore undermined the strength of the story. I understand the concept of basing a movie on a book. However, some attributes are going to carry over no matter what you do with the rest of the story line.In this movie I got no sense that the character of D'Artagnan ever really got it through his head that he was striving to become part of something larger than himself. He was bent on revenge, and becoming a Musketeer would help in that quest. Sure, he used  mottos and principles of the Musketeers to shame them...into helping HIM. They performed as one, doing their duty, while he went about his quest. Even at the end, now fully a Musketeer, his last words to Richelieu are not those of someone who is part of a greater good, but simply mano y mano, if I may be allowed a cross-cultural reference.(I don't analyze every film this way. Some just happen to strike a chord. I like to go to movies for pure fun, and I was prepared to let this one stand on its own merits. However, the characters must be believable, or completely outlandish, for me to really enjoy the film.)The Musketeers subsumed the individual within their organization, reaching towards a unified goal.  This movie does just the opposite and is all the weaker for it. "},{"Title":"America's Crouching Tiger is adequate for the big screen.","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Action sequences make this movie.  I felt like I was watching a Western version of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.  The focus on night time and closeups of Chambers' and Suvari's faces made me realize the movie's target audience.  I would recommend this movie for the ladder sequence, but overall, it is just predictable, mainstream entertainment.  I wouldn't watch it twice in one week.   "},{"Title":"Fighting scenes, as a woman, I was pleased to watch","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I am sorry that the person ahead of me was not pleased with this movie, but I have to say that I never like fight scenes.  These scenes were a pleasure to watch, like a dance and drew me into the story.  I may not be all that particular about film critique, as I tend to just like a nice story, of which this was definitely one! "},{"Title":"I couldn't decide whether to sleep or laugh","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  All right,  i'm not picky when it comes to movies.  As long as it makes me forget reality for awhile,  i'll watch pretty much anything.  The Musketeer  is the first exception I've seen in a long time.The acting looks like it comes straight of out a Barney flick, and, like many others, I just couldn't get into the relationship between the leading couple.  No chemistry whatsoever.And don't even get me started on the ladder scene.  I laughed outloud on that one.I got up twice to check my watch,  hoping it was about time to be over. If the chairs had been a little more comfortable, i would tried to take a nap.Tim Roth's great preformence was the ONLY redeeming quality...and even HE couldn't rescue the movie.Save your money.  Please.  If you MUST watch a musketeer movie,  go rent the one with Charlie Sheen and Keifer Sutherland.  It has it's faults,  but it will at least keep you awake.======2/10=======>  "},{"Title":"Hey, if we were meant to laugh at it, WAY TO GO!!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  If this movie was a comedy and I just didn't know it, then way to go team!!  This movie had me chuckling AT IT from beginning to end. Unfortunately it wasn't the kind of laughter that was satisfying.  It was the kind that says man this is unbelievably bad.  I can't believe that this movie got made! This movie experience sadly rates as one of the greatest disappointments of this year.  Like many other people, I had high hopes for this movie, and was I let down. I would start this review with a synopsis, but I don't want you to think that it sounds cool, and then go and spend money on this trash.  And so I will head straight in to all of the problems with this movie.Firstly, Tim Roth was in it, which SHOULD HAVE been a good thing.  But he showed none of the villainous charisma that he laid on in Planet of the Apes as General Thade.  He showed up, read his lines through an eye patch, and cashed in at the bank. Secondly, I hate to be so shallow, but would someone either teach Mena Suvari to act, or at least send her to a dentist about that gaptooth problem.  If you can't act, you better at least look good. Sorry but Mena, you don't do either. Thirdly, When fight scenes are choreographed, we understand that the hero will win, but at least let your villains put up a reasonable fight. Here we have villains who call it quitting time in mid chase.  They looked like sprinters pulling up lame in the middle of the race.  And, oops, that fire is at least a foot off the ground, better turn around.  Don't want to take any chances.  I mean give me a break! I will admit that there was a stretch of about 5 minutes in the middle of the movie where I was amused.  Anyone reading this that has seen the movie knows exactly which spot, because it was the only decent one in the movie.  The musketeers infiltrate the castle to protect the king, and are disguised as butchers and bakers.  It made me laugh. I also found myself laughing as I watched a heroic scene involving D'Artagnan's exhausted horse! This movie was terrible from beginning to end, and the remarkable action scenes that this movies is being built upon are so poorly filmed and edited that they are no more enjoyable than the wretched acting and dialogue. Please, for the love of all that is good and descent, SAVE YOUR MONEY! That is what the DR. is here for, to save you the pain that I endured on Friday night.  "},{"Title":"CAUTION DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  If fancy stunts and a pretty boy front man can make up for bad editing and serious plot holes then this movie deserves to be Number 1 at the box office.  The only thing that kept me in the theater through the whole thing was the hilarious comments...coming from the audience.  The kind-hearted people at United Artists in New York City were good enough to be showing the movie for free but that alone did not make it worth it.  The movie skipped from section to section, seemingly put together by a blind, deaf man.  If you find yourself wondering Who is that man tied up in the corner and When did she get that necklace, just leave because its not worth trying to go back through this incredibly horrible story in your head to try to figure it out.P.S. If you do by chance feel the need to see this P.O.S. just feel sorry for the horse. "},{"Title":"A Big Disappointment","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  When watching the previews, I was expecting this movie to be decent.  But I was completely wrong.  The Musketeer was an extremely dull movie with very bad acting, writing, and directing.  The only thing that I can pick out of this movie that I was impressed with is the fighting scenes.  Even though there are only two good ones, they are very entertaining.  I do not recommend wasting $7+ on this movie.  If you really want to see it, I suggest that you wait until it comes out on video. "}{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Very rarely does a movie come along where I don't feel bad about talking at a normal volume to a friend while it's playing.  They should have said that this movie was loosely based on the Dumas classic because the two had practically nothing to do with each other.  If the names were changed and it was set in another country, I would bet that most people wouldn't have even realized that this was supposed to be based on The Three Musketeers.  I felt that Chris O'Donnell, I mean Justin Chambers was boring, and D'Artagnan had to work extremely hard to become a Musketeer in the book.  In this it seemed as if he had become their leader right away.  The Musketeers were shallower than a kiddie pool, and couldn't do anything without the help or guidance of D'Artagnan.  Technically, the film looked like it was taped off of a television with bad connection on EP mode, and the sound effects were so overdone it was ridiculous.  I have many more gripes with this movie I just don't have time to get into all of them.  I generally love bad movies because they are fun, but this one just made me sad.  Don't even rent this when it comes to video and dvd, wait until it comes to network television. Even then you're getting ripped off. "},{"Title":"An interesting new vision of The Three Musketeers","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I am very pleased with The Musketeer because, instead of the same old story, I saw an interesting new vision of the classic novel. With amazing swordfighting sequences and a really twisted villain, I think it is the most enjoyable version of The Three Musketeers I have seen.Of course, it is not perfect. I though we did not see enough of evil Febre (remarkable Tim Roth) and the Queen (the always excellent Catherine Deneuve) and the chemistry between D'Artagnan (Justin Chambers) and not Constance but FRANCESCA (Mena Suvari) needed a little work. But it was definitly a great story full of interesing characters. I am very satisfied with the performance of Justin Chambers, who is at the beginning of his career in the movie industry and I am looking forward to seeing his next movie.Finally, the cinematography was really good and, it gave a realistic idea of what Paris truly look like in the time of Louis XIII, not like the 1993 version with Chris O'Donnell.The Musketeer is, of course, not oscar material but truly a fun movie to watch that keeps you cheering for the good guys, a real crowd-pleaser! "},{"Title":"What corporate goon read this script and thought it was any good.","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I'm sure everyone knows the basics of the musketeer story so I'll only give you a quick synopsis here.  The long and short of it is 1700's France, D'Artagnan's(Justin Chambers ) father is killed by Febre (Tim Roth), D'Artagnan  vows to grow up and become a Musketeer, elite body guards of the King, just like his father.  He grows up, becomes a kick butt swordsman, and sets out to join the Musketeers only to find they have been disbanded by the not so religious Cardinal Richeleu who plots to deface the king in order to seize the throne.  Still with me?  Good.  D'Artagnan joins up with Musketeers Athos (Jan Gregor Kremp), and Porthos (Steven Spiers) to save the day.  Weren't there three musketeers you ask?  I thought so too but since the two that are in this movie are completely wasted why bother having the third. Now that the niceties are out of the way, down to business.  This movie sucked.  It sucked so much it was almost a made for T.V. movie.  The opening was a little hokey but in a movie like this I expected it.  What I didn't expect was to see the best bits of the movie in the trailer.  Moving forward from the opening is the title credits.  Now in this day and age of computer magic people can make some pretty spectacular things on the big screen.  I would have settled for a guy standing there with handwritten credits on poster board.  The titles looked like they were ripped from some 80's B.B.C. special.  Sadly it was all down hill from there.  Who ever thought that pretty boy model Justin Chambers was an actor?  Boy did you make a mistake. The guy basically read the script from queue cards and put no 'acting' into it.  Mina Suvari is almost no better.  There was absolutely no chemistry between them.  All the dialogue in this movie is horrible.  The action scenes touted so highly in the trailer (the main reason I wanted to see this movie) were dark, to close and horribly blurry.  I couldn't tell what was going on.  You always had the impression that something cool was happening but you could never see it.  Bad guys who give up way to easily, 'Oh no that coach is at least 10 feet away from me and moving slowly no way am I going to try and run after that', or the best was the 5 second fire on the stone bridge that scared away the pursuing baddies, you'd think they were unionized or something.  There are glaring continuity errors, blurry shots and just plan movie badness.  One of the worst had to be near the end when someone (No I won't tell you who) takes a bullet to the chest at close range and not only doesn't die but is back in perfect health for the next scene. The real shame of this movie is that real actors like Tim Roth and Catherine Deneuve got roped into it.  I mean who let's these movies get made, honestly.  What corporate goon read this script and thought it was any good. And who green lighted these actors.  Bah!  Don't go see this under ANY circumstances, even if someone else is paying.Just a note, I'm really not a movie ogre.  I don't hate everything I see. In fact I can usually find a few things to appreciate in almost every movie, it's just that this movie was soooo bad, I couldn't help but roast it.  "},{"Title":"suckiest of the suck, that ever sucked","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Peter Hyams... you owe me ten bucks... I wish I had that 100 minutes or so of my life back. I'm not sure what was worse... the pace, the story, the acting... actually, it was all of it combined... And, what was up with the opening credits and graphics?! "},{"Title":"I've never hated a film more","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This film is truly awful. I am a movie fan so in not-so-good films i usually try to pick out the good points from it and to give the director some credit for what he has done. But with this there was no credit due to anyone involved.When i saw the trailer i was given i fair warning as to what i should expect. Featuring the legendary choreography from the fight master Xiong Xin Xin. When you attempt to sell a film on that basis over the plot, over the stars, over the reworking of a classic etc. you know that theres going to be trouble ahead. And that trouble arrived in the form of lame duals that took place in ludicrious scenes where rooms were filled with ladders or barrels or ropes and were only too willing to allow the all-face-no-brains lead actor, Justin Chambers to dance and prance his way over and around them. Like i said it was truly awful.Although the cast is by no means a bad cast what they collectively are told to do is. Short meaningless dialogue, cheesy lines and poor plot means that this film could be better watched(if you dare to watch it at all) with the mute button on.I really hated this film and i beg you to just take my word and avoid it like the plague because its the biggest waste of a cinema ticket i've come across.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is certainly not the best adaptation, of the classic Dumas epic.  In fact it may be the worst.  The lead is wooden, Mia Survea delivers her lines in a French accent worse than Kevin Costners English Accent in Robin Hood, the scoring is over the top, and in general the only characters that pull off thier roles are Porthos, Rochfort, the Queen and D'artanian's stepfather/mentor.  The Cardnial was better played by Tim Curry (and more sinster too) and a close second for Charlton Hestons interp in the earlier series.So what is good about the movie?  Well for once Porthos is actually as big as he is in the book.  Something that none of the other movies have ever accomplished.  In the books he is a giant of a man, in size and strength, for once he is portrayed that way in the films.  In truth his is the only character that stays true to the Dumas Novel.So we have a medicore cast with some bright points and some dismal preformances.  The script is ham-handed in someplaces, muddled in others, and over scored throughout it, but it does pull off a mildly entertaining movie.  Not worth the full admission, go see this one as a matinee.  It is bloodless enough that you could take preteens to it without too much problem, and exciting enough to the teen audience to appease thier appitites. The only ones that will be truly disappointed with this movie are those that remember the earlier versions, and the majesty that they envoked.   "},{"Title":"This is a great movie!!!","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I thought it was a great movie.  I really loved the action scenes, as well as the performances of Justin Chambers, Mena Suvari, and Tim Roth.  Justin Chambers was good as a supporting actor in The Wedding Planner, but in The Musketeer, he proves that he has great leading man capabilities. Mena Suvari shines again in the role of Francesca.I found the movie to be quite moving, funny, and very enjoyable.  A lot of people are disappointed in this film as they have forgotten how to enjoy a movie so they sit there and pick it apart.Also, I want to say that there are a lot of people disappointed in this movie because it is not like the original Alexandre Dumas story.  Hence why in the opening credits it says Based Upon.I give this movie a 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Fun movie","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The sword fight on ladders was a blast.  A real fun movie. Suitable for the young ones, a real treat now a days. Highly recommended for young and old alike. "},{"Title":"As you've never seen it before, and hopefully won't see it again.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Now I'm tired of being so negative about movies when I comment on them, but I just thought I'd share my thoughts on whats being billed as the worst adaption of the Dumas classic yet. I kinda liked it. Not in the way a fanboy gloats over a Star Wars film, or in the way someone sees Grave of the Fireflies, and has no intentions of seeing it for a while after the first viewing. It appealed to me on the level that someone might gleefully admit to liking something the likes of The Beach or even (UGH!) Lost in Space. Overall the Peter Hyams direction was more directed at the eye instead of the brain, Xin Xin Xong's choreogrophy was great minus the fight scene at the end which I still get a weird kind of Once Upon a Time in China vibe off of. The actors all seem to be having a fun good ole time dressing up in costumes and playing with sharp pointy weapons ( Minus Justin Chambers who actually made me appreciate what Chris O'donnel brought to the role in the 93 film, and Mena Suvari who can look pouty and cute all she wants its all for nothing if you don't emote. Speaking of which the both of them seem to be reading directly from the script instead of acting.) Thats just some of the stuff I liked. What I hated was Gene Quintano's awful script. Dialouge falls out sounding at times like its in another one of his Police Academy movies while the whole plot of kill the Queen and Lord Buckingham seems to want to be just a sidepoint. Now I know they probably wanted to create something the likes of Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon or even The Swordsman series. But those are martial arts films based on martial arts novels (forgive me if I've made a mistake in that quote since it is quiet impossible to find either of those books in America.) The Three Musketeers isn't meant to be some silly Martial Arts swordfighting flick, however much you rape it for the movie. It wasn't written by a man who thought to himself Oh god I hope they get Ching-Siung Tung to direct! I emplore Hollywood stop raping Dumas. Make something original like you used to do. We don't need another Musketeer's adaption. Still after some of the dreck that we've been spoon fed this year, at least this helping was a little easier to swallow.Just another thought before I sign off. Before the movie actually started there were trailers for the re-release of Iron Monkey directed by Yuen Wo Ping and Windtalkers directed by John Woo. I just thought that was funny since I was going to see a movie that wanted so much to emulate the style that those films have.  "},{"Title":"this is an entertaining movie.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  While this is not a new or particularly gripping plot, the movie itself is very entertaining.  Tim Roth makes a great 'bad guy'.  I can not say that the hero or the ingenue are terribly riviting in the roles and I think Jeremy Clyde who played Lord Buckingham might have been better used as Richlieu, this is still a movie I found to be entertaining and worth the time and money spent for an evening out. "}{"Title":"Thankfully, a fresh approach","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. The costumes were great, the action was phenomenal and it didn't have that 'we're obviously on a wire' Hong Kong action look that so many recent movies have had. I didn't think Tim Roth was great in this... my husband kind of thought he was watching Apes without the fur. Watch for Justin Chambers in more action movies. "},{"Title":"It seemed to have promise","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I saw part of the trailer and thought, Oh, this looks real and gritty. PG-13 ? Well maybe it will work. I've been looking for an adult realistic rendition of this favored tale. About time Hollywood got away from PG-13 kiddy flicks for those that want to make video games. I quite seeing James Bond flicks because of that. Things were looking promising the first few minutes. Here was Tim Roth, who was quite good and probably the best in the entire film, playing another villain with a sword and about the same flare as he did in Rob Roy. I was pretty happy to see that. However the momentary joy was just that. I heard comments coming out of the theater to the effect people were wondering if the actors were reading off of cue cards.The poor acting, and line delivery, aside from Tim's, was atrocious. It started out tolerable then just degenerated to the end until they were using fractional sentences and small words for main lines. I would like to give them the benefit of the doubt and try to believe the script was either wrote intentionally for easy translation or was translated poorly and directed poorly for the english version, but find it highly doubtful.The sets were very authentic looking with a one glaring detraction mentioned later. The costuming seemed very good. The locales filmed appeared right for the picture. I did not detect any out of place modern profanity. Profanity is just fine by me if it is in place with the picture, but modern cursing in a classic epic is a just blaise.The action sequences were exciting and comical at the same time leaving a less than mediocre feeling. The first big sequence was in a bar (also depicted in the trailors). Things were going great until the principle lept up to the rafters and was twirling around. This rose my suspicions. The action sequences just kept going over the top after that - completely out of context with that era's european fighting styles....however, much was in context with oriental fighting styles as depicted in popular gung-fu movies. Lots of spinning of the body and equipment paired with fantastical gymnastics. A lot of obvious, over-the-top wire work.The bloopers were many. Watch for modern distance measurement, modern paved roads with striping in the background, sword fights with clear blows and enough force to bend the blade (blows that should have been lethal if it were real or by appearances), and what I'm going to label the infamous, self balancing ladder.The last Musketeer film released was a mild version with Chris O'Connell, Kiefer Sutherland, Charlie Sheen, etc. That was pretty good. With the more realistic, grittier scenery and what I saw of the trailer I had high hopes this would be a great retelling of the famous tale of high adventure with all the elements of deceit, treachery, service and honor. Those elements were in there....somewhere buried in the rubbish of bad acting, horrible bloopers and over-the-top action sequences. "},{"Title":"Bloody Awful","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Please do not waste time and money on this film.  Tim Roth's brilliance cannot even save the drudge conjured up by this horrific piece of filmmaking.  The Hong Kong action draw will be better served by renting Jet Li's Once Upon A Time In China.  The ladder scene is a direct ripoff.  And any movie set in the 14th or 15th century that mentions kilometers (I left my horse two kilometers from town.) should earn the screenwriter a lifetime ban from ever getting another screenplay filmed.  An absolute waste of time, effort, and one of the best actors out there today. "},{"Title":"Merde!","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Whenever I read reviews giving such blatant tripe scores like, A+, and Superb! or *****, I must believe in some faint glimmer of hope that they are only written by pre-pubescent children or those with extremely limited movie-going experience.  It is with this sincere hope that I look forward to better and better filmstuffs from Mirimax and Hollywood, Inc.Until then, I'm walking out of any film where it could be said, and I paraphrase, Who cares about acting in movies? I got my money's worth! "},{"Title":"A flashy, superficial ride","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie was definitely not for the faint of heart.  In the first five minutes of the movie, there is already a terrible act of violence, setting the stage for the rest of this movie.   The thing that keeps this movie from becoming a shadowy Bildungsroman is the fight scenes.  Swordfighting is generally considered the honorable way to settle a dispute, although pistols are also used at sporadic intervals.  The fight scenes are a little unbelievable, having The Musketeer fight five  vicious bar fiends in unimaginable locales  a room full of ladders, a room full of wine casks, hanging off the side of a tower by ropes (in the rain, naturally).Generally, deus ex machina (literally god from the machines, in Shakespearean plays, an actor disguised as God would be lowered from the ceiling and solve all the actors' problems) seemed to be used inexcusably in this film.But if you'd like to take it for the brainless, Labor Day Weekend action-adventure flick that it was, this movie is a perfect opportunity to go and relax, either with friends or by yourself, and turn your brain off and watch a dumb story with some really cool fighting.  "},{"Title":"So So","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie draws you in with it's great trailers, but then you get really disappointed.  There are few actions scenes and the love story never really materializes.  Luckily no one tried to fake an English accent, but it still could use a lot of improving.  I would recommend waiting for the DVD to rent. "},{"Title":"the WORST","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Sitting in the theater watching this most wretched adaptation of Three Musketeers, I had time to start thinking about what I could possibly say to express my complete disgust towards this movie. My first thoughts were that it really is scandalous that the studios actually advertised this film to make the movie-goer believe that it might actually be worth the time and money to go see it. Then, I regretted that it wasn't just a couple members of my family that were conned into seeing it, but that there were actually six of us there to writhe in misery, all of us praying for the credits to roll. There are really more horrible things to say about this movie than I have the time to write. A complete lack of talent, horrible dialogue, lack of plot, and absolutely no redeeming qualities, force me to give this movie a 0/10 and put it on my top ten worst movies I have ever paid to see list. "},{"Title":"As you'll never watch it again.","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Call me old-fashioned, but some things are sacred. You just don't try to update a classic like The Three Musketeers without a decent script and good acting.I knew I was in for it when the credits began, and Justin Chambers, who portrays the title character, isn't one of the first three people listed as being in the cast; he even has And before his name, like Jerry Mathers on Leave it to Beaver. Athos, Porthos, and Aramis (The Three Musketeers for the uninitiated) are reduced to uninteresting tagalongs for Chambers' arrogant D'Artagnan to play off of and occasionally embarrass.The action scenes were much better the first time I saw them. (See Once Upon a Time in China for how that ladder finale was supposed to look, and Stagecoach instead of that entire carriage sequence.) There are even two scenes that infer that Francesca (Mena Suvari's character) is being sexually abused by her father, but why anyone thought it would be a good addition to the story is beyond my comprehension, and it's treated so insignificantly as to almost be insulting. It doesn't provide depth for the characters it's just sensationalistic and pointless.Of course, everyone ends up upstaged by Tim Roth his character's evil schemes approach Bond-villain magnitude in both scope and (poor) execution. It's anyone's guess why they transplanted Dumas' Rochefort character into a brand new character named Febre (Roth) and put Rochefort in the movie at all, but they did. Like every other character in the film, Febre is flat and one-sided, but it's entertaining to see Roth acting so despicably evil. I was actually hoping to see him do more of the evil things he threatens to, just because he deserved more screen time. It's hard enough to root for such a dull and uninteresting hero (as D'Artagnan ends up being in this version), but with Roth as his nemesis, it's nearly impossible to care for him much at all.If you'd really like to see a good Three Musketeers movie, check out The Man in the Iron Mask with Byrne, Malkovich, Irons, Depardieu, and DiCaprio. They don't do splits on barrels or crawl under carriages, but in the end, the script and acting will make up for anything you think you might be missing. It might not be the story as you've never seen it before, but it's much more entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Xin-Xin Xiong should stick to Kung Fu movies","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I cannot possibly express what a disappointment this film is.  The few fight scenes were spectacular - what you could see of them.  You saw most of them in the trailer.Other than that, the writers followed a poor formula Take a bag of clichs, plot contrivances, and two-dimensional characterizations of the original story.  Shake, stir, and pour out onto celluloid.  Add in the fight scenes you've hyped up, and expect that to satisfy the viewers.Not for one instant did I forget I was watching a film.  I didn't care about the characters.  I did, however, wonder why guards turned and went home at small inconveniences; I wondered how much worse the dialogue could get. I wondered how they could turn the rash but believable D'Artangen of literature had into a combination of MacGuiver and John McClane.  Above all, I wondered why I wasted my money.An attempt to take the swashbuckler genre to a new fighting level may be a worthwhile effort.  This film, however, assumes that the people coming to see excellent fight scenes do not care about plot, character development, or a well-told story.  It falls on its own sword, and no one can make it worth saving.   "},{"Title":"Great fight choreography, horrible writing","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I gave it 5 stars but that's probably too kind.  The writer is a terrible hack.  I spotted stealing from Star Wars Episode IV, Fist Full of Dollars and the other recent remake with Chris O'Donnell.  It's not just the lack of originality it also has the most boring use of flowery language I've ever heard.  You're better off reading the book or watching The Three Musketeers & The Four Musketeers with Michael York.The fight choreography is impressive but the boredom in between the action scenes is almost unbearable.  It would be better to watch this on DVD so you can skip to the good parts. "}{"Title":"All for me, and none for you!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I went into this one expecting to see an amazing update of the classic Dumas novel, filled with dazzling wire work and fantastic action.  Boy was I wrong!  There was no plot whatsoever. The cinematography was flat and off-centered, and poorly lit.  Smooth editing? Not this time! The characters do things for inexplicable reasons, then are attacked by henchmen for inexplicable reasons, and then go back to the tavern, get drunk, and inexplicably, do it all over again.  All the jokes, puns, and one-liners would be funny in any movie except this one.  Mena Suvari should have been cut from the film.  I give it 1 star out of 5. "},{"Title":"A Disappointment","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I went to this movie expecting a better rendition of Dumas' classic than I had ever seen.  I admit I was a bit skeptical of the Asian fighting techniques that I had heard were to be employed, but I was still enthusiastic.  But, the movie began and disappointed me from the beginning. I have yet to figure out why no one ever tries to make this great novel into a great movie.  It includes so many great visual scenes, and yet directors throw them out in exchange for poor takes on a literary classic. The title sequence was terrible, and I was turned off from then on out. With few stars, the actors were going to have to do a fantastic job for this movie to be impressive.  They made a fair attempt, but fell far short.  The visual effects and fight sequences were terrific, although they didn't fit in the era or region of the movie.  The score fit the movie greatly, and that was one of the few high points of this film. The director included a few things that had been absent from Disney's version a few years ago, and that earned them some points with me.  But if given the choice, between the two, I would choose Disney's Three Musketeers any day, hands down.  Its worth a watch, but not worth the theater ticket. "},{"Title":"Bad acting, bad directing, bad editing. You name it.","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  It's unfortunate that this movie failed so miserably. I loved the previews and was so very psyched to see a unique take on the Musketeers story. Unfortunately the editor for the trailers was so much more highly skilled than the one for the movie. The fight choreography was great and I did enjoy many of the fight scenes, though I am growing rather tired of the over-exaggerated environments in which they tend to take place. For instance, a fight scene amidst a room full of ladders served only to show how good with navigating a tenuous arrangement of ladders that the characters can be. It did nothing to display an actual fight, to showcase the talent of what are supposedly the two greatest fighters in the movie's universe.Mena Suvari was little better than robotic and the filming was simply terrible. The shots and quality of film reminded me of some of the worse examples of made-for-tv movies out there. Obviously historical accuracy wasn't in the best interests of the filmmakers either as several scenes showed Explosive shell cannons. A technology that didn't come along in Europe for another few hundred years.To cap it all off. There was one of the biggest editing mistakes I've ever seen in my life. If anyone still wants to see this movie after this review then keep your eyes peeled near the end when D'Artagnan is about to storm the castle. He is wearing a brown duster of sorts and then his friends come to help and all of a sudden he is wearing a blue Musketeers uniform. Next shot he is wearing the brown duster again and someone throws him the blue Musketeers uniform that he was wearing only moments before. WHAT THE HELL?How did that ever make it past editing? Past screening even?Oh well, if the people who made the film had quality in mind in the first place then the movie would have actually been decent if not good.My advice is not to go see this movie. Or wait for it to rent in order to make fun of it. Or if you just like amazing fight scenes I suppose there is some value there. "},{"Title":"Go for the action","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The acting was decent and the script fairly consistent with past Musketeer movies but what put this movie apart was the action. The fight scenes in this movie alone were worth the admission price.  I however must say that Tim Roth was incredible in his role as Febre. "},{"Title":"Good movie with great action","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This was a good movie especially if you enjoy this type of movie. It is a lot darker than pervious Musketeer movies I have seen but I think this was more enjoyable. The story mostly focuses on D'Artagnan instead of the whole Musketeer group. The story is pretty much the same as other movies but the real draw is the action. It is done very well and looks nice too. It's no blockbuster but it was a fun movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Tim Roth steals the show","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  i was once told that... if one has nothing good to say... then say nothing at all... well... luckily... there is one thing good about this movie... Tim Roth... stealing the show by efficiently and coldly playing the ruthless villain bent on destruction, blood, and chaos...that being said... the rest of the film can be described as flat, lacking both emotion and conviction, and confused by poor editing (granted, the audience might miss most of them while cringing and wincing at the endless torrent of cliches and poorly delivered and timed lines)all that aside, the biggest disappointment is the highly orchestrated, poorly wired, and confused action sequences... as it was brought up in the message  boards, it is enough to drive both eastern and western martial art fans nuts. Although it was funny to see D'Artagnan, the brave (if emotionlessly played) French musketeer using north shaolin rope spear techniques to fend off offending mercenaries...see the film if you feel up to testing your HK movie trivia... can you name the films the fight sequences were taken from?! otherwise... wait for the video...last parting remarks epees are for thrusting (thus the ever important lunge and fleche). At 35-42 inches (depending on height of the user) and straight as an arrow, its not a close combat weapon, close combat is left to the parrying dagger which, like the musket which the musketeers are named after, is not seen through out the entire film. Oh... and when one is scaling a tower... even with a rope... one must TOUCH the walls with one's boots (ideally not smooth leather soled riding boots) to gain both traction and momentum...  "},{"Title":"One scene, plus some of the acting, ruined the movie for me...","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The movie itself had some great fight scenes in it, and that's why I went to see it to begin with, but some people's acting abilities weren't really believable, and then they had a MAJOR screw up with the main character of all people...I won't tell you for all of those who haven't seen it, but for those who have, you probably caught it.  Also one of the major parts to the movie wasn't even really visible to the audience.  The only way you knew what happened was a facial expression made by a character.  Overall, it was a disappointment to me and most of the people I know who have seen it.  "},{"Title":"Swashbuckling at it's technical best!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Very nicely done.  The special effects were somewhere in the vicinity of a Jackie chan movie with a little Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon added. There were a couple of scenes that seemed a little too modern, i.e., the way the characters carried themselves and quite frankly, I can't imagine folks in the 17th century being able to accept a sword fighting, never lose his confidence, go getter like Justin Chambers.  His appearance was a little ahead of his time.  The movie was great! "},{"Title":"worst movie ive seen in years","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I'm not going to write an essay on this, just a few things. One, the acting was god awful. The only good actor was the guy in Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels. Two, in today's action films, people do not want to see a stunt man for 5 minutes straight. If a film is going to have that many stunts, hire someone like Jackie Chan, or Jet Li. Don't hire an actor, a poor one at that, and film the stunt double for half the film. Then two make it worse, chop up the fight scenes so poorly that no one in the world has any idea what is happening. Three, I haven't seen that poor of editing... ever. Half the scenes in the movie just stopped, as in the dramatic music was about to hit a high note and suddenly we were in another place. And four, WHO IN THE HELL WROTE THE DIALOGUE. I admit that dialogue is hard to write, but they had a six-year-old talking like she was twenty. Bad writing, bad acting, bad editing, bad lighting, bad humor, NO CLIMAX, and a horrible opening credit sequence (worse than Wild Wild West). Bad, bad, bad ,bad, bad, bad, bad. Do not see this! "},{"Title":"It could have been good.","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie quite entertaining, with a big deal of stunts. That is the problem in that movie. It is very spectacular, but it is nothing more than that...First of all, this movie has from the classic novel of Alexandre Dumas only the characters name and the basic synopsis... Which is the young Gascon who wanted to be a Musketeer like is father have been before. As you may presume, the way to succeed is full of enemies and obstacles.Second, some of the original characters have been deleted (like Milady) or completely transformed (like Cardinal de Richelieu who almost help young D'Artagnan)In conclusion, do not go see this movie if you want to find it exactly like the novel, you will be very disappointed. This is a spectacular movie, with a great little love story, but nothing more. "}{"Title":"Justin Chambers wins Oscar ........","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  For best impersonation of a block of wood ! Did anyone watch the daily rushes of this film ? I've seen sheets of plywood with more emotion than he displays . Closest comparison, the Robot from Lost In Space . Ok, twist my arm, the Robot would have been better. Trite dialogue ,boring romance & standard villains . Don't bother . "},{"Title":"Only one movie in recent memory was worse.....","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" .....and that movie was Mars Attacks. Where do I begin? The absurd fight choreography - this movie was a Crouching Tiger wannabe - and it failed miserably from an action standpoint. Not to mention the ridiculous sound effects, the below average acting (Tim Roth and Mena Suvari (sp?) are totally wasted). Plus, there was no chemistry between the romantic leads. Throw in poor editing too and the sometimes confusing cinematography. Now add in the laughable, predictable, paint-by-numbers plot we've all seen 2 thousand times, and this movie was a complete waste.I WANT MY MONEY BACK!!!!!!!!!I simply cannot believe Roger Ebert thought this was a better movie than Rush Hour2!!!!!!! (check out his website!!)They should burn the original stock print this film wasted, and hopefully everyone involved making this film will attend hypnosis therapy so they can forget they were ever a part of it. Trust me, don't see this garbage.Anyone who likes this film is under 12 or is validating the Hollywood premise; if you make crap for american audiences - they'll still come. I sure as heck still can't believe I saw it - I'll be more vigilant next time. "},{"Title":"Not Worth your time and money","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  this is a pretty poor movie in terms of movie making quality. Cheesy low budget music that only inspires someone to write it better, cheap acting from pretty much every actor in the movie, the fight scenes were hilarious I mean people in the audience including myself were laughing. This is no serious action flick, heck its not even an action flick its more like a comedy. I suggest waiting till it gets to the dollar theater, or waiting for it on tape, cause this was not worth sitting in a cramped theater for. "},{"Title":"Star Wars in the 16th Century","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film a lot, the story was good, but the attention to detail in the scenery was excellent. The action sequences were really good though some suspension of belief is needed to over look some of the impossible movements from scene to scene. The music was a bit annoying and put me so much in mind of Star Wars (1st). It then struck me that the whole premise and story of both films matched almost exactly. Something I might have over looked with out the music. Still very worth seeing, Tim Roth as Darth Va... I mean as the very evil head of the Cardinal guards ( I can't remember his character name ) was excellent as he was in Planet of the apes. "},{"Title":"Boring, over-dramatized rubbish.","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This was the type of film that was never meant to be.  Mediocre swordplay and bad kung fu are the basis of this film, with the actual plot no where to be found.  The only reason I enjoyed this film at all was because of the pleasant scenery throughout. "},{"Title":"Wait for video","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This was not as good as prior versions of the story.  The fight scenes were way too choppy with the fast cuts.  It seems like important parts of scenes were cut out.  It seemed like there was an infinite stream of bad guys appearing from improbably places.  This movie was not worth the money, maybe ok for video where you can have a few beers during it... "},{"Title":"Don't miss this one!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is the best of the summer releases to date. Filmed on location in France, the classic story gets a face lift from director Peter Hyams and Choreographer Xin Xin Xiang. The story is the one we are all familiar with; D'artagnan, Porthos, Athos and Aremus uniting to protect the King and foil the subversive plotting of the evil Cardinal Richelieu, who is aided by the equally evil Febre, played by Tim Roth who gives an excellent performance. Relative new-comers Justin Chambers and Mena Suvari are supported by Catherine Deneuve and Stephen Rhea. The action / fight scenes that were choreographed by veteran Hong Kong action king Xin Xin Xiang are truly spectacular, as are the costumes, scripting and acting. If you are a fan of swashbuckling movies that offer edge-of-your-seat excitement, then by all means, see The Musketeer! "},{"Title":"Swashbuckling at it's technical best!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Very nicely done.  The special effects were somewhere in the vicinity of a Jackie chan movie with a little Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon added. There were a couple of scenes that seemed a little too modern, i.e., the way the characters carried themselves and quite frankly, I can't imagine folks in the 17th century being able to accept a sword fighting, never lose his confidence, go getter like Justin Chambers.  His appearance was a little ahead of his time.  The movie was great! "},{"Title":"Absolutely terrible","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Musketeer is, save for The Avengers, the worst movie I have ever seen. Vapid, unimaginative, and poorly directed, the Musketeer is a journey through two hours of cliched dialogue and tired plotlines.  Even the sword scenes, which should have been the movie's shining moments, were uninteresting and even ridiculous at times.  Justin Chambers and Mena Suvari give, at best, ordinary performances with their acting, made worse by the imbecilic lines they are constantly spewing.  The real crime of this movie, however, is that the trailer was so captivating and at such odds with the actual movie, that it almost seems as if the producers planned to make money by drawing people in with the trailer and giving them a cheap, awful film as a reward.  There is a decent performance by Tim Roth as a sadistic soldier, but were his performance a hundred times as good, it would not justify seeing this film.  Anyone who has seen the Musketeer has had both their time and their money stolen.  It's a sad commentary on the movie industry that a film such as this could open as the No. 1 movie in America.  "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of the New Shool Year","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I was excited about this movie ever since I saw the first preview in July. All I can say is that is was definitely worth the wait.  When my mouth wasn't gaping, I was cheering.This film is riding on its fight choreography  and it has every right to. The fight scenes in this movie are incredible.  I've never seen anything like it.  I was worried they'd be unbelievable and over done, but they aren't.  Everything that the characters do, looks as if they could actually be doing it.  Wow!The characters of The Musketeer were also well constructed; especially Tim Roth as Febre.  This man was the bad guy that you absolutely love to hate. Bar none, this was the baddest villain of them all, without mercy, fear or doubt.  I would not get in this man's path.  The worst thing a bad guy can do is become good in the end.  You won't see that happening here.All in all, a complete success.  I could simply not imagine anyone not liking this movie.  A complete and total 10!  "}{"Title":"A movie with lots of potential that only partly delivers","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I found 'The Musketeer' to be less exciting and enjoyable than I had hoped . While it had an excellent plot ('The Three Musketeers' is one of my favorites), and gave, in general, an interesting slant to the story, it was a poorly executed film. The idea was apparently to have a bunch of Chinese martial-arts style fighting seamlessly merged with the old Musketeers plot -- sort of a 21st century 'upgrade' or 'retelling' of the story, much the way Planet of the Apes was supposed to do this year for that movie.The martial sword fighting sequences might have been good. I'm not really sure, because, frankly, I couldn't tell what was going on. The action sequences were all filmed with the camera too tightly focused or zoomed -- it was impossible to get a sense of what was going on between the combatants. In a movie with less action scenes this might not have been a problem, but for a movie about swashbuckling and sword fighting, it left me feeling rather deprived. After all, that's what I went to the movie for, and they did not deliver.I found the script to be rather contrived and the acting stale and wooden. The accents were odd and didn't fit right -- almost everyone in the movie is French (in theory) but most have British-sounding accents, except for the Queen, who sounded reasonably French, and a few of the side characters, who had various accents including just about everything *but* French.All of that said, it did move pretty quickly and there were some fun horse chasing scenes -- these were filmed without too tight of a zoom and were fun to watch. In all, I consider The Musketeer to have been worth a viewing at matinee prices (which is how I saw it)... but that's about it. My score 6/10 "},{"Title":"if Dumas wasn't dead this would kill him....","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  One of the worst films I have seen in years...a horrible script with terrible acting by the leads..why is it that modern references continue to make their way into period piece films?!?..Everything was shot in the dark...the sound effects seemed too loud and maybe  even a bit off...talking to horses??? billed as hong  kong style fight scenes in revolutionary France??? what were they thinking...hollywood does not know how to swashbuckle any more...check out the 1974 version by Richard Lester for real musketeer action "},{"Title":"Poor man's Chris O'Donnell/Crouching Ninja, Hidden Feces","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Man this movie really blew.  30 seconds into the movie there are these crazy 3 minutes of credits with crappy paintings or something.  Everyone in the theater started talking and laughing.  I read this movie was bad...but WHOA!The Special effects in fight scenes were cool, but they can't manage to make credible rain...what the hell.  Oh boy was this a bad script with bad actors.  Mina Suvari looks like the bloated fish and I almost puked whenever she was on the screen.  Me and my friends (and most of the audience) just laughed continuously.Unless you want to laugh at a bad movie, save your time and money. "},{"Title":"Who thought Justin could act?","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  In probably the worst Musketeer movie made yet, the stunts were probably the only redeeming feature.  Of course, the movie-trailers featuring this film make it clear that Tim Roth is in the movie (though he is barely in the movie and under-utilized) and that Xin-Xin whatever (you know, the guy who did all that neat melee stuff in Hidden Dragon) did the fight choreography. So what.  The movie is lame because the lead could barely act, and the romantic stuff that Richard York and Rachel Welch made so funny and believable, is just boring, silly and stupid.  The romantic jokes are lame, Stairs have a habit of moving and did the ceiling move too?Finally, even the battle/fight sequences are silly.  Hidden Dragon was an inscrutable, Oriental thing that we just can't quite understand, but it was a beautiful movie.  Why would you choose to fight on ladders, when you don't have too?  Why storm a castle if you don;t have serious seige equipment? Zero point ot this remake. "},{"Title":"The Musketeer misses its mark","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  A story told and retold again, sometimes with brilliance and sometimes not, the latest version of the classic The Three Musketeers is a disappointment. With poor character development, atempts at cheap laughs, and poor acting, The Musketeer is a massacre. This film attemps to mimic a new and popular fighting style that was invented with The Matrix, and mastered in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. These movements are unrealistic, but can be turned into something that is incredible to view, or just be simply beautiful. The Musketeer however, does not put either one of these to use, for the fighting is neither incredible or beautiful, it's just bad. One of the things that drew me to this film was that i saw Tim Roth's name in the credits. One of my favorite actors, Roth is a professional at playing the bad guy. Whenever i refer to a well-done evil-doer, Roth's performance in Rob Roy is the first one that comes to mind. His character could not have been done more perfectly, and i hoped for more of the same perfection in this film, but even Roth missed, which is something that surprised me emmensley. Much like the protagonist we meet in The Patriot, Roth's bad guy is WAY overdone, and the evil we see in him is unbelievable. We see Justin Chambers in his first starring role as D'artangan, the wanna be musketeer. I had hoped to be introduced to a new and talented young actor in Chambers, but again, i was disappointed. Even the new heart-throb Heath Ledger would have fit into this role better, because Chambers struggled throughout. With all these reasons already given, plus a rushed plot and a bad camera work, The Musketeer was disappointing to say the least. A story that can be retold and redone in so many ways, it's a shame that such a bad road was taken. "},{"Title":"Don't see this movie!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Whatever you do, do not see this movie.  It was the worst movie that i've seen this year.  I will not spoil the ending, but it has been used in so many movies before.  The only good things about this movie was the action and Tim Roth.  The acting was horrible, and it is one of the most predictable movies i have ever seen. PLEASE TAKE MY ADVICE!!!!! "},{"Title":"A waste of two hours and $8","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  It was not a bad film.  It was not a good film.  I found myself leaving the theatre wishing it had been bad.  At least then I could decry its weaknesses.  Not a memorable moment through the whole film.  Nothing I can point to and say either it was really bad or it was really good.  I really just didn't care about any of the characters.   The hero didn't strike me a heroic.  The bad guy didn't seem all that bad.  The love interest wasn't all that lovely.  Just two hours of stuff happening and I really didn't care at all how it turned out.  A movie that is spell binding is said to leave one at the edge of one's seat.  This movie had the opposite effect.  It pushed me back into my seat till I wished it could recline and I go sleep. "},{"Title":"Lots of action...but, acting? **Some Spoilers**","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I wish I could give this energetic film with a string of unknowns a glowing review.  It's certainly well intended and is full of action--  some of the stunt work is excellent-- but, alas, it falls short in many areas.  Let's start with the story  les Trois Mousquetaires, by Alexandre Dumas, Pre. We all know it after having seen various versions, some excellent, some good, some bad, and some terrible.  While I would not put this version in the last category, it does suffer greatly from a lack of credibility wrought largely by the determination of Mr. Hyams, et al. to make it something resembling a martial arts film.  Then there's the acting...or rather, the lack thereof. Even Tim Roth, for whom I've great respect, seems content to ham it up as the villain with no redeeming qualities (I have expected him to twirl his moustache at some point).  The three musketeers, Porthos, Athos and Aramis are reduced to being caricatures and I found M. Justin Chambers most unconvincing as D'Artagnan.  Catherine Deneuve, always gorgeous, seems out of place in this film but keep up a brave front in spite of some ghastly lines and situations. All and all, I would guess, if you are young, romantically inclined and not to familiar or caring about the original Dumas story, you'll like the action and scenes with two young, pretty protagonists in romantic interludes. There are some nice scene settings, pretty costumes and lots of action. This is definitely a movie for the young, and not some jaded old romantic who knows the Musketeer trilogy too well. "},{"Title":"Worst movie of 2001?","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This was definitely one of the worst movies of 2001. Granted, it had good action sequences, but the acting was horrible, and the casting was bad. then they tried to be funny with stupid lines, and nobody laughed. I was looking forward to this movie, and I'm very disappointed. The use almost epic music in the movie, but it doesn't work at all. Justin Chambers, okay, heard of you- not. Chris O'Donnell played that role much better. I've seen Mena Suvari doing better, why'd she take this role? And then theres Tim Roth, but nobody knows he was the evil monkey general Thade in Planet of the Apes, because he was in a monkey suit. That about raps it up. To summarize what I've just said-It was a horrible movie with bad acting, bad lines and it was miscast.My rating-* out of ***** "},{"Title":"Amazing fight choreography. Formulaic romance.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This was a fun movie, and the action was really great.I found the love story to be a little drab.  I had trouble accepting Mena Suvari as an eighteenth century housemaid, after seeing her in American Beauty, American Pie, Loser etc, but she gave it a good shot. She had one really lame-o line right after a kiss that almost caused me to burst out laughing.On the whole it was a decent film, but no academy award winners here. "}{"Title":"Very Poorly Done","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This film was very poorly done and it shows in several areas. First of all, when are filmmakers going to learn that not everyone in Europe has a British accent? I mean the French in this movie sounded more English than the British duke did. The movie had many, many plot errors and mistakes. For example, during the scene where he is climbing up the tower (as seen in the previews), why should the enemies repel down to fight him? I would just wait for him to get up there and death! Also, the role of the other musketeers in this movie was pretty lean. The book was about the four of them together, not one man.Finally, the editing in the fight scenes is really, really bad. Most of the time it is too dark to see anything, and the other times the camera is so jumpy you can't see what is going on.***SPOILER***Well, maybe not, but did anyone notice at the end during the ladder fight that the two actors were so obviously stunt doubles? Tim Roth's character was especially obvious. Oh yeah and by the way, Tim Roth is the coolest part of this film. I was hoping he would win )  "},{"Title":"A good Musketeer movie","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  A great movie. Could have been better...but still great.Definitely a good addition to the Musketeer saga. Personally, I think that it would have been MUCH better had there been not as much romance. I am not a romantic person. If you like that sort of thing, and you like the Musketeers, then you should like this movie.Great choreography, great special effects, and great music. All in all, I think that this is a movie that any fan of the Musketeers should see. "},{"Title":"Not bad lotsa action, needs a bit of tidying up","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  overall OK. Not a grand hit, just a pleasant saturday afternoon diversion.Doesn't follow the traditionnal story though.  don't expect the usual 4 musketeer team/characters umm, you know, I'm kinda reminded of Luke Skywalker and Obi-Wan in the original Star wars...fight scenes were.. very active.  lotsa gymnastics.  glad I wasn't the one had to setup and coordinate the actors/stuntpeople!!  neat to watch though.some good humourous scenes thrown in at regular intervals, always a good sign when at least half the theater laughs <g>a few really sappy scenes, but the girl at least has characterThought the boy was a little too knowledgable about some things.. too tactic-confident, for someone who'd never seen action.  whereas the 3 musketeers were barely supporting actors! grron the other hand, the whole attitude of the musketeers pointed out the fact that this film seemed, to me, a little closer to the grimness of real life (SORTA).battle at the end coulda been better planned by the characters IMO, considering how sneaky he'd been up to then!  it's not like they could really afford the cost he ended up paying.too bad they didn't take an extra week or 2 to polish the rough edges. a slap that you could see him hit his own hand for crying out loud!, a cut in the film (nothing severe, but..), some lines that came out really flat..go see on during cheap day. "},{"Title":"one of the best action films I've seen, ever.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I highly recommend that you go and see this.  The castle scene at the end is possibly one of the best action scenes you will see.  The Hong Kong style action was over hyped, but it was still done very good.  Tim Roth and Justin Chambers both did very good in their parts.  You need to go see this. "},{"Title":"Poor writing, poor acting...tough to like much of anything","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  There are 2 things about this movie that are good1.  the imaginative fight choreography/stunt-work2.  the cinematography and color-schemeThe rest of this movie is a god-awful waste of your 7 or 8 bucks...and however much they spent making it.The acting is incredibly poor--with our leading-man Justin Chambers delivering his lines like a robot.  TERRIBLE acting and delivery.  Mena Suvari doesn't seem much better.  Her performance in American Beauty was good (although I think that had more to do with the writing and direction than with any talent of her own), but here she demonstrates her remarkable ability to do as poor a job as Chambers.The plot is so weak, uninspired, and mindless that I would have left about 1/3 into this movie if it hadn't been for my masochistic tendency to sit through BAD movies with the hope that they will redeem themselves at some point before the credits.I could go on, but I think my opinion is pretty clear.  I do not like this movie at all...and some cool fight scenes DID NOT make up for the rest of it.  And keep in mind, this opinion is coming from somebody who WILL let a lot of bad moviemaking pass if the fight scenes are worth it. The Musketeer fails, and fails MISERABLY.  Thank you for your time. "},{"Title":"An Uneven Movie","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The action was great, and truly in the spirit of Hong Kong action movies, but the story itself, and the execution of most of the movie was just ok.Tim Roth makes a return to creepiness ala 'Rob Roy', and Stephen Rea does an alright job as Richelieu and Justin Chambers is enjoyable as D'Artagnan.This does not need to be seen in the theatre, this one can wait for rental. "},{"Title":"loved the action, it moved right along","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I would have been more impressed if D'Artagnan had dismounted, sparing the horse his weight. Perhaps if he had led his horse those last few yards,the horse could have made it to the stable. I understand that later his horse was put at risk in the battle, but that was necessary and the man and horse were doing what had to be done. "},{"Title":"Now, I'm Just Bitter","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Ladies and Gentleman, lend me your ears!I come here tonight to tell you of the utter dismalness that is The Musketeer. The closest thing I can equate this horrible mishmash to is a dinner of eggrolls and red wine - something you simply cannot, will not digest under any circumstance.First ten minutes, you want to leave but know you won't get a refund. Next ten minutes, you'll want to stay. And so forth, and so on. For God's sake, the action sequences aren't even that good, granted they were done by the choreographers from Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. They were as bland as the acting, but a little flashier. Everyone in that movie, including the uber-hottie Mena Suvari, acted like they were getting paid enough money by Miramax to recite their lines, and that's it. As Kevin Smith aptly declared through tongue-in-cheek statements in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, screw a whole lot of Miramax and their horribly declining movies.Tim Roth's eventual (and obvious) death as Febre was not even close to the justice his character deserved. He alone was the saving grace of the film (if there was any to be had) with lines such asWho's throat shall I slit next, hrm? Maybe a small boy...no wait. Make that a nun *and* a small boy.Useless Character You're mad. Febre That's the third time someone's called me that tonight, so it *must* be true!Cardinal Kill no one. Febre But what if I absolutely, positively have to?Cardinal Then kill them then.How on this green and brown Earth Tim Roth got suckered into this awfulness, I couldn't tell you. But, as he proved as General Thade in Planet of the Apes, Ted the Bellhop in Four Rooms, and as the unforgettable Mr. Orange in Resivoir Dogs, he is a versatile and incredible actor. He can make even the most dismal movie bright, if not only for a few brief moments.I'm really sick of Hollywood this summer, and I'm really glad that the blockbuster season is soon to be over.  I'm waiting for Hollywood to wake up and smell the feces it's been wallowing in for the past 10 months, so that maybe by Christmas we'll have decent cinema again.-A  "},{"Title":"May I borrow your sword to gouge out my eyes?","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  If I simply said, This is one of the worst films I've seen all year, would you promise not to go see it?  Probably not, so I'll elaborate.  From the opening credits (which look suspiciously like the opening credits to Bonanza, with cheesy David Arnold score to boot), you get a bad feeling about things.  The opening fight makes you want to believe that at least the impressive action choreography of Xin Xin Xiong will make the film somewhat bearable.  But you soon learn that fancy swordplay cannot redeem this film. The dialogue is horribly trite, there is no character development, and no reason to root for anyone.  The two female leads are depicted as being strong-willed and opinionated in an era where women were expected to be submissive, but one gets the feeling that this was introduced to be politically correct as this character trait really doesn't come into play. The fight scenes (which feature heavily in the trailers and TV spots, so someone knew this would be the film's only saving grace) become less and less impressive as the film progresses, and the final fight scene between D'Artagnan (whose name is mispronounced numerous times throughout the film) and Febre (Roth, horribly wasted as a one-dimensional Snidely Whiplash with a rapier) plays out more like an accident rather than the reckoning for which D'Artagnan has been training most of his life.  And once the dust settles and the credits roll, you're left wanting a lot more.  And 106 minutes of your life back. "},{"Title":"Great fights, but that's it.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The fight choreography was fantastic, but the plot was weak and the acting was terrible.  I have to blame the directing for the poor acting, because I thought Mena Suvari was great in American Beauty, American Pie and Sugar & Spice.  I think there's some sort of association of flat delivery with cool characters, but it doesn't work for me in Dark Angel and it didn't work for me here.  But if you're a fan of the fight scenes like I am, catch a matinee. "}{"Title":"Rent it with your friends for drunken mocking","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so ridiculous I could not help but laugh throughout. If I hadn't been in the theater I would have had a great time making fun of it. The whole plot is ridiculous, absolutely historically inaccurate. Apparently, Richelieu is not really a bad man, he just hired an evil assassin who of course, desperately hates the king. Richelieu himself has a sudden, unprecedented change of heart in the middle of the movie for no apparent reason. The king is a good man who is being screwed over by Richelieu. In reality, Louis XIII was a terrible king; Richelieu played on his weaknesses (there were many) to control the country. If he hadn't, Louis would have ruined France himself; he had no business leading a country.Anyway, Cardinal Richelieu looks constipated throughout, although maybe that's just Richelieu, not the actor. There was NO character development, although they definitely tried hard. Mena Suvari has poor delivery of poorly written lines. She and the beautiful Justin Chambers have little chemistry; their whole romance is absolutely absurd and pitifully boring. My only guess is that they cut some scenes out, it is the only way their relationship makes sense. Mena Suvari's character is probably the worst part of the movie, but it's not really her fault. This is definitely the type of movie that could have benefitted with some lovin.Justin Chambers himself is halfway decent; it's hard to tell because of the terrible dialogue. Tim Roth is great, as usual. The worst part of the movie was the plot. The only thing that carried it was the fight scenes, which were REALLY good. They made the movie watchable. And though the humor was silly and predictable, coupled with the laughable dialogue and plot, the movie is somewhat fun. Don't expect a decent film, but I had a pretty good time.My advice rent it, but only if you're willing to pay three bucks to make fun of it. "},{"Title":"Could have been even better........","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I was very impressed with The Musketeer.  The fight scenes were incredible, and the movie was cast well also.  Justin Chambers was exciting as the legendary D'Artagnan. Tim Roth plays the evil Febre, and although I would've liked to see less sick humor in his character, was entertaining nonetheless. The beautiful Mena Suvari, was a great choice as D'Artagnan's love, and had great chemistry with Justin Chambers.  The other three musketeers (Porthos, Aramis, and Athos) I think could have more camera time, even if the story was mostly about D'Artagnan, and I also thought that some of the acting by some of the supporting characters was a bit bland.  Overall, I think that The Musketeer was a very good movie, but some areas (I won't say which, for fear of giving the story away) could have been better.  I still highly recommend it.  ****** out of ten. "},{"Title":"I've seen this plot before in about 100 other movies.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The fight scenes were beautifully coreographed, but that's about it.The plot was stupid and predictable and, while there were some funny parts, the characters were shallow and it was obvious that most of what they said was of contemporary origin (as opposed to trying to 'roleplay' ;p )My friend and I screamed of injustice regarding all the stupid impossible crap that happened... ugh... did anyone else notice the thunderous bass on the scepter Artagnon was using in the kitchen fight?  Yuck.-V "},{"Title":"Consistently off-target.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunate adaptation.  The only thing this film could be said to do well is the opening credits, simply because the style and execution warns of the travesty to follow.  Even an inattentive viewer will notice the scenes where the soundtrack is out of sync with the speakers and walkers.  "},{"Title":"Boy, I wish this had been better","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to like this movie.  I have become a fan of historical novels, and I like to encourage new costume melodramas.  The idea of setting a Hong Kong action movie in another country and another time is not an inherently bad idea.  It's just that in this particular instance, it does not work at all. And then again, there are bad movies that, while you are watching them, you can withhold judgement-- if enough stuff is flying at you, you may be lucky enough to be out the theater doors for 10 or 15 minutes before you start to think, You know, that was kind of stupid... The Musketeer, to my sorrow, gives you ample time to compose a running list of That Which Sucketh as you watcheth.  Here are some highlights of my list 1.  Too damn dark.  My dad and other oldtimers complain about that a lot, and I usually defend darkness for artistic cinematic purposes, but most of the interior scenes are too dang dark, goldang it! 2.  The guy who plays Dartagnan is not charismatic and his hat looks stupid. The other 3 musketeers are unremarkable except for fat Porthos, of whom we can only say the fat guy was sort of cool. 3.  The villains look like they would prefer being elsewhere.  Stephen Rea can't even be bothered to paste on his fake mustache correctly, and Tim Roth is the same bad guy he was in Rob Roy, but can't seem to work up that much interest in his love of being Evil. 4.  The fight scenes were sort of okay, but... in a Kung Fu movie, we have come to accept hundreds of angry extras attacking our hero for hinting his Kung Fu is better.  But in another setting, even in France, such behavior seems more than a little rude.5.  The Musketeer features the most obvious Stunt Doubles since Captain Kirk's double kicked around styrofoam boulders on StarTrek.  I don't want to say that Asian movies have an advantage at faking with doubles because all those guys look alike... because, dammit, they don't, it is always very apparent that Jackie Chan is fighting as Jackie Chan.  Here, we got a couple stocky dudes fighting with glued on mustachios that won't even fool an Asian audience that might think WE all look alike. And there is much much more to complain of.  Riding a horse into the ground and apologizing to it and sending a pal to pick it up later, as if it could possibly still be alive... the same stupid spear point shoving into the same exact spot of a carriage to get the same oh my goodness reaction from the queen, at least 3 times in a row...  the secret cannons in the carraige that fire without ripping themselves from their mountings or sending the carriage shooting back from the recoil... But negative reviews are so easy to write, I should try to find something good to say... the sets were very good, the costumes were great except for one or two hats.  And I suppose the lack of blood from any swordslashes would be a plus if you want to take your 5 year old to see it.To sum up, this movie is not worth seeing in the theater (although the audience I saw it with did seem to respond positively-- which says something right there) and it will not be much worth renting, but should be just fine cut up on TNT in a year or two. And I'll still look forward to a sequel. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable flick but dont get too hyped up","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The musketeer is a period action drama using the three musketeers by Alexander Dumas as its background. The story is not written very well nor is the direction of the fight sequences as the camera is always to close or it has been shot in too dark conditions. The fight sequences are excellent and some of them are really innovative. I would only watch the film for these sequences. The acting is average, nothing home to write about with only Tim Wroth providing enough justice as the evil guy. Dont get your hopes up and only watch the movie as a cheesy kung fu 3 musketeers. "},{"Title":"I go to the movies to have a good time!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  If you work 10-12 hours 7 days a week, a movie should be fun, relaxing, and entertaining. This movie was all that and more. I don't need to cry or be depressed - I get enough of that every day. I was entertained and certainly got my money's worth. Does it really matter how good the acting is or how closely it follows the book? There's only a few movies I enjoyed more this year - Bridget Jones' Diary was one. Our local paper gave more stars to Spy Kids and the Julia Robert's Fiasco (not the Mexican, that was cool). If you like action, swashbuckling and happy endings go for it! "},{"Title":"Decidedly Unsatisfied","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Though the action scenes in this movie are marvelous, the dialogue is simply awful, if not amazingly cheesy.  The music was reminicent of something from the lone ranger or some kind of dinky kids' superhero theme song. Finally...the plot and story was just out of this world.  I mean...really...some of things in this movie (such as the queen taking a trip - right...she just sneaks out of the palace unnoticed...) were really kinda out there.  And the casting...with all due respect to Catherine Deneuve, but Anne of Austria (the queen of France) was only 26 at the time...Deneuve is now 58.This movie is fine for people who like a good action movie, but for people who appreciate good filmmaking/screenwriting and staying true to the book (at least to some extent) will be very disappointed...if not disgusted. "},{"Title":"Thank goodness the fight scenes were loud enough to wake me up.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The acting, dialog, and continuity of this movie was terrible.  It the feel of a made for TV movie, honestly.  Right from the outrageously awful opening credits, where the movie stops after an intro and rolls the credits for a few minutes on an old canvas looking background.  The only redeeming quality of the movie is the fight scenes, which were pretty brilliant.  The ending sequence was something almost in the league of Legend of Drunken Master with Jackie Chan.  There were a few other impressive fights in the movie too, but not enough to keep the movie entertaining throughout.  I would not recommend this movie to anyone, not even a martial artist like myself. "},{"Title":"Uncomfortably bad.","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  In a world when all one has to do is emulate the last big hit to make a few million at the box office, it was only a matter of time before someone came out with a Gladiator-meets-Crouching Tiger version of the Three Musketeers. The trailer promised incredible stunts and an Insert-Story-Here plotline, and did the film justice. Look, we all knew this was not going to be the next masterwork of film. What we didn't know was that it was going to be so bad that watching the train schedule at the station would be more enjoyable.  I know, because I chose that latter alternative for the last half-hour of this disgraceful waste.  A melodramatic attempt to showcase an unfufilled promise of eye candy, and a completely non-entertaining experience. "}{"Title":"Not nearly as cool as its preview would lead you to believe...","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I just got back from viewing this, and I must say I was very much disappointed.  About 15 minutes into the proceedings, I discovered I wasn't enjoying it at all, and spent the rest of the time trying to figure out why. Unfortunately, I wasn't able to pinpoint exactly why, but I'm sure the insanely fast, breakneck, wait-for-nothing pacing had something to do with it.  No matter how hard I tried, I just couldn't get into this movie.  And I honestly wanted to like it.  The previews I saw for it made it look pretty kickin'.It's only saving grace, in my opinion, was the totally evil presence of Tim Roth and the fight scene at the very, very end, which seemed to end a little too abruptly.  Right when I was just starting to get into it, it was over. Shame.So, all in all, I definitely would not recommend for anyone to go see it. On the plus side, I only had to drop three bucks on it... a luxury which most other people do not have. "},{"Title":"Beats dental surgery, but little else","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The reviews are dead-on about this film, I was embarrassed to sit through it.  You know you're in trouble right away by the louder-than-normal and hyper-valiant score, not to mention scene after scene of poorly written and poorly staged action.  The fight scenes might have made up for bad writing--come on, after all that's what you expect from the movie--but the editing was so bad that you just feel cheated.  There were just so many details that were wrong or unbelievable, the lighting was always off, and half the time you couldn't tell what was going on.  I love this genre and will usually overlook a bad movie if the action is gritty, so take it from me when I advise you to skip it. "},{"Title":"Very much a gamer movie","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Don't see it if you are a Dumas purist. The characters are taken from the book, but little else--including the plot--is. If you go expecting a fun movie, rather than a consistent one (note to director kilometers did not exist in the 17th century!), you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"This movie is like a vacuum cleaner, it sucks and it blows! or A lesson in what happens when The Matrix is copied too many times.","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Children, today on John's movie reviews, I'm going to show you how using wires to make your characters fly is becoming vastly over-used.  I'll also show how Hollywood has lost all respect for classic literature.  If you've read The Three Musketeers, you should curse everyone involved in the making of this movie (except for Mena Suvari, I'll chalk that up to temporary insanity).  Finally, I should remind you all that models cannot act, as Justin Chambers so demonstraited.-JohnPS-Let's hope The Count of Monte Cristo will be a good adaptaion of a Dumas novel. "},{"Title":"Piece of tripe!","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Wow!  This one didn't miss even one cliche.  Tedious and boring.  Hyams should have stuck to directing - the cinematography is weak at best. Don't go see this one, rent Rob Roy instead - it's virtually identical, but infinitely better (and it's not even that good).  I can just picture all the studio execs sitting in a boardroom right after The Matrix and Crouching Tiger, trying to put flying into all their upcoming action movies. Here's a hint  The Matrix worked BECAUSE the characters were not in the real world!  They can fly because they are in a computer program (or a fantasy world).  Charlie's Angels didn't work because real people CAN'T fly in the real world.  And, if you have to suspend your disbelief that much, it's gonna take you right out of the film... "},{"Title":"The pain, the agony, the movie The Musketeer.","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Why this film was made I'll never understand.  This was quite possibly one of the worst I've seen in recent years.  Yes, the interesting cast and the hype of the action scenes were the main reasons I went to see the preview, but good lord I could have never imagined it would be that bad.  I think Tim Roth is one of the most talented actors out there, but even he couldn't save this.  The dialogue was putrid, the movie played like a made for TV movie, and those action scenes which were hyped so much played like something out of a cartoon, only Daffy and Bugs would have made them more interesting. I subscribe to the suspension of disbelief theory when going to movies, and I REALLY tried to stick with it during this movie, but I just couldn't. Maybe it was because the action made no sense, and it was BORING to boot. It seemed as if they staged all of these elaborate action sequences to take away from the fact that the writing and story were SO unbelievably bad.  I don't think this film knew what it wanted to be.  It was part period piece, part sword-fighting, part love story.  Oh the agony of watching that love story develop.  Ugh.  At points in this film, the crowd was dropping belly laughs and it wasn't because of the lines being cute and funny.  The interaction with the characters was SO bad, this movie seemed to me like a spoof on period pieces more than anything else.  The scenes directly following the queen being forced to write a letter by the evil Tim Roth, well, let's just say my kids could have come up with better dialogue.  Do yourself a favor, rent Swashbuckler, rent the original 3 Musketeers and 4 Musketeers, heck rent Robin Hood Prince of Thieves (you'll hear more of an accent from Kevin Costner than you will from Mina Suvari) if you must, but avoid this movie like it is the plague.  You'll thank me for it. "},{"Title":"Very Well Done","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I found that the movie was very good I enjoyed it because it went more with the real story written by Alexendre Dumas. The action scenes were very well executed and I found it refreshing seeing a movie done by not well known people and done well "},{"Title":"No-edged sword...","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This movie is so bad on so many levels, I don't even know where to begin. I suppose I'll start with the synopsis. That's harmless enough. The Musketeer opens up on a young D'Artagnan (Justin Chambers, The Wedding Planner) in 17th century France, as he witnesses the unprovoked murder of his parents at the hands of the villainous Febre (Tim Roth, Planet of the Apes), over unpaid taxes. Even back then, taxmen were vilified. At least now all they can do is audit you. Little D'Artagnan is a spunky boy, and he tries to fight back but all he manages is a sword-slash to Febre's left eye. No matter that the weapon probably weighed more than he did. For some reason, the merciless, heartless tax-collector-cum-killer lets the little boy live. (Which turns out to be a big mistake, if you hadn't guessed.) D'Artagnan grows up with an unspecified mentor who teaches him the way of the sword as they travel across the land, looking either for Febre, or other musketeers so D'Artagnan can join up. I'm not sure which is the quest, but at any rate, they find both. The Three Musketeers, Aramis, Athos and Porthos (Nick Moran, Jan Gregor Kremp, and Steve Speirs, respectively), who have peripheral roles here at best, are portrayed as one-dimensional bumblers. Febre, who hasn't aged a day in lo these many years, is as cartoony-cruel as ever. Nowadays, he's hooked up with the unscrupulous, greedy Cardinal Richelieu  (Stephen Rea, The End of the Affair) and they're out to overthrow the King. Enter the Musketeers. As they clang sword tips together and proclaim, All for one! One for all! you can imagine the phrase being delivered without the exclamation points. Collectively, they possess about as much passion as a parking meter. Along the way, D'Artagnan falls in love with a feisty peasant girl, Francesca, portrayed by Mena Suvari (American Pie 2) with as much sass and flash as a department store mannequin. She delivers her lines as though she thought she was memorizing the script for something that might have been called American Musketeer 2. She really needs to stick to films with the word American in the title, I think. Although there is absolutely no spark between the two young lovers onscreen, perhaps they are well-matched. Chambers is just as white-bread bland, and obviously miscast, as Suvari is. There's the requisite oops-I-saw-you-naked scene early on in the movie. And then. there's another one! Then, of course they make love. And, again of course, while practically en flagrato, the maiden winds up in the clutches of the dastardly Febre, who has also kidnapped the Queen (Catherine Deneuve, Dancer in the Dark). Deneuve and Rea are the only actors worth watching in this whole debacle. That is, if you could see them. Director/cinematographer Peter Hyams (End of Days) has made this film so dark and drab, at first I thought I was watching a work print. I'm not opposed to artistic inkyness or black used as negative space, but there is just no excuse for what's on the screen here. The color balance is way off, and most of the fight scenes are shot so claustrophobically you can hardly tell who's who (which the actors probably preferred; the less face-time the better). In addition to the poor cinematography and dull, dull direction, the egregiously loud soundtrack, with decibel-levels to rival an AC/DC vs. Motorhead concert, is strictly standard fare. The Musketeer tries for a few laughs here and there, but it appears Hyams really couldn't decide what he wanted to do in regards to this. In one especially disastrously directed scene, D'Artagnan must abandon his spent steed, who has carried him at full gallop across the countryside to rescue the Queen and his lady love. The horse sinks down to the ground, heaving with exhaustion. D'Artagnan, leaving the poor creature in full saddle and bridle, vows to return for him as he dashes off. I think this was meant to be serious moment between man and trusty beast, but the screening audience was laughing all through it. (And by the way, D'Artagnan broke his promise. He should be horse-whipped for that!) Much has been made of Xin-Xin Xiong choreographing the fight scenes for The Musketeer, and when one goes to see a swashbuckler, one excepts a lot of sword play. You do get a lot here. Too much. After 19 sword fights, the big, climactic showdown at the end is minimized.  Still, Xiong's choreography shines -- as the Musketeer swings from long ropes suspended on the side of a tower, and teeters on the end of long ladders (how lucky the castle was being renovated at that moment!), he cuts an almost-dashing figure. Still, he's no Errol Flynn (or even Jackie Chan). I was looking forward to the action in this movie, and came away very disappointed (not to mention bored). Hyams has stressed in interviews that despite the hiring of an Asian fight choreographer, he purposely stayed away from Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon/Matrix-like tricks. Since the movie's lead actors didn't stay in the traditional French mode anyway, and since the dialogue doesn't even try for authenticity, why not go for some Far Eastern-embellished, stylized swashbuckling? It wouldn't have saved the movie, but if definitely would have helped. The tagline for The Musketeer reads, As you've never seen it before. Might I add, And hope to never see again? If there's ever a remake (or a reimagining, if Tim Burton has anything to do with it) of A Clockwork Orange, I think the manic-movie scene should feature The Musketeer up there on the big screen of torment. <<I noticed that IMDb suggests if you liked Fight Club, you'd like The Musketeer... no way! The two movies are as different as chalk to cheese>> "},{"Title":"Better than other re-makes!","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** I saw The Musketeer Tuesday night at Mazza Gallerie in Washington D.C. and I saw this movie back in March at a test screening at a theatre in Sterling, Virginia and my thoughts then were if Universal doesn't touch this print and get the marketing right, they will make money off it.The plot is quite simple and of course is based on the Alexander Dumas' book - D'Artagnan (Justin Chambers) wants to avenge the death of his parents by becoming a musketeer and killing the man that kills his parents.  The opening credits involve a bit of background on how the musketeers came about.  The movie starts as D'Artagnan as a young child simply waiting to eat dinner with his folks when Febre (Tim Roth) and his army comes along looking for taxes to be paid.  Arguing comes about, and the parents are killed.Fourteen years later, D'Artagnan has grown up and the quest begins to become a musketeer.  He meets up with three other musketeers, they test D'Artagnan out to see if he is good, they find out how good he is really is.  He works through numerous battles, ending up in a hotel where he meets Francesca (Mena Suvari) in which he flirts with her.  Francesca works at the hotel as a maid.Without spoiling anything else, the stunts are very well done although some of them are far-fetched.  Comparing this print from the March print I saw, it appeared nothing was touched except the opening credits.  The length was exactly the same, 97 minutes.  When I saw this back in March, the audience was mostly high schoolers, and at the time, because I got there so early, I was picked as part of a focus group afterwards.  What was stated then was some of the kids were being technical with the storyline (I guess they read the book one too many times) but overall enjoyed it.  I thought the music was very well done, and they kept that in the print I saw Tuesday night. The director was there that night, never was introduced, but he heard everything that was stated in the group.  It appeared to me he listened, and didn't do anything major that would ruin the movie.  If there were things cut, I didn't notice.  This is one of the better movies of the year, and I thought that in March and my opinion has not changed.   9.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"This is the most unintentionally laughable film I have ever seen","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  From the opening credits (were those low res still images supposed to look like tapestries?) to the closing just about every scene had something horribly wrong with it. Poor casting, overacting, overdone sound effects (to an extreme), impossible situations and ridiculous character feats are just a flew of the core flaws. Bad camera angles and editing make even the swordplay hard to bear. Even the soundtrack is awful..seemingly made of only 4 repeating measures. This movie makes The Messenger and even A Knights Tale look like great ones (and I even liked them a little). I really can't think of one redeeming quality for it.Avoid this like the plague. "}{"Title":"This was weird in a bad way","Date":"21 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" If not for the costumes, sets and the exciting action sequences 2001's The Musketeer would be unwatchable. The acting is horrible, it's like watching children play dress-up. There is no emotion or reaction from Mena Suvari and Justin Chamberlain as the two leads when they proclaim their love for each other-they might as well be ordering take out. Experienced European actors like Catherine Deneuve as Queen Anne and Tim Roth as Febre, Cardinal Richelieu's personal agent, add nothing to this film. If there had been a better cast and script this could have been a pretty good film. The style and look are all eye-pleasing but it's a visual feast only that leaves the viewer feeling unsatisfied. "},{"Title":"This is a thinly veiled kung-fu movie.","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" First the cinematography is pretty good, and they have done a pretty good job recreating the look France of the early 1600's. The action scenes are well choreographed. The music is OK. So, if you want to see action scenes set in France, this movie is for you.Other than that, there is not much here. In this 'version', D'artagnan must avenge the murder of his parents by Cardinal Richelieu's assassins. Unlike in the Dumas book, in which the cardinal is a crafty unscrupulous politician, here the cardinal and the church represent evil on earth. The well worn pattern is Bad Guy and Good Guy meet; Bad Guy perpetrates outrage on handy nearby helpless innocent; Good Guy beats the crap out of the Bad Guy; Good Guy moves on to next encounter. Oh, yeah, and it is set in France instead of China.D'artagnan doesn't actually say, My name is Diego Montoya - You killed my father - Prepare to die, but that is certainly what he is thinking. And of course he is trained by a wise old itinerant philosopher/sword master who has an affectionate nickname for D'artagnan (I think it is French for grasshopper).I didn't make it through to the end, but I was sort of hoping for a big fight at the end between D'artagnan and the Cardinal himself in flowing red robes, holding a sword in each hand and breathing fire. I can imagine them leaping high though the enormous space of Notre Dame Cathedral, crashing into and out of the huge stain glass windows, smashing up all the artwork along the way until D'Artagnan skewers Richelieu on the high altar with some relic. Then, with blood pouring from his mouth, Richelieu gasps out some secret, like I am your father, or I'd walk a mile for Camel, or I am a woman in disguise. But maybe they are saving that for the sequel. "},{"Title":"They should have called it the Mulleteer","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" *Spoiler warning* On a whim, we watched this mediocre movie last night Yet another Musketeer movie about D'Artagnan, this time with a few gravity-defying stunts thrown in. They should have called it the Mulleteer; almost everyone in the movie, man woman and child, was working a righteous mullet. But other than that high point, I have to agree with the other posters. This movie was rushed, choppy and tepid. The story line did not really make sense; some of the characters aged over the years while others stayed the same; many of the fights were absurdly long. At one moment D'Artagnan was a clumsy oaf and the next he was able to fight while hanging from the ceiling. The ladder fight scene at the end was particularly funny, although it was also somewhat imaginative and enjoyable. Overall, I cannot recommend this movie unless you worship at the altar of the Mullet Gods, as do I. "},{"Title":"A good combination of swashbuckler and Hong Kong style","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I heartily recommend this movie for anyone who likes a swashbuckler. As most people have not read the novels by Dumas, (I have in both English and French), they will not worry about how close the film sticks to the books (all 5 of The D'Artagnan romances which include The Man in the Iron Mask. SPOILER Tim Roth makes a marvellously evil villain and the ever dependable and versatile Stephen Rea an excellent Richelieu. I had never heard of Justin Chambers now in Grays Anatomy, I was impressed with Castaldi as Planchet and Catherine Deneuve was as elegant as ever. There were some useful 'character' actors e.g Bill Treacher, Michael Byrne and Jeremy Clyde and the script was both terse and witty.SPOILER The bar fight was well done and the fight at the end, interesting. If you want to see the realisation of the complete D'Artagnan cycle of novels (if someone wants to commission me) this isn't it, if you want a good swashbuckler give it a try. The D'Artagnan Romances by Dumas are The Three Musketeers, 1844; Twenty Years After, 1845; The Vicomte de Bragelonne, 1847; Louis de la Valliere, 1847; and, The Man in the Iron Mask, 1847. "},{"Title":"Anemic and indifferent","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This take on The Three Musketeers is probably the most mindless one. The story is vaguely reminiscent to the one we're used to, but it is really a macho match between D'Artagnan and Febre (The man in Black). Everyone else is reduced to supporting roles for their boorish duel. The normally interesting and intriguing cardinal Richelieu is a shadow of the historic one and of the Dumas character, acting as a pushover for both the aforementioned characters. Catherine Deneuve looks as if she's looking for a way out of the film, and the three musketeers look as if they are over the top and just along for the ride.In summary The plot is silly beyond belief, the acting is weak, the witty remarks lacking and the swordplay ridiculous. Not worth your time or money. "},{"Title":"mostly dreadful, but with one redeeming feature","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS The story of D'Artagnan and the musketeers is one most people know of. With countless adaptations made over the years, legendary actors like Oliver Reed, Christopher Lee, Charlton Heston and Michael York have all featured in these classical tales. Based on an inaccurate history by Alexandre Dumas, everyone has a version and a character that they like the most.As a result of the story's success therefore, we are still receiving modern adaptations in the 21st century. In 2001, with martial arts stunts and a mediocre cast, this French/American collaboration, entitled either The Musketeer or D'Artagnan depending on your country, is mostly dreadful, but with the saving grace that is Tim Roth.After witnessing the murder of his parents, young D'Artagnan (Justin Chambers) is raised by his old friend Planchet (Jean-Pierre Castaldi). Becoming the finest swordsman in France, D'Artagnan tries to follow in his fathers footsteps by becoming a King's Musketeer. Times are not good for these heroes though, with their leader Treville (Michael Byrne) imprisoned and the evil Febre (Tim Roth) out for blood.From the opening musical sequence The Musketeer smacks of awkwardness. With a script and a set up which would be more at home in the 1940s, it attempts to redeem itself with lavish fight scenes. It never really settles into a decent routine, mainly due to a script which feels like it was written by a child. With some lines so bad, it is too embarrassing to repeat, the script crashes and burns without a hint of reprieve.The fights as well, whilst incredibly clever to set up and film, never really feel like they belong. Reminiscent of traditionally Chinese films, these fights just don't feel realistic and they are often excessive. The final major battle involving an enormous fight and a small hero vs bad-guy encounter, is drawn out to it's excesses and is ridiculous to watch.Truth be told, this film would probably be up there amongst the worst films ever if it wasn't for the one wonderful aspect which is Tim Roth's appearance.Roth, looking like a homeless dog in desperate need of a grooming, is wonderful throughout. Not helped by the dire script, he casts a perpetually evil glance over the entire film. He struts around with a badly made eye-patch on, and he manages to pull the part off. He has one or two scenes of pure evil which he makes work, not because the script is remotely decent, but because he speaks his lines with a sense of maliciousness and smoothness. Roth gets a badly scripted character, he DOES overact, but he somehow manages to make it work. He is the one highlight in an otherwise dire film.For not the first time, and definitely not the last, a film with little going for it, is released. Loosely based on a work by one of France's greatest writers, The Musketeer is a woeful encounter which is only saved by an excellent performance by Tim Roth. The film is worth watching ultimately for Roth, and Roth alone. "},{"Title":"Fun for those who can suspend memory!","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" An evil villain more wicked than some portrayals of the devil. He threatens children; he slaughters women and cripples; he even manages to out wicked Richelieu. A handsome young hero, taught by an old master and out for vengeance. A dispirited band of good guys ready to be resurrected from their self-pitying lethargy. A beautiful and spunky queen. A beautiful and spunky chambermaid. Swords! Honour to be won and a destiny to be fulfilled. Love. Courage. And the occasional very funny line of dialogue.It is not a great motion picture but as light-hearted old-fashionned yet 21st century entertainment in the tradition of the equally silly but romantic American Outlaws, this daft movie succeeds. With a bit of purposeful forgetting on the part of the viewer (forget history; forget Dumas) an enjoyable time may be had by all but the totally jaded. And it is infinitely better than that excrescence King Arthur! "},{"Title":"One of the worst adaptations in existence...","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  To call this movie a 'piece of s**t' would actually be a praise. The director (who deserves the same lowly title) screwed up every possible aspect of the story of Alexandre Dumas; really the only common things in the book and in this *something* are the names. Athos, Porthos, Aramis, D'Artagnan all appear but apparently no one knows why (other than to do a few stupid, low-quality kung-fu style fighting scenes.)To say all these is actually very sad, as I loved Capricorn One (an other movie of Hyams) - but this one is worthless all the way through. Acting is nonexistent, there is no story at all, music is forgettable... what else to say? It's a waste of time; avoid at all costs. 0/10 "},{"Title":"I was deeply interested...  ...except sometimes.","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The movie opens well and sets the stage for for the rest of the film. This very well may be the best part of the film, so if you walk in on it during the opening credits, it might be wise to abandon it and see it some other time (it's a pre-credits sequence). The Musketeer has a realistic look and feel to it, which I was very happy to see, even though there are times when a support cable or wire might pop in as an extra. There is even an airplane in one shot (don't worry, it's more than 30,000 feet away). Even though there are multiple appearances by support equipment, I was still happy with the overall look and feel. That's rare for me, as I am very detail oriented. Another strong point of this film was the absence (or near absence) of blood. To be able to tell a story such as this, get the message across well, and have very little blood flow speaks for itself.The weak point of this film. Yes, there is a weak point, and it's a strong enough weak point to make people wonder if they liked the movie or not. The action sequence editing...   ...most notably the fight scenes. I can guess that the fight scene choreography was very good, but that's as close as I can get because I don't think I saw much fighting. It seemed to be mostly implied. I truly believe that the editors took all of the fight scene footage, put it in a food-processor, and made an attempt to splice it together somehow...  ...in the dark. Those scenes are hard to follow and really confusing as to what's going on. If they were treated this way to avoid looking too violent, then there is a better way to do that. Some of the shots really resembled cutting room floor shots. What I mean by this is there would be a shot of some guys sword fighting, everyone is anonymous, and it's a close-up of their legs.  ???? What's that about? The scenes seemed to constantly hint that something cool just happened but it was something that we didn't see. Although I liked this movie, I would warn potential viewers of it about the fight-scene editing (As I am attempting to do now), and of the characters getting really lightweight during those same fight scenes. The rest of the film is quite good and I would recommend it to almost anyone. "},{"Title":"Did anyone in Hollywood ever actually READ the book?!","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Let me first state that I have actually read The Three Musketeers.  I did it for my own enjoyment, not as a high school project, like so many other people were forced to.  I admit it, I love reading the classics.  I also hate it when I see movie adaptations of these great classics that butcher the originals.  As this movie does.  In spades.About the only thing this movie and the book have in common is the title. The 1993 DISNEY version was closer to the book (And I'm sorry, but Chris O'Donnell being cast as D'Artagnan is the worst casting decision ever made since they decided to cast Kevin Costner as Robin Hood!)Maybe I'm missing the point.  Maybe this movie was just designed to entertain.  But I feel sorry for any high school kid who procrastinates and then expects to write a report on the book based on this movie.But I digress.  This movie is basically an 18th century version of The Matrix (Which I love!) There are a number of fights that were designed by the same person who choreographed the Matrix (and dozens of other movies lately) including (Spoiler warning) a heavily choreographed fight in a wine cellar full of ladders which seem to defy the laws of gravity.(SPOILERS HERE!  Stop reading if you don't want to know more!)It begins with a boy seeing his parents murdered, the boy grabbing a fencing foil and horribly mutilating their murderer, and then being kicked in the head by a horse.  Now this is just me, but I'm thinking if an eight-year-old gets kicked in the face by a horse, that's all she wrote!Cut to ten (fifteen?) years later--and in the meantime, we hear a intro number that sounds a lot like the aforementioned Robin Hood movie--and our young boy is all grown up and the greatest swordsman in France (which really isn't saying much) and slashing his way through his enemies (I must point out that the enemy he mutilated doesn't look a DAY older more that ten years later).  He then proceeds to get in fights with just about everyone in France, get laid by Mena Suvari (A babe), inspire the disgraced musketeers to a suicidal charge against a fortified castle (they succeed, by the way), and defeat his enemy in the aforementioned ladder duel.There is much more, of course, but I will sum it up by saying that if there is a redeeming quality to the movie, it is Mena Suvari.  I have loved her ever since American Beauty.  That, and lots of French people killing each other!And I have to ask  (Again--spoiler warning)  How much weaponry and equipment can you fit in a four-horse carriage before it becomes far too heavy for it to move beyond a slow crawl?Despite all this, this is an enjoyable movie, even if it is farfetched in some places, but hey, this is Hollywood (Actually, it's Luxembourg, but why nitpick!) "}{"Title":"Utter Crap","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS   ***SPOILERS*** The opening credits already give away how crappy the movie is going to be. At first I thought something is wrong with my DVD setup, but then I realized not. The credits actually look like a high school presentation.Then comes the first scene. Young D is sitting having breakfast or lunch or dinner with his parents. You can't really tell what part of the day it is, because the lightning is so messed up. His father is a big fat peasanty man, his mother looks like a peasant who just got out of the tub, smiling and freshy. At this point I thought the movie is going to turn into a Cheerios advertisement. But no, evil riders arrive, and after a short exchange they kill the parents. Young D swears he's going to kill'em all (he's only like 8 years old).Next scene, D is already 24. He goes into a pub type place, and some obviously evil guys start picking on him, there is a short exchange, but they don't start a fight. Then some bambi eyed bum looking kid tries taking a rotten piece of bread from the table, and of course the evil guys immediately want to beat/kill/gangrape him, but young D comes to the rescue. At this point a totally unnecessary matrixy fight scene starts. Of course it's not the original D actor anymore, so the lights are turned down, and funny camera angles are used, so you can't see the characters faces, or anything else. About ten seconds in the fighting you can tell that D has already reached superhero levels - he practically flies through the room like superman and sticks to the ceiling like spiderman. This works in the Matrix (1), but there you see Neo getting stronger and stronger, so you're always wondering what he'll do next. But not here. D has already learned how to manipulate the matrix and can beat any agent.At this point you start wondering why you should watch the movie. (A) you already know the story (B) the fight scenes will be boringBut anyways, you decide to watch further. In the next scenes the musketeers are introduced. These guys are fat, they constantly drink - they are not Dumas' man of honor. Also, whenever the good guys decide to do something (like rescue a queen), it's always D who comes up with the idea. The musketeers are just like the peasant hordes in Braveheart. And in fight scenes, the musketeers never do matrixy stuff - it's always just D doing the backflips and high kicks. They just do the standard my-sword-hits-your-sword-on-the-right-side-and-now-my-sword-hits-your-sword- on-the-left-side-AND-again stuff. Incredibly stupid.About ten minutes into the movie D meets a good-looking girl. The instant the girl is shown on the screen some cheesy-romantic music is played, so you already know the rest they fall in love, maybe even have sex, the girl is going to be kidnapped, but then rescued, and in the end they'll have lots of Cheerios-eating kids. Also, this is the only girl in the movie. There are no others. You'd think maybe there should be an evil girl who wants to seduce D just 'cause she's evil, or whatever, but no. It's just this one girl.At this point the story actually starts. You learn that the king... and the cardinal... and whatever. About halfway into the movie is a really funny part the king and the queen and other important nobles are having a party in a castle. Suddenly, hordes of bummy looking peasants storm the *totally unprotected* castle, and start... well, point is, once inside the castle, these obviously-evil dudes are just running around being evil and causing mayhem. Of course D already knew this is going to happen, so they snuck into the castle to rescue the king & queen. So guess how they go at it? They lead them out through the palace sewers! So there you have the king and queen of France in full party clothing walking through the sewers with thousands of rats. THAT'S STUPID.The last scene I watched before giving up is when D talks to the cardinal. Here we learn D has learned how to teleport through the matrix! He magically appears in the chambers of the cardinal located in his well guarded castle, talk for about two minutes without saying anything, then the latter turns away, and by the time he turns back D has teleported out again.Well, at this point I turned it off. Someone suggested that this movie is like Xena and Hercules; I agree, that's a good way to describe it. It's really stupid.Oh, and the sound on my region 2 DVD was very messed up. The sound gets renormalized (?) in mid-scene you're in the middle of the fighting, it's pretty loud, you can hear the horses, etc.; then n+1th evil imp pulls out a gun, and a split second before he fired it the sound level drops to ~50%; the shot is fired, it doesn't blow your speakers; the sound goes up again. This happens all over the first 50 minutes of the movie, and it's very annoying.I can't believe I've spent $3 on renting this crap. "},{"Title":"One of the most incompetently directed movies I've ever seen","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Whatever happened to Peter Hyams? Sure, he was never a great director, but at least he always was a reliable craftsman. Here, not unlike Frankenheimer when directing `The Island of Dr. Moreau', he seems to have thrown all of his experience and talent out of the window, not bothering with continuity, consistency, characterization, or any kind of properly developed plot- Lighting varies from shot to shot; angles and camera positions never match up. The editing thus seems incredibly amateur and choppy.- None of the accents make any kind sense, some characters speak English with French accents, some speak with American accents and some speak with COCKNEY accents.- Hyams (doing double duty as director and DP) doesn't employ any kind of superficial light sources, relying solely on ambient lighting of torches, windows, etc. While this may be fine for an intimate drama, documentary or other independent film, it is FATAL for a swashbuckler. Many scenes are dreadfully underexposed, making it virtually impossible to enjoy or even follow many of the fight scenes, which by the way are shamelessly plagiarized from Xiong Xin Xin's previous work. Hyams couldn't light a bloody birthday cake!- David Arnold's excellent score, the film's ONLY saving grace, is mangled in editing and mixed so low that it is reduced to a mere ambience sound. Again, a FATAL artistic decision for a swashbuckler.- The writing by Gene Quintano is ATROCIOUS. Full of anachronisms and idiotic dialogue worthy of Lucas' prequel trilogy (`Don't look at me like that.' &#150; `Those eyes...' &#150; `They are the only eyes I have.'), it mangles Dumas' classic story like there is no tomorrow. Oh well, what else could one expect from the writer of &#145;Sudden Death', &#145;Operation Dumbo Drop' and &#145;Loaded Weapon 1', not to mention two &#145;Police Academy' sequels?Anyway, this is one of the worst movies of the last few years. Be ashamed, Peter Hyams. Be very ashamed. "},{"Title":"JUST DOESN'T WORK. Uneven and at times ludicrous.","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I don't mind having to suspend belief on occasion during a movie as long as the event for which I have suspended my belief is explained and reasonable. This just didn't work out as it should have. The culminate fateful duel on the ladders is the perfect example. While it was something to watch, it was really, really dumb; almost to the point of embarrasment.Certainly a handsome enough and talented enough lead, with occasional moments of intrigue and tension, but overall an uneven and stretching effort. Chris O'Donnell's THREE MUSKETEERS is much more enjoyable.3 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Don't watch this","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Musketeer was a huge disappointment.  Though it had fantastic sets and costuming, beautifully filmed, and well cast, the script was so bad I couldn't sit through it.  I haven't seen dialogue this bad outside of a high school student film.  It was unbearable. "},{"Title":"Well I for one thought it was pretty good...","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a solid film and I don't know what 60% of the reviewers are thinking that said it was awful.  The story was far from original, the acting i suppose wasn't top notch, but it was 90 mins plus of entertaining cinema.  The action scenes are crazy and although rather unrealistic, who the heck cares if it couldn't happen in real life?  That's why they made movies  to make people happy by showing what could be but isn't. Chambers is a little girly to be kicking as much butt as he does but the rest of the cast is very good.  Mena Suvari is a total babe and does a very good job in particular.  This is an excellent date movie cuz it's half action, half romance.  My girlfriend and I both liked it a bunch and you will too if you give it a chance and don't take it too seriously.  "},{"Title":"If you see this for the story, you miss the point","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie has some of the best sword play scenes I've ever scene.  The choreography was fabulous.  But if you are seeing it for the sake of the story, you will be disappointed.  The acrobatics were wonderful, and the story was merely the background as an excuse to do all sorts of cool stuff.  My daughter and I were screaming like it was a roller coaster ride.   "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Well l haver just seen The Musketeer on DVD, l thought this would be another rip of of the old Three Musketeer type films but how wrong l was, it is Fantastic, Justin Chambers does a fine job in the lead role, and the Muisc by David Arnold is just spellbinding, and the stunts for this type of film by Xin-Xin Xiong remind me of the old Fairbanks type stunts....this has got to be a 10 out of 10....and once again the music is real.... "},{"Title":"Batman or the three musketeers, what do you think?","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  It is always astounding how badly Hollywood manages to butcher a great classic.  I was honestly wondering throughout the entire movie whether I had mistakenly walked into an 18th century version of Batman.The musketeer is a very apt name for this movie as there really appears to be only one.  All of the rest are simply bumbling idiots that can barely walk much less draw a sword or think of a plan to save the king.  This movie doesn't even do justice to the character of D'Artagnan, who seems to be a viscious and calculating young man, rather than the naive young man from the novel who is exceptional with a sword and has a farely strong wit.In fact rather than wasting your money renting this one from the movie store, I would rent some of the earlier versions of the book turned movie. The Three Musketeers (1993), although hardly accurate to the book, is comedic and adventurous and altogether a much more enjoyable film.  If you want a movie that both does justice to the book and is still entertaining, then rent the 1973 version of the Three Musketeers.  This at least contains all of te essential elements without ruining any of the characters or the plot.The only constant problem that I see with movies made from the novels of Dumas is that no one bothers to bring in the duality of man which so encompasses both the heros and the villains in his books.  Take my advice, don't rent the movie, just read the book. "},{"Title":"Hurl this movie into the sea","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Only through willpower and  a case of beer was I able to resist the temptation to hurl the DVD of The Musketeer out of my living room window and into the sea below.The highlight of this movie is a brief scene with Mena Suvari in a tub. The lowlight would have to be any scene that didn't have Mena Suvari in a tub. Also of note is a scene in which D'Artagnan solemnly swears to avenge the injuring of his horse and a strange climactic teeter-totter fight involving the mincing Francesca.This movie makes liberal use of the wire-style in many of the Hong Kong style movies but the physics of most of the scenes is somewhat wonky, and to me at least is slightly reminiscent of how Luigi moved in Super Mario Brothers 2.Stephen Rea, Tim Roth and Catherine Deneuve pull out competent performances and proved that even famous actors have to work crap jobs sometimes. "},{"Title":"Jumping jellybeans with swords...","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  That's basically what the musketeer looks like in this very mediocre film.  The jumping around action scenes with swords are shot in very poor light. I guess so you can't tell it is a stunt double.  Well, it looks like a kung-fu expert with a sword who does all the *ss kicking.  The plot isn't very compelling. And the acting is not that great.  I've liked Mena Suvari in her other roles, but in this she is not very believeable.   Also, I didn't think the sound was very good. There were several times when I couldn't understand what the people were saying.FINAL VERDICT  Not worth your time. The action isn't that great. Tim Roth was better as the evil guy in Rob Roy than this. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as it's made out to be...","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Reading the other reviews here, I thought this could possibly be the worst movie I might ever have chance to see.I decided to pretend that this was something other than inspired by the original Three Musketeers and maybe the production crew on this one might have better served themselves had they done the same and not even implied it using the names...SPOILERS...Reviewers have noted inaccuracies in the characters, the fact that during the period guns did not exist, and other items of note like during the sword fight in the ladder scene--the wires were totally apparent.  I went into it with more of an open mind and thought, would this have been pummeled to this point had our wanna be musketeer been named Jeff?  Personally I noticed no wires and am willing to bet they were digitally erased, I noticed no stunt doubles during fight scenes, but do not doubt they were used, and I thought the darkness to the scenes was probably the most real to life aspect of this film.  Sorry, but natural lighting from a flame is always soft and dark and though we might want to see better what is going on (and it certainly could not have hurt this story), natural flames that light a room to not look like the dark ages usually come in the form of some celestial body.So in defense of the makers of this movie, with a musketeer named Jeff and no preconceived expectations, I found it not magnificent, but pleasurable nonetheless.  Sure it had some cheesy lines.  Sure it had a few ridiculous plot points like my favorite, when Mena Suvari is shot in the chest with some fifty caliber plus lead wad at close range and miraculously is unharmed.  Oh she's knocked off her feet alright, but it must have been the Kevlar vest with steel plate reinforcement she was wearing under her push up bra that saved the day (also not available then).Ah...the perils of evil.  Just call D'Artagnan Jeff and forget the Dumas connection and there will be much less to criticize here.  You might even enjoy it.    "},{"Title":"Adaptation in a Different Flavor (Maybe a Plot Spoiler or Two)","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Despite a few brief lapses where the film seems to lose itself, I found this an enjoyable adaptation of the Three Musketeers.  Despite the overall darker and less humorous appearance, the story moves at a good clip and doesn't even reach the two-hour mark (which is a relief, as it would seem every other film these days wishes to be an epic).The fight scenes have a distinctive traditional martial arts taste to them as fight sequences not only involve one on one and one on two swordplay, but the use of non-sword weapons (there's a particular nasty segment where D'Artagnan wields what I believe is a candelabra instead of a sword dealing out some major damage), props such as barrels, ceilings, ropes and ladders (sorry, no chutes).  Very reminiscent of some of the fight choreography as found in older Jet Li movies and all Jackie Chan flicks. "},{"Title":"Simply Awful!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I usually don't comment on movies that I don't like, but here I feel I should warn people - This is just awful! This movie is so bad, that it actually becomes comical as you watch it. If you really want to watch this movie, then I suggest you go see it with a bunch of friends when you need a good laugh - otherwise, don't bother and watch the WWF instead. "},{"Title":"SUUUCKS !!!!!!!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so unbelievably F***ed up that i cant believe i wanted to see it.Im not realy bothered by the fact that this featured physically impossible stunts, and the fact that it didnt have much of them ,and the fact that Athos and Rochefort were barely there and the fact that Dartagnan was so confident in his streinth that he just picks on 30 guys without even thinking twice and the superman music at the beginning of the movie and how some characters die so quickly(it takes 2 mins to empty of your blood and you'll still have 10 seconds when the blood leaves your brain enough to pick-up a sword and slash).No what bothers me, what really ticks me off is the fact that they want us to believe that that peepsquick Dartangnan has a big penis 2 scenes where he brags about how big it is.This movie sucks bad i give it a 2/10. "},{"Title":"Perfectly missable","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsSave for a few rousing battle scenes,there is very little to recommend this cliched and plodding film.Both the acting and the dialogue stink,and the laboured directing by Peter Hyams only serves to make things worse.It feels a hell of a lot longer than it's supposed to be too.** "},{"Title":"M I C, K E Y, M -- O -- U -- S -- E !!!","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  One of the very worst films....totally appropriate for TigerLilly overdubbing.  Horrid acting, trivial plot, ridiculous action.   A strong candidate for Fast Forward honors!  Unfortunately it is too easy to imagine a conversation in some LA bar between two Jeff Spicoli's  Dude, what if we combined like, The Matrix...with, like, some totally awesome sword fighting...and made, like, a movie! "},{"Title":"Doesn't get much worse","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why I saw this movie. I do however know why no one else should. One, it has no plot. It hardly makes any sense and the only reason anyone would be able to follow it is if they've seen The Musketeer in another form, or heaven forbid, read the book. Two, the acting is terrible. No one can deliver a decent line or even seem halfway serious about their character. Its a joke. Three, the only draw for me was the fight scenes. Now some of them were halfway interesting but by midpart of the movie they become more outrageous. They are so unrealistic that it takes away from what little the film does have going for it. At least Crouching Tiger had a theme for its over the top fight scenes. In the end, I can't saw one positive thing about the movie. It was unintelligible garbage that rips off a dozen better movies, including several incarnations of the source. Anyone involved with this movie should be ashamed of it. "},{"Title":"Amusing, but falls short","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  First off, I did not like the Disney adaptation of The Three Musketeers that came out some years back. It had real promise with its cast and design. Instead, that film devolved into another one of those messes where Tim Curry becomes a raving lunatic. (Tim Curry and Gary Oldman should together and form a club for typecast psychopathic villains.) So I had hopes for this film.Sometime before I watched it, I heard it was just okay. Some said it stank. I thought that I'd watch it with the expectation that it was going to be sub par.Actually, the film was not nearly as bad as I expected. The fight sequences, casting, cinematography and costuming were all quite remarkable. I especially enjoyed Mena Suvari, Catherine Deneuve and Jean-Pierre Castaldi whenever they were on screen. Some of the one-liners were downright hysterical.And that's where the compliments end. Sadly, the film is plagued with cliches, continuity errors, one or two dreadful plot holes, and a very predictable script. The second half of the film is truly weak at nearly every level. My wife and I were pointing and laughing at the screen because we could not believe that the director would permit the film to get to the MST3K level of ridiculousness.And then, there's Justin Chambers. He reminds me far too much of Chris O'Donnell, who I stopped respecting after Batman and Robin and Vertical Limit. Just one thing, though Chris O'Donnell is *Shakespearean* compared to Chambers! Chambers rolled through his lines like a first year drama student with zero attention to timing or acting. I don't know if that was intentionally done to give the film a fast pace, but it was disconcerting. His chemistry with Suvari is average at its best (she always looks like she would rather kiss a St. Bernard than Chambers), and I found it a little difficult to sympathize with D'Artagnan since he was more than arrogant --- he was annoying.Tim Roth is despicable, as usual. He adds to his villain list that includes Planet of the Apes, Vatel, Pulp Fiction, and Rob Roy with another over-the-top performance. It's just that in his case, I *expect* him to be this outrageous character. He's like Curry and Oldman! But is he the best thing in the film? No, because he can't save it any more that Curry could save The Three Musketeers.If you see it, turn off your brain, and do NOT expect many fight sequences. The movie has very, very few of those. And do not expect historical accuracy or a faithful adaptation because it's *certainly* not that.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Worst...movie...ever.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Excluding the major flops from the past year (glitter and crossroads), this movie was the worst to hit the box office.  during the entirety of the movie i found myself wondering 1). what was going on 2). what they were saying and 3). who are all these people being mentioned throughout? no character development, of course.  This isnt to forget the horrible lighting in the action scenes.  im not going to embelish on a piece of trash as this anymore, just ignore the movie. 0/10. "},{"Title":"What a shame.---4/10","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" It had a lot of potential to be a classic action movie. Then came the boring dialogue and nothing new story and blew the potential away. I got real bored watching this movie. I was extremely disappointed afterward. I had heard about the movie and thought it sounded cool. Then i saw the trailer and commercials, and i got pumped to see it. It looked liked it would be as good as Crouching Tiger. Then i actually saw it. The action scenes were not bad,especially the last sword fight. Tim Roth was great as the bad guy. If only he had been in it more. The rest of the movie was real canned and just out and out bad. Watch Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon instead. 4/10 "}{"Title":"adaptation?  hardly.","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie opening night with my friends.  Shortly into the movie I give up counting dissimilarities between the book and the movie and count the similarities.   I counted 3.First, the setting is indeed France during the reign of King Louis.  Also the basic history of the Cardinal not liking the queen is intact.  So the setting is fairly similar to the book's.Secondly, some of the characters had the same names and physiques described in the books.  For example, D'Artagnan does have the correct name, as do Aramis and Porthos.  Porthos on the other seems intelligent which is exactly the opposite of how he's supposed to be.  It's difficult to tell if Athos is how he's portrayed in the book because he barely shows up in the movie at all.Thirdly, when D'Artagnan reaches Paris, someone insults his horses and beats them up.  The fact that in the movie his horses were good looking and that there were more than one of them is something that I'm willing to ignore to have more than 2 similarities.In my opinion, no one should ever see this movie for any reason. Ever.0/10  "},{"Title":"Not bad.","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I did not enter this film expecting a film of epic proportion, and that is not what I got.  I am not very familiar with Dumas' novel, so I can not compare it to this film.  I did find the film to be entertaining.  It really falls under the category of action/adventure.  There was little drama and little comedy.  There was great fight choreography, horse chases, scenery, sets and stunts.  If you are looking for a fun movie to just sit and enjoy, The Musketeer is right up your alley.  If you are looking for a gripping story, compelling drama, and a complex plot, go see something else.  All in all, a fun movie for a Saturday night.  ** of ****   "},{"Title":"I couldn't decide whether to sleep or laugh","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  All right,  i'm not picky when it comes to movies.  As long as it makes me forget reality for awhile,  i'll watch pretty much anything.  The Musketeer  is the first exception I've seen in a long time.The acting looks like it comes straight of out a Barney flick, and, like many others, I just couldn't get into the relationship between the leading couple.  No chemistry whatsoever.And don't even get me started on the ladder scene.  I laughed outloud on that one.I got up twice to check my watch,  hoping it was about time to be over.  If the chairs had been a little more comfortable, i would tried to take a nap.Tim Roth's great preformence was the ONLY redeeming quality...and even HE couldn't rescue the movie.Save your money.  Please.  If you MUST watch a musketeer movie,  go rent the one with Charlie Sheen and Keifer Sutherland.  It has it's faults,  but it will at least keep you awake.======2/10=======>  "},{"Title":"really REALLY bad","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie sucked.  It sucked so bad it redefines suckiness.  Even the teenagers who saw it thought so.  I heard two of them talking in he lobby. One said The Charlie Sheen version was better, and his friend said Dude! The candy bar is better.  I think that sums it up.  Rent the Richard Lester version (in my top five movies of all time).  "},{"Title":"One of the worst of the year.","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  To start this off, let me summarize by stating that this film, The Musketeer, was just awful. If the television series Mystery Science Theater 3000 were still in production, I would write in and ask that they skewer this film as soon as humanly possible. There was so much wrong with it, anything that went right was dragged down into the abyss of stupidity at the film's center so quickly that I didn't see it.To begin with, the dialogue was just terrible. The characters spoke unrealistically and much of the dialogue was stilted. From the first scene I could tell that this wasn't a film in which the art of speaking was of high importance. The actors portraying French characters spoke with a collection of accents, including French, English and American. Had they limited the selection of accents to simply the French, it would have been nice, but still not nearly enough to save this film.The action scenes, while well choreographed, either didn't fit well in the movie or weren't good enough. Between the scenes of trite dialogue, poor acting and the fight sequences that followed, I felt as if I were watching a video game.If you're looking for a film based on Alexander Dumas's Three Musketeers, you'd better look elsewhere. It's been made and remade a good number of times, and I'm sure that the majority of them are better than the idiocy that The Musketeer turned out to be. "},{"Title":"Two movies in one...","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  but that's not a good thing this time around. In The Musketeer there are two separate story lines going on at once. One has the young musketeer D'Artagnan (Justin Chambers) hunting down his parents' killer (Tim Roth), the other has D'Artagnan trying to band the musketeers together to save France from an evil Cardinal named Richelieu (Stephen Rea) who is trying to overthrow the king of France.Neither of the stories are very interesting, but that's not the worse part. The acting is absolutely horrible, which is worsened even more by the sad attempts at humor and the bad character development.Finally, the fight sequences are nothing to shout praises about, even the ladder fight that was shown in the previews isn't very exciting. Maybe part of the problem was that there was no way most of the actors could have performed 90% of the stunts in the film.Summing it all up, Roth's villain has no real motive for what he does, nor is the character very interesting anyway, at least his Planet of the Apes role had some point to it. Chambers just doesn't have the leading man qualities at this stage in his career and Mena Suvari turns in another poor performance as a chamber maid who falls for Chambers' character. There's literally nothing to like in The Musketeer. -** out of 4 stars.  "},{"Title":"Forget the actors, the real stars are the stunt doubles!!","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Musketeer (2001) is a action fans dream (that's if you love stunt work and phenomenal sword play). Even though Peter Hyams is the credited director, the stunts and fight scenes were obviously directed by Hong Kong stunt master Xin-Xin Xiong. Mr. Xiong's work can also be seen in the Tsui Hark action film TIME and TIDE. Never mind the tepid direction and mediocre acting, the only reason you'll want to watch this period piece are the incredible stunt work and action set pieces. You'll be amazed by the swift sword play and the fast paced action cinematography.If you enjoy good stunts and amazing wire work then you must watch this movie. Forget the plot, this movie is pure eye candy for the action fans!Recommended. "},{"Title":"Pick a genre, any genre, but this one.","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" No, this retelling of the Dumas novel is not a good one. But it ain't as stinky as everyone here claims it is. The selling point of this movie was the Xin Xin stunts that belong in a Six Flags live show. But shoot, they are still off the hook. What injures The Musketeer is it's setting, all those wacky stunts fitting Dumas' vision? Nah, bad move. So since there is lot of re-imagining in movies these days, like Barb Wire, Treasure Planet, Planet of the Apes this movie should have been modernized or the set in the distant future. I mean, Catherine Denueve is in it, a period-piece movie queen! Incidentally, she looked pretty damn good for a woman pushing sixty. I really think that the only actor who is truly wretched is Justin Chambers (who?) as D'Artagnan. Clearly, this actor refused to do either stunts or more importantly, any emoting.Still, this movie wasn't sold on it's acting or story and isn't as horrible as the masses say. I watch it a lot when nothing else is on. "},{"Title":"Dialog... We don't need no stinking dialog, lighting, plot...","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I did not expect much from this movie, but I did not expect over 10 poorly choreographed over exaggerated battle scenes (some of which went on from 5 to 10 minutes)in a movie that was barely 100 minutes long either. This left so little time for dialog that most of it played out like a cut rate porno where there is no script and the actors have to make up the lines as they go along.To this day I cannot really be sure what it was really about because there was no story to follow. If there were a class in film school devoted to the kind of film that just shouldn't be made The Musketeer would be the final exam! This movie was so bad I couldn't even walk out to get my money back. Actors that can't act. Writers on strike(apparently). Trigger happy cinematographers. Choreographers who think they are G-d's gift to the film. There is not one good thing that I can say about it except that I know there will be no sequel. "},{"Title":"A sinful piece of film-making...","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"      It is imperative to note that before reading the following critical assessment of &#145;The Musketeer', I have a personal bias towards Director Peter Hyams. I have never met the man, nor would I bask in his company. Yet I would like to ask him one question. The question would be along the lines of, `Why do you continuously make horrible films?'      This Director has made films in the past that have proved to be deplorable, yet he still continues to work in Hollywood. Before a reader mistakes this review for a critical &#145;bashing' of this Director, they are not mistaken. Simply watch the horrendous film that fuses Hong Kong style action with 17th century swordplay and one can determine the result without even viewing this film.       Peter Hyams has directed Jean Claude Van Damme in &#145;Sudden Death' and &#145;TimeCop'. He has also directed Arnold Schwarzenneger in &#145;End of Days'. In his early work, he made &#145;2010' and &#145;The Presidio'. These two films were generally regarded as decent films, yet it is clear that his best days are behind him. &#145;The Musketeer' proves to be one of the worst films ever.     If I possess hatred towards the man, I do not. I respect all Directors. The role of Director is the most respectable and most difficult task of any of the Cinematic tasks. Yet, what I do not respect is when Directors make no attempt at creating a vivid and intriguing film. Clearly such is the case with the misdirected and ultimately devastatingly boring of films with &#145;The Musketeer'.      Hyams' latest debacle stars Justin Chambers (The Wedding Planner) as D'Artagnan; a man hell-bent on joining the Musketeers in order to avenge his parents' death. The classic Alexandre Dumas story has been adapted for the screen many times, yet never in a way that crucifies the script for the sake injecting a new style.       Director Hyams adds an infusion of Hong Kong style to the swashbuckling scenes in hopes of creating an updated Hollywood-ized Eastern version of the great tale. The result &#150; another failure on Peter Hyam's resume.     Not convinced of this film's ridiculousness? View the first half hour of the film and witness for yourself the most badly lit scenes ever captured on film. In broad daylight sequences revolving around indoor discussions, Hyams (who serves as his own Director of Photography) captures his subjects speaking in shadows and dark profiles that seen completely out of place. Simply put, I could not get past this flaw.      By this point, one may have realized the utter wretchedness of the film. I am deeply apologetic because for such a massive production, it is a poor, poor attempt at updating a premise that should be finally left alone.     On another note, I loathe the film and the Director simply because there is no attempt at creating a &#145;fun' film. The film's greatest flaw is that it takes itself too seriously. Notice Hyam's direction, the entire film is shot rarely without any moving camera shots or intense close ups. The discerning viewer may count how many times the camera actually swoops and follows the action on screen. Even thought the fight sequences are choreographed in an outlandish style and could have been somewhat entertaining, Hyams simply sets up his cameras from various angles and lets it roll.      Unfortunately, the film is a horrible attempt at a fresh and inventive spin on a great tale. One last aspect to be noted &#150; the opening credits. They are completely amateur and moody just like Hyam's lighting. In conclusion, save your time and although the 1993 Disney Version was also horrible, it still was a whole lot more enjoyable to watch than this sinful piece of filmmaking.Giancarlo's rating Can you spell G-A-R-B-A-G-E?  "}{"Title":"Too hurried","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I've never seen any Musketeer movies, not even the Kiefer Sutherland one, but I can tell this one ain't the best. It's very rushed and the script is as flat as a blown-out tire. I mean it's written by the guy who created the Police Academy franchise. Surely he should be blacklisted in Hollywood by now.Peter Hyams once again becomes his own cinematographer and does a kinda okay job. None of his trademark flair or wonderful use of widescreen is in this film and nothing really comes across as pretty or atmospheric. And this whole deal with the film apparently having an Eastern influence is total nonsense. There is like 2 fight scenes and neither of them are that spectacular and come across as a bit contrived. Just because an Asian guy did the choreography it doesn't mean that this film has to look like The Matrix.The actors do what they can with the poor story and limp dialogue but still come across as being bored, especially Stepehen Rea. Tim Roth looks and acts like a cross between Chuck Norris and Charles Dance and his character is a bit of a clich. 'The Man in Black'...puh-lease. And if you're kinda wondering who that is playing Mena Suvari's evil uncle then you might recognise him as Arthur Fowler from long over-running BBC1 misery and despair soap Eastenders.The Musketeer also seems to be badly edited around the PG-rating. Obviously this is what the studio wanted to aim for but it just seem right given the tone of the film and any scene in which someone dies looks like a badly staged pantomime. Even Dogtanian and the Three Muskahounds was more grown-up than this. And boy are those opening credits ugly! See it only for free on a day you've got nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"uughh!","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Ouch! I felt so sick inside after watching this  movie. Interesting idea, bad execution. In a  film more overdone than an episode of  Marshall Law, Musketeer brought a new  low to period film making. The trouble with  this story is the fact that we already know  the story, and flying in mid-air with crazy  stunts and unbelievable action won't liven  up a familiar story that probably shouldn't  have been messed with. Too bad. Maybe  something new could have been introduced  to this story, but instead, we get another  useless retread. "},{"Title":"All for one, and one for dull","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" There are some wonderful actors in this interpretation of Alexander Dumas' classic novel--Tim Roth, Stephen Rea, Catherine Deneuve--but sadly the star of the film is Justin Chambers, a young man whose acting is so wooden that you can almost see termites gnawing on him during close-ups. The Three Musketeers themselves are a total afterthought, getting little screen time and absolutely zero character set-up or development. They may as well not be in the film at all. As usual, Roth makes a gourmet meal out of store brand ingredients, and Rea and Deneuve do what they can with their undercooked roles.The film's hook was that its action sequences were choreographed by Xin-Xin Xiong, a well known Hong Kong stunt man. Unfortunately it's poorly shot, with much of the action taking place in dimly lit rooms and seemingly edited with a Cuisinart. Two of the scenes are moderately entertaining--a duel between d'Artagnan and some thugs at a pub, and then the final duel between he and Roth's Febre using a series of ladders. But even if you can swallow its video gamey quality, it's not enough--not nearly enough--to save this wretched effort. "},{"Title":"Tous Pour Un, Un Pour Tous","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" In France, under the reign of Louis XIII, D'Artagnan is a young man with two goals in life - to join the King's Musketeers and to avenge the murder of his parents. But he soon finds that Paris is in turmoil, the royal court is in the grip of the powerful Cardinal Richelieu and the Musketeers have been outlawed ...I am a big fan of Alexandre Dumas' classic 1844 swashbuckler Les Trois Mousquetaires, and I particularly like the fact that almost all the movie versions of it are very good, including this latter-day one. Like all of them, it has its own particular style and in this case it's a big focus on action, with dazzling stuntwork by Xin Xin Xiong and several breathtaking set pieces, most notably an incredible scene where D'Artagnan scales a tall tower on a rope and fights off a bunch of henchmen whilst doing so. The main reason all the versions are good though is that it's just a great tale from start to finish - it's got adventure, intrigue, heroism, goofy antics, great characters, and it's a celebration of a bygone era of French history which is rich and romantic. This film is a looser adaptation than most - it takes out a lot of D'Artagnan's backstory (the purloined letter, the three duels) and replaces it with a childhood revenge plot, and it also removes my favourite character (Milady DeWinter) and replaces her with a villain called Febre who slashes his way through the cast (foe and ally alike) like a seventeenth century Fred Krueger. Roth is maybe a bit too obvious a heavy but he's sinister fun all the same, and the whole cast is good - Deneuve is striking as the Queen, Chambers acquits himself well in the lead, I particularly like Schofield as Rochefort, and Moran and Speirs are a good double act as Aramis and Porthos. It's a shame this movie isn't as well known as some of the previous versions because it really is pretty good, even if not quite as faithful as the others. With great editing by Terry Rawlings (Blade Runner, Goldeneye) and excellent photography by the director, shot in Luxembourg and the Midi-Pyrnes region of France. Dumas' story is timeless (as is his other masterpiece, The Count Of Monte Cristo) and if you haven't seen any of the big-screen adaptations of it then catch this one. "},{"Title":"Short, Sweet, and Enjoyable for Action Fans.","Date":"4 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I agree with a lot of the negative reviews about this movie, but I watch a lot of movies, and this by far is not as bad a people have made it out to be.I find it enjoyable because the action starts so fast. Wham! People die a.s.a.p. and I, the viewer, was wanting revenge from the jump! Let's get to it! I think the reason why I did enjoy this movie so much is because I didn't expect an award winning film. I watched it because a Kung-Fu movie site mentioned it as a film that used eastern style fighting choreography that you wouldn't expect to see it in.The sword fights were very cool. I think any action fan with some time to kill would enjoy this flick, and at just about a hour and a half your not wasting to much of your life if you don't like it. "},{"Title":"One for all...but maybe not all for one","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Peter Hyam's The Musketeer is the third of four mediocre Alexandre Dumas adaptations from the last twenty years; Disney's Three Musketeers, The Man in the Iron mask, this, and the Count of Monte Cristo. According to renowned indie critic James Berardinelli, Hollywood is making Dumas turn in his grave. Iron Mask was the best and Monte Cristo was the worst. This one has its ups and downs.As odd as it may sound, The Musketeer has the personality of a martial arts picture. You can either choose to see this as a good thing or a bad thing. Ssomehow, it feels a little too over the top and artificial for a 17th century French epic.I may have mentioned once, that Justin Chambers is pretty bad in the lead, but he is no worse than Oliver Platt, Kiefer Sutherland, and Charlie Sheen in the Disney version from ten years earlier. At least Chambers tries to be serious, one could say that he makes Sutherland, Platt and Sheen look like the three stooges in blue tunics.Tim Roth can play good villains, but his performance as the black cloaked, one eyed, captain of the guard, (previously portrayed by Michael Wincott, and Christopher Lee) is not terribly menacing. In truth, none of the acting is especially good. Once again Hyams acts as his own cinematographer, and he is a darn good one. Although not necessarily Oscar worthy, Much of the film is well shot, especially the climax, during which he makes great use of fire to light the hectic fight scenes. As a swashbuckling film, The Musketeer does its job, but not very well. It's occasionally exciting, but often a little too unbelievable. My best recommendation for this kind of material would The Mask of Zorro. "},{"Title":"A nice take on the book","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I'll be honest this movie isn't' exactly a emmy winning movie of godhood. There are other movies that tell the same story but they either tell it better or worse depending on your point of taste. This movie is really just a good action flick, same thing goes for the movie Pathfinder.The plot of the movie is straight forward D'art sees parents killed, friend of family teaches him how to be awesome with the sword, decides to join the legendary heroes of the age to find killer, and of course get the girl in between sword fights and political intrigue. If you were hoping for something a little more in-depth then I suggest you read the actual Dumas book because this movie carters to people like me who want more action and less plot.The stunts are just awesome, the dialogue has its moments, and the actors are well....a nice change from the normal ones you'd expect in movies like this.To sum it up this movie is like Pathfinder...a good time killer. If your not in the mood for something that has big namers, complicated story lines, or something that won an award for whatever made it popular, then pick this up and watch it. It's a nice rental and don't feel like it'll scar your collection if you own it. "},{"Title":"Xena Warrior Muskateer?","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Inconsistent film. Actors falling in & out of accents. Great performance by Deneuve. Rich cinematography, costumes, scenery & equines.Justin Chambers is likable, but he is no Michael York, Bruce Campbell, or Douglas Fairbanks. Tim Roth is always a good villain, but this performance seemed flat.Many of the stunts were direct lifts shot for shot from Xena Warrior Princess. The most notable stunt theft is the ladder fight scene which appears five years earlier in the May 1996 Xena episode, Callisto.It's a fun rainy Saturday afternoon TV movie, but I wouldn't spend money to see it. "},{"Title":"Great movie for July 4 holiday in the US--stand up for justice!","Date":"4 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Just the fight scenes--I can see how it cost forty million dollars to make this movie, as the person from Ukraine said. Take eastern style martial arts and do it all with swords--can you imagine that? But the movie is also true to the spirit of Dumas. He wrote in the mid-1800's--the heart of the French revolutionary century. All of Europe had revolutions in 1848, and all were stifled by a reactionary elite. The movie subtly handles the role of Cardinal Richilieu--who is the famous bad-guy of the musketeer stories. It'll get your heart beating for the old red-white-and-blue--which is the color of the French as well as US flag. "},{"Title":"Spectacular fights  and lots of action in this  average version of  the Alexandre  Dumas classic","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Drtagnan (Justin Chambers) undergoes a revenge against the man dressed in black (Tim Roth) who murdered his father . Fourteen years later he goes out from Gascogne along with Planchet (Jean Pierre Castaldi) and confronting plunders and bandits on the trip to Paris . He meets for the first time worthless three musketeers , Athos (Kemp) , Porthos (Steve Speirs) and Aramis (Nick Moran) and get their swords crossed up . Drtagnan and the three Musketeers cross swords with the lackeys of scheming cardinal Richelieu (Stephen Rea) and first Mister Treville (Michael Byrne) , head of the Musketeers . They try to help king Louis XIII (Mesguich) who is negotiating a treatise with Duke of Buckinghan (Jeremy Clyde). Meanwhile , Queen Anna (Catherine Deneuve) and Francesca (Mena Suvari) are kidnapped by Febre and closed in his castle . Mediocre version of the classic swashbuckler by Alexandre Dumas whose novel has been adapted a dozen times approximately . Attractive costumes , haunting french locations , fast paced and contains scrumptious action scenes with bounds and leaps in 'Matrix' style . This is primarily and middling made due to some blatant miscasting . Justin Chambers as Drtagnan and his co-star acting as the Queen's seamstress are never convincing as French citizens during the reign of Louis XIII . D'Artagnan did really exist , his name was Charles de Batz and was called D'Artagnan when he arrived in Paris probably because he was coming from the south-west of France where the movie was partly shot and where is the little city of Artagnan . Lively musical score by David Arnold , habitual in James Bond films . Dark photography by Peter Hyams , usually cameraman and filmmaker ; being filmed in south-west of France on location in Castle , Cassaigne, Gers, Castle Miramont-Latour, Gers, Midi-Pyrnes, and Auch, Gers, France . The motion picture was regularly directed by Peter Hyams . He's an irregular director with hits (Relic, Outland , Capricorn one , Timecop , Sudden death) and flops (Sound and thunder , End of days). Other versions about this classic are the followings  1921 mute rendition by Fred Niblo with Douglas Fairbanks ; 1935 adaptation by Rowland V Lee with Walter Abel and Paul Lukas ; 1948 the classic version by George Sidney with Gene Kelly , June Allyson , Van Heflin , Paul Lukas and Lana Turner ; 1973 amusing version by Richard Lester with Michael York , Oliver Reed and Raquel Welch ; 1993 modern adaptation by Stephen Herek with Charlie Shen, Kiefer Sutherland, Oliver Platt and Chris O'Donnell , among others . "}{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This is an excellent movie I haven't seen a movie this good in a while, actually. I never did like the 1993 The Three Musketeers all that well, mainly because I thought it dragged a little in plot.The Musketeer is very fast-paced and will actually deliver some fantastic stunt-work and swordplay. I actually thought that they used CGI to enhance the speed of the sword fighting they were going so fast.Instead of D'Artagnan being a moody, emo guy like in the 1993 version, Justin Chambers does an excellent job of making the new 2001 version serious and funny all at the same time.This movie has many laughs thrown in, but no crude humor, which I find refreshing. The main bad guy is actually quite bad, and sometimes who you think is bad, may not be.I suggest borrowing, renting, or buying this. It is a wonderful addition to any home theater. "},{"Title":"Stunt reel ruined by a plot","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" OK, the stunts and fight scenes are incredible... Or the would be if we were allowed to see them uncut. But, since the stunt men looked nothing like the actors they were doubling, we never see the final pay off any of the (often spectacular) moves. Instead we cut to flurry of spinning wig and floppy hat. The costuming conceals the faces, but the camera cuts conceals the actual action.The real crime is that all this obfuscation is in deference to the plot that is not worthy of this treatment. Chambers is a pathetic lead who proclaims his infatuation for his love interest with same tone he addresses a collapsed horse later in the movie. Suvari does OK, given she's acting across from an actor with the depth of drywall. Her character comes across as a bit feisty and commendable. Roth's villain is done well and is a hate-able antagonist and the cameo appearances of the Three Musketeers are amusing but way too brief considering the iconic nature of these characters and the fact that this supposed to be a Musketeer movie.To sum up The fights are fun, but leave you unfulfilled. The acting is wooden and the story is shallow. Pass on this one. "},{"Title":"All rumble, no substance","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Only thing separating 'The Musketeer' from any other Dumas movie is, that instead of standard swordplay the action scenes are in the style of kung-fu movies. And that's it. Otherwise the story line is quite in the terms of any other version of the story. Sure, there are some changes done, but the basics are same.Some of the action is quite entertaining and I even got couple of chuckles out from it all but in all the movie is quite mediocre tends to get a bit boring, as the actors don't seem to be very interested about their roles and especially Stephen Rea underachieved as Richelieu. Alse the main musketeers lack the charisma needed for their roles.If you are a fan of musketeer films maybe you can enjoy this a bit different, other wise quite traditional, kind of a film, but it really isn't a must see movie of this genre. "},{"Title":"Must see for Musketeer fans","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I don't normally review but felt this movie needed some kind words. It is way better than 4.3.This movie has a more authentic feel (think Robin Hood Prince of thieves) than Hollywood (Disney's Three Musketeers).The movie has a good balance of stunts, plot, humor, and romance- and this is a difficult balance to strike. One thing I particularly liked was the women had bigger parts in relation to moving the plot, and the romance was given more attention then in other Musketeer movies I've seen.I normally am not very into stunts, but I found the stunts in this movie excellent. They didn't last too long (I am not a fan of thirty-minute battle scenes) and they were new and different from other stunts I've seen. Maybe they were a little over the top and in excess, but I enjoyed them.This movie could have benefited from deeper character development (I didn't feel as connected to the characters as I could) and better music (the music was okay but the music in Disney's Three Musketeers can't be beat).I would watch it again or even buy it&#133; if you enjoy the Musketeer themed movies than this is a must see.8/10 "},{"Title":"Certainly better than its reputation","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I don't understand what all the fuss is about. This movie is as good as any other one, and compared to such movies as Troy it's actually a great and very entertaining movie. Yes, they changed the plot quite a lot, but honestly, weren't you sick of Mylady, too? And isn't Tim Roth as the crazy male villain really good and big fun? The script also includes a lot of witty and funny dialogue which saves The Musketeer from being just another dumb action movie. The cast is an original mix of talented newcomers (Chambers, Suvari) and great oldtimers such as Deneuve, Roth or Tsilla Chelton in a small part. Deneuve is really good and you wish her part was bigger. Anyway, the director, Hyams, knows his craft and in this movie he again succeeds in giving it a great look and a good oldfashioned direction. No silly MTV style here! Arnold's score suits the needs of the movie but doesn't do much more - but that's typically Arnold. Yes, and the fighting scenes are so well choreographed and performed that they are a pleasure to watch! My advice give this movie a chance. You won't regret it. In fact, it made me read the original novel! "},{"Title":"Welcome to sucksville.","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Population Anyone unfortunate enough to see this movie. I know a lot of people have been lining up to bash this movie, and as far as I'm concerned, it deserves every bad mark against it. It fails on every level. Acting The good actors, such as Tim Roth and Stephen Rea, sleepwalk there way their roles. The lead actor's performance makes Hayden Christensen look like Robert De Niro. Fighting There was a little potential here in the fight sequences, but they suffer from such poor lighting and they make no sense what so ever. Story This is where the film really bits the big one. The writers took one of the most well-known adventure stories from classic literature and turned into this piece of crap that is recycled from countless action movies.Bottom line This movie makes Charlie Sheen and Kiefer Sutherland's version of The Three Musketeers look like Citizen Kane by comparison. "},{"Title":"Crouching Musketeer, Hidden Turd","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Those were the words whispered to me by a friend in the theater, by far the most entertaining part of seeing this travesty. You can read 26 pages of other reviews, I don't need to elaborate. However, I must ask, am I the only one who thinks the opening credits feel like a 70's TV movie? The awful stills, the terrible music of a completely wrong mood, I feel like I'm about to see Roots! I remember the trailer was basically nothing but cuts from the wire-fu swordfights. A deceptive, but wise choice to mask the true horrible nature of this film. Heck, the Disney one with Kiefer and the Sheenerator is far better, even with Chris O'Donnell shoved in. Avoid this and see Richard Lester's WONDERFUL 70's Musketeer flicks instead. "},{"Title":"Old-fashioned melodrama with Hong Kong action scenes","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" THE MUSKETEER Aspect ratio 2.391Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDSIn 17th century France, a young would-be Musketeer (Justin Chambers) struggles to prevent a plot by Cardinal Richelieu's villainous compatriots to plunge the country into all-out war.Hoping to ring the changes on Alexandre Dumas' famous novel, director Peter Hyams (CAPRICORN ONE) and screenwriter Gene Quintano (COMIN' AT YA!) combine swashbuckling melodrama with newfangled Hong Kong action techniques, though Quintano's half-hearted script fails to bring anything new to the table EXCEPT its action set-pieces. Former Calvin Klein model Chambers is blank but athletic, and he's overshadowed by spirited co-stars Catherine Deneuve (the Queen of France) and Tim Roth (the villain), alongside Mena Suvari (AMERICAN BEAUTY) as Chambers' potential love interest. Hyams' strives to recreate the grime and squalor of the period through careful lighting and dcor, though a number of scenes unfold in near-darkness, undermining their dramatic effect. The movie is redeemed, however, by the work of action choreographer Xiong Xin-xin (Yang Hun-hun), a Hong Kong movie veteran with numerous films to his credit (SKINNY TIGER AND FATTY DRAGON, BLACK MASK, TIGER ON BEAT, WONDER SEVEN, TIME AND TIDE, etc.). He's best known for his recurring role in the Once Upon a Time in China series, which may explain why the climax of THE MUSKETEER - a showdown between Chambers and Roth in a room full of stepladders - is basically a replay of the climactic sequence from the first ONCE UPON A TIME IN CHINA (1991), one of the greatest action set-pieces ever filmed. "},{"Title":"Truly horrible","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The only movie so far that I couldn't watch till the end. Never saw something as horrible and insulting. First of all the movie is nothing like the book. Dumas is turning in his grave! Movies like that make me go all anti-American and anti-Hollywood. Second the fights choreographer was a Chinese guy. Xing-Xing Xiong or whatever. I'm not a racist but WHAT THE F*CK?!?I'm so disappointed of Tim Roth and Stephen Rea, whom I once respected. But the biggest disappointment was Catherine Deneuve. She sold her culture and history for money!I tried watching this crap twice and failed. Avoid this at any cost! "},{"Title":"Can I puke now?","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie is my new most hated movie. I can't even begin to describe...but I will. There is no one accent in the movie. There were Americans trying to be French, Americans trying to be British-French people and there were French people trying to be British and visa-versa. The sickest display of this was with D'Artagnan, Justin Chambers of Ohio. You would recognize him as Massimo from The Wedding Planner...he put on an Italian accent there and tried desperately to pull of another here...but failed miserably. Mena Suvari of Rhode Island must have taken few acting classes or was flunked out because this movie was a major failure for her. Between she and Justin I can probably say there were 3 lessons maybe for acting or something. The sword fights were so boring I had to fast forward through the whole scene...there were quite a few too. It was a bad story line and I couldn't wait for the movie to be over. The bad acting was enough to scare me off...I just didn't listen to my instincts. Listen! Never ever rent or buy this cheap knock off version of a movie. It sucks!  "}{"Title":"The BAD Musketeer","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Clearly, I didn't like this movie. It was entertaining in the way that watching an infomercial is entertaining. What's the word I'm looking for? Uh... NOT?The fight scenes are so corny it hurts. I used to think that the old Japanese martial arts films were bad, but this one set a new level of bad. Swords flashing, people jumping around, the hero dancing on the floor, on barrels, on the walls, on the ceiling?Okay, enough with the special effects (they're anything but special). The acting is the saving grace of the movie, right?Nope! That stinks too! Watching people act this badly and getting paid for it makes me think I should have gone into acting. I'm sure I could have been just as bad! "},{"Title":"Ishtar of the Renaissance","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Truly a horrible horrible movie. I will say though, it was the most fun I've had at a movie theater in a long time. As people got up to leave in the first half we started calling out No! NO! wait... it might get worse! Don't leave yet...The plot was horrible, the acting was worse. And probably the most amusing thing about the movie was the continuity. During one conversation that stuck in my mind, it would flash between close ups of two characters. In one close up it would be dark out and raining, it would flash to the other person and it wouldn't be raining anymore. Flash back.. its raining again... now its not...The whole movie was like this, scenes where things were out of place or very recognizable extras were re-used again and again. While we stayed and watched, a friend and I were counting how many times we saw one of the extras die through the movie.I can't tell you how it ended because my friend and I left the theater and went theater hopping to find a better movie. For that matter any movie which wasn't this one.It is a bad... bad BAD BAD movie. Save yourself the pain.  "},{"Title":"Blech","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I think i'd rather eat a bowl of leeches and bleed to death slowly from the inside rather than sit through that again.  I think the Chris O'Donnell et al version was very hollywood, however it had a strong cast and some nifty special effects.  this film has a directionless plot, shoddy editing and some of the worst acting i've seen this side of Ben Hur.  don't bother with it. "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I probably wrote a review of this when it first went to video. But with Peter Hyams in the news again, (A SOUND OF THUNDER) I thought I'd say something now. This is truly one of the worst films ever made. I didn't realize it was Hyams, or at least I didn't remember it being Hyams. It's like he phoned in the direction. The kid playing D'Artagnan looks something like Chris O'Donnell in the reasonably nifty Disney version, but he doesn't act anything like Chris O. And saying that Chris O. can act is pretty stupefying! Also, something is terribly wrong with D'Artagnan's hat. It needed to go on a diet or something. The film is also disjointed due no doubt to two directors working on it. Plus I seem to recall this was a European-made flick. It needed to be American (or maybe british) to work. Now I know it had an American director, or wherever the hell Hyams is from. But it needed a much-better director. It reminds me of that horrible, European-made followup to Richard lester's THE 3 MUSKETEERS/4 MUSKETEERS. Better yet, it should not have been made at all. I suspect it was made in the wake of the  unprecedented success of CROUCHING TIGER. I could be wrong. I am not usually wrong, however. "},{"Title":"Why I left.","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I suppose I shouldn't be writing this.  After all, I didn't see the entire film.  I had to leave the TV and go take a shower, because the movie sucked. I couldn't stay watching this pathetic attempt at making an old story cooler.  Like Simon Wells' The time Machine, a great piece of classic literature has been destroyed entirely, butchered for viewer enjoyment. The problem is, the viewers aren't enjoying it.  This film contains ok action scenes, supported by mediocre actors and annoyingly lame dialogue.  The plot barely holds together and the end brings nothing but the feeling that you should have been doing something besides watching this waste of time. It's a lame try at a Matrix quality action movie.  They tried and failed. "},{"Title":"Not for All, All for Nothing","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" 'The Three Musketeers is one of my favourite books and I'm always weary when I see another adaptation for the screen. The only worthy version for the big screen was The Three/Four Musketeers double bill from the early seventies, as it followed the storyline of the book very closely and made for very entertaining viewing.And so we come to this version. This is the freest adaptation of this story I ever came across. It seems like they only kept the names and setting (18th Century France) and used a very flimsy story to tie together one sword scene after another. I did try to follow the story while trying to forget the original, but it truly is nothing else than hollow characters fighting each other. Not that the fighting scenes are bad, but most of them are hidden by the very bad lightning that haunts this movie throughout. Because of this much of the choreography is invisible and it's hard to follow who's who and what is happening. Then about the acting not much of that going on as only Catherine Deneuve (giving quite a funny rendition of the Queen), Stephen Rae (as Richilieu) and Stephen Roth (as a new character and overall nemesis Febre) can convince that there was actually a script in existence somewhere in the production. What makes it even harder to comprehend is all the different accents used some are American, some English and then of course English with a French accent. Only some of the actors don't seem to be able to make up their mind which one they are going to use, even changing in mid-sentence.I would like to give a strong point why this movie is worth watching , but it's very hard as there is nothing really original to draw your attention. Even the final fight scenes featuring a lot of ladders has been done before in more than one Chinese Martial Arts movie (One Upon A Time In China2 for example). Come to think of it the music is excellent, but if that makes this movie essential viewing is another matter. "},{"Title":"Atleast there were some positives","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Well I thought this movie looked pretty good judging from the fight scenes I saw in previews. However, the plot is pretty bad, ok, really bad.  Bad lines are thrown around this whole movie. Some parts are just plain stupid.  I did say I would talk about the positives, there were a few oddly enough.  The first one is Tim Roths performance, he did a good job throughout the movie eventhough his lines werent too good.  The other is the fight scenes. They are quite good especially the first fight scene in the tavern.  The last fight scene on the ladders had alot of promise but the way Tim Roth died killed the scene, just sliding down the ladder onto a sword just seemed like the whole scene was a waste when it ended like that. Overall the movie was pretty corny but you can always fast forward to the fight scenes. "},{"Title":"Uninspired - as I've never seen it before","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Let's begin with acting...Well, if the director would have bothered to direct, instead of picking out costumes, or whatever he did, it might actually have become a very entertaining film. He had some very talented actors with him, I think... I just can't tell by this film, really, but I've seen them in other films where they did much, much better. The fact that they all - yes, every single one of them - did such a poor job in this film, just can't be all their own mistakes. There must be a greater force behind, and I choose to blame the director. I think this must be what the actors in this film thought the most - OK, deliver the line, get paid...Good manuscriptIn fact I don't think I've ever seen such dull and uninspired acting my entire life. And that's such a shame, because I think the material given to the director was very good. The manuscript seemed to be both quite witty and interesting, but somehow he hasn't been able to refine it for film use. Either he has followed it word for word and not given any thought to that such a way of working may not give the best result on film, or the original film was cut severely for some odd reason - probably because of bad acting.Yes, cutting... I don't really know if the director cared much about how it was cut at all, because occasionally there is actually a rather nice scene in this film. Well, nicely shot scene, anyway. But a worse guillotining of a film can't have been done since the French Revolution! The cutting really s**k! And it surely doesn't help the rest of this poor film. Take the love sequence by the lake, for instance. Some very nice and calm photography shredded by some Jack-the-Ripper editor with a dull razorblade.Aiming and missingBut even the photography could be better. I'm especially bewildered by the rainy night scene. Why on Earth did he suddenly shoot a night scene with flood lights when the rest of the film was so beautifully lit? Did the D.P. suddenly quit? And even though the photography is mostly nice, the camera setups don't help the film progress. It seems like the film is shot very inconsistently. Or maybe this is just another edit blunder? I don't know. Either they didn't shoot good enough material, or the editor just didn't bother to show the good stuff. Bye the way, there are also some blatant scripting faults hampering the photography with camera shadows popping up here and there. These aren't funny mistakes. They're just plain annoying.Hey, is that it? Didn't the film receive enough funding? Maybe they ran out of film, and simply couldn't afford retakes when they were sorely needed. Or maybe the director simply didn't bother looking trough the dailies. Ah, there are so many possibilities...Kung-Fu fightingIt was easy enough to see that the fighting had close ties to the Kung-Fu classics. I actually rather enjoyed that, but also here better editing, and maybe also more concise photography, would have helped. It just doesn't help to have a lot of fast fighting in a film, if all the nice little details of the fight are lost. I'm sure this Xin-Xin-guy is an extremely good choreographer, but it just doesn't help if the director or DP can't shoot it right.Even so, the ladder fight was particularly cool, but sometimes I wondered if D'Artagnan wasn't more of a circus artist than a real musketeer in this film. Also, the many fast blows just didn't seem very plausible given the way real musketeers fight. Swords are actually quite heavy, but it looked more like they were all fighting with bamboo sticks. Another thing I think would have added a bit of tension in the film is the fact that it took time to reload the guns back then - a lot of time, in fact. So a musketeer shooting his gun like some revolver &#150; well, that's just plain laughable. So, my word of advice regarding film fights Don't overdo it! Especially when it's supposed to spice up an old European story like this. Europeans simply didn't know Kung-Fu fighting until the late seventies &#150; when the first Kung-Fu films got there. I'm not saying that it can't work. Just that it got a little out of hand in this film.VerdictAs a purely educational piece, this film is quite worth watching. It is a very good example of how bad a film can turn out, despite good actors and material. It actually made me so sad that I almost wanted to cry. Such a waste...  "},{"Title":"Some good news, some bad news...","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Well, good news first I could have been worse. There were some nice scenes in this movie. The sword fighting was fast and thanks to the gloomy lighting the errors were nearly not noticeable. The main plot was OK. The costumes were OK. The music is OK. Even most of the cast was OK. And that sums it up. Now the bad news, and bad it is, indeed This is a movie is set in the 17th century France. Neither is it set in Asia nor is Jackie Chan playing a leading role. So why all this jumping, flying, ladder-stepping nonsense? And those flying scenes? Jumping 4m from horse to horse (bad cut this one), hanging (yes, hanging!) on the invisible rope. Disgusting! And those musketeers... Only Aramis was slightly usable, forget the rest. Rea as Cardinal was OK, but not as good (or bad) as Curry. Suvari was a nuisance and even Deneuve was disappointing.Don't watch it, if you liked the one from Richard Lester (1973) or even the one from Stephen Herek (1993). It pales in comparison to those gems. "},{"Title":"Ignore these morons, this is a great swashbuckling flick!","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The IMBD reviewers of this film must have just finished watching As Good as it Gets or Castaway,  because this movie is a very cool flick.  It includes some of the BEST SWORD FIGHTING in cinematic history, featuring the legendary characters from the Three Musketeers, but I know that this is not important to those die hard Tom Hanks fans that would rather watch Hanks talk to a fucking volleyball than watch a legendary character of literature and film display greatness against overwhelming evil.  To put it bluntly, I hate film critics.  But they give good head, I hear. This flick is an excellent action, swordplay piece.  D'Artagnon is the original action hero.  My 3 year son actually pretends that he is D'artaganon when we play sword fight. Bottom line this movie deserves more praise than it has gotten. Also note to Peter Hyams please put out a complete Director's Cut.   It is so obvious that this movie was hacked to pieces. Thanks. Rick Ford  "}{"Title":"Very bad","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The plot is inconsistent, the acting is bad, the costumes are bad, the action scenes are boring. Oh, and Castaldi is extremely annoying. Only a couple of good ideas in the fight scenes keep you from falling deeply asleep. "},{"Title":"must be missed","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  unless you are a serious movie goers who willing to see ANY, i really mean any kind of movie, including the terrible ones, that you'd better not watch this show.it is amazing how a good story and a potential elements can be combined to make such a mess. the whole thing is a mistake and the more you continue the story, the more mess you see.expect nothing when you watch this movie. in fact, do not expect to see anything at all. it's much better to see the chris o'donnel version rather than this.sorry if i sounded so bad, but peter hyams, as usual as he used to be, should be able to make this one better. you got the director, the script, the casts... and it leaves me wondering who fail to do the job in making this movie even watchable.a perfect movie to be given to your nemesis... "},{"Title":"Oh, what a dissapointment!!","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Well, the title says it all.  Perhaps not the WORST film in history, but certainly not the BEST!  I wouldn't even call this movie good.  It was okay at best.  To think, that my family and I were sooo hyped to see this movie! The previews looked so good and awesome, that I was sure that The Musketeer was going to be a box-office hit!  I had high expectations for this film.  I think that's where the first mistake was.  High expectations. Perhaps if I had just gone into the theater not expecting much from it, then maybe the film would have been fairly decent. First of all, the movie sucked from the beginning.  Bad plot, horrible dialogue, boring/life-less characters (honestly, I didn't even care about the MAIN character..now that's BAD!! lol*), and what the HECK was wrong with the color in this film?? Was it just me, or was most of the movie in a brown, dull, dark, (low-budget) type of hue??  Hahah....Justin Chambers did an awful acting job (although he's not bad to look at), and Mena Suvari was awful...ughg..the whole thing was so disapointing! I walked out of the theater in disgust.  I LOVE 3 Musketeer/sword-fighting type of movies!  I was looking forward to this film so much!  What a HUGE let down.  I felt like this film went on and on, and on, and ON!!  I know it wasn't that long..(compared to other films I've seen), but boy....it was surely BORING!  Snore-ville.The special effects fight scenes were pretty good.  The villain wasn't even interesting to even care about.  Why was he trying to kill him again??  I don't even remember the plot...it's been so long since I've seen this movie. I don't care to see it again either.Final Verdict A must-skip. Huge disapointment... "},{"Title":"Worst adaptation yet","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Musketeer is so bad, that even Disneys 1993 version seem good. Ok, where to start...none of the characters were interesting, bad pacing etc.Tim Roths character must be the most one dimensional bad guy Ive ever seen, one of hes line is like this I want to hurt someone etc...Catherine Deneuve, Tim Roth, Stephen Rea, what a lineup...but what a bad movie. Rea is totally wasted, having about 10 minutes of screen time.Only good thing in this movie are the stunts, but almost all of them were in the trailer. The stunts were good, but the scenes were boring.2 out of 10 (* out of *****)  "},{"Title":"Funny to watch, cause' it's so bad...","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Man, this film was terrible!!! I expected it to be pretty bad, but not HORRIBLE! The fight scenes are okay, but the acting is incredibly bad. The acting might as well come from a bad horror movie, it would make the film 10 times better. Bad story, bad acting, BAD MOVIE. What a waste $40 million bucks. "},{"Title":"What's so bad about it?","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I am about to read your comments but though I would post my own, unbiased comments first.I have no idea why this was so low, it is a very entertaining movie with some crazy fights. i gave it an 8. I have no idea what i missed that was so bad about this movie. "},{"Title":"What The Heck...","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Man this movie tried so hard to make the fight scenes look like your typical Chinese martial arts flick. Too bad it failed. Especially that last fight scene in the room of ladders.  It's actually a rip off of some Chinese kung fu movies. Even the Mortal Kombat movie uses almost the same scene, but that's another story. As for the storyline, it was not that bad. At least it kept me awake in the theaters.4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Ed Wood wouldn't have made this movie!","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I can sum this movie up by saying that Plan 9 from Outer Space had better writing and production quality than this lousy excuse for a film.This film is destined to be a Mystery Science Theater 3000 staple.My wife and I watched the first half in shock.  Then we took a break and walked the dogs while we digested what had just been inflicted upon us. We then went back and had a great time watching the second half as we laughed ourselves to the point of hyperventilation at the complete ineptness of the makers of this scinematic anti-gem. "},{"Title":"Boring, silly, and generally everything The Count of Monte Cristo isn't.","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  2 out of 10This umpteenth adaptation of Alexandre Dumas' classic novel is given a modern action-style treatment, meaning we've got fancy martial arts stunts and very elaborate fight scenes. The action sequences themselves are kind of fun, nothing marvelous, but reasonably enjoyable to behold (particularly the carriage chase and climactic ladder fight, both of which were still rip-offs of similar scenes in Sleepy Hollow  and Once Upon a Time in China, respectively).  Too bad the rest of the movie is absolutely terrible.As an ominous sign of things to come, the movie begins terribly with hilariously cheaply done opening credits that a high school production might be proud of.  Then there's the cheesy adventure score played over the background, something else a high school band might be proud of.  Then we're introduced to male model Justin Chambers, who's a dead-on for Chris O'Donnell and is actually even less talented of an actor.  I'm quite certain even a high school production wouldn't be proud of his performance.Director Peter Hyams is usually a competent and reliable filmmaker, but his movies are getting bothersomely darker (in terms of lighting).  Sooner or later, it'll take a flashlight and night-vision goggles to wade through his future works.  The Musketeer is easily his worst-lit film to date.  Add to that the bland sets, even blander acting (put it this way, even the delightful Tim Roth is weak here), and cringe-inducing dialogue and we've got a loser on our hands.  For true swashbuckling fun, see Kevin Reynolds' The Count of Monte Cristo instead.  You'll thank me for it. "},{"Title":"Insipid plot, mediocre acting, bad cinematography","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Given everything else that is done so poorly, they could have at least made the swordwork look good. As it is, you only know something's happening from the sounds. Says based upon a book by Dumas. Should read loosely based! "}{"Title":"Disappointing...","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I really wish I had seen this one in the cinema, because if I had, it would have saved me from my most disappointing DVD purchase of the year. This is a frightfully bad adaption of Alexandre Dumas' classic work, not so much because of the locations, sets and costumes used, which are all quite good, but because of the totally inept actors cast.You expect a cast of this type of movie to be dynamic and fun, to breathe life into the story, but they only prove to take it to the morgue. In fact, most of the cast either seems to lack the ability to act entirely, or seem to be in a daze of disbelief. Only Tim Roth manages to convey any emotion in his performance, and then he manages to overact quite regularly, as if to make up for those around him. Some exchanges between characters are so wooden in fact (expecially those between Justin Chambers and Mena Suvari) that I find it hard to believe that they learned their lines at all, but were reading their lines from a badly-muddled cue card. To call the acting poor is something of an understatement.If there is anything worth noting about this movie, it is the fight choreography, handled competently by Xin-Xin Xiong (Half Past Dead, Double Team) who seems to be destined to do live out his career doing great stunt coordination work in terribly subpar movies. The fights are crisp, complex and a spectacle to behold, but therein lies the problem, because they're also completely unbelievable. You don't expect a Musketeer to be making moves the likes of which would only be seen in 'The Matrix' or 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon,' yet he does, and by the end of D'Artagnan's first fight, something just feels amiss.Unless you're a big fan of over-the-top fight scenes, I can't stress enough how much you should avoid this movie. 3 of 10. "},{"Title":"Laughable; in the worst way","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most badly done movies I have ever seen.  I would have guessed that they tried to do a Hollywood-sized action movie on an independent drama expense budget, but they were able to bring in Xin-Xin Xiong, the choreographer for The Matrix and Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.  So, that surmise is incorrect.  Thus, it is just a bad movie.The direction is stylistic without reason.  Filtered lighting is used continuously, probably to try to add a sense of atmosphere.  However, the only atmosphere it adds is that of the audience being unable to see the actors clearly.  Some shots are just set up badly; you can see the blocking as blocking, and the actors just trying to hit their mark.Justin Chambers as D'Artagnan was a Chris O'Donnell look alike, and not much else.  He took no risks and his stakes were not high enough.  In short, he was boring.  The character of Planchet was introduced and then left, to do nothing.  There was not much character development.  In any way.  These were all stock characters.The one exception was Tim Roth as Febre.  For, whatever he had to work with, he made his character come alive.  He was dedicated, knew what he wanted, and had an inner life.I could not finish without discussing the fight choreography, created by Xin-Xin Xiong.  Technically, the fighting was amazing.  There is a Ladder fight, which should be in everyone's Top 10 Fight Scenes.  However, most of the fighting was not validated.  It was just fighting for a very small reason.  To have a big brawl fight is one thing, to have a big brawl fight after a tension-filled argument which leads to everyone in the bar getting involved is quite another.  Most of the fights were the first one.I think partly what happened is the creators didn't want to focus too long on the story, because of course, everyone knows the story of The Three Musketeers.  However, what happened was they took the story and edited it (all the 'useless' explanation areas).  Thus you had barely any dialogue with plot-forwarding devices, and no character development.  So, the story was stagnate and you didn't care about the characters.I would really have liked to have been behind the scenes for this movie, and seen how and why these decisions were made.  Maybe there was some higher idea behind it all, but probably it was just another victim of the Hollywood Movie Machine. "},{"Title":"The Musketeer; It's STARWARS with bad lighting! )","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  First of all, D'Artagnan, we got our Luke Skywalker/Han Solo character, PLUS in his youth he's Anakin..Second, Febre, aka Darth Vader, played by Tim Roth, except he doesn't turn out to be the guy's father.Next, of course, Constance Bonacieux, a very beautiful Princess Leia (her mother was the assistant of a queen, does that count? smile )Can't forget Cardinal Richelieu, the wuss version of Emperor Palpatine..Hell, we even have Chewie, the faithful horse!Oh, and there's more.. Obi-Wan Kenobi is in there, too.. ...and the two faithful companions, Artoo and C-3PO, going by the psuedo-names Athos and Hessian..The 2 first scenes in the movie are by far the worst, the 2nd one agonizing in its imitation of scenes it seems from Episode 1 of starwars..The music, sounding like it came from a fairy tale (Princess Bride), an over the edge comedy (Spaceballs), or a reject flick trying to manipulate the auidience by its soundtrack because its onscreen prowass is about as interesting to watch as someone sticking a fork in your eye.. Needless to say, it was overdone and very unfit..Camera Angles and Dark Lighting, you can't do an action film of this nature using dark/realworld light (unless outside in daylight).. This film proves that point, as much of the action takes place in very darkened areas, making it hard to see what the hell is going on and who the hell is doing what.. and the camera positioning in the fight scenes was for the most part horrible.. Look at Crouching Tiger, for example, every move is seen in a perfect light, everything onscreen is clear and crisp, and the camera direction was superb.. but this, I haven't seen fight scenes this depressing since Charlie's Angels (which slowed everything down every other moment of a fight scene in THAT decrepid movie)..Script, a couple lines here and there are decent, the rest of the script wreaks of B-Movie cinema with no real thought whatsoever about the characters or the story its trying to create..The concept, I thought the concept had potential (take the fighting choreography of a hong-kong legend and put it to the flavour of a classic.. should spell success, eh? wrong!), but poor script, direction, acting (cept for Tim Roth, but even this is a lowpoint for his skills), fight scenes, just about anything else..Two thumbs down, not recommended..This has been a Lord Hoban 'b**ching' commentary, over and out "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  First let's start with the opening credits.  They were similar to that of a nighttime 80's soap, showing a still shot of each actor with their name across the bottom of the screen.  This made the movie look cheap from the beginning, although I really did try to give it a chance.I don't know what the movie was about, but the musketeer was in love with Mena Suvari and he had to fence with everyone in all kinds of precarious positions.  He fought the bad guys while rolling around on a barrel.  He fought the bad guys while standing on a ladder.  Hey, who needs a story when you have these cool fencing stunts?  I don't know why Tim Roth was the bad guy, except that he smiled sinisterly and had facial hair.If you ever have the urge to watch a Musketeers movie, rent The Man in the Iron Mask, which has a great cast.  As I matter of fact I would rather watch Jeremy Irons and Gabriel Byrne reading the phone book than these guys making a farce out of Dumas.  To keep from watching this piece of crap I would even suggest plucking your eyeballs out. "},{"Title":"we laughed the whole way through","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I rented this with a bunch of friends, and we laughed the whole way through at how implausibly awful it was. Mena Suvari was wonderful in American Beauty, but awful in The Musketeer. Some of the stunt scenes were cool, and Catherine Deneuve is excellent (as is, unlike her counterparts, her French accent). Bottom line It's not worth it.  "},{"Title":"This movie is AWESOME!","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I don't know what the hell this other guy is talking about, he obviously does NOT understand the movie and thats why he is downing it.Now onto the movie, the movie was great.  The ladder scene was the best fight scene I have ever seen.  The rope fighting scene was cool as hell also.  This movie in all is one of my favorites and I suggest that everyone see it.  The main star is believable in the character he plays.  He was also in the Green Mile, which is another great movie.  Anyway, The Musketeer is a MUST SEE in my book.  Later all and peace! "},{"Title":"Dear God","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" It couldn't be any worse. I had the impression that this cast and crew found me stupid, cause the scenes were just unbelievable. The production was so, so, so bad that the bad guy would murder people 'just because', and how thrilling can that be? After 14 years, the man who raised D'Artagnan remains exactly the same. Worse Stephen Rea and Tim Roth? R u in need of money? Out of ur minds? Friends with the director? Now, really, after 30 minutes I was sleeping like a baby, and it was 9pm. "},{"Title":"Pitiful!","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"     Why was this movie made? This classic story has been filmed so many times before with such superior results.     With the exception of Tim Roth as the villain, who displays a consummate professionalism that makes him look like a Shakespearian guest star at his children's grade school play, the acting is uniformly horrible. Justin Chambers, whoever that is, has the looks of D'Artagnan and the acting ability of a statue. Mena Suvari succeeds at being the worst of the worst.  The 3 Musketeers are interchangeable and have no personality, but do elicit some sympathy for having to utter some of the most banal dialogue ever written. Stephen Rea just looks lost.     But, you say, it's an action film -- who cares about the acting or dialogue. Well, the stunt men work hard, and if the camera stopped jumping around so that you could figure out what was really happening, you might even be impressed. But the hyperkinetic technique -- here's a sword and an arm, who's is anyone's guess -- makes the stunts look like just what they are -- stunts with no relationship to reality. My favorite was a stagecoach scene where villains kept reappearing as if spontaneously generated by the top of the coach. And the ladder finale, hyped in the previews, plays like something out of the Keystone Cops. Can anyone really suspend belief when the chief antagonists are more intent on hopping around like Froggers rather than dueling?      Catherine Deneuve, shame on you.   "},{"Title":"Do filmmakers never tire of rewriting Dumas?","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  If you ever wondered what a version of The Three Musketeers would be like if written by someone who had never read the Dumas novel but had instead only seen the Charlie Sheen rendition, here it is. (It is, indeed, curious how the plot divergences early in the story are so eerily similar to the classic Oliver Platt version.) Also noteworthy How the fight scenes always take place in shadows to disguise the use of fight/stunt doubles, yet the hero's face is always superbly lighted in the close-ups. At least there's the dialogue, which crackles like a bowl of soggy Rice Krispies. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever in the story of the three musketeers!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"   This is a great movie!Tim Roth is fantastic and the action scenes were superb!The Musketeer is the best movie ever  in the story of the three musketeers. It was fantastic!A different story about  about one musketeer who wants revenge. "}{"Title":"Crappy stuff","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Does anyone need ANOTHER adaption of Alexandre Dumas classic? The answer is of course-no.This one even has a bad director,Peter Hyams. Acting is not convincing,Chambers is wasted in the lead.So are pretty girl Mena Suvari.Tim Roth is good though(he`s always good),but overplays maybe a bit.Watch him as a much better villain in Rob Roy. The Musketeer is boring,uninteresting and it has no story at all.It`s also very confusing storywise.It moves way too fast.Don`t trust the trailers on this one...Rating  2/10 "},{"Title":"Feeble attempt at good entertainment.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  OK, class, here's the question. How do you make a mediocre film? Here's the answer -- start with a script that isn't particularly imaginative, add a few sub-standard actors in key parts, make sure the lighting is never quite right, use a film lab that can't quite get the colors right, use foley artists that don't quite get the background sounds right, and make the action a fusion of Zorro, Kung Fu, Indiana Jones, and Roy Rogers.  That, in a nutshell, is what they did with this film, The Musketeer.  I didn't expect a lot, but I expected more. There are a couple of fine performances. Tim Roth as the evil Febre is just plain evil. I first noticed him as Archibald Cunningham in Rob Roy (1995) where he also played a very evil person. In Musketeer he is so much better than the others that it just magnifies their mediocrity. Also Catherine Deneuve as the Queen and Steven Rey as Cardinal Richelieu were excellent. I was most disappointed in Mena Suvari as Francesca, young friend of the Queen. Her only half-believable line was near the end, after being shot, when she whispered to Dartagnan, I'm not dead, now go and kill him, referring to Febre. She has a prime role, but her expressions and delivery never seemed to ring true, even in this story which sometimes seemed more like The Princess Bride in style and depth than the other Musketeer films. Suvari just doesn't have the acting chops of many of the good young actors we are seeing today.Although he did not have the lead, much of the film focused on Dartagnan played by former model, Justin Chambers. He actually wasn't bad, but against the other fine actors his inexperience was greatly magnified. In all I thought he did a credible job.mild SPOILERS - As all musketeer films, they become all for one, one for all in some cause involving the king and/or queen, and have to defeat the enemy, often insiders. In this version, Febre had killed Dartagnan's parents when he was only a young boy, but got in one swing of the sword that blinded Febre in his left eye. Febre wanted revenge, Dartagnan wanted revenge, and the whole film uses about 90 minutes to set up their eventual showdown. Our interest is piqued by Febre's attempt to also kill the king and the queen. The last 5 minutes is the highly choreographed swordfight among very tall ladders. And, in the end, Dartagnan whispers to Richelieu, Bless me father, for I will sin. You will see me some night, as Richelieu assumes a worried look.When the credits roll we see a very large concentration of Asian stuntmen, and the action sequences have a strong Asian action quality to them, which in one way is a welcome change from the standard swordfights. The filming was in France, the film lab and sound lab were in Germany.  I look at the 1998 Mask of Zorro and see a beautiful film. I look at this Musketeer film and see one that looks amateurish in comparison. Still, with all its flaws, I found it mildly entertaining. It however is certainly a good example of how to make a mediocre film. Study it, class, and do the opposite. "},{"Title":"noteworthy action, but still a drag","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie is such a bastardization of Dumas' novel that it's hard to stomach.  The action was okay, but overdone for the period that the movie represents.  And of course, the book follows D'Artagnan and his fellowship with the 3 musketeers, but this focused on D'Artagnan alone, with the others in the background.  Not to mention that the story didn't follow squat with the book.  Now, I understand Hollywood does this to books, but if the story were closer to the novel, it would have worked so much better.  If your a Dumas fan, watch the disney version - it's a lot better. "},{"Title":"only worth watching for the fight scenes","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The fight scenes are good (because of course they got a famous Hong Kong choreographer to do them).  Otherwise it isn't very good. The dialogue and acting are rather mediocre.  It was mostly just boring (except the fight scenes). "},{"Title":"Probably the worst way to spend 105 minutes of you life","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  There are many things wrong with this movie. For example1) Guns weren't invented yet when this movie took place.2) The fight scenes are the least involving I've ever seen in my life.3) Why bother with all the long, painful fight scenes when you have a gun? They could just shoot each other and the movie would end up about 30-45 minutes long. I guess that's too short so we, the viewers, must suffer through them.4) Mena Suvari may be beautiful, and yes, she was excellent in American Beauty, but she and her costar Justin Chambers have NO chemistry. The movie makes her out to be a feisty, spirited rebel but she comes off as an actress trying too hard for a lost cause.This movie left me with a very depressed feeling, because I had just wasted 1 hour and 45 minutes of my life. Completely, utterly FLUSHED my not-so-valuable time down the john. Please, don't make the same mistake I did. Even if you have NOTHING better to do, flossing your cat would be MUCH more productive.  "},{"Title":"Bad!!","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This one got on my nerves!  The classic story is completely corrupted by this version.  The stunts don't fit the period and are so unrealistic it is sickening.  I actually got tired of them.  They only thing good about them is that they were put together well.  However, they don't fit the time period, or any time period for that matter.  It was as if they belonged to different movie.  The other part that really bothered me was Justin Chambers character of D'Artagnan.  His bad boy attitude also got on my nerves.  It was so bad you really don't want to route for him.  By the end of the film I really did not care who won the final fight scene.  If you are looking for a good film about the Musketeer's, don't rent this one. See the Disney version, its better than this one.  This is not very good (3 out of 10). "},{"Title":"This film ranks right down there with Battlefield Earth, except that I laughed more. -  0 of 10","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  If I had something nice to say about this film, I would.  But I don't. Trite dialogue, poor performances, cruddy accents are just some of the poor qualities that pervade this phlegm.  What was with the ladder factory scene? The use of wires is insanely obvious and I couldn't see much else because I was rolling my eyes and saying things like, Oh, come on!, No f__ink way!, and This is ridiculous!  I said that last one throughout the movie. The Musketeer seems to use some of the same acrobatics that Crouching Tiger used, but with the latter film it was congruous (and believable!) with the plot.  In The Musketeer, it's stupid, vapid, simply laughable, an insult to the film's roots and the audience's intelligence.  Peter Hyams should reconsider his career with this dogcrap movie.  If I had more thumbs down to show, I would.  My toes will have to do. "},{"Title":"technically flawed, but watchable","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I'll open by discussing the technical flaws, which totally dominated the movie for me. They are easily classified into three main problems1) Poor choreography and equally poor execution of the fight scenes. 2) Absolutely embarrassing editing. 3) The most obvious continuity error I've ever seen.1) I was anticipating Crouching Tiger-style fight scenes, and was very disappointed. I had just seen The One with Jet Li the day before. The One incrementally improves on Crouching Tiger, Matrix and others of that ilk, while this movie is a huge step backwards. Score negative for the choreography. I hated the ladder fight and the rappelling tower fight was as dull as dishwater. The swordplay was slowed down by the need to insert fancy moves and the swords just got in the way when they tried Matrix-style stuff. It never meshed. Too bad, really.2) The editing was painful. I never quite felt that I was able to grok a scene before it cut to the next. I always felt like they were rushing me through the movie. And a lot of scenes just didn't play, for example the attack on the castle. Just about unwatchably confusing. In a word choppy.3) Continuity mistakes take you out of the movie. At one point, a tunic is left on a floor and you just know it will come back later. You wait and wait for someone to present it to the hero, and he's suddenly wearing it! Then he's not! And then it's presented to him. It's a little too late at this point to get emotional about it. I was stunned and quite disgusted by this point (I was already ranting to my fellow watchers about the editing.)One more thing to consider the plot is unique, in that it does not follow the Three Musketeers plot from the book by Dumas. So be it. But some will hate that.Now the good stuff.Despite being one of the most technically flawed movies I've ever seen, the story is actually somewhat watchable, because the acting is ok and the characters are likeable. If you are totally insensitive to bad technical qualities, you may actually enjoy this movie. And if you like to really rant and rave over bad movie making, you may love it -). "},{"Title":"YUCK-EE!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The worst movie I have ever seen?  I think so.Never, ever, have I watched a film at the cinema and forgotten most of it the moment I walked out.  Forgotten it because it was so bad!  I liken it to becoming so ridiculously drunk that you don't remember anything the next day.  I remember bits and pieces, if I really make myself think.  And as hard as I tried, I just couldn't get into this movie.Heed the warnings!  Don't waste your money on this crap. "},{"Title":"Worst Episode Ever!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I began watching the first 10 minutes of it, and almost turned it off immediately.  I knew it was going to be a bad movie right after the opening credits too!  Everyone's lines, especially Justin Chamber's, were horribly written!  NONE of the lines come even close to being remotely funny. Chambers sounded like someone with absolutely NO acting experience, like taking Brendan Fraser and trying to put him in a serious role.  Chambers has no execution, and we end up having no sympathy for his character.  I wanted to KILL D'Artagnan throughout the whole movie.  I started rooting for the bad guy at the end.  Why is D'Artagnan this invincible, arrogant b***ard? His conversation with Mena is fast-talking jibberish.  Brendan Faser anyone?Now about the fighting.  The guy in the tavern at the beginning asks D'Artagnan where he learned his fighting style.  Where do you think he learned it?  His kungfu style is Iron Monkey from the Shaolin monks.  Bad fight sequences, could have been better.  OUT of place.There are so many things that do not make sense, for example the tower rope sequence.  Why don't they just cut his rope?  DUMB.Horrible, horrible.  If they cut out the last half of the movie, it would make the movie twice as good.  If they cut out 3/4 of the movie, it would make it three times as good, and so on until we have an infinitely better movie by cutting the whole thing from our lives.Worst Episode Ever "}{"Title":"What the hell is this?","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  That's kind of cool every Asian to come out of the Eastern hemisphere are now dubbed legendary martial artist choreographers rather than just plain ole master. I am Chinese. I have watched martial arts films all my life. Not EVERY SINGLE ONE OF THEM ARE AWESOME MARTIAL ARTS DIRECTORS!Anyway, who's the genius that figured some blind Shaolin monk blindly stumbled his way into 17th Century France and taught the Musketeers how to fight? This is hilarious on all levels. French Fencing/dual-wielding swashbuckling and Eastern martial arts DO NOT mix for crying out loud. This doesn't make entertainment. It's an absurd attempt by these imbeciles behind the camera to cash in on the Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon cash cow.Everything about the Three Musketeers' legend were completely destroyed or abandoned in this latest monstrosity. All we have are comedic fight scenes (they are cool maybe about 5 centuries past the Renaissance but not when they are still using feather-brim hats over mustaches with surcoats), and a contrived plot of inane romance and silly vengeance. The main hero, Justin Chambers, did absolutely nothing at all on the screen to make us cheer. The villain of the movie made him worse so who cares about this romance and vengeance? In the end, all I have to say is this. LOL.Thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Weak retelling of classic storyline.","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  A weak retelling of the Three Musketeers storyline that features some awful performances and a mind-numbingly stupid storyline. Also shot so poorly by director/cinematographer Peter Hyams that you often cant tell what the heck is happening durring the fight scenes. A bad effort all around. GRADE D "},{"Title":"Ludicrous, preposterous, ridiculous ...","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be THE most ridiculous adaptation of The Three Musketeers in existence. The action alone was a BIG stretch, but when you throw in the horrible dialogue and the complete LACK of any plausible character development, it's impossible take anything seriously.ACTION -- We can all agree than Asian style martial arts and 17th century France, by nature, do not match. As such, the whole premise for the movie needs some serious work for it to sell the audience. That development just isn't there, and can't just match up a famous fight choreographer with a pretty boy and a stunt double and expect to get a film that's even close to being on par with the Big Boys.Case in point is the first action scene, where D'Artagnan scuttles about between two ceiling support beams, avoiding vertical sword thrusts. Later, he's swinging a weighted rope around a la Jet Li and Jackie Chan. It irritated me -- the only thing going through my head was, Frimeurs! Wannabes! The fantastic action sequences in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and The Matrix worked because there was enough explanation to make fantasy acceptable. In The Musketeer, they come off as (at best) out of place.DIALOGUE -- The best lineD'Artagnon (to exhausted horse laying in road outside city walls) Rest. Don't worry, I'll come back for youWhat the heck is this? Who wrote this garbage and why would they think we would take it seriously? When he said this, I busted out laughing in the middle of the theater. (No joke!)CHARACTERS -- Two things here 1.) The three musketeers are minor characters, and 2.) The chief bad guy is too evil.One of the most important elements in a Three Musketeers-based movie is the teamwork between the good guys. Here, as the title implies, it just THE Musketeer. I appreciate the implied warning, but it's just not any fun. Heck, for most of the movie they don't even get along.As for the bad guy part, it doesn't make any sense why Febre is so diabolical. How did Mr. Evil Incarnate get that way? Was he abused by musketeers as a child? Did the Bitter Fairy leave him an extra couple helpings?Plus, I didn't like the way Febre eclipsed Richelieu as the baddest of them all midway through. Were it not for one last line, you'd think the Cardinal turned out a good guy in the end.In conclusion, don't see this movie unless you have determined beforehand that you WANT to watch a bad movie. Two thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Two major thumbs down ...","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be THE most ridiculous adaptation of The Three Musketeers in existence. The action alone was a BIG stretch, but when you throw in the horrible dialogue and the complete LACK of any plausible character development, it's impossible take anything seriously.ACTION -- We can all agree than Asian style martial arts and 17th century France, by nature, do not match. As such, the whole premise for the movie needs some serious forethought for it to work. That forethought just isn't there.  You just can't match up a famous fight choreographer with a pretty boy and a stunt double and expect to get a film that's even close to being on par with the Big Boys.The first action scene has D'Artagnan scuttling about between two ceiling support beams avoiding vertical sword thrusts. Later, he's swinging a weighted rope around a la Jet Li and Jackie Chan. It irritated me -- the only thing going through my head was, Frimeurs! Wannabes! The fantastic action sequences in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and The Matrix worked because there was enough explanation to make fantasy acceptable. In The Musketeer, they come off as being out of place.DIALOGUE -- The best lineD'Artagnon (to exhausted horse laying in road outside city walls) Rest. I'll come back for youWhat the heck is this? Who wrote this garbage and why would they think we would take it seriously?CHARACTERS -- Two things here 1.) The three musketeers are minor characters, and 2.) The chief bad guy is too evil.One of the most important elements in a Three Musketeers-based movie is the teamwork between the good guys. Here, as the title implies, it just THE Musketeer. I appreciate the implied warning, but it's just not any fun. Heck, for most of the movie they don't even get along.As for the bad guy part, it doesn't make any sense why Febre is so diabolical. How did Mr. Evil Incarnate get that way? Was he abused by musketeers as a child? Did the Bitter Fairy leave him an extra dozen servings in the middle of the night?Plus, I didn't like the way Febre eclipsed Richelieu as the baddest of them all midway through. Were it not for one last line, you'd think the Cardinal turned out a good guy in the end.  "},{"Title":"The Best of All The Musketeer Movies","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I have seen all of the versions of the Three Musketeer theme from Douglas Fairbanks Sr. in the silent version to this latest one. I consider this to be in many ways to be the best. The novel to me has always been an adventure and what is more adventurous than almost continuous action. Purists will bemoan the the changes in the story, but this is the sort of movie that appeals to today's audience and it works. "},{"Title":"A movie-lover's movie","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  No spoilers here, but the Dumas tale has not been completely sacrificed in this version.  The plot is more of a side-step to see threads from a different perspective, one that focuses more on D'Artagnon and less on the brotherhood of Musketeers.  Other characters step back into the shadows as their peers are brought out into the plot, making this telling different from previous Musketeer flicks.  It would have been impossible to improve upon, or compete with, the early 1970's two-parter, and this interpretation honors its predecessors with plenty of swashbuckling swordplay and comaraderie.  There's just enough pyrotechnic display, astounding fight choreography, and romance to appeal to a variety of moviegoers.  The female characters are bolder than in most period films, strong and not merely window dressing.  Certainly, there are engaging men and women of all ages, something that is often lacking in current movies.  For the darker side, Tim Roth delivers a deliciously evil character that rivals his Rob Roy counterpart.  Justin Chambers captures the spirit of D'Artagnon, Catherine Deneuve is a monarch worth fighting for, and Mena Suvari's Constance is a spunky heroine to ease the hearts of all who wonder why women characters in films rarely fight for themselves.  The cast unites for an elegant and entertaining composition in action-adventure--no weak links here.  As a bonus, equestrians will doubly appreciate this film for its remembering that horses are companion animals, not merely a method of transportation. "},{"Title":"Peter Hyams is Not the Man","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  My problem with The Musketeer is pretty much the same problem as it was with Rush Hour.  In both movies, you have some impressively done, eye-popping (especially to American audiences) fight choreography, and a filmmaker who has no idea how to shoot these scenes correctly.  I couldn't see Jackie Chan fighting in Rush Hour (I haven't bothered with its sequel), and whereas I got the distinct sense that something cool was happening in the early fight scenes in The Musketeer, director (and cinematographer) Peter Hyams didn't bother to let me get a good look at it.The climactic fight scene on the ladders in some damned impressive work.  I cheered, I crawled up in my seat, and then it didn't end, it just sort of... stopped.  I won't fault anyone for that; what WAS there was incredible to watch, and these guys were on a budget.Unfortunately, this is reflected in earlier scenes, too-- early in the film, the fight scenes (choreographed by a name new to American audiences, Xin Xin Xiong) look like Hyams shot them twice once from across the room, once in close-ups.  The result is a blended mess that lets me hear swords clanging, and lets me look at... a blur!The action is all going on out of frame.  Rush Hour director Brett Ratner is a hack music video director and we expect this from him.  Mr. Hyams has been doing this for nearly 30 years and whether this is his first martial arts film or not, I'd think the man would have some clue as to how to show off his choreographer's work.  But for whatever reason, he fell flat. Though we should have known this when he started doing Jean-Claude Van Damme movies.The script isn't bad.  Tiny scraps of character are thrown to D'Artagnan (Justin Chambers) and Febre (Tim Roth), and the Queen gets to have a grand old time as well.  The talking scenes are shot and directed quite well, the funny lines are funny, etc.For the action sequences, Hyams is at a loss, because by the time we get to the last one or two, which are quite good, we've already felt betrayed by the earlier ones, and have become bored.  In fact, this is set up during the opening credits, when we see each actor and their name, before we even meet their character hence, we haven't met these characters yet, so therefore we don't care to see them in the opening credits.  Yawn.  There's a reason better filmmakers put those at the END of the film, Pete.I put this one up there with the Jet Li vehicle Black Mask.  Some good lines, and action worth checking out, but this was not what we traditionally refer to as a good movie.  It was martial arts filler, while we wait for the Wachowski Brothers, or Ang Lee, or someone with that level of talent to make sure the whole is greater than the sum of its parts.  This one actually succeeds in being less. "},{"Title":"If you are familiar with the Alexandre Dumas classic, you have one up on the director","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Complete rewrite of the story of  D'Artagnan and the Musketeers. I loved Richard Lester's 1973 version and when the young guns remake came out in 1993 I was quite disappointed. This version is awful by comparison to the weak 1993 one and they departed so far from the Dumas story, they really should have called it the swordsman or something like that and changed the names. The absurd martial arts scenes show the Hong Kong connection with this film and are worth a laugh and there are a few decent performances(especially Tim Roth)but even if you have no interest or knowledge of the wonderful classic this film is supposedly based on you will be much better served renting the 1993 or exceptional 1973 films. "},{"Title":"One of the coolest movies I've seen all year","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie flat out rocks the action is great, the cast is great , the story is great ,Mena Suvari is beatuiful it has everything . The story centers around D'Artagan the son of a dead Musketeer whose out to to seek revenge on the man who murdered his parents the cast includes Justin Chambers , Mena Suvari , Tim Roth and more people I don't remember the name to but were all great.  To be honest with you with the expectation of Mena Suvari who I am a huge fan of, I hadn't seen any body else in this movie before what can I say I'm a modern movie brat but just go see it it's one of the best movies I've seen all year no mather who your a fan of I'm sure you won't be disappointed ,and hey even if your not fan of any one see it any way this is one of those movies that is too go to pin point any stand out scenes the whole movie was excellent this gets my highest raiting absolutely unbelievable. My grade  A+  "},{"Title":"Alexandre is rolling in his grave","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  There are two things that stick out about this movie that made it almost unbearable for me.  The first is that this movie has almost nothing to do with the book the Three Musketeers.  Sure a few key plot points seem to leak through, but there is so little plot and tone missing that it is a crime. Renaming the major characters and changing the location (from France to say Australia) and only the most pedantic would be able to link this fiasco and the book.  Even the personalities of the characters are so skewed as to be unrecognizable, the only one coming close being Richelieu.The second thing that was absolutely egregious were the action sequences. A majority of them were little better than flashes of bodies and terrible clanging sounds.  Almost nothing was discernable in any of the sequences, and I think perhaps in one scene could you actually recognize one of the actors as the person doing the action.  This was billed as an action movie and turned into a ham handed melodrama with delusions of mediocrity.Add to this the fact that the only person who could really be said to have acted in this movie is Tim Roth (Mina Suvari comes close on a number of occasions but suffered from obviously horrible directing).  Although Tim Roth has experience in a very similar roll in Rob Roy.  Then there are the accents!  Two main characters had convincing French accents, Planchet (whose character is unrecognizable from the book) and the Queen.  Only problem is that the Queen is supposed to be Spanish!  Oh, and why is it that everyone except D'Artagnan can pronounce D'Artagnan correctly?There were a couple of pithy lines, a scant handful.  Not enough to have to sit through this piece of cinema, especially if you have read and enjoyed the novel at some point in your life.  Incidently I am not alone in my feelings for this movie.  Judging by the way the people shuffled out of the theatre, most were less than impressed. "}{"Title":"Adheres to the standard revenge plot of any vintage spaghetti western","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Veteran film director Peter Hyams remakes Alexander Dumas' venerable novel The Three Musketeers in the singular as The Musketeer. Basically, the traditional Three Musketeers fade into the background, while the fourth Musketeer revives and inspires them. Scenarist Gene Quintano and Hyams have pared down the sprawling Dumas classic, so it adheres to the standard revenge plot of any vintage spaghetti western. Furthermore, Hyams hired legendary Hong Kong stunt choreographer Xin-Xin Xiong to energize the sword play. Predictably, romance takes a back seat to the slashing sword fights staged every quarter-hour to break up the expository dialogue interludes. Anachronistic as most of its witty repartee sounds, The Musketeer delivers enough dazzling derring-do to offset its hackneyed story without indulging into obligatory blood and gore. No, this agile, old-fashioned, but superficial swashbuckler cannot eclipse Richard Lester's definitive The Three Musketeers. Occasionally, The Musketeer stumbles over plot points but never loses its footing. Alas, as our eponymous hero, former Calvin Klein model Justin Chambers lacks the necessary charisma, much less a tolerable French accent. Clearly, he cannot rival Errol Flynn. Nevertheless, this timeless tale of bravado proves just as appealing now as it must have been when acrobatic Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., played D'Artagnan in the 1921 silent production.Writer Gene Quintano preserves the conventions and clichs of the period costume drama. Indeed, The Musketeer looks like a Gallic horse opera. Our hero wears a broad-brimmed hat, and everybody refers to Tim Roth's villain as 'the-man-in-black.' Were that not enough, D'Artagnan talks to his horse like Gene Autry! As this brisk melodrama unfolds, little D'Artagnan has been fencing with his lame father (Luc Gentil) when Febre (Tim Roth) and his henchmen ride up. They demand tax money. D'Artagnan's father refuses to pay. Not only does Febre skewer him in front of his son, but also he murders D'Artagnan's mother. He kicks D'Artagnan in the face twice, but not before the tenacious tot slashes him across the left eye. Afterward, Febre dons a black leather patch that compliments his Snidely Whiplash demeanor. Later, he puts a knife to a small girl's throat, and she bears the scar of his treachery to D'Artagnan. Well, of course, had he slain our hero, then there would have been no Musketeer. Nevertheless, three instances occur when the script takes left turns, but in each case the filmmakers recover none the worse for wear. D'Artagnan's friend, guardian & mentor Planchet (Jean-Pierre Castaldi of Moonraker) helps him bury his parents then agrees to raise him. Our tyke-sized hero vows revenge and so ends the pre-credit sequence! Afterward, the title Fourteen Years Later appears. Funny thing is Planchet doesn't age a day during the near decade-and-a-half that elapses. At least, the hulking, long-haired Jean-Pierre Castaldi gives a flavorful performance. Too bad he never got to brandish those two pistols concealed in his shirt sleeves. Anyway, Planchet takes D'Artagnan off to Paris. Along the way, against Planchet's advice, our hero stops off at a tavern for breakfast. He winds up fighting three swordsmen and defeating them with his impressive sword fighting skills. Oh, yes, all this happened because D'Artagnan defended a starving peasant boy groveling for table scraps. Watching our Boy Scout hero balance on wine barrels and cross swords at the same time is invigorating stuff. Indeed, The Musketeer is a movie for guys. Happily, Hyams and Xiong gradually intensify each sword fight until the ultimate battle royal between Febre and D'Artagnan on a number of ladders in a three-story barn. When D'Artagnan arrives in Paris, he finds the Musketeers disbanded and drowning their troubles in strong drink. Aramis (Nick Moran of Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels) and Porthos (Steve Speirs of Star Wars Episode 1-The Phantom Empire) explain that Richelieu has imprisoned his father's old friend Treville (Michael Byrne of The Eagle Has Landed) on a trumped-up murder charge. Coincidentally, later that same evening, D'Artagnan runs into both Aramis and Porthos on the streets. He persuades them to help him rescue Treville.When D'Artagnan isn't on a crusade, he has a room on credit at a nearby hotel, and comely chambermaid Francesca (Mena Suivari of American Pie 2) flirts with him. Literally, in one of the film's funnier scenes, D'Artagnan drops in on Francesca while she is bathing. Fiesty Francesca saves D'Artagnan's neck later when Richelieu's men come for him. Our doe-eyed lovers squeeze in a couple of kisses when they aren't eluding evildoers. Cardinal Richelieu (Stephen Rea) plots to discredit the King (Daniel Mesguich) and Queen (Catherine Deneuve of Indocine). Specifically, he wants to embarrass British envoy Lord Buckingham (Jeremy Clyde of North Sea Hijack), but he prefers the less blood shed the better. Febre thirsts for blood. He has already killed the Spanish envoy, and he steadily grows mad with power until not even Richelieu can restrain him. Abducting the Queen, Febre sends a fake message to Buckingham to lure him to her castle. Febre hopes the jealous King will find them in each other's arms and kill him, triggering a war with England. Meanwhile, D'Artagnan leads an army of Musketeers off to rescue Francesca trapped alongside the Queen and Buckingham in the castle.Director Peter Hyams of Outland and End of Days succeeds more often than fails with The Musketeer. Personally, I applaud his strategy to shoot as much as possible under genuine candlelight. Okay, Stanley Kubrick did it first in 1975 with Barry Lyndon. Nevertheless, if you yearn for realism, The Musketeer looks fairly authentic, not like a garish Technicolor Tom & Jerry cartoon. The tavern fight is dark, but never so dark that you cannot catch of glimpse of the real actors as they slash and gash. The Musketeer isn't top-notch Dumas adaptation but it holds it own. Although Quintano contrived the script, the flippant dialogue belongs to Hyams. Considering the tragedy we Americans have suffered, The Musketeer qualifies as the only entertaining escapism that should leave you feeling better than when you entered the theater. "},{"Title":"Pretty funny...","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  What folks seem to be missing is that this isn't supposed to be that serious a movie. It kind of is, but no more so then, say, your average Hercules or Xena episode. It's no more true to the source material then those shows are to Greek myth (and the couple dozen other things Xena borrowed from, i.e., Caesar, Norse myth, etc.). I think some of the fight scenes they actually did in those shows, for that matter... And those shows did pretty well. Take this movie in the same spirit, and you should enjoy those shows. If you hate those shows, you're not going to like The Musketeer either. "},{"Title":"2 good things, everything else is bad","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Peter Hyams' The Musketeer stars Justin Chambers as a guy who when a kid, saw a man kill his parents.  Now, he wants to be a musketeer, and maybe get some revenge on the man (Tim Roth) and to also bring back the lost musketter spirit.  Simply this- the fight scenes aren't terrible, it's good to see Tim Roth in a villain role where he's not a ape.  But that's it; a lot of this film should've been left on the cutting room floor (I know you've heard that before, but I do believe it for this film).  C "},{"Title":"Coulda, shoulda but still pretty good","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The critically slammed and most recent installment of The Three Musketeers, Hyam's The Musketeer, tells of a young D'Artagnan in search of the man who killed his parents amidst the usual climate of evil in 17th century France. The film has the ingredients and state-of-the-art edge required to be the best Musketeer flick ever. However, Hyam's flick fails to connect the dots and bring cinema's three big C's (cogency, cohesion, and coherence) to the epic story. The litany of flaws is a long one with poor casting choices in Suvari and Chambers, comic relief which is ill timed, cliche stunts where real swordsmanship should be, a conglomeration of accents among the many French characters, etc. However, the film does have a substantial up-side with great costuming and locations, a good supporting cast with Roth and Rea embracing their characters well, and a sense of earnestness about trying to have the same swashbuckling devil-may-care flair which has been the hallmark of everything Musketeer from Dumas to date. Worth a look for those most into Musketeer-style films if expectations are kept within reason. (C+) "},{"Title":"I *never* thought I'd say this... but we could have done without the martial arts","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This was purchased for and given to me by someone who knew of my affection of The Matrix, and depictions of unarmed combat in general. Unfortunately, this individual was either without a smidgen of taste in film, or had not actually seen it. The fights, whilst showing potential, and having been choreographed by one quite skilled within the world of them... really don't work. They're wildly out of place and the way they are shot makes it confusing to the point where I, ironically, found myself particularly bothered by this whenever it had them. For crying out loud, the majority of the time you can't even tell which of the people involved in them is which, much less what's going on. Somewhat like Episode III of Star Wars, the cinematography(done by Hyams, himself, aiding the man in proving that he has absolutely no skills within the field of movie-making) makes it tough to tell how much progress is made in the battles... but at least the action in that was entertaining and pleasant to look at. I realize that I have so far devoted every word of this comment to this one subject, but I really can't claim that I had high hopes for anything else in the production being worth even a fleeting glance. Misdirected by Peter Hyams, I mean, has the man done a single piece that was cause of, well, *any* rejoicing? Sudden Death, which was a hackneyed attempt at cashing in on the success of the far superior Die Hard, Timecop, which was a shameful waste of an interesting concept(made only worse, somehow, by its sequel), and End of Days was passable at best. My gosh, the man even managed to mess up the sequel to 2001 A Space Oddyssey, which, granted, was an enormously difficult film to try to follow, but why was it even tried in the first place(and Hyams gets double credit for screwing that one up, because he penned it, as well)? The acting is mostly just bad. From the random, scattered and half-hearted attempts that are made at French accents, to the title role player who manages to be out-done by the kid who portrays him as a young boy. What's with the opening credits looking like the intro to a 70's show? The dialog has its moments, but then there are the times where it is so obvious, with a complete lack of respect for subtlety and proper story-telling... honestly, a character or two seemed put in the film for no other reason than to spout expositionary lines. In attempts to draw in young men and young women, respectively, Suvari and Chambers(the film's excuse for a male lead) both get a scene, one more useless than the next, in which one of them is naked(without nudity, to preserve the PG-13 rating), and Chambers also briefly flirts with a woman seemingly put in this for no other reason than to put her cleavage on the screen. The two leads also have a poorly crafted and inexplicable romance, added for no other reason than to make the final bit personal(because obviously that wasn't the very first thing done in this). The plot is not all bad, and has ideas that could deserve attention. Rea is a fine enough Richelieu, and I can assure you that Roth makes an imposing and utterly monstrous villain, who also manages to be quotable(as the only one in the entire flick). An effective reveal on him, after a certain event in the film, would have been nice, but you can't have everything(and in this case, you can't get much at all). Really, all in all, this has very little going for it. And that's too bad, because almost everything in the film needed just a little push in the right direction for a viewing of this to be time well spent, but a large group of lackluster and average things, coupled with a few downright bad ones... well, I'm sure you can deduce what this results in. I recommend this only to those who wish to watch every visual representation of Dumas' famous novel(As you've never seen it before, indeed, but this is proof that such is not necessarily a positive) that has come into existence and the teenagers who find the sound(or, rather, the potential visual) of either star in their birthday suit too good to pass up. Anyone else... life's too short. 4/10 "},{"Title":"No, it's not The Matrix, but it's not Batman & Robin either","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this and it's no way near as bad as it's rep. People on the IMDb are saying it's one of the worst films ever made (!) - how many films have they seen? Proberbaly only The Matrix and Spider-Man. The Three Musketeers were unrecognisable in the film, not the dashing heroes we're used to, but D'Artagnon was the coolest (and funniest) so far and the fight scenes were far and away the best ever in a Musketeer movie. The sword fights weren't your usual prancing about, but intense and frantic, much like the Jedi's duels with Darth Maul in The Phantom Menace. The Jackie Chan-style stunts and the changes to the novel were controversial, but the fresh approach added to the film for me. If you expect a classic adaption of the novel with traditional swashbucking, forget it. Instead look for an updated take on the story with lavish and atmospheric visuals, a cool-yet-relatable D'Artagnon, Mena Suvari, loads of intense sword fighting and spectacular stunts.  "},{"Title":"All for one and none for me, thanks,","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Musketeer is a curious try to update the classic swashbuckling tale with modern fighting and stunt techniques. I guess it didn't occur to the filmmakers that the modern fighting techniques didn't REALLY exist during the day, but never mind. This film is pretty dull, boring and curiously rushed (the dialogue is going a mile a second, why were they pushing it so fast?) the story is boringly directed by classic hack director Hyams, and most of the boredom shows on the actors. Catherine Deneuve is quite wasted here. I am not too sure what she was doing there in the first place. Sorry Justin Chambers, your 15 minutes are UP.The good thing are the stunt sequences, which again, I have to question whether, you know, ladder balancing sword fights actually took place during the day. "},{"Title":"The worst in the musketeers' series","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Unfortunately I couldn't give a note of -10 or even worse. This movie is an insult to the history. The queen Ann of Austria was 26 or 27 at the time when the action is supposed to be. Catherine Deneuve could have played the role of queen's grand mother (or even the grand-grand mother's role). Couldn't the director have found a much younger actress for this role??? The same problem is with the king's role. He could have almost played the role of king's grand father, and the role of Henry IV in the best case. I wouldn't have bought the movie if I have looked first on IMDb. This is the worst movie whit the Musketeers I have seen out of other 4. "},{"Title":"62% complete??","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  (spoilers)Talk about diluted.  This movie has the look and feel of a tv movie.  Perhaps it went straight to video and I didn't know.  That's gotta be the dumbest and perhaps ugliest D'Artagnan I've ever seen.  The movie is very choppy.  Fades to black when it shouldn't.  And the physics controling space and time are absurd.  What is this?  Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon? Is it rubbish.?  Not quite, but it's pretty close.  I think with a better script and direction that might have been a promising movie.And what the heck is Stephen Rea in here for?  He plays better good guys than a villain such as this. All I can say is watch Michael York's version .  Tis funnier and better movie than this tripe.4/10Quality 0/10 Entertainment 5/10 Replayable 1/10PS  Tim Roth...  quite playing dull villains.  Enough already.  Was almost Rob Roy 2 "},{"Title":"Interesting premise wasted","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Talented director Peter Hyams and fight choreographer Xiong Xin Xin had a good premise in The Musketeer but the film becomes kind fake after watching it for a while. Justin Chamebers isn't good in the lead and the very sexy Mean Suvari is wasted. The only saving grace in the film is Tim Roth and some of the fight scenes and even they are wasted. "}{"Title":"Not That Bad","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I'm surprised to see that this movie has such a low rating here on IMDB.  I thought it was a good movie, but nothing special.  From the previews it looked pretty cool, but a little too over-the-top with respect to the fight scenes.  After seeing the movie, I didn't think it was too over-the-top.  All the major stunts are seen in the trailer, so there really isn't anything too shocking to see in the movie that you didn't already see in the trailer.  As far as the story goes, it was pretty good, but nothing new.  As for the cast, I thought they all did a pretty good job.  Mena Suvari and Tim Roth are the only people I'd previously heard of, and they both did a good job.  I thought Justin Chambers did a good job as well.  And there isn't anything bad I can say about the rest of the cast.  I'm not really sure what to say about this movie other than, I thought it was ok, but no block-buster.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "}]