[{"Title":"Finally...","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Finally there is a movie where the previews don't show the funniest parts of the movie.  Take it from me-the previews are less than half as funny as the movie is!  But, if you're not into sick and perverted humor, then you probably won't enjoy most portions of this movie.  However, if you do, I recommend it highly. "},{"Title":"LOVE IT","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"31 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the grossest and funniest films ever made.Heavily Underrated. Great simple love storyline, Classic dirty sick humourFor fans of Teen Comedy movies such as Not another Teen Movie and Theres Something About Mary. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever!","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"32 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought that this movie was hilarious! Jerry O'Connell did a really great job, and the music is awesome. It was an original movie, that had a great plot. I think that everyone, that has a sense of humor, should see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Vulgar but spirited and energetic comedy.","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  By some lucky (?) chance, I watched this movie a few days after watching Flesh Gordon 2, so I was able to easily tell the difference between a likable moronic and tasteless sex comedy and a painful moronic and tasteless sex comedy. Granted, Tomcats has more energy than laughs, and the story is predictable in the extreme; however, it works by mixing in some sweetness along with the vulgarity, and it certainly helps that Jerry O'Connell and Shannon Elizabeth have a nice chemistry together - you get the feeling they would make a likable pair. Now, if only they had given a larger role to Jaime Pressly....(**1/2) "},{"Title":"Look at the Reviewers- You'll note a trend","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Firstly, I may well be slightly biased- because I really truly enjoyed this movie. However, seeing it with a score under 5- and then looking at the reviews, there is a notable trend. The good reviews are predominantly well punctuated and articulate, with such things as (gasp) accurate spelling and grammar. Conversely, most of the bad reviews tend to be short blurbs with not a capital letter to be found.My take on this Despite being a dumb comedy, Tomcats is to nuanced for the average consumer of dumb comedy. So, it's a smart-dumb comedy. The timing of jokes is impeccable, the pace is excellent, and the actual material is above average- with some of it even fresh! This leaves it in a bad place for reviews though- because it means a small segment of people love it, while big segments of the population (the pretentious smart and the uncultured dumb, we'll call them) will always pan this movie. So, if you're smarter than the average bear- but still appreciate dumb comedy romps, go for it- this one is a keeper. "},{"Title":"HYSTERICAL","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"24 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie the other night and I couldn't stop laughing.Yes, the movie had a very stupid plot.Yes, the movie could have been a little better.But still, I found this movie to be very funny and was more than what I personally expected. I can see where other people found it to be stupid. This movie was on the lines of Dumb & Dumber in the way of s tupid comedy. But I enjoyed every minute of it. It is a little disgusting at times but I recommend that fans of comedy go see this movie. "},{"Title":"Funny, juvenile but funny...","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ** Here might be spoilers ** This movie is kind of a enigma to me. No, be serious, I got the plot, the whole predictable plot. At a wedding the remaining bachelors makes a bet that whoever is the last bachelor will win a bundle of money. One after one they marry and finally there are only two left, Michael, the cartoonist and Kyle, the playboy.  Suddenly life gets complicated for Michael as he loses lots of money in a Las Vegas casino, and only one month to pay. He sees only one solution, he must win that bet.This film is juvenile. No doubt about it. It is completely filled with very nice-looking women, some of them wearing very little (but actually surprisingly little nudity). The jokes are mostly about sex or cruel ones like falling over cliffs. Sure, they makes you laugh a little, but not that much. There are some really good jokes here and there however, some nice spoofs or some rather funny detail. And this makes the whole movie much better than expected.  7/10 "},{"Title":"A very funny movie!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Is Tomcats as tasteless as you think?  Definitely!  This is not a smart, intellectual comedy.  The gags are often pretty cheap.  But I laughed a lot!  I wouldn't put this movie down in comedy history, but if you want to spend a whole hour and thirty minutes croaking with laughter--I can't say you'll be disappointed.  If you can't handle this lewd brand of comedy, please don't bother with Tomcats.  However, there is one joke involving the consumption of a human testicle (Yes, you heard right) which I felt was one of the MOST disgusting gags I've ever seen!!!  Better yet, one of the most disgusting moments in the history of motion pictures.  I have to say, I almost gave up on the film at that point.  Luckily, the copious laughs made up for the extreme crudeness.  So if you decide to rent this movie, make sure you fast-forward to the next scene when the testicle scene comes up.  As long as you skip through that one scene, you should be able to leave this movie unharmed.  The plot is sitcom material, and no more than a bunch of setups for hysterical, outrageous gags, but I was laughing so hard I ignored the throwaway plot.  Other things to anticipate are Bill Maher's portrayal of the ruthless crimelord Carlos and Garry Marshall's cameo appearance.  Of course, Shannon Elizabeth is in the cast ('Nuff said).  Can you get much hotter than Shannon?  Not to sound shallow, but I really expected to see tons of nudity--judging by the ads including one with that hot blonde chick (I forgot her name) about to take her top off.  Don't expect to see any female nudity (though there's one breast shot used for comic purposes).  Lots of scantily-clad babes, but none of them get naked.  And for the ladies out there, there is some brief male nudity (For all feminists who think this comedy is degrading to women--Shut up!  You got your share of male nudity.  We're even).  However, I don't know if anyone--male or female--would want to anticipate seeing Jake Busey in a thong.  Tomcats is not the best of the gross-out comedies, but it delivers.  The jokes are sitcom material, but it's funny sitcom material.You might want to stop the tape or DVD during the outtakes, though.  Many people said the outtakes were hilarious, but I thought they were the worst outtakes I've ever seen.  The kind of stuff that can only be funny to those working in the cast or crew.  Luckily, they're at the very end of the film, so watching them is optional.    My score  7 (out of 10)  "},{"Title":"Laugh fest","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are a politically correct nerd or a raging feminist, don't bother watching this movie. This is not for you. Go watch Some like it hot or something like that. It is obvious that no critic would write anything positive about this movie even if he peed in his pants laughing. They would just get hurt in today's politically correct climate and they know it.  I realize that a lot of people here have never attended a decent party and had zero to one partners in their life, but that doesn't mean that others shouldn't have a good time watching comedies like this. My wife and I had a great time watching this movie. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Seems pretty tame now...","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Life moves on...I avoided this like the plague when it came out as it got so panned by the critics but got it on TV.It really is a pretty good way to waste 90 minutes.I have to say there is NO nudity; the grossness is mild, and the timing on the comedy is pretty good. Yes, it's a guy's film in the main, yes, it's vaudeville; but overall it actually has a little wisdom to impart, a sweetness to it, and enough silliness to make it fly.Much better treat than expected and if you liked Something About Mary or American Pie you will enjoy... "}{"Title":"Just far too mean-spirited and disgusting to be funny","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I had expected a fairly straightforward R-rated graphic, sexual, crude teen-comedy when I sat down to see this... it turned out to be fairly accurate... only it was far more sick and disgusting than I would have thought. I don't know if the director/writer Gregory Poirier is sick or deeply messed up sexually, but I doubt that a normal person could have made a movie like this. I could probably have taken it if it was just that, if the only thing that was wrong was it was that it required a tough stomach... but it isn't. The film is also horribly mean-spirited and disturbing... every single character that has more than one full second of time on-screen is an extreme... sexually, mentally or physically. I don't know if this is just the director's sense of humor, but I just found it to be... wrong. Just wrong. Even in a comedy, there is supposed to be some seriousness. The plot is stupid. The acting is bad. The characters are inconsistent and poorly written... all of them. There isn't one single likable character in the film. The humor is disgusting and goes way too far. The film is just so incredibly poorly done that I really don't think it's worth anyone's time. If you like R-rated, crude comedies with plenty of sexual innuendo and graphic stuff, watch The Groomsmen, or, better yet, American Pie... or Road Trip, my personal favorite. But don't watch this. I can't possibly describe to you how bad it is... you would have to experience it for yourself. However, this is one of those times where I'll say that you're better off wondering. That way you can just imagine that this film goes very close to the bottom... without knowing that it goes through it, and far lower than that. This movie most of all looks like a group of horny teenage guys got together, put together a film crew, and every-time one of them got an idea, they filmed it, and later put the entire thing together. It lacks structure, consistency and taste. I recommend this only to horny teenage guys who have seen every single other R-rated crude teen comedy and who don't care about quality. Everyone else... do the sensible thing; avoid this. It's not even worth it to see the booty. Believe me. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Funny, Original(ish), Well worth a look.","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are after a light hearted evening, whack on your dvd player and slap this in. Great fun, amusing, original(ish) with some great performances by the actors. Jerry is in fine slapstick form and Shannen is as sexy as ever. "},{"Title":"Furiously funny batchelor romp","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those rare gems &#150; a truly funny film.Jerry O'Connell (`Sliders') is a hapless bachelor who's made a bet with his college buddies that the last one to get married will win the stake, which, after 7 years, has grown to almost half a million dollars. When he accidentally loses $50,000 at a Vegas casino and has one month to pay up or kiss goodbye to his anatomy, he decides to use dirty tricks to get his last rival married, in order to pocket the prize for himself.The film is fast-paced with a hilarious series of mishaps, a brief comic salute to Cruise's cliff-top stunt in `Mission Impossible 2' and a new twist to the `boyfriend stops the wedding ceremony' gag. You'll remember this film whenever your girlfriend or wife asks you to `say the three little words' (I love you or ?) and you'll think twice about eating in a hospital canteen again.If you liked Porky's, Revenge of the Nerds and the Naked Gun, you'll love this. If Deuce Bigalow or Ace Ventura got you to smile, this one'll guarantee a belly-laugh.My three little words &#150; rent it now!  "},{"Title":"What are you thinking?","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw Tomcats the night it came out.  I was so stoked to see it because it is a Jaime Pressly movie.  I read all of the reviews before and I went and I didn't find one single review.  So when I was going to the movie I was thinking this might suck, but if it has Jaime Pressly it can't be that bad. I was pleasantly surprised to find out the movie was hysterical.  If you thought Tomcats wasn't up to par, you try to tell that to the patrons laughing their heads off in the audience.  Who cares if the movie wasn't serious, who goes to a movie to be serious anyways?  A movie should be an escape from everyday life, and Tomcats was a perfect escape for me. "},{"Title":"$500,000 or a wife?","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The other night my cousins and I were watching some TV after midnight and we catch up the last 20 minutes of Big Fish and after that film Tomcats began. It was very late but the credits sequence was cool so we stay and the first beat in the film was really funny so we end up watching it until the end. That beat was between 4 or 5 friends and consist in never get married; they created a bank account so every day that passes, more money for the winner. Eventually everybody get married, except Michael and Kyle, and now the prize for the winner is $500,000. The story suddenly makes that Michael needs the money by the end of the week so he makes a plan and blah blah. After that we just forget about the beat and is all a love story, quite predictable by the way, and even the main character ends in a point when even he won the money, he doesn't care because of the love. But in that entire decent love story there are many funny moments especially for the sexual maniac that is Kyle and for Michael's bad experiences with women, even if they look like a pretty innocent girl or if they are the grandma of the innocent girl Eventually we have a really enjoyable time with this film without expecting something. So I think this film is the kind that if you have the chance to watch it just for coincidence in TV it will be a good way to have 90 minutes of pure entertainment. "},{"Title":"Good Show!!","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is just a good old boys romp where you don't think but just enjoy the ride.Jerry O'Connell is so funny in this movie. The take off from other movies ie Tom Cruise on the rock climbing is a good inside/outside joke.And yes I laughed out loud at the two scenes with Grandma as the Domintrix with both Jerry and Jake Busey at the end.I really do see this as a guy movie but as a date movie it would do the trick as woman could have a good laugh at the expense of the men.Good Show!! "},{"Title":"Completely Lacking in Humour and Originality.","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In my opinion this movie is just another movie in the now overused Genre of Teenage Comedy. Tomcats is very similar to the movies Ten Things I hate about You, Dude Where's my car, Scary Movie (this one was good though)  American Pie just to name a few.  They all have their funny parts, especially the firsts in the Genre.  The genre is wearing out, as most of the humour has been used.Definitely a movie to skip. "},{"Title":"All talk, no walk.","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer for this movie, I was talking to my girlfriend on the phone, and the first thing I said was, I am seeing that movie!  Well, I did, on the opening day.  I have to say, it was a major dissapointment.First of all, the plot is really loosely thrown together, it seemed like it could have been made within a week.  A guy goes into debt at a casino, so he has to get his friend married to get the big payout of a bet made 7 years earlier.  Pretty simple.  I am not the kind of person that needs sex or nudity to keep me inside the movie theatre, but when you see those kinds of trailers, what should you expect?  Well, don't expect too much, althought that is not my major quarrel with the movie.There is nothing funny about this movie.  A group of friends get hard at a wedding. A guy mistakes three little words to be I love you when they are actually quite contray.  A guy is in an interrogation room, to the point of wetting himself over a misunderstanding (a sickening one at that).  A guy's goal is to have sex with every woman on the planet.  A librarian turns out to be a sex queen.  Very stale humour.  Much like that of Monty Python's The Meaning of Life, and Dude, Where's My Car?If your idea of humour is stupidity, sex-related stupidity, woman-related stupidity, and man-being-the-mindless-idiot stupidity, then be my guest, see this movie. "},{"Title":"Its American Pie,just not funny!","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm all for a crude comedies, like American Pie, There's Something About Mary and Scary Movie. But Tomcats just isn't funny.Sitting in the cinema watching this, laughing was actually hard. There were some funny scenes, but not sidesplitting like previews indicated. Even the rest of the audience found it hard to laugh. I heard a few giggles, and even some laughs. But nothing like that of Scary Movie or There's Something About Mary.Simply put, Tomcats is like American Pie without the laughs. Very disappointing and not very funny at all. "},{"Title":"Rotten","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is not supposed to be intelligent, but this is as low brow as a movie can get. This film did not even make an attempt at being funny. I am in the audience that this film is aimed for, college students, specifically males, and i found it to be overly juvenile. One of the dullest, unfunny films to come out this year, and that is saying a lot. "}{"Title":"Another Brainless Movie, But Entertaining","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tomcats, is the movie that made base purely on young man entertainment. But to tell the truth, Tomcats might be the movie without brain, but it is entertaining.The group of friends makes a bet - the last man-standing (from being a bachelor) win that bet moneys. After losing money at the casino that threaten to kill Michael one of the only two bachelor tried to find a wife for his friend to win that money.Some of the stuff on the movie might be extremely crude and humorless, but overall it is Jerry movie, so don't have any hope for it and it will be watch able.NOTE If you ain't no fan of Jerry, there are like 80% chance that you will probably hate most of his movie. Reason To Watch · Watch Shannon Elizabeth, she does look gorgeous here, · Sex related,Reason Not To · Old guys with teenage storyline and role, · Eating human scrotum ain't funny, · Only concern on guys viewer (offended to female)Rating 5.5/10 (Grade D+) "},{"Title":"I can state, free from exaggeration, that this is the worst film ever made.","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am not a man who has a problem with hyperbole, nor am I a man who is prone to quick and rash judgement when it comes to bad films.  I am also not a man who hasn't seen more than his fair share of motion pictures (I am guessing about 2000 in all in my nineteen short years).  But I am hard-pressed to find in my memory a film that is as odious, as foul, as worthless, as out and out evil as Gregory Poirier's Tomcats.I have seen one-hundred nineteen of the releases of 2001, (12-8-01) but even the worst ones have an edge on this.  Corky Romano was brain-dead, but harmless.  Freddy Got Fingered was grossly and wholly incompetent. Harmless and incompetent are hardly the words to describe Tomcats.  The makers of this film know how to line up a shot, they've practically memorized that God-forsaken Lew Hunter book, but they forgot their morals. I may sound like a prude or a member of the religious right, but I'm not. My favorite film so far this year is Mulholland Drive, if that's any indication.  Poirier and his band of miscreants just forgot, or didn't learn in the first place, what's funny and what isn't.Anally raping a girl while she's puking out of the back window of a car Not funny.Someone unwittingly eating a testicle  In more capable hands, maybe.  But not funny here.Jerry O'Connell hocking food into Shannon Elizabeth's drink  Not funny.Bill Maher  Not funny.I am of the opinion that anything can be funny, but the guys writing it have to think that just because they wrote it, doesn't mean it'll work.  I've seen train wrecks that were funnier than this pile.zero stars out of 4.  "},{"Title":"Tasteless, unfunny, misogynic comedy","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A bunch of 20 something male cretins gather together to celebrate another's wedding. The unmarried ones vow never to get married and every year, pledge to put a few hundred (the movie is VERY vague on details) in an account and the last one still unmarried wins it all. Seven years later, all but two (Jerry O'Connell and Jake Busey) are married. O'Connell needs the money to save his life (don't ask) and convinces a woman (Shannon Elizabeth) to seduce Busey and get him to marry. Naturally, he falls for her. Not the worst comedy on 2001 (that still goes to Saving Silverman) but REAL close. It's stupid and beyond disgusting (a section about a testicle almost made me walk out). None of the jokes were funny--they include sure-fire knee slappers involving degrading women, gays, degrading women, child molestation, degrading women, cancer...did I say they have jokes degrading women? I did laugh a few times because the film was so desperate. The plot is ridiculous and woman are shown as sex objects constantly. The funny thing is, there's no nudity but plenty of shots of young, beautiful women in next to nothing. You know--if I want that, I'll buy Playboy thank you! Another thing is Jake Busey is cast as a stud--he's ugly and VERY obnoxious but all the woman are all over him! O'Connell tries (too hard) to play a nice guy--unfortunately, he's no comedian. Only Elizabeth comes through looking good. A totally worthless piece of film--if you want a good gross-out comedy, rent American Pie. AVOID THIS ONE!!!!! "},{"Title":"Silly Nonesense with NO purpose!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is sad to see a film like this being made!  There are so many low-budget, indie films that get made on shoe-strings budgets, which has excellent stories, real stories...but Hollywood instead decides to throw money at making films like this.Every character in this film is 1 dimensional, carboard cut-out, cliched and dull.  This film tries way to hard to upset the audience with gross-out humor, and sex jokes...however, they aren't funny and were executed much better in films like American Pie 1 and 2!  Shame on you Jerry O'Connell for being in such a braindead film! Though never taking itself too seriously, the movie does deliver a chuckle here and there...with many exceptions.The nut scene is very funny, though unbelieveable, and turns out to be extremely disgusting and un-called for.2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Too silly for words sex(ist) comedy - for those that like that sort of thing","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A cartoonist gets in to hot water when a night in Vegas gets him in to heavy debt. His only chance to pay off the semi-criminal types is to win a bet with his extra stupid - but rich - best friend.One of the crass and silly comedies that has come out of the studios in the aftermath of American Pie proves that cruelty and sexism still have a role to play in American society today. Who else thinks that a golf cart running over a bimbo  is funny? Silly laughs and face pulling are the order of the day as our hero tries to dig himself out of his self-made hole. Enough naked flesh is thrown in to keep the adolescent audience on their toes and some of the scenes are almost funny, although my ribs were never in any danger.Thankfully it cranks along at a reasonable lick and the credits come up before it stupidity and cruelty really kick home. Watchable yes, but when people try too hard to be funny they very rarely are. Ironic, but true. "},{"Title":"Brainless and tasteless. But fairly fun.","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jerry O'Connell plays Michael Delany, one of a group of college pals who call themselves The Tomcats. When one of their number gets married at the age of 19, the rest of the gang make a deal to remain unwed for as long as possible, each guy putting a monthly sum of money into a pot that will be collected by the last bachelor standing. Seven years later, at another of the group's wedding in Las Vegas, Michael loses a small fortune trying to impress a woman (who looked like a tranny to me). Given a month to pay up by the casino's ruthless boss, Michael tries to set up the only other remaining bachelor Tomcat, Kyle (Jake Busey), with ex-fling Natalie (Elizabeth), so that he can collect the money and settle his debt. Predictably, Michael ends up falling for Natalie himself, which leads to all sorts of complications.I watched Tomcats solely for Shannon Elizabeth, who has the ability to make most men feel funny in the trouser department with just a smile. I wasn't expecting the film to be laugh out loud funny, and it wasn't. I wasn't really expecting Elizabeth to strip off, and she didn't. Tomcats did, however, manage to entertain me more than I thought it would with a likable cast who are clearly having lots of fun, a basic plot that is actually half decent, and numerous attractive women (in addition to Elizabeth). The low brow humour&#x97;which includes a 'viagra at a wedding' scene, testicle eating, sperm donation gags, Jake Busey baring his ass in a thong (a sight I had hoped to go to my grave without seeing), lesbian sex, and a dominatrix librarian and her S&M grandmother&#x97;is extremely hit and miss, and will no doubt offend, disgust and annoy many people; however, if crass comedies are your thing, there's probably enough debauchery, smut and tastelessness on show to make this a reasonably painless way to pass the time. "},{"Title":"Please, leave your brain and good taste at the door...","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... then get ready to laugh your ass off. The trailer doesn't lie, the movie simply has no class nor any redeeming value beside the continuous laughter. Movies like Animal House and American Pie use the same kind of under the belt humor while trying to represent the so-called everyday reality, this one doesn't and thank God for that. In a day and age where stupid tear-jerkers are a dime a dozen, I'm glad to find some movies without an even stupider underlying message which can still make you forget the usual trials and tribulations. Having lost my sister the same day I saw the movie, I was glad to find something which made me laugh so hard that I could put my grief aside for an hour an a half. And for those of you who thought the movie was so bad, don't forget that the Tom Green movie is coming our way... "},{"Title":"Funnier than I expected","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to see this movie in a fairly downcast mood and was looking for something to cheer me up. Tomcats certainly seemed to hit the spot.There are days when I'm looking for some serious moviegoing or a great spectacle to watch & there are days when I just want to lean back & be entertained.Tomcats fell into the latter category & left me with a smile on my face for the weekend.It would be easy to criticise the film (as a lot of people have done) but much of this criticism seems unfair to me.I'd say give it a try with a few friends - you might just be surprised! "},{"Title":"Lesson in Love","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Though, some might think this is another sex comedy, it is to a degree but underneath it gives a lesson in love.  That love is stronger than sex..  The plot is simple, stay single and have as much sex as you want but don't fall in love and get married.  A bet is made between several friends to be the last one standing not married.  Comes down to two are left.  Micheal played by Jerry O'Connell and his friend by Jake Busey.  Micheal runs into a gambling debt which he must pay or die. Now he must set up his friend to win the large sum in the bet.  Jake's only girl that comes close is Natalie played by Shannon Elizabeth who does quite well in her performance.  The plot thickens when Micheal falls for Natalie and doesn't want his sex starve friend to have her, but what to do.  Yes, this film has some wild sex gags.  It goes to show you that true love is where it is at.  "},{"Title":"OVERDOSE OF GROSS","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I won't lie, I laughed at this movie, a lot.  But I felt it could have been shortened considerably if they took out the gratuitous vulgarity and infantile humor.  The comedy was below even a twelve-year old's tastes.  The goofy S&M gags were too overdone and the viagra laced champagne was way more than needed to be seen, and we won't even mention the hospital scene. Overall, I'd have to be under the influence of something really strong to ever watch this movie again.   "}{"Title":"not enough skin for an R rated sex comedy, slightly boring","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think they tried to make a PG-13 flick and accidentally got an R.  All the good recent screwball comedies have at least had some decent partial nudity scenes.  Also, it is a bit contrived and over the top.  And, the pacing is off, some scenes go on way to long to belabor a point.  They should have studied the Farelly brothers more carefully.  You have to have a simple plot with a few twists and you have to keep the thing moving from gag to gag.  The one bright spot was Shannon Elizabeth.  She looks even better than in American Pie, gorgeous cheekbones, the pony tail is way sexy.  And, she has more to do and can really act well.  Only a few chuckles, not very good. "},{"Title":"awful, just awful","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My girlfriend dragged me to this film, so I wasn't surprised by how terrible it was, since she usually has wretched taste in movies.  But what a painful experience sitting through this garbage was!  There are so many better ways to spend your time, so please spare yourself. "},{"Title":"Robbed, I tells ya'!!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  With very low expectations going in, I was surprised to find that this film is actually worse than I had expected.  All I wanted from this film was naked women.  I assumed that as the film was rated R, I could expect some sort of adult knowledge of the feminine form, look at the poster, look at the preview, for God's sake!  This film was selling sex but it was junk sex and I want my money back. I am unhappy with the inconsistent amount of male nudity that is being featured in films such as this one and Scary Movie.  The only naked breast we saw was a lactating one. THERE REALLY IS NO REASON TO SEE THIS FILM. "},{"Title":"Funny but crude, Shannon Elizabeth great","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Max, at age 19, is the first member of the Tomcats to get married. The guys put money in a fund which will go to the last single member of the group. Seven years later, Steve is married to Trisha in Vegas by a man who can be described as a cross between Elvis and Apu from 'The Simpsons'. Only Mike and Kyle are still single, and the fund has nearly a half million dollars.Mike can't stop gambling until he is over $50,000 in debt to Carlos, who gives him a month to pay up, and each day a 'deposit' will be required. This means Mike's stuff gets 'repossessed'. Only one way out of this mess Kyle has to get married so Mike will get the money. Kyle has vowed that he and Mike will have sex with every woman on Earth, but if he had to choose one to spend the rest of his life with, it would be Natalie, a bridesmaid at Max's wedding. Of course, Kyle cannot know what Mike is doing, and Mike and Natalie seem to like each other ...At first I didn't think the word 'quality' could possibly apply to this movie. Shannon Elizabeth changed all that. I don't remember much about her performances in the 'American Pie' movies because it has been so long since I saw them, but I think here she may have given the best performance I have seen from her. That includes several appearances as the mother of Kelso's baby on 'That 70s Show'. And she was beautiful both in and out of clothes (actually, we never got to see much other than her legs and shoulders).Jerry O'Connell did a capable job. I'm not sure whether to call Jake Busey's performance good acting. Just because his father is a respected actor, that doesn't mean he is. But Kyle was definitely a class-A jerk. Or perhaps one could use a word Kyle used twice, which got its second half bleeped out for TV.Bill Maher made a nasty but somewhat pleasant Carlos. David Ogden Stiers made the surgery his character was going to perform sound terrifying. Also worth mentioning Garry Marshall's rant about why men shouldn't get married.And last but not least among the notable acting performances Heather Stephens as a librarian who lives with her Grammy (who was also a librarian) and has numerous stuffed animals in her bed.My first thought about this movie was that it would compare with the 'American Pie' and 'Porky's' films. It wasn't quite that dirty once it really got into the main plot line. But much of the second half ... well, even edited I would say this film pushed the limits of what broadcast TV will allow. In fact, it may have even gone beyond them. Most of the bad language was taken out, apparently. A few words have only been said on network TV when there was a strong warning, or on the WB's 'Jack and Bobby'. But that's not the worst of it, even if you see this on TV the way I did.Here are some samples of what made this such a hilarious but tasteless film -A prank involving a competitor for Viagra.-An S & M scene, which was great even if it was crude.-Steve suspects Trisha is a lesbian (this leads to several naughty gags).-After one of the characters had surgery, something happened that made me laugh until there were tears.-Cops who can't stop talking about their personal life on the job make a very unique bust (no, the other kind of bust) . At this point I have to say there is even violence in this movie, and not just the slapstick kind.And one more gag, which was not dirty at all, involved a fur coat at a bachelor party. No, really, the humor with this gag was nearly G-rated, but it was a highlight.Getting off the subject of what was funny, can they show that much of a woman's body on TV? She did have clothes on, but you could hardly call them clothes. And did we REALLY have to see that much of Jake Busey's posterior? That was underwear, I guess ...You have been warned. I enjoy a guilty pleasure like this once in a while. But this is not for kids or the easily offended. "},{"Title":"FAILURE","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I hated this vulgar piece of trash. It's absolutely appalled me how Hollywood could let a film like this be released. The plot keywords are ridiculous such as dominatrix-librarian and collapsed-testicle. It is demeaning to women, and the way it allows women to be treated is beyond my comprehension. A bunch of sexist losers make a pact to see who gets married last....blah, blah, blah. After those fourteen words, who needs a plot? The female lead (Shannon Elizabeth) and supporting character (Jaime Pressly) haven't been in any recent films after this was released..wonder why??? Tomcats should be left for the over-ripe litter box and deserves a 0/10. "},{"Title":"does it get any worse?","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  amber smith was the only thing worth anything in this movie!  it was one horrible, bathroom humor joke after another.  i don't even think little boys would think someone eating a guy's ball is funny.  i wanted to throw up. what was that scene in there for?  that entire chasing a guy's nut around. watch amber at the craps table and then turn it off because the rest is crap! "},{"Title":"damn.","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I like the people in this cast.  Jerry O'Connell is a good guy.  Jake Busey is freaky, just like his Dad.  He's scared me since Contact.  Shannon Elizabeth is a great young talent.  And Jamie Pressly is just...smokin'.But the fact is, this movied sucked, plain and simple, and nothing else can be said beyond that.  "},{"Title":"sick doesn't mean funny","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Poorly made and just plain sick movie that made me wince more than smile. The plot is the bare minimum of what is required for teen movies today, (and that's saying a lot) as is the acting and humor. The only really funny part of the movie is the outtakes at the end, accompanied by a feeling of great relief. "},{"Title":"Gutter Humour - Romantic Comedy....Not too bad","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Audiences are becoming accustomed to gutter humour as a pre-requisite for some American Romantic Comedies and this movie is no exception to the rule.Jake Busey as an actor can be a little annoying (maybe its his Dad's teeth that have manifested themselves into his mouth)  Jerry O'Connel who plays the lad Michael is not too bad as the comic romantic lead.  Shannon Elizabeth is the eye candy in this movie (and what lovely Candy she is).  The plot is predictable, the humour on the guttery side ..SPOILER....the runaway testical is the lowpoint of humour in the movie as is the girlfriend and the golf cart....Look at for the Bondage Grandma as well.What is becoming sad is that despite all of this, I sat and watched the movie and was entertained (it got me on the right day).The movie is the mould of the Farelly brothers (which I don;t usually like).Check it out...definently a stag movie "},{"Title":"Painfully Bad","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, first take my advice and miss this movie, its very, very stupid and not the least bit funny. I can't really believe what people call comedy, but this is comedy at its worst. The jokes are really dumb, and I feel bad the actors had to go through with this stupid movie. I want my money back.WORST MOVIE OF 2001-Sorry Horatio "}{"Title":"Great!  Fantastic!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I couldn't get enough of this movie.  It surpassed all expectations (which is rare these days, considering that most commercials these days attempt to make the movie look better than it actually is).Next to the Scary Movie movies, the Naked Gun movies and the Hot Shots movies (i.e., the more extreme types), this was one of the funniest movies I've seen to date.  The movie was lewd, crude and rude, and I thought it was fantastic.The women are gorgeous (especially Shannon Elizabeth and Jaime Pressly), the laughs are plentiful and the out-takes during the closing credits are hilarious.  What more could you ask for?  A sequel?  Hard to say if this is possible, given that nearly everyone got married, but with Hollywood, anything is possible.Aside from the weight problem, I've gotta admire Horatio Sanz's character at the end of the movie.  Alright! "},{"Title":"This is the worst in 2001 so far...","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this last night- and was relieved that I didn't have to pay!Half- hearted teen gross- out, corny jokes and anything else you would expect from the umpteenth American Pie clone.Shannon Elizabeth´s character is obviously modeled after Jennifer Lopez´s Out Of Sight role, and young Shannon´s acting is even worse, can you believe it?!This movie should be popular enough with the 12-16 yrs crowd, but even they are probably over- saturated with teen comedy by now. "},{"Title":"Good movie, very funny, great for guys out","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was great.  It really isnt something you'd take your girlfriend to, rather go to it with a bunch of the guys.  i have a feeling a lot of women have been rating it and thats why its so low.  go see it!! "},{"Title":"Pretty bad","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well here's an original idea a bunch of jerks decide the last single guy collects a bunch of money they've collected.  Misogyny ensues.  This is pretty degrading to women, and though I laughed a couple times the best part is the very last outtake during the end credits.  The movie tries to have some sweet parts that are just plain laughable.  The jokes fall flat, even when they are not mean-spirited and the women, great looking, I admit, are all treated as idiots, gold-diggers, closet lesbians, sex-crazed psychos. Deservedly tanking at the box office, I can't even figure out how the trailer was cut to make the film look amusing.... "},{"Title":"Simple","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A movie aimed at those who like mindless entertainment. Personally it is not my style because even a comedy should leave one thinking about the greater meaning. Tomcats is full of crass, stupid humour that is good for a couple of laughs. Is it worth the two hours? For me, it wasn't, but if you like an uncomplicated, predictable plot with undeveloped characters then it will suffice. Don't be expecting anything wonderful. Some have compared this movie to American Pie, but I have to disagree because American Pie really did present certain realities about the American life, while this movie may begin to try, but fails miserably. There are several overdone scenes (like the ones involving the librarian) so that for me was annoying. Of course, Hollywood uses beautiful actors and actresses to get people to come and watch the movie. So in my opinion Tomcats is the stereotypical Hollywood comedy for which Hollywood is known and loved especially in Europe...  "},{"Title":"Skip It","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A real disappointment.  Unfortunately full of cliche's and another sad attempt at trying to replicate the success of American Pie, Road Trip and to an extent, Something About Mary.  The story deviated so far from it's original premise that after a while I wondered what the point of the story actually was.  Jerry O'Connell was pretty funny, and if Shannon Elizabeth's acting was 25 percent as good as her looks they may have had something here. Instead we get some bad gross out humor combined with a pretty weak story and lousy characters.  What does that equal?  A bad movie that you might want to rent if you've already seen American Pie 100 times. "},{"Title":"Some laughs, but not enough","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know this may sound strange from someone who holds Dumb and Dumber, Billy Madison, South Park and American Pie in such high regards, but this movie just didn't do it for me.  A couple of laughs here and there (the last joke was fair), but the characters and script were the thing that didn't do it right.  For instance, there is a gag where a guy has to get back his friend's ball that was put in a jar.  Soon, the ball is bouncing around like the one you buy for a quarter in a store, until a guy eats it with relish.  Might've been funny years ago, but now, it's actually too sick. As is the rest of the movie.  I realize the cast tries, but they just don't deliver right (despite one joke that had me rolling from Bill Mahr).  Not really reccomendable unless you want to sneak into a movie after hopefully seeing Blow, or something.  D+ "},{"Title":"Rauchy, stupid, not funny","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great, in the year 2001, just what we need another raunchy sex comedy, that shows beautiful women acting stupid towards  unattractive guys doing stupid things. This is so old and tired and boring and unfunny, it was like watching a bad B movie. Zero on originality, no effort on having any redeeming qualities. Why would this be your first movie you would want to direct Gregory Poirier?  "},{"Title":"Um, Bleah","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went in not expecting much and it let me down.  Just blatantly bad writing and directing.  I liked Jerry O'Connell, but he's just a likeable guy. Shannon Elizabeth is incredibly gorgeous, but her lack of acting ability really shined in this one.  Keep whatever money you were going to spend on it and call yourself lucky. "},{"Title":"Terrible Stay Away From This Movie","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  From the ads that I saw on TV I figured this would be a spring break type (American Pie, Road Trip, College Based Type Movie).  I am still trying to figure out if Dude Where's My Car or Tomcats is a worse movie.  In the TV ads they hint at alot of skin and humor.  They deliver ZERO of both.  I wouldn't even suggest this as a rental.  Most of the funny parts are the ones that they already advertise on TV.  How long until American Pie 2 comes out?????????????? "}{"Title":"If you have free tickets to see this, tear them up!","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen many many movies in my life. That said, I can honestly say this was one of the ten worst movies I have ever seen, and this is after just seeing Carrie 2 The Rage.While there are some adult themes and adult language, the humor of the movie is best suited for a Saturday morning sitcom like Saved by the Bell. I wont lie, there are a few select funny moments, but overall, this film deserves a F+ (only because Shannon Elizabeth is in it).Jake Busey does offer some humor that almost brings the movie to respectability, but not quite enough. Jerry O'Connell plays the lovable loser and despite some slapstick, offers nothing that belongs in a so-called comedy. The only reason I didnt walk out of this flick is because I wanted to give it a fair chance. I now see that it was a waste of time, and $6.50. DON'T SEE THIS! "},{"Title":"Critics are wrong","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just seeing this film tonight, I have to say that I was very pleased with it. It made me laugh and happy to be with someone. The cast is great including Jerry O'Connel, Jake Busey, Shannon Elizabeth and Jamie Presely. The plot of this movie revoles around friends who make a bet when there young. The bet is the last man married gets a pot of money. It's now 2001 and Jerry O'Connel and Jake busey are the only ones who aren't married. O'Connel gets in trouble in Veags and has to pay a debt so he teams up with Shannon Elizabeth to marry off Kyle played by Jake Busey. The film is very funny but has one major flaw it lacks nudity. Go see it and have fun. "},{"Title":"Excretal waste of time and celluloid!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Please don't bother seeing this awful, crass film, which is so disgusting and crude, I was writhing in my seat in despair and disgust.  These actors deserve something better, and as moviegoers, so do we!  The story could have been told without sinking into the mire of bathroom humor that seems so awfully prelevolent right now, but the filmmakers avoided any sort of class, diving immediate to the lowest level of comedy to make this picture. "},{"Title":"They should have neutered this one before it was produced!","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Horrified at the prospect of one of their own getting married (at 19 no less) several young men who refer to themselves as The Tomcats, make a pact to remain bachelors.  To add some incentive, they agree to establish a tontine, with the last bachelor collecting the spoils. With the others quickly winnowed out, a huge pot for the taking, and a looming gambling debt coming due, Michael, one of the two finalists, is determined to win. To do so, he enlists the help of beautiful Natalie, the one woman who ever caught the interest of his philandering friend and financial foe Kyle. As with all plans involving money, gorgeous women and friends, things don't quite work out.Based on the ads for this film, I went in with low expectations  mild amusement and scantily clad women (I've been reviewing art house films for the past week and felt it was time for a little diversion - my excuse and I'm sticking to it).  Suffice to say, it meets neither  to see the few moments worthy of giggles, you are forced to sit through unbelievably bad dialogue (even for this genre), godawful acting (and I'm being charitable by referring to it as acting), and horror of horrors, Jake Busey in thong underwear.  Worse still, the only possible saving grace from a boxoffice perspective -  the gratuitous nudity alluded to in the ads - is nonexistent.  Once word of this spreads, not even the most desperate of teenagers will shell out money for this hideous bomb.Not even a rental. "},{"Title":"This movie is weak","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, what can i said ? This movie is weak, very little funny with just a few jokes. The idea for a comedy is reasonable, but the final result it's not good. Don't watch this movie, really may be if you don't have nothing to do could be an idea or maybe it's better to sleep. "},{"Title":"Best movie scene of all times!!!","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Lotsa hot chicks n weird dudes, the perfect relaxed evening. The blowjob scene truly is the funniest thing you'll ever see in your whole life. I couldn't stop laughing for at least a minute - an absolute must and the one and only explanation of all men's fears. Besides, where did they get all those hot babes from and why didn't anybody tell me about the casting??? "},{"Title":"Two thumbs up!","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was looking forward to seeing Tomcats way before I saw the movie trailers, because it was a Jaime Pressly movie.  Once I saw the trailers for the first time I absolutely couldn't wait to see it.  Before it came out I was researching the film, and reading reviews for my site and I couldn't believe all the terrible reviews Tomcats kept getting.  Like any true fan I went to the movie on opening night, and was pleased to see a pretty large crowd in the theater already.  I was a little skeptical of how the movie was going to pan out since there were so many reviews.  But once the movie got started I was wondering what movie those critics reviewed, because they must not have seen Tomcats.  It was absolutely hysterical.  Although Jaime's role as the lady loving Tricia was the high point of the movie for me, I truly became emotionally attached to the main characters.  To me that is a sign of a great movie.  If you are looking for a laugh then I would say go see Tomcats, like right now.  Tomcats gets two thumbs up from me! "},{"Title":"WARNING  viewing this movie will lower your IQ","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I want a personal apology from writer/director Gregory Poirier.  This movie had absolutely zero redeeming value.  I went in to the theater in a pretty jocular mood, and every attempt at humor made me wince.  I was questioning the value of mankind by the end of the film.  Gregory Poirier, the mind that brought us See Spot Run, would have had more success making me laugh drumming on my testicles with pool balls.I really can't say enough bad things about this movie.  Even for you heavy breathing, teenage virgins, there's nothing in it for you. The plot, the acting, the delivery, the resolution were all deplorable.If you ask me, Jerry O'Connell hasn't done anything worth watching since Stand By Me.  "},{"Title":"Disgusting, pointless, and stupid.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is just another 100 minute excuse for disgusting site gags.  Movies like There's Something About Mary and American Pie worked really well because beneath the crude humor there was a spark of originality.  There were a lot of jokes in those two films that you never saw coming. Tomcats pointlessly pushes the barriers of good taste simply for the sake of being shocking.  Shock comedy/gross out humor really only works when you're genuinely surprised by the comedic conclusion.  The humor in Tomcats never rises above the comedic cleverness of 10th grade gym class.  I have full confidence that virtually any member of the audience could've written the punchlines to the jokes given the set-up. As for the cast, Jerry O'Connell is a horrible actor.  At all times he looks as if he's going to break character and start laughing (the end of the film proves my point by showing outtakes in which he does just that).  Jake Busey played his annoying jerk of a character so well that if I ever met him in real life I'd be tempted to hit him.  Before you shout That's the whole point! let me say this If a character in a movie is so annoying that he makes audience members want to walk out, then the filmmakers have gone overboard.   The two female co-stars Shannon Elizabeth and Jaime Pressly were underused, as was Horatio Sans.  If this movie had ANY scenes that were even remotely funny, one of these three were in them.   Overall I have to say that this movie was just plain stupid. "},{"Title":"It made me laugh","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know There's something about Mary was much better as gross fun. But this one made me smile a lot, and actually laugh out loud two or three times. Not that tears were running from my eyes, but I was shaking with laughter at least once, so it was worth the while, all right. And, yes, now I guess I know what a nut looks like. "}{"Title":"Trash pile","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not even worth a free view on cable, this is the dumbest most infantile thing ever, was this directed and written by twelve year olds? Slapstick is funny, dumb is funny, but it actually has to be funny to be funny! The premise is the guy needs 50K to pay off the casino, but casinos don't give credit to nobodies. Then he can't figure out where to get the money but he is driving around in a 71' Plymouth Hemi Cuda worth way over 50K. The acting is cardboard, the direction mindless and the story so ridiculously dumb you can't even enjoy this as a time waster or a good silly movie like Dodgeball or Anchorman. God help us all from this drivel, I'd rather slam my head into a wall for an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"unfunny","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After being groomsmen, a group of friends make a bet to see the last single man standing win a pot of cash. The prize has grown to almost half a million dollars. Michael Delaney (Jerry O'Connell) is a commitment phobic womanizer. While in Vegas with his friends, he gets into $51k gambling debt trying to impress a woman. Then he's desperate to marry off the final bachelor Kyle Brenner (Jake Busey) to his lost dreamgirl Natalie Parker (Shannon Elizabeth) within a month. She's an undercover vice cop. She agrees to do it for revenge and half of the money. Meanwhile his friend Steve (Horatio Sanz) is concerned that his wife Tricia (Jaime Pressly) may be having a lesbian affair.Jerry O'Connell has never been a comedic lead to me. He's more of an idiot sidekick like Horatio Sanz. Although I don't think the material is funny even if the movie has a different lead. Jerry is perfectly fine as a womanizer because the audience don't find him threatening and he's laughable. It's loud and obnoxious which is the hallmark of Jerry. The comedy is more awkward than funny. "},{"Title":"Tomcats Everywhere Hate This Film.","Date":"29 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tomcats (2001) Dir Gregory Poirier / Cast Jerry O'Connell, Jake Busey, Shannon Elizabeth, Horatio Sanz, Jaime Pressly Stupid teen sex comedy about a group of bachelors who bet on who can remain single the longest. When Jerry O'Connell loses big time in Vegas he makes a deal with the police woman who arrests him. Apparently a fellow bachelor stood her up and she accepts the task of helping O'Connell win. Familiar concept seems lifted from the superior American Pie. Directed by Gregory Poirier who does a fine job at spoofing other films throughout, which gives this perverted escapade some visual appeal. Despite its idiocy O'Connell plays off the humour effectively as a helpless victim of chance when assaulted with one sexual turnoff after another. Jake Busey plays a womanizer counter to O'Connell who will arrive at the same moronic climax as his competition with no sense of decency. Shannon Elizabeth as the police woman who becomes nothing more than a sexual prop. Is it difficult to predict that she and O'Connell will hook up? Horatio Sanz plays O'Connell's airhead friend. Jaime Pressly is featured so that Elizabeth can have competitive eye candy. Vulgar scenes include a testicle that makes an incredible journey onto someone's dinner plate. The purpose of this film is to feed off the success of American Pie thus becoming a pointless perverted orgy. Score 4 / 10 "},{"Title":"Silly and So Funny ~!!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you feel like to just laugh, forget about everything around you that bothers, I think this movie would be great. This one is full of lots of silly, comic things about sex and man and woman relationship, and there is no pause. The silly funny things are just coming and coming... and it wouldn't let you stop laughing. The scene are composed of the things ( I guess, almost everything) that you might imagine about sex, and stupid act of boys..( and even beyond the imagination, for some case), and I couldn't stop laughing, actually make me pleasant. Of course, it was happy to see jerry. His role in that stupid way...made him look so cute. "},{"Title":"Better Than American Pie!","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  TOMCATS I thought was just another American pie nock off like Road Trip and other teenage comedies involving sex. This one does have a lot of things that copy American Pie. The first being the plot of the story making a pact. Only in this film it's not to get married and win $475,000. Another thing is Shannon Elisabeth from American Pie stars in the film (note she is not nude or foreign in this film). Tomcats After seeing the film several times in a row I realized that this was indeed as good or better than American Pie. "},{"Title":"Not As Lewd as I expected","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented Tomcats last evening, an was expecting a lewd and crude movie. It really fell flat on that measure.  There's really nothing here that hasn't been done before or better.  It was entertaining, but was just not as shocking as I was expecting "},{"Title":"not THAT bad!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To sum up the movie in one word - entertaining. I feel that the plot line was silly in that Jerry O'Connell loses a bet in Vegas and owes $51,000 to a guy who wants to kill him if he doesn't pay it. Well, what's silly is that his best friend is rich and between him and some others they have $470,000 in stocks on another bet. Yet he has to stoop to finding this woman to marry Jake Busey within 30 days to collect the $470,000 bet in time, when this guy appears to never have any personality or will to marry?  So....the main plot was ridiculous, many of us agree.However, the laughable scenes are that - laughable, entertaining, yet at times disgustingly sick. Very watchable, and Jerry O'Connell is very likeable as the all around best friend....I give this movie an average rating, but cannot see why it did so bad in the box office with all of the other sludge out today.WARNING Do NOT watch this with a girlfriend, it is asking for the committment question or ring conversation to come up after watching it. Additionally, the meaningless sex and kink content in the movie may leave you alone at the end of the night (depending on your woman!). Watch this movie alone to see Shannon Elizabeth and see first hand how pathetic buddies look right when they get hitched for comedic value.    "},{"Title":"This film is NOT sexist.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, women are degraded, objectified and generally not treated as human beings. You may wonder how I can both agree to this obvious truth and still make the assessment that Tomcats is not sexist. Well, Tomcats doesn´t treat its male protagonists any better. They too are degraded, obj... You get my drift.Point in my case The rape scene. I´m talking about the scene in which Michael is punished by the women he tried to seduce. This is definitely an unwanted sexual act he is forced to perform (or rather have performed on him.The movie expects us to believe, that this incident would leave Michael almost completely unaffected (apart from his decision to never date a redhead again). Implicitly the audience is also led to believe, that he deserved it, because he is an unfeeling jerk. The message No means no does not apply to sleazebags. Try to imagine this scene with reversed gender roles and note the blatant misogyny.This scene is probably one of the most misantric scenes in film history. I can´t even come up with a single example that isn´t NC-17.  "},{"Title":"Good enough movie.","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a decent enough movie. If there's nothing else playing in the theatre (as was the case when we went) you'll probably enjoy it, but don't feel any need to go watch it.Probably a good rental though. "},{"Title":"The last scene had me laughing so hard, I almost passed out.","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Overall, the movie was okay. Not as good as American Pie, but it had some very funny moments. Especially the final scene, which made me laugh so hard I got light-headed. Good matinee fare, but probably not the best date movie. "}{"Title":"what's with the bad rap?","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie has some great scenes that are classic comedy in the SNL ilk, granted its one veteran here, Sanz, is not actually in them or playing a major role. From the last scene with the Animal Rights people, to the balls scene, to the dominatrix, this was some seriously sophisticated, funny comedy that deserves credit for being just that - you can't take this movie seriously though, but comparing it to the range of cheesy Hollywood action movies which put me to sleep (Armageddon just to name one example), it is a serious winner. Buying the Cow also highlingting Jerry O'Connell with a possee of equally funny goofballs is right up there in laugh value with this one - talk about a great double feature "},{"Title":"Jake Busey saves the day","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Recently I have had the unpleasantness of seeing way to many films in `Dude, where is my car' category.  To top it up, I find Jerry O'Connell (which I only know from Sliders) everything but interesting actor.  But, hey, believe it not, this one wasn't that bad.  Mostly because the filmmakers concentrate on building rather fast comedy, with the stupidity as its trademark.  And there is not much of repetition as so often is the case in films such as this one.  Finally it has cruder jokes, aiming for maybe a little older audience then some other similar films. What did however hold this film back was lack of ambition, both in the cutting and acting.  The actors seemed to have their mind on the pay day, rather then to produce good acting.  And the mistakes in cutting where way to many and apparent.  You have the feeling that they filmed hundreds of funny scenes, and than cut the best ones together, not concentrating too much on the actual story line while doing so.  Character creation was awful, especially by Jerry and Shannon, but what saved the film was Jake Busey (Son of Gary Busey), which many might remember from Starship Troopers.  Jake turned in some great work here, and was the only solid character, which in itself is funny, as his character is supposed to be half crazy anyway.  I recommend this as average, but funny nonsense. 5/10  "},{"Title":"Funny movie, tasteless, but funny","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Most of the scenes in this movie are hilarious. but a few of the scenes are truly tasteless.  The scene with the testicle was funny right up until the end, then it just turned disgusting.  Also I didn't care for seeing Busey in a thong.  I always enjoy seeing Shannon Elizabeth. "},{"Title":"a good laugh","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  the film achieves what it aims for... give audiences a good laugh. no complicated scenes, nothing to think about... what it is is what it is.  just sit back, relax, and laugh! and learn what a nut looks like! "},{"Title":"This is the funniest!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Damn, this is the FUNNIEST movie I've seen in a long time. Its the funniest movie I have ever seen at the cinema!I can't undertand what the voters thought, it was clearly awesome, I saw it a few hours ago, and the whole cinema was laughing and clapping (and ooohing when the really bad things happened) and oh no-ing when the librarian got Grammy to help out!!! HAAHHAAHAHAA!!This was the best movie! See it at the cinema, might get a bit tamed down on the TV (I'm buying the DVD when its out).I don't like crude movies all about sex (like American Pie, I hate that movie, 0/10 boooo it sucked!) but movies that are actually funny like There's Something About Mary and Waynes World are truly funny movies! And TomCats is definitely one of them!!So everyone who hasn't seen it yet, SEE IT! And if you haven't voted yet, vote it out of the horrid 4.9/10 that its in .... it has received a heap of 10s... from me too... but some serious people with no sense of humor, nor a good movie have flamed it!! So vote 10!!Thanks all, Ark "},{"Title":"Dirty Tricksters!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie wasn't horrible, but it wasn't good either.  They gave the movie out to be somewhat NC-17.  There were no breasts in it at all (with the exception of one in the credits).  It was basically penis jokes.  The plot was ok, but they just false advertised it almost.  Next time guys, don't make it out that there will be nudity and then there really isn't.  I don't mean to come off as a pervert, but this was retarded. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as critics say, and pretty clean!","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is silly and stupid, like many movies coming out today. But, there are many funny bits and good laughs in it.  I saw it with the cast and crew, because I worked on it.  Of course, that night many laughed, because they were biased.  But, then I saw it again, with a few friends in a packed theatre on opening week-end, and people were laughing their asses off.  I say, have a couple of drinks first, then go with friends wanting to laugh, and you'll have a good time! The move parodies are hysterical.  Besides the MI2 parody, there was also one on American Beauty.  "},{"Title":"WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD, BUT BE GRATEFUL; I JUST SAVED YOU 10 BUCKS AND 93 MINUTES YOU'LL NEVER GET BACK","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know it's too early to be making years end lists, but I'd like to offer my candidate for the Worst Picture of 2001. If the Actors/Writers Strike prevents crud like this from being made, I say BRING IT ON!I hated this film. This is the most hateful, god-awful piece of crap I've seen in a long time and remember, I've seen Battlefield Earth. The 1968 Russian version of War and Peace seemed shorter than this. And that was over 8 hours in its uncut version. Tomcats is only 93 minutes.Tomcats is an attempt to outgross the average teen grossout comedy. Now, I don't hate teen grossout comedies. There have been some I've enjoyed. I was one of the few defenders of Road Trip which I expected to be godawful but at least had a kind of manic energy and ended up making me laugh more than I expected to. It also had the talented Canadian comedian Tom Green in its' cast. No one in Tomcats has much talent, unless you define talent as cursing and doing all sorts of gratutitous things.Speaking of Tom Green *SPOILER*, there is a scene in this tripe in which one of the characters has testicular cancer and has one removed only to end up as lunch. This is gratutitous and offensive. When Tom Green's excellent Cancer Special aired last year, it used humor in a very positive manner and made more people aware of this disease than ever before. Tomcats just uses this to string along a line of unfunny gags that accomplish nothing but lowering SAT scores nationwide.Tomcats was written and directed by Gregory Poirier, who according to Roger Ebert, also wrote this year's David Arquette vehicle See Spot Run. Well, this garners Poirier the distinction of being the first writer since Larry Bishop in 1996 to have TWO films on the worst of the year list.The Tailor of Panama is also a Columbia Pictures release. Go and see it. It is a masterpiece. Stay away from Tomcats You'll thank me later. "},{"Title":"Tomcats Should Be Put to Sleep","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You know a movie is in trouble when Ebert gives it zero stars out of four.  Tomcats isn't that bad (at least an eighth of a star), but it is far from good... or funny. The Plot Using the word plot for this bawdy comedy is being kind, for its story is as old as the lame 1980s style animated opening credits. A group of players are terrified that marriage may end their bachelor ways. Mike (Jerry O'Connell) is the hero of the group who, with fellow Tomcats, make a bet that says the last one to not get hitched will get $500,000 from a mutual fund they have set up. Mike's  $51,000 gambling debt forces him to trick buddy Kyle (Jake Busey) into marrying Shannon Elizabeth's cop character, Natalie. Mike eventually falls for Natalie and the two... I've gone crossed-eyed. Not because of the plot's wannabe complexity, but because of its IQ deficiency.  I've read nutrition labels with more originality. The Good Director/writer Gregory Poirier rapidly fires plenty of gags at the viewer, ranging from a testicular cancer operation with a twist, to a hilarious parody of MI-2, which is the movie's best bit. Poirier's aim is way off and he is too eager to please the American Pie crowd, as is his youthful cast. Jerry O'Connell's charm is on overdrive, but even he can't escape the cruise control pacing and mindless execution of the jokes. Busey's raspy overacting makes Joan Rivers sound angelic. Beautiful Elizabeth, and the other gals, serve as pleasing eye candy.  A cameo by Bill Maher is the only funny actor in the movie. The Bad Too many jokes are ripped off from funnier movies, like South Park's Winona Ryder ping-pong gag. The scene involving Mike retriving half of Kyle's manhood in a hospital is more disgusting than funny. And any college guy expecting gratuitous nudity can see more on Discovery's Amazon Tribe specials. Tomcats teases and never delivers, but thinks it does. It is an awful Farrley brothers' movie disguised as a bad Farrley brothers' movie, and a few random laughs can't justify it being made. Tomcats is the definitive gross-out comedy. It makes us nauseous to the fact we actually paid to see it. "},{"Title":"Jerry O'Connell shines in Tomcats!","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tomcats is a movie with a plot as complicated as any toy you will find in a day care center, but do they want it to be?  Nope!The movie is about as predictable as tomorrow's date, but does that matter? Nope!Tomcats makes you laugh and that's what you go see it for.  In the traditions of American Pie, There's Something About Mary, and Road Trip it's an overall success in keeping the laughter flowing.  I for one, was disappointed in last years two very gross out comedies, Me, Myself & Irene and Scary Movie, but found myself going back to laughing like i did w/ American Pie, w/ Tomcats.Don't get me wrong, Tomcats definitely has its failed jokes, most obvious are the MI-2 and American Beauty parodies that just don't work.What does work are the antics of Jerry O'Connell; the most likeable character in the movie and by far the funniest.  This could be a break out movie for him.  His pathetic situation is what keeps you laughing as you see the things in his apartment dwindle away and how he acts within each situation.  O'Connell delivers the laughs and if you can laugh at him & with him, you will enjoy the movie!  The most memorable scene involves him chasing a nut and like the pie scene in American pie or the hair gel in  Mary, the nut is what probably will keep people talking about the movie and allow Tomcats to do well.The rest of the cast is ok with props to some humor by both Shannon Elisabeth(American Pie, Scary Movie) and Horatio Sanz(SNL), but we aren't exactly looking for oscar performances here either.If you are looking for a good time, go see it, if you like saving your money for only the best films of the year, wait for video, but I saw it for free so maybe that's why i liked it more!7/10 "}{"Title":"I'd rather have a testicle removed than see this one again.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What can you say about a movie whose funniest episode sees a fat man wrestling a garden hose? The acting, particularly that of lead man Jerry O'Connel, is embarrassing. The dialogue is so contrived and unfunny it makes you cringe. The controlling idea is actually not a bad one for this genre (infantile teen comedy), but, somehow, the director manages to make the least of it. I rate it a 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Runs like a Farrelly brothers reject","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Highly flawed but just about watchable `comedy' that runs like a Farrelly brothers reject. The most criminal thing about it though is the casting. I couldn't for one minute believe Jerry O Connell and Jake Busey in the role of superstuds, who could pull any woman at the drop of a hat, nor could I believe (the very beautiful) Shannon Elizabeth as a streetwise tough cop!. Story is predictable but does manage to raise a titter on a few occasions, although, the `gross out', meant to be `shock comic' scenes, (one involving an amputated testicle, and another set in a sperm bank) are just plain awful. If this film is on TV then its probably worth watching if you are extremely bored, but please don't waste your money renting it!! "},{"Title":"Terrible.","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Right then. This film is totally unfunny, puerile, has gags from other films, has songs from other films (Blink 182's Mutt, Grand Theft Audio's We Luv U), an unlikeable leading man, a ridiculous plot, and lame parodies of films like Mission Impossible 2 and American Beauty. Redeeming features? Shannon Elizabeth and Jaime Pressly. Enough said. "},{"Title":"I could pull a better movie out of my ...","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is movie is garbage, it looked really funny on the previews but I didn't laugh once through the whole movie. Do yourself a big favor and don't waste your money on this, don't waste anyone's money on this. I gave it a 1/10 believe me I would have given it less if I could have. I'm a 15 year old guy and I thought it was trash if you wanna see a good movie go out and see Jay and Silent Bob strike back. "},{"Title":"Stinks worse than cat litter","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Horrible, misogynist drivel. My neighbor brought this turkey over, subjected me to it, and didn't have the courtesy to apologize. The plot was laughable, my four year old could write a better movie.  "},{"Title":"Anyone for testicles?","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you want to see someone accidentally eat another man's testicle, or look at a row of pathetically fake hard-ons at a wedding, or listen to a man talk about how good it felt to have sex with a girl while she was throwing up, then this is the movie for you. Alternating, in neck breaking fashion, between romantic and gross out comedy, Tomcats is certainly interesting. The lovely Jaime Pressly plays the wife of Horatio Sanz(tell me another one) who is found in many silhouetted situations with other women, but there is, surprisingly, no nudity. Jake Busey is thoroughly revolting as a hound dog who you wouldn't want as your friend. Shannon Elizabeth and Jerry O'Connell are both good and make a convincing couple, but the movie is far too busy trying to disgust to be any good. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare move over!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rare and auspicious are the moments in film-making when greatness stands as a defining monument for the rest of the industry to measure themselves against and for us to immerse in that glorious moment.Some stories transcend their time and aspire to the lofty reaches of a classic and the stuff of legends. Throw in the refined skills of an ensemble cast of thespians who are at the very top of their game.Where has all the originality gone? It is here, as this story and it's cast sashay through a plot and story that will not only educate but also entertain even the most seasoned of Shakespearean/action/love story connoisseurs.I cannot begin to imagine where the writers dreamed up this extraordinary tale. Where do geniuses get this kind of inspiration? I now have hope for mankind, knowing that this kind of talent still exists gives me hope that we will make it to the stars and beyond, perhaps to the very gates of heaven.I have, like others before me, dreamed of greatness. Though I did not write this movie I did see it and because of this movie's noble greatness, I feel as if I have been elevated to a higher level of being, a higher level of spiritual wholeness.It is no wonder this kind of glory eludes most of us. What would become of our world if we all could attain this level of magnificence? We would probably be consumed in a white fire of super-nova glory as we evolve into trans-dimensional spiritual beings capable of omnipotent creative power.The most important thing to know, with all your heart and the very essence of your being, is that Tomcats is nothing like what I have been talking about. Tomcats is the antithesis of all I mentioned. It could very well destroy our world. For as some reviewers rate a movie on a star system, i.e. 1 through 5 stars, or even zero stars, I'm going to rate Tomcats a black hole.I am willing to donate money to a cause that will put a stop to these kinds of atrocities that, as of late, seem to be running amuck at box offices. I'm not even adverse to the use of nuclear weapons. It must stop. How much more of this can we take before aliens from outer space come down here and blow up our planet because we have so many stupid, crass, vulgar, unimaginative, and degrading movies spewing out of Hollywood? I'm not even going to dignify this movie by mentioning anyone's name that starred or produced it. I'm not even going to waste my time describing the story, since we've seen it a ba-zillion times, and all of the past versions were at least a ga-zillion times better.By the way my head nearly imploded during this movie, but with supreme selfless effort and lots-o-luck I survived to warn the public. You have been warned. "},{"Title":"Absolutely appalling","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie, quite literally, does not have one redeeming feature.  The characters are one-dimensional, cliched, incredibly misogynistic and stupid.  The script looks as if it was cobbled together from 100 other movies, the acting is horrible, and some of the 'gross-out' humour made me feel nauseous.Shame on you, Gregory Poirier, for thinking ANY of this would be funny or interesting!The worst movie I've seen in several years. "},{"Title":"It is impossible to imagine a more terrible movie","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Guidelines state that a comment must contain a minimum of four lines. That is the only reason I am saying anything more about Tomcats. Because after all, my one line summary really says everything there is to say. There is absolutely NOTHING remotely entertaining in this film. "},{"Title":"Once Again the Critics were wrong","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Now Tomcats wasn't THAT BAD. I remember all these critics were saying this movie was so bad. Yadda Yadda. These are the same people who said that Black Sheep was a bad movie. Tomcats had it's moments that you will never forget. Sure Jerry O'Connell was better in Joe's Apartment, and maybe Hoartio Sans isn't the best actor in the world, all together it makes up a pretty good movie. I recommend it, if you like slapstick comedy "}{"Title":"fun and funny","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was so funny! I think all those who say it isn't are either idiots or just not into comedy. I like the movie, I thought it was a very clever twist to a story. I got to admit there were a lot of strange happenings, but it was funny. There are a lot of pretty women. I like Jill ~.^ lol, it was fun! "},{"Title":"This film was brilliant","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I didn't actually want to see this film but I'm really glad I did. It was brilliant - it was witty and intelligent as opposed to a lot of mainstream movies these days. I've watched it a few times now and still love it. It's not my favourite movie and it's not the best movie ever made, but it'll make you laugh and you won't be cringing from cliches or undeveloped script.  "},{"Title":"For Some Reason I liked this movie -/","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie really wasn't funny and it was stupid so I really don't understand why I found it a little entertaining. Maybe it was because Shannon Elizabeth was in it or perhaps because the characters were a little likeable. But whatever the reason is I kind of enjoyed it a little.2 1/2(**1/2)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"Overall amusing but some parts are really bad","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie was very funny in some parts. The librarian with the magic bedroom and the whole wife being with another woman ideas were funny. Unfortunately they had to ruin it with the whole hospital routine. Would have given the movie a 9 if the left that part out. "},{"Title":"Not nearly the worst movie ever!","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes it is pretty bad - almost without any redeeming points (other than the easy-on-the-eye female cast) - but at least it is (just barely) watchable. There wasn't even enough sex in it to make it your typical teenage sex movie! Lastly, it is - as others have accurately stated - not even funny. Occassionally stupid and sometimes gross, but nver actually funny. My vote 4/10 "},{"Title":"Funtastic!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I entered the cinema, saying to myself that I was about to watch another easy fun movie, with all the typical gags and jokes related to teen spirit movies. I was wrong! Tomcats is very enjoyable and it made me laugh through out the whole movie! The testicle scene is a must!!!!  "},{"Title":"It's not as bad as you've been hearing.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has been getting one bad rap after another since it was released, and after finally seeing it, I'm still trying to figure out why.  Most of the pieces are in place for at least a decent movie, and it's a little strange that this movie has done so poorly in the box office while other movies such as American Pie 2 have done so well.  The cast is pretty decent, highlighted by Jake Busey, Jerry O'Connell and Shannon Elizabeth, and the writing and directing weren't THAT bad.  The story is that of Michael Delaney (O'Connell).  He loses big in Vegas and has to come up with a lot of money very quickly, and the only way to do it is to collect on an old bet.  When younger, a group of his friends made a bet and all began contributing to the pot.  The last one to be married would win the pot, and by this time, the pot has gotten quite large.  The two remaining bachelors are Michael and his good friend Kyle, and since Kyle is rich and has a very active sex life, Michael thinks nothing of cheating his friend out of the bet.  The only thing to do, to save his hide from the Vegas loan sharks, is set Kyle up to be married before his loan comes due.  He finds an old friend of Kyle's, Natalie Parker (Shannon Elizabeth) and convinces her to help him win the bet.  Together they must convince the bachelor who never wants to marry, to do just that.  I know the plot sounds kind of lame, but the telling of the story wasn't all that bad, and there were plenty of laughs interspersed throughout the movie to keep you entertained.  The acting wasn't what you might call impressive, but Shannon Elizabeth sure makes it hard to take your eyes off her and will easily please her growing fan base.  It's not the greatest sex comedy ever made, but it was easily better than most of the reviews it was receiving.I think the one thing that doomed this movie was the amount of sexual content contained in it.  It was definitely enough to get an R Rating, but not nearly enough to please the American Pie crowd.  Had they toned the movie down and gotten a PG13 Rating, I think the movie would have done better, because expectations wouldn't have been so high and more of the audience it was geared towards would have been able to watch it.  But I also think the movie would have done better had there been more sexual content.  While the crowds weren't flocking in droves to see this, the ones that did would have been happier with the results.  When you see a sex comedy, you expect to see a lot of sex and a lot of comedy, and this just didn't have it.  This was more of the soft R Rated material and that had to disappoint a lot of the people who saw it.  The producers and director would have done much better to either go for broke with the R Rating, or cut it down enough to get the PG13, but they really hurt themselves by staying in the middle of the road.That said, I enjoyed watching Tomcats.  I wasn't convinced that it was going to be a bad movie, and I was pretty happy with the results.  There were enough things there to keep me entertained and I had a good time.  If you are expecting American Pie 1.5, then this won't satisfy you, because it's just not up to those standards.  If you are just looking for a funny movie to keep you laughing for a couple of hours, then you might want to take a chance on this one, but don't believe the hype, it's not THAT bad.   "},{"Title":"Cool Flick","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A really fun movie. Jake Busey had me in stitches. Not for the serious types, who will without a doubt rip it to shreds for lacking originality and being a bit crass at times. I walked out with a smile on my face, which was the reason why I watched it in the first place. If you looking for a decent comedy, Tomcats will not disappoint "},{"Title":"Lighthearted fun with a lot of sex","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I feel that Tomcats has been unfairly criticised by the, er, critics. After all, it ends up being exactly what it set out to be - a very funny movie aimed at the late teen to early 20's male audience.The main plot itself is quite predictable, and you won't get a lot of surprises on the way there, but there's a lot of fun to be had.I was interested to note that one of the lowest rating demographics for this movie was females under 18 (not surprising), but that females 18 - 29 were one of the highest rating demographics. Perhaps the older girls enjoy watching some of the hero's misfortunes?If you're not in the mood for a sweeping Epic, but would prefer to kick back in front of the video with some friends for a laugh, I would definitely recommend this movie. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Shannon, she's a fox. In French she would be called la renarde and she would be hunted for her bushy tail.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Leave all your ethereal, pedantic nuances at the door. Go in, sit down and enjoy. If you think the plot is transparent you've missed the point. It's just 2 enjoyable hours, some good jokes, some very genetically blessed people and some nice, gross humour. Ideal for a Sunday with a hangover.Leave, go to the nearest church and thank God for making Shannon Elizabeth. "}{"Title":"Perhaps I should be embarrassed....","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  but I laughed often throughout this movie.  I knew full well it would be low brow but apparently a lot of people were confused and expected the English Patient or something.  It's called Tomcats and is about a bunch of young womanizers for crying in the soup.  Jerry O'Connell and Jake Busey are both quite good.  Shannon Elizabeth is beautiful even if she can't act (I don't care).  You have to be in the right mood, go with a buddy or two, and you'll probably have a good time.  Some parts seem over the top but nothing surprises me anymore.  These guys have quite a bit to live up to if they're Farrelly prodigies but it was a funny movie. The people who are complaining so hard about this movie probably don't even like this kind of movie in general so ignore them.  Go on cheap night or rent it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Laughable movie for its comedy, among other things...","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  So, Tomcats isn't the most sophisticated movie ever.  It may not have a great plot, the dialogue may be annoying at times, and maybe the whole movie might seem really stupid.  So, why does any of this matter?  It's a funny movie, and I don't care if the critics think it's too unbelievable or highly unlikely or anything like that.  What I do care about is that it's supposed to be a comedy, and it accomplishes this goal very nicely.  The laughs start out very few and far between, but by the middle and end of the movie, the comedy shines much more.It isn't the funniest movie, and it's no Academy Award winner, but Tomcats is still worth watching.  Jerry O'Connell is great in this movie!  Yes, it's not supposed to have great acting, but given the circumstances, O'Connell shines throughout!  His role as the constant victim and main character makes you feel sorry for him, and still be glad when something goes right for him. Oh, and Shannon Elizabeth's character is also amusing.You'll be surprised when you see this movie and find out it's not as wild as it's made out to be!  Though, I must emphasize that some scenes are somewhat disturbing...  And I use the term somewhat VERY loosely.  So, if you just watch out for the above mentioned disturbing parts, and expect to see a funny movie that has its moments, then you'll be satisfied.  My opinion is that this movie deserves at least a (7/10), though most people would call it a 1/10 or less simply because they aren't extremely open-minded, which really helps.BTW- The Tomcats comic drawings were awesome!  I think it'd be great if an actual comic was created out of those concepts.  The artist's style is just amazing! "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't expect this one to be much more than entertaining.  Shannon Elizabeth is no thespian here, but that's not the point of the movie.  I didn't expect much, and I was pleasantly surprised -- not at all disappointed to pay full price.  It wasn't quite what American Pie was, but it's in the same ball park.  Good date movie, good movie for the boys or for the girls, but don't forget your sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Good, but not great, movie","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw a screening of Tomcats two night ago.  I've been reading some other reviews where they pan the movie for being unbelievable and contrived.  I agree.  It's still funny though.  I don't go to the movie because I want reality.  It's a simple plot with cute sight gags and goofy casting choices. Bill Maher as Carlos the Mobster?  I don't know what they were thinking there.  The very fact that it doesn't make a whole lot of sense is part of what makes it funny.I say, Go, see the movie.  There aren't that many great movies out right now anyway. "},{"Title":"Fun, energetic comedy that is worth several viewings.","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is funny. A lot of people expect too much of comedies, especially now. This movie is classic. There's a lot of vulgar humor but it's really funny, not generic and cliché like American Pie and all the terrible sequels.This movie is well written, and more importantly, well executed. If you like comedies that have a lot of energy and a lot of humor, you'll love this movie.The star studded cast is just a bonus in this flick. Where else can you find such a variety of actors. Jerry O'Connell, Jake Busey, and Horatio Sanz are three completely different personalities and when they meet on screen it's great entertainment. This is a movie that can be appreciated by guys and girls even though it's billed as a guy's movie. I'm not a big fan of Shannon Elizabeth but I think she was right for this movie. There are several other actors in this film and it's fun to recognize this as their start in show biz.Everyone should watch this movie once. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly not that bad, and actually rather amusing, it was vulgar, but overall it was a pleasant time waster","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is surprisingly not that bad, and actually rather amusing, it was vulgar, but overall a pleasant time waster. All the characters are good, and the story is amusing enough, plus Jerry O'Connell was quite funny as the main lead as I really dug him. Shannon and Jerry had good chemistry together, and Jake Busey stole a lot of the scenes, plus one of the funniest moments in the movie for me is when a Doctor eats a testicle disgusting but funny. It had some pretty good music, and the ending really cracked me up, as it was quite clever, plus there is plenty of great eye candy to enjoy as well. Dakota Fanning had a cool cameo as a little girl in the park, and some of the gags are really tasteless, but I just couldn't help but find some of them hilarious, plus it's decently made and written as well. All the characters are very likable, and The outtakes at the end were funny as well, plus this should be a little bit higher then 4.6 in my opinion. Sure there were quite a few misses, but it never bored me, and I didn't regret watching it, however it's nothing special. This is surprisingly not that bad, and actually rather amusing, it was vulgar, but overall it was a pleasant time waster, worth the watch. The Direction is decent. Gregory Poirier does a decent job here with solid camera work, and keeping the pace fast enough, even if the jokes Wern't constantly funny. The Acting is actually somewhat fun. Jerry O'Connell is actually very funny and likable as the main lead, he never over does it, and was really born to play this role, he also had very good chemistry with Shannon Elizabeth, had a cool character, and made the film better with his excellent performance. Shannon Elizabeth is gorgeous, and does very well in her role here, she seemed to be having a lot of fun, and had a really likable character, she was also very sexy and, I just loved how she handled Jake Busey's character!. Jake Busey is great here, he stole a lot of the scenes, as the overly horny pig, but I just couldn't help but like him, as he was really funny, he was especially great at the end!. Horatio Sanz is funny as Steve, as I loved his reaction when he found his GF messing around with another woman, and they asked him to join them. Jaime Pressly is also gorgeous, and did very well with what she had to do, which was not much, but man was she ever sexy!. Dakota Fanning had a cool cameo. Heather Stephens was hot as the sexy red head mistress. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall worth the watch. **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"It's just one big lampoon.  Don't take it seriously.","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Everyone talks about how stupid this movie is - one insists it's totally degrading to women - but come on, it's a deliberately stupid movie, a spoof of every GUY stereotype out there. I thought the way men were lampooned was hilarious, and I'm a guy. Sure, the women are degraded, but that's a spoof of guy's attitudes, too. Some people have no ability to laugh at themselves or at social tendencies and think everything needs to be politically correct. This movie is so incorrect it's ridiculous, which is why it's funny. Jerry O'Connell is actually good, and Shannon Elizabeth has good chemistry with him. Jake Busey's character is so full of himself it's funny, because he has no reason to be. The sight gags with Jamie Pressly and the maid border on hilarious. (Yes, the testicle gag is downright gross and calls for extreme suspension of belief.) Don't take the movie seriously at all and you might enjoy it if you're in a kind of raunchy mood. "},{"Title":"Not sexy, not funny a hateful bomb","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tomcats (2001) Jerry O' Connell, Shannon Elizabeth, Jake Busey, Jaime Pressly, Horatio Sanz, Bernie Casey, David Odgen Stiers, D Gregory Poirier. Dirty and childish excuse for a romantic comedy about six friends who make a bet the last one to be a bachelor wins a mutual fund of $6,000; when seven years pass, a cartoonist and a sex-aholic are the only two bachelors left while one of them searches in find of longtime bridesmaid Elizabeth from his friend's wedding for the other so he can get the money. Degrades women as bimbos and men alike as sex maniacs in a cast of one-dimensional characters acting out humiliating, gross-out gags concerning lesbians, erections, oral sex, anything, you name it, but its lowest point has to be the cancerous testicle on-the-loose! Running Time 95 minutes and rated R for strong sexual content including dialogue, and for language. * "},{"Title":"Cheesy!","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I mostly rented this movie to see Shannon Elizabeth. She played well in this movie, but the plot sucked. The movie wasn't really about anything just about trying to stay single after making a pact when one of Jerry O' Connell's friends gets married. The other friends put together this money and who's ever last to get married get's the money ($10,000) from all his friends. Anyway the movie just try to follow through by making no since and trying to make it more funny then making since. I'm glad I only paid .50 for this movie. It really wasn't good at all. I rated it **** out of 10 stars! "},{"Title":"Cute comedy and is funny just not  some other film. Itself.","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Compared to other films like Scary Movie, American Pie, There's Something About Mary, etc. Tomcats comes out to me way far ahead. The movies compared to mean to contain comedic nastiness of a sort that really is not funny but actually is possibly debilitating. Tomcats has its' share of off-color language and sexual innuendo and directness but it does not go too way over the top into continual pure dirt. I for one feel Gregory Poirier has a comedic touch and got a lot from his cast as maybe fun was had by all on the set and it shows in the film and featurettes of the DVD I purchased twice and have given. The menu alone for the DVD and the opening credits I can play for hours they are just that cute to me for the film they are the setup for.Here, here to Tomcats. Need more. "}{"Title":"No plot movie unable to be saved by beautiful girls","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the worst I've ever seen. Even being hangover didn't help. The plot is lousy, if existent. The relatively large number of beautiful girls are unable to help. I guess seeing an episode of temptation island with the sound turned of would give the same kind of experience. Do NOT see this flick "},{"Title":"A some funny some not.","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought it will be a Ok movie after seeing the commercials about it. It was funny at some parts and some very nasty. The only person I felt sorry for is Horatio Sans who got a hot wife who is cheating on him with other women. But he never got a chance to have a threesome with until the and that was good but they should have made more bigger thru out the film. "},{"Title":"WORST MOVIE EVER","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay guys. Seriously. Not joking here at all. I came home somewhat drunk tonight with the sole intention of catching Tomcats on Pay Per View. For some reason this seemed like a good idea see alcohol consumption. Anyway, it was only on one channel, and had started thirty minutes ago. Perhaps I missed something in those crucial first thirty miniutes, but in the sixty-five minutes or so I *did* see, I can only say that this was the stupidest nonsensical worst movie I have ever seen in my entire life. Seriously. So please, do yourself a favor and avoid this movie at all costs. Even the outtakes weren't funny. Seriously. Please. Whoever greenlighted this movie should lose their job. There are no alternatives. Please pray that noone involved in the making of this movie ever works again. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Awful","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tomcats is easily one of the worst movies I have ever had the misfortune of losing $5.00 for. It is the most perverse, disgusting and agonizing comedy that I have ever seen. It's not like I'm one of those 50 year old English teachers who has never smiled at a movie for years. I'm a 15 year old male who actually got my father to get me into this dreck of a film. The movie stars Jerry O'Connell, Jake Busey and Shannon Elizabeth (3 otherwise likable actors). The Tomcats are a group of men (that's right, men, not women as the previews would lead you to expect) who form a pot of money that they vow will go to the last available bachelor. I'm only going to SPOIL one of the so-called jokes here, there's a part where a certain part of the male anatomy lands in a plate of food and is eaten. Now this could've worked, had it been in the hands of a somewhat decent director, but instead it leads to one of the most horrible images ever put on-screen. It's not funny, it just makes you want to think about whether or not you want to finish that popcorn that you've been enjoying 100 times more than this movie. Tomcats is just sub-par and coming from a guy who has American Pie listed as his fifth favorite movie of all-time, that is saying a lot. 1/10           "},{"Title":"Terrible.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was ready to hang with this awful movie because I chuckled once every 10 minutes-at the repo men(very funny) and the potentially lesbian wife (somewhat funny) but when it got around to testicular cancer as humor I knew when to pull the ripcord.  "},{"Title":"Women&#133;stay away&#133;&#133;.all &#145;guy' flick!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Actually, probably just all &#145;single guy below age 25' flick.  Six friends swear off marriage, and up the ante by each putting a grand in the pot, which grows to half a million (stocks) and leaves two guys left.  One needs the money to pay a debt, and coaxes a former girlfriend to try and marry the other guy.  Of course, he falls in love with her, and has trouble letting her marry the friend.  There was actually scenes which I myself thought was a bit too far!  F "},{"Title":"An Okay comedy","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I picked this movie of the DVD self wanting to see some teenage comedy and hot chicks. And that's exactly what this movie is. Nothing more, Nothing less. In the end credits there are some gags, I probably found the Michael and director (slight spoiler hint) one funnier than half the movie. I love these Teen flicks. "},{"Title":"Silly, but funny.","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Is it silly? Yes, this movie is silly. Is it hilarious? Yes, it is. Is it not original? No, it is not original. So what? It's supposed to be.I liked it. Was it funny? Yes, it was to me at least. I was much more entertained than with those overhyped star wars prequels. "},{"Title":"Nothing else matters except it's FUNNY...........","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Crude, juvenile, sexist, sure, but the cast is obviously having fun, and it translates to plenty of chuckles, laughs, and one or two absolutely hilarious situations. Jake Busey plays an ego-eccentric Don Juan to perfection. Uncredited appearances by Gary Marshall and Bill Mahr were unexpected surprises. The marriage bet scenario offers plenty of opportunities for ridiculous situations, and plays out to a satisfying conclusion. If you enjoy comedies like Buying the Cow, Sorority Boys, or Strange Wilderness, this is your movie. Another bonus is that this film actually gets better with multiple viewings. Great comedy. - MERK "},{"Title":"the ultimate toilet-humor flick///may have spoilers","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This comedy is far and away better than American Pie or Road Trip! Not a single joke written by Gregory Poirier misses its mark. Unlike American Pie, you can watch this film over and over again, and continue to laugh at the same jokes.It does incorporate Pie's Shannon Elizabeth, who was much better in American Pie, lets face it, with her clothes on, she is nothing spectacular. I found it easier to relate with the guys on Tomcats(O'Connell, Busey & Sanz) than the horny teens of Pie. Jerry O'Connell(the fat kid off Stand By Me) gives a great performance here as does Busey, Sanz and the sexy redheaded librarian Heather Stephens.I can't wait to see more of Gregory Poirier's work in the future. He has a certain knack for capturing the despair of being a single twentysomething in modern day American.This is an instant classic that I rushed out and bought right after renting it. "}{"Title":"That empty, hollow feeling.","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Here's the spoiler At the end of the movie, a little piece of you dies. You'll spend the rest of your life searching in vain for that missing piece, but it's gone, it's gone. You'll wander the streets at night peering into your neighbors' windows as they sit down for dinner. Friends and family will try to pinpoint when exactly you turned into the walking dead. You'll answer their questions and concerns with a blank stare and some mumblings about a runaway testicle. When AMC inevitably makes Tomcats the movie of the month, a series of mysterious murders will take place in your city. You'll wake up the next morning balled up on the floor of the kitchen with a faint taste of brains in your mouth. Then you'll crawl into the living room and onto the couch. You'll stare at the wall, wet yourself a little and then begin to laugh maniacally. Because once your dead inside, Jake Busey in a thong is actually pretty damn funny. "}]