[{"Title":"Brings clarity to a fuzzy subject","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First they came for the Communists, and I didn't speak up, because I wasn't a Communist. Then they came for the Jews, and I didn't speak up, because I wasn't a Jew. Then they came for the Catholics, and I didn't speak up, because I was a Protestant. Then they came for me, and by that time there was no one left to speak up for me.Attributed to Rev. Martin Niemoller, 1945When faced with intolerance or injustice, the easiest thing to do is nothing - speak up and you risk becoming an object of scorn.  But when does enough become too much?  Global anti-Semitic sentiments allowed Hitler's genocidal policies to thrive, and equal doses of fear-mongering and ignorance made it possible for the anti-Communist purges of McCarthyism to destroy thousands of peoples' lives.  Inaction makes one no less culpable.Lawrence Newman is a chameleon of a man quiet and nondescript he blends seamlessly with his surroundings.   Lawrence doesn't like to get involved - when he witnesses an attack on a young woman, he tells no one and goes about his business.  His world spirals into chaos when he buys a pair of glasses, and is mistaken for one of them. Lawrence's view of the world and its view of him is forever altered. While the subject matter of this film is not new, its presentation is definitely unique.  It is much easier to understand the irrational nature of prejudice, when placed within a certain context - Lawrence is more concerned with the assumptions that he is Jewish, than he is with the views of his attackers.  He believes that if he corrects this oversight that everything will be all right, not realizing that logic and prejudice never go hand in hand.  Whether playing a schemer (the only thing I liked about Fargo) or a down home nice guy sheriff, William H. Macy's roles are linked by a common thread -his characters share a subtle, deliberate countenance that gives them substance.   Macy nails Lawrence down to the smallest detail, and says more with a furtive glance or tremble in his voice than a page of dialogue.  By showing, rather than telling, Lawrence is able to share his fear and bewilderment with the viewer.  The supporting cast brings the story together.Laura Dern is compelling as Gerty, Lawrence's bombshell wife with a past. Trailer park rough, yet other worldly wise, she has also felt the wrath of prejudice as the result of a mistake and unwittingly exacerbates Lawrence's situation.  Michael Lee Aday (aka Meatloaf) is frightening as Fred, the prototypical redneck next door, equal parts ignorance and venom, rallying neighbours to his virulent cause.   In the midst of the chaos is Finklestein (David Paymer), the focus of the aggression, and the voice of reason that raises the important questions.  Paymer's even handed portrayal keeps Finklestein from becoming a stereotype or someone whose sole purpose is to engender sympathy, making his one of the strongest performances in the film.The tight editing and close-cropped cinematography make for a clean picture with few distractions, and mixes an air of claustrophobia in with the small town USA feel - it is simultaneously comforting and disturbing. The deliberate use of harsh two-tone lighting to accentuate the malevolent aspects of the piece and the carefully scored soundtrack, are powerful without being overwhelming.   Finally, the set and costume designs recreate the feel of the era, an essential component in the film's message.Focus' unconventional approach in dealing with prejudice is reason enough to recommend this film.  Just consider the excellent story, solid acting and look of the film as added bonuses.   "},{"Title":"What a difference a pair of eyeglasses make...","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most people attending this film will have no idea of the great novel by Arthur Miller that is the basis of it. It's a novel that should be read by more people to see how prejudice affects and alters peoples lives.At the beginning, Lawrence Newman is an ordinary man. The eyeglasses his boss makes him get change everything he has worked for and his whole world collapses around him, little by little. There couldn't have been an actor better suited to bring this intelligent performance to the screen than William H. Macy. Not only is he a talented stage and screen actor, but he projects honesty behind every character he plays. He is an everyday man caught in his own insecurities. His anxiety intensifies when he takes a stand and walks out of his job. Suddenly, he has to confront the issues he has tried to avoid all his middle class existence in the Brooklyn of the 40s. Is he Jewish, is he not?  The cinematography in this brilliant and atmospheric film, directed with sure hand by Neil Slavin, kept reminding me of some Edward Hopper's paintings, especially a sequence at the beginning of the film when Newman steps outside a building and the night shot when he and his wife are being followed with long black shadows behind the couple, menacing and anticipating the confrontation with the bullies. Laura Dern, David Paymer, and especially Meat Loaf, who infuses incredible depth to the bully-next-door, are excellent, but they all pale in comparison with the stellar turn of William H. Macy (H must stand for HONEST..) If you haven't read the book, I would sincerely recommend it because no one has written more truly and convincingly than Arthur Miller has. "},{"Title":"Compelling and disturbing","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie packs a punch. There are a few every now and then that make me think deeply, and disturb me a lot. I could see myself in this same predicament - passively allowing things to happen around me, not standing up for the right and decent thing, just trying to avoid trouble. How often do we avoid making waves or sticking our necks out? How often does our inaction condone the evil actions of others. We would never join them, we tell ourselves, we recognize that what they are doing is bad, but do we do anything about it? Lawrence Newman (William H. Macey) is a low-key, nerdy office worker who has paid off his home in Brooklyn, NY in the waning days of World War II. He rarely gets engaged in what is going on around him, has never married, rarely socializes, just goes to work and cares for his invalid mother. Then a series of events in his very white little neighborhood pull him out of his complacent shell into a maelstrom of events. It starts as he witness from his bedroom window the rape of a Puerto Rican girl by the son of his neighbor. Soon after he gets glasses because of poor vision. As he is now better able to see, he becomes less able to deal with the circumstances of his life. The one bright spot is a new love in his life, and he marries, hoping to continue on in his normalcy. Then the virulent anti-semitism on that street catches him, despite his credentials as a Presbyterian WASP. As things spiral further out of control, he discovers he must make an important decision - does he take a stand or does he simply go away.I cannot how anybody can view this movie without being affected and having to think very much about themselves and what they really stand for. Post war anti-semitism is the setting here, but there is injustice at all times and in all places. It is for the individual to decide where he or she stands. "},{"Title":"Fine film of Arthur Miller novel.","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For many, perhaps Arthur Miller is most famous for his 4 1/2 years married to Marilyn Monroe. For me, it is his Death of a Salesman for which I did a lengthy report as a college assignment in the mid-60s. I had never heard of Focus, and it is a movie that few have seen. An interesting premise, well-executed. His WASP-ish everyman character in 1943 (during the war) comes under attack after he gets a pair of new eyeglasses, which apparently makes him look Jewish. His Americanism is questioned, his garbage is overturned, is forced to quit his job, he gets thrown out of a union rally when he fails to stand up and clap, he and his wife get roughed up by thugs on the street at night. The film is an examination of our tolerance for prejudicial treatment of others, then our own reaction towards such treatment.The critic Ebert has a fine and complete review. William Macy, David Paymer, Laura Dern, and Meat Loaf Aday are all fine in their roles. A worthwhile 106 minutes of thought-provoking entertainment. The DVD, which was a free loan from my local library, has a sharp picture and good use of DD 5.1 sound. There is a very interesting extra which includes Arthur Miller discussing his book and the movie. "},{"Title":"American Anti-Semitism Confronted in Focus","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1947, two films, Crossfire and Gentlemen's Agreement, opened a queasy Hollywood's examination of anti-Semitism in our society. Gentlemen's Agreement dealt with religious bigotry at the level of high, or at least upper middle-class, America while Crossfire exposed the brutal violence that always accompanies irrational hatred and bias. Both films made, and continue to make, an impression.Overall, Hollywood has left anti-Semitism in the U.S. pretty much alone. That many Jews have found success at both ends of the movie camera is well-known. That some of those Jews, many with Anglicized names, particularly feared the sting of the anti-communist fervor of the HUAC and Mc Carthy era, is a still disturbing and lasting legacy of a difficult time in our history. The controversy several years ago about the special Oscar for Elia Kazan brought the issue to the attention of millions ignorant of the heyday of Hollywood's involvement with the anti-communist campaign. Kazan, incidentally, directed Gentlemen's Agreement.Focus, which is showing in remarkably few theaters (only two in Manhattan and I wouldn't bet on a long run) both exaggerates and encapsulates a strain of anti-Semitism in New York City during the Second World War that, even today, few who recall it say much about its pervasiveness.The War Department was discomfited to learn through surveys that a surprising minority of servicemen thought the war was being fought for Jewish interests or that actually it had been caused by Jews. These beliefs, possibly spawned by the virulent rhetoric of Father Coughlin, the near treasonous utterances of Charles Lindbergh and the organized pro-Nazi rallies of the Bund (the U.S. arm of the Nazi Party), were more widespread than most accounts of the war recognize let alone explore.Focus takes place in a Brooklyn neighborhood of seeming homogeneity marred only by the presence of Finkelstein, the candy store proprietor on the corner. To insure that the audience understands the depth of the community's fear of Jews, quick shots of his unmistakably frum (Orthodox) relatives from the Lower East Side are presented several times.The cohort of organized thugs who harass both the nerdy-with-glasses-mistaken-as-a-Jew guy, William H. Macy, and his glamorous-in-a-forties-way, also mistaken as Jewish, bride, Laura Dern, didn't exist in New York City. Anti-semitic assaults occurred but they were sporadic and involved local youths, not followers of a priest who in the film is the spitting image of Father Coughlin back from hell.What is so chilling is that the married couple's abhorrence of the growing and organized anti-Semitic harassment is not matched by any introspection as to the baseness of their own feelings about Jews. Both Mr. Macy and Ms. Dern are extraordinary as actors in a small, local drama that recasts their lives without, perhaps, causing them to reshape their own bigoted views. Or do they change?This is a moving drama that invites exploration of part of the reality of World War II on the Home Front not covered in the continuing outpouring of Greatest Generation memoirs. When available for rental or purchase it should secure the much wider audience it deserves. "},{"Title":"The message is timeless - baseless hatred is stupid","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The essential message - one which Miller would have surely intended after seeing Vichy war crimes trials - is that hatred of somebody without rational basis is a waste of life.  Meat Loaf's character, Fred, has known Lawrence for many years, and yet when the time comes, at the bidding of his fanatical supporters, he allows them to attack a man who is not part of their target group.  For me, this is the crucial message - it doesn't matter what Lawrence and his wife do from this point onwards - they are marked, and have chance to save themselves by using reason.  Animal aggression and anger have blinded Fred's Union thugs to reality.A friend of mine suggested I should see The Wave to study how irrational hatred and evil ideology can take over people without them realising it.  I once conducted an experiment in a role-playing game, and was shocked to see how normal and level-headed people welcomed the creation of an oppressive police state - which would ultimate threaten them all - because it crept in in stages.Fred is the start, his LA friends and preacher idol are the catalyst which pushes his neighbours over the edge into violence without stopping to think that what they are doing in wrong.The relationship between Lawrence and Finkelstein, the Jewish shopkeeper is a fascinating one, because Lawrence misses the point almost until the end if the bigots force Finkelstein out, where is he to go?  If his family have fled the Nazis, what an irony to be tormented again in the land of freedom.That big poster (it's a fairly famous propaganda piece) about American families enjoying the highest standard of living in the world is a very important detail.  When you see this film, watch for the grafitti on the subway train, and all the little posters.  The message lurks there too.This movie should be on the curriculum of every school, especially in our time when baseless hatred is being promoted so widely by reasonable people who are just extremists in thin disguises. "},{"Title":"It's not just about the glasses.","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Others' main criticism of this film--namely that Macy suddenly looks Jewish upon donning his glasses--is misplaced. The glasses are just the little bit of change needed to CONVINCE others he's a Jew. The scene in which he says to his boss, (paraphrasing) but you KNOW what my background is, along with another discussion with his mother, suggests that he's had to fight this same assumption in the past. The glasses now make him look just Jewish enough to confirm his neighbors' and co-workers' existing suspicions. Then there is his new wife's large nose and taste for loud clothes, which OF COURSE means she's Jewish. The whole point of the film is how those little stereotypical nothings become the entire basis for judging others. If he has a lisp, he must be gay. If he has long hair, he smokes dope. If he's Hispanic, he's got a knife...and if he has round black glasses and he's slight of build, he must be Jewish. Those statements all sound equally (im)plausible to me. If the conclusion people were jumping to in Focus was reasonable, the whole point of the story would be lost. "},{"Title":"Terrific Performances and a finely tuned story","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of Arthur Miller's finest works, Focus, comes to the screen and while there was a lot to like about the movie, some of it seemed like it was almost unreal (though I'm not sure if that's in a good or bad way). William H. Macy, great as always, plays Lawrence Newman, average Joe and good guy in Brooklyn, NY in the early 1940's who finds he needs a new pair of specs.  Unfortunately, his choice of glasses makes him appear to be, well, Jewish, as this seems to his mother from the start.  Lawrence tries to ignore the ignorance and bigotry in his neighborhood against the Jewish people, but with a string of events involving his neighbors (Meat Loaf, David Paymer), and a new girlfriend (Laura Dern in one of her best performances) who knows what trouble Lawrence is in, push him into the conflict of his life.Often, Focus, delivers a poignant, startling and smart story in showing a character with so much at stake it is making him insane.  Macy and the rest of the cast are so close to perfect and if only for them make this a must see.  Not to dissapoint the fans of Miller's book, I suppose, but if it does then that is just another flaw.  B+ "},{"Title":"Good Intentions...But Poor Execution","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If good intentions were enough to produce a good film, I would have rated the turgid, ponderous, obvious Focus a bit higher than 4. Macy does his best, but as an earlier poster commented, Miller's little parable asks us to suspend disbelief too often. Perhaps the novel gives us a bit more background on Newman, so we can understand how someone who is obviously not without intelligence could be so dense in perceiving the attitudes of those around him. I agree with another reviewer that if one is unaware of how bigoted average citizens were in America during this time period, then this movie might be an eye-opener. I grew up in the fifties, and the good pastors of my Lutheran church found nothing wrong with having the church picnic at a commercial beach, whose sign prominently indicated that no Jews or blacks would be admitted. It is difficult for young people today to understand that this was the norm, and not just in the South. As late as 1964, when I graduated from a somewhat racially integrated (but sexually segregated) public high school in Baltimore, my black classmates could not attend the traditional father and son banquet, as it was held at a facility which did not admit blacks. Sadly, it was an establishment owned by a Jewish family. The subject matter of Focus is important, and we should never forget, despite the lingering signs of racism in modern America, how truly repulsive the attitudes of that previous generation were.(The greatest generation, indeed). So, perhaps this film is somewhat valuable in countering the recent wave of sentimental crap about the forties from the likes of Steven Spielberg and Tom Brokow. But in the end, as in Far From Heaven, the filmmakers' good intentions are undermined by having a protagonist so ridiculously oblivious to the social conventions of their time. "},{"Title":"nearly unwatchable","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had the unlucky experience of stumbling upon a preview for this movie and thought it might be interesting. I am a fan of the two main actors, and I even find Meatloaf to be oddly appealing, but that couldn't compensate for the droning plot of this movie. This movie attempts to make social comments and be artfully intelligent. I am sure the audience gets the sociological message clearly, but has to suffer in the process. Personally, no matter how bad the movie is, I can't stop it in the middle. Something drives me to finish the worst of movies, but I often regret it. This is one of those... "}{"Title":"Ending leaves you wanting more","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie tells the story of prejudice against jews in New York City, during World War II. It's great in the fact that I never knew such prejudice existed in our own country, and tells this story well. I would have liked to give this movie 4 stars, the acting was incredible all the way around. The storyline, however, kinda went nowhere, and the ending left a lot to be said. Since this is a book adaptation, which I haven't read, but I almost think they left out the last chapter. If there was some kind of resolution at the end, this would be an even better, fantastic movie. Should you see this movie? Great performances and a driving story, but just nothing left at the end.  10-21-02 "},{"Title":"High Hopes, Low deliverance","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had never heard of this film until it came to DVD. I was immediately intrigued by everything about it the actors, the title, the cover, and especially the author. Arthur Miller, you can't go wrong with him, can you? Yep. I haven't read the novel, but I'm going to guess it was a lot better than the film. I had high hopes for this movie. I love Macy and Dern, and it looked interesting. Unfortunately, this film never really rises above cookie-cutter messages about racism and bigotry. If you've never seen any other films that deal with this subject, or if you never knew that America was founded on bigotry, then maybe this film will wow you. Others will probably find it predictable, stale, and overall bland.  "},{"Title":"Issue put out of focus by vanity","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First I must admit that I have not read the story on which this movie is based. Secondly I have to confess that I am always highly suspicious of movies which depict actions that are supposed to have happened more than fifteen years before production and try to create an authentic setting.That much said, I would like to explain why this film disappointed me so deeply. I presume the aim of the story consists in denouncing the outrageous absurdity of racism and prejudice and not in setting up the period piece this movies tries to be. In the center of this story should be a pair of glasses generating prejudice (hence the title focus)! Instead we have performances of brilliant acting talents such as Macy (at one time absurdly, artfully distorted like a comic book character), Paymer, Dern and Meat Loaf, clean sets with theme park quality, flawless fotography, brilliant colours. Everybody is striving to give his or her best &#150; and it all confounds the issue. Ambition and ultimately vanity prevailed and killed the story to a large extent. In my opinion the whole approach to the story was a wrong one.  "},{"Title":"Poor movie on a serious subject","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Let me first start with the obvious antisemitism has been a serious problem throughout history, present in many societies and causing the deaths of million of Jews. That said, the problem with this movie is that it views the United States - probably the most welcoming society ever to Jews outside of Israel - as a not very different place from Nazi Germany. Set in 1943, the movie is about a man (William H. Macy) who gets confused with a Jew after he starts wearing glasses!. A number of very nasty things happen to him after that (he loses his job and he is unable to find a new one, his neighbors shunned him, all ending up in a violent confrontation). From one of Arthur Miller's self pitying, patronizing novels, the sort that gave liberalism a bad name. "},{"Title":"Less Is More","Date":"17 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What can be said about judging books by their covers can also be said of judging films by their posters. In the case of Focus I was drawn as much to its poster, a brilliant B&W photograph, as for its star, William H. Macy (featured prominently in the poster). The poster was reminiscent of Straw Dogs, and from that I expected a film of the same quality, a film that exercised the same subtlety and control, undoubtedly building to a similar violent climax (punctuated by the calm that preceded). But from the first scene of the film, a dream sequence that depicted a carousel (an overt metaphor for the cycle of hate that spins out of control - not unlike the film itself) I knew that my expectations would be disappointed. The sequence, aside from being gratuitous, wasn't particularly interesting - visually - and would have been better used as the background for the opening credits. Instead, the opening credits interrupt the film shortly thereafter. The dream, however, never ends, and we, the audience, are propelled deeper and deeper into a nightmare of shoddy filmmaking. There were moments when I hoped the film would improve, but ultimately the various talents that went into this film were wasted. "},{"Title":"Fear and Loathing ferreted out back home . . .","Date":"21 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" . . . by Marilyn Monroe's most messed-up hubbie, Arthur Miller. The themes of FOCUS are a more intensely personal form of psychotherapy for Miller than for most of America's screenwriters, and the making of shows Arthur was still johnny-on-the-spot during location filming, even at the advanced age of 86. All of the angst of the teenage Miller are reflected in FOCUS, which he did not spew out onto paper until he was 30. After the incredibly long wait of 56 years to see this story move from script to screen, the nearly-nonogenarian Art finally got to recreate the scary America teen boy Art saw upon arrival in Ann Arbor, MI in the 1930s, when it was the center American anti-Semitism. On those days the U of M's ferrets were not out on the gridiron, the AM radio was rife with the infamous Father Coughlan, dubbed then as Hitler's Priest (and thinly disguised as Father Crighton in FOCUS). A stone's throw away from Coughlan's Royal Oak Shrine of the Little Flower and U of M's Ferret Bowl was Henry Ford's River Rouge world HQ in Dearborn, where Ford published his widely-circulated anti-Semitic rag (and Ford henchman Harry Bennett made sure everyone read it on their five minute lunch break--literally at gunpoint). A Jewish kid from New York might have found more friends at Gestapo headquarters than Miller was likely to have found in Michigan in the 1930s. Coupled with the traumatic memories of his father's Depression-era business failures, it is a wonder that Miller had enough drive to give us all such happy pieces of Americana as DEATH OF A SALESMAN, THE CRUCIBLE, and THE MISFITS (the flick that was the death of Clark Gable, by the way), and bamboozle Marilyn into thinking that she would be happier with him than with Mr. Coffee! "},{"Title":"almost totally empty","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Arthur Miller has always been known as one of America's great playwrights for works such as Death of a Salesman and The Crucible. Focus is one of his lesser known plays brought to the silver screen. However, knowing what a great playwright Arthur Miller is, I doubt that his original play was very much like the movie. The movie comes across as empty and formulaic, with William H. Macy as a non-Jew mistaken for a Jew by anti-Semitic neighbors in WWII Brooklyn. Don't get me wrong the acting is OK, and I presume that the people behind this movie were probably trying to make a point about racism, but the movie just doesn't work. Macy, Laura Dern and David Paymer just can't create an effective story with the material here. "},{"Title":"Macy Makes it Worth Watching","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" That just about sums it up. Macy's fine acting saves an otherwise poorly scripted film about a very serious subject. The idea that merely by putting-on or taking-off a pair of spectacles can change a person's life in the extreme, is frankly unbelievable. I mean if it did happen surely you would find a pair of spectacles that were less 'obvious'? Laura Dern looked particularly uncomfortable as a 'Jewish' looking non-Jew and the idea that a sexy blonde who drew attention and wolf-whistles wherever she went would fall for Macy is preposterous. It was as dumb a suggestion as Macy's other good looker falling for him in 'The Cooler'. Come on Hollywood, get your act together with a little more realism. Finally Meatloaf did good as the bigot next door. "},{"Title":"Why doesn't he just take off the glasses?","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie, which deals with racism, is about a hiring manager who only discovers he is myopic when his boss berates him for hiring a foreigner going by the name of Pan who was really Paninsky. He is told to shape up and get some glasses, which he does, small horn-rimmed frames that make him look like a ringer for Karl Liebknecht (the leader of the German Social Democratic Party during the first World War). The amazing thing is that even after he loses his job, and realizes that he doesn't exactly make the same impression he used to, he never once thinks of taking off the new pair of glasses. He even wears them to a fascist meeting that he attends at the recommendation of his Jewish wife (who swears she's not Jewish) where he is quickly beaten up. At the end he is forced by circumstances to admit that there is no difference between him and the others who share his situation (the Jews). Ultimately, in seeking police protection from the fascists for himself, his wife, and his Jewish neighbors, he identifies himself with the Jews, a turnabout from his previous denials that he is not Jewish. Definitely an original movie with good acting, but one which asks us to suspend belief just a little too often, and yet seems strangely relevant to the times we are living in. "},{"Title":"Excellent mediocrity","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Focus tells of a bland and nonconfrontational man (Macy) who buys a pair of eye glasses which make him look Jewish after which be becomes the object of antisemitic hostility, etc, blaa, blaa. A kind of lame attempt at revealing antisemitism in America during WWII, the film features solid performances by Macy and Dern though no chemistry exists between them...or anywhere else in the film. Generic, staged, and pale in comparison to many better films about hatred in American, Focus is marginal entertainment at best and a very meager history lesson. Passable stuff. "}{"Title":"I couldn't even finish this movie","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Did the other reviewers watch the same movie I did?  This was poorly written, poorly acted, and just overall boring.  I made it well past the halfway point in the movie and then just gave up.  I can't possibly imagine an ending that would have made the rest of the movie worthwhile.  Don't waste your time with this dog.  Seriously. "},{"Title":"Should have been Better","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film, based on a strong story written by Arthur Miller in 1947 finally got to the screen in 2001, but it left me wondering what had happened to the screenplay adaptation?. While the intentions were obviously good, good intentions also deserve good visual and story treatments. The first half tends to meander along at the expense of the powerful last quarter. Could it perhaps have needed a more experienced director?Being the first feature film by TV Commercial director Neal Slavin, the visuals are flamboyantly stylish and well shot by D.O.P. Juan Ruiz-Anchia (Jungle Book '94) but somehow much of this seems to be at odds with the important, and very serious message the film makers are trying to tell. The somewhat over the top floozy treatment given to the Laura Dern character and the intense attention paid to William Macy's circular, horn rimed glasses (very common in those days) seemed out of kilter. These may seem like small details but tended to add several visual distractions to the overall power of the message. Not sure what it is with certain Canadian feature films, often they seem to lack vital ingredients and yet their documentaries rank among the best in the world. Performances are mostly good and the subject might be useful for those studying the racial paranoia that swept the world at this shocking time. Many other works have given more thoughtful handling to this subject, among these were James Hilton's (precursor to the war) examination of propaganda fueled hatred in the 1939 W.Bros film We Are Not Alone ~ and in 1947 20th Cent Fox turned Laura Hobson's novel Gentlemans Agreement into a quite successfully adapted screenplay.Focus has the odd interesting moment but unfortunately not enough of them to be successful. Multi-talented Emmy winning composer, arranger, producer, Mark Adler's effective music score seems a little similar to another score written in the same year (for a certain Cable TV show) adds nicely to the film's atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Focus Needs Some of That ***","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An interesting film which is a take-off of the 1947 Oscar winner Gentleman's Agreement. In this version, a non-Jewish couple is mistaken for Jewish and they soon view all the indignities that anti- Semitism brings-rejection at hotels, violence, cursing, the whole 9 yards.William H. Macy was very appealing as the personnel director who is demoted. When he wears his new glasses, he is taken for Jewish as well as his future wife who is supposed to be the stereotype of the Jewish woman-loud, colorful clothes, etc.The picture really shows the degree of hatred existing in the U.S. during the waning days of World War 11.The ending is uplifting when the couple is forced to take a stand after an assault. "},{"Title":"Meandering and Never Fully Convincing","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Set in the Lush Technicolor World of the War Years, this is a Film from an Arthur Miller Novel Written Contemporaneously and Brought to the Screen Over Fifty Years Later. It was Ignored by the Distributors and the Public.It is an Inconsistent One Note Rant about the Homefront's Anti-Semitic Fanatics with Radio Evangelists Spewing Hatred and Division when the World was Fighting Fascism and the Propagandized Drivel was Bought and Embraced by a Surprising Number of Americans.The WASPS were Buzzing about the Jewish International Bankers Driving the USA into a War to Fight for the Semites. The Prejudice in Middle Class Neighborhoods is Seen through the Eyes of William H. Macy a Somewhat go along to get along Gentile who is looked at as a Jew because He Suddenly Wears Horn-Rimmed Specs. This is a Conceit that the Film Never Makes Convincing. Laura Dern as Macy's Wife (also mistaken for a Jew) is also a Suspension of Disbelief the Movie Never Makes Clear. So with that the Film is Doomed in its Attempt to Deliver a Gripping Moral Tale and Ends Up Becoming a Showpiece for the Good Acting and the Sumptuous Cinematography.Overall, it is a Frustrating Film in Many Ways. Mostly, Aside from the Already Mentioned, the Theme is just too Important to be Allowed to Wallow in this Type of Heavy-Handed Comic Book Nonsense. It is a Misfire, but a Good Try. It just Never Convinces and is Left Flailing About and Wandering with its Inconsistencies and Unbelievability. This is a Truth that is Not well Known and has to be, Most of All, Clear, Sharp, and Convincing. You Know...In Focus...The Film is Not. "},{"Title":"intolerance","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" it is the axis. an Arthur Miller novel adaptation who reflects the fear, the confusion, the search of sinner. a nuanced adaptation. short - a great movie. that seems be all. more important than the story is the acting. and the science of director to explore the nuances of war. result - a film about the innocence of a man, the force of society vision and the decision to save you. William H. Macy does an admirable job and his performance becomes the basic spice of atmosphere.Laura Dern is not a surprise but the art to use the ambiguity of her character is a real virtue. and, sure, Meat Loaf in a role who reminds the fragile line between good and evil. far to be unique, it is, yet, an useful warning. and that fact is the most important thing. "},{"Title":"When they make up their own mind about who you are, it's over","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Though fairly devoid of dramatic twists or serious action, FOCUS succeeds in being a nonetheless gripping film. Based on a novel by playwright Arthur Miller, FOCUS goes deep in a subtle, parabolic way about the danger and ultimate silliness of ethnic/religious/racial/etc prejudice, how public perception and treatment can be radically changed merely by the style of someone's new eyeglasses, and so on. Set in the melting pot of NYC during World War II, it's sobering in its revelations of antisemitism--and in the process, prejudice against any other non-white group--on American soil. While it doesn't actually show the war in Europe, the radio broadcasts of Allied victories against the murderously racist Nazis provide an ironic backdrop to the film. FOCUS truly captures the 1940s It doesn't just show the setting--It puts you right in it.The characterization of protagonist Lawrence Newman and William Gacy's performance as same are a little flat He's a bit too much of a quintessential white, nerdy, mainline Anglo-Saxon Protestant office worker. At the same time, this seems deliberate and serves to carry the point of the film in many respects. Otherwise, most of the acting is quite impressive, with excellent performances by Laura Dern as Newman's new-found love and former rock star Meatloaf as Newman's go-with-the-majority Teamster neighbor. "},{"Title":"Every great story deserves an ending","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Fantastic adaption of a play-- setting, acting, direction, photography- this film has it all. I found William H. Macy's performance riveting, as usual. Meat Loaf was frightening believable in his part as an somewhat ignorant villain. Laura Dern brings an element of beauty and is slightly unhinged portraying the woman who ultimately stands by her man and for what is morally true. Thoroughly mesmerized by the film noir feel of this picture. The only major problem I have with Focus is the ending (or lack thereof). For me, every great story must have a resolution or a conclusion. Many will argue that you must be left with the freedom to draw a conclusion on your own, but for me it just feels like being left in the middle of a sentence of a conversation you have been engrossed in for an hour and a half of listening. This is the thing that would have made this movie a 10 for me. "},{"Title":"You can only sit on the fence for so long ...........","Date":"1 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Exposing antisemitism on the 1943 home front, this film version of an Arthur Miller book, comes across as somewhat preachy, yet the fine acting and flawless wartime community setting cannot be denied. William H. Macy, and especially David Paymer, are outstanding. Neighborhood stereotypes abound, and the uncomfortable subject is not easy to call entertainment. I somehow felt that I should be in a classroom watching Focus, and later discussing the movie. Nevertheless, Focus dares to be different, which in today's copycat film world is refreshing. If you are tired of the same old, same old thing, you might try this one. - MERK "},{"Title":"The movie is very well written and well acted.","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm a huge fan of legendary director Elia Kazan . His movies often deal with people trying to overcome their weaknesses. Be it obsessive love in 'Splendor In the Grass, poverty in A tree Grows in Brooklyn or racism in Gentlemen's Agreement. While looking for other movies made by Kazan, I stumbled across a movie that was based on a novel by Arthur Miller. The movie called Focus stars William H.Macy (who happens to be one of my favorite actors) and Laura Dern. It deals with anti-Semitism in a very realistic way. Macy's character seems to go along with the bigots in his neighborhood and on his job, until it affects him personally. That's the key here... the reason he acted wasn't because he knew it was wrong and he wanted to take a stand, he acted because he was now considered an outsider, and he began to experience the same looks, the same remarks, and the same brutally that Mr. Finklestein (David Pamyers)experienced .The movie is very well written and well acted. Meat Loaf does a awesome job of playing a dirt bag! Both Macy and Dern's performances are outstanding! It's easier in life to go along with, instead of going against. Sometimes in order for people to take a stand things have to impact their lives, or the lives of their loved ones...Only then will some find their moral compass. "},{"Title":"eyes wide shut","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie impressed me. What I liked most was the performance of William H. Macy, who plays a square white guy, living the normal life in a mediocre job, sharing a house with his mom in a nice suburb. Everything changes when he starts to wear glasses which allegedly make him look Jewish. It's by no means the message against prejudice and injustice alone that makes this movie worth watching, it's particularly the way the movie shows Newmans reactions to them. At first he is furious, he can't believe what's happening to him when he loses his job. Then he tries to ignore the signs, acting oblivious to the way people react to his appearance. He even tries to join the same group of men that is harassing him, in a desperate attempt to turn the tide. All this guy wants is to live an easy life, he doesn't want to be a part of what's happening to him, but eventually he realises he can't keep his eyes shut an he has to act. The fact that all trouble starts by putting on some glasses just shows how randomly victims of prejudice and hatred are picked. It doesn't matter who or what you are or what you do,  if they choose to hate you, they will. "}{"Title":"Talk about blatent in your face moralizing","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is sooo black & white - stereotypical, big fat or old white guys who hate everyone not like themselves... Nothing special here, just a reminder that Jews have been the target of a lot of discrimination - duh... I don't need the reminder or the lecture, thanks anyway. "},{"Title":"Macy/Miller a perfect combination!","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just when I was starting to finally come down from William Macy's riveting performance in Panic, he's wowed me again.  He often plays characters who are coiled like a tight spring, yet he is always able to show us the foundation of each character.  He draws us into the gradual coiling of his tension until our nerves are singed and our hearts are pounding as hard as his.In this film, he is playing a symbol of sorts.  That is playwright/novelist Arthur Miller's forte.  The characters speak their thoughts in a manner that is highly stylized.  That can be terrific or terrible, depending on the talent involved.  In this film, it is terrific because we are in the virtual reality of 1940s Brooklyn, but we are also here and now.  Hotels may no longer be restricted, but prejudice, intolerance, and the love of hating is as common as ever.  Neal Slavin has tapped perfectly into Arthur Miller's vision.  Vision is fact the key word here.  The film's title is of course in reference to the man's gradual ability to focus on what is happening around him.  But Slavin has also enabled us to see through Macy's eyes.  We can actually see his myopia (I wonder if Macy was able to see a single thing while making this film!), and experience it figuratively.  Although the film is highly stylized, it is refreshingly not used to call attention to that fact that the director went to film school, or to illustrate his fetish for zoom lenses (Von Trier and Soderbergh are you listening?).  Slavin inundates us with extreme close-ups to literally see through the characters' eyes. We see in them and we see from them.  Thus, we can experience the true fear that Macy and Laura Dern (who is also wonderful in this) are suffocating in.There have been a lot of films about prejudice and fear.  The fact that this film took the risk in tackling such a familiar theme, and in a time period that most moviegoers are personally unfamiliar with, took a lot of courage. But don't be deceived. This is not like the Hollywood films that win awards because they're important and good for you.  This is more of a journey through the labyrinth of fear that shakes us to our very foundations. Miller and Macy create an everyman who lives in each of us not so much as conscience but as sentience.  Before we can act, we have to be able to see. "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know if it was the directors intent to make sure the sky was almost always sunny and beautiful in this film. Perhaps that is the romantic image many Americans have of the time this film is set, as it is in the middle of the War, Macy has returned from the war (His neighbor asks Hey, is it true you got a Fritz over there?) and is trying to get on with his life but one day he gets a new pair of glasses (hence the name) and sees things clearly as the surrounding situation reveals itself to be one of rabid anti-semitism, and Macy and Dern could wrapped up in it. Funny how neither is Jewish in this film but the accusation is made. Also it is historically accurate, as the labor union Democrats of this time wrapped themselves in the flags of America and God. Macy is continually pestered to come to the meeting. His presence brings unexpected results.Applying this time frame to today is a study in contrast. In 2005, has undergone a complete reversal, with average citizens who have taken patriotism and religion as their unifier supporting the Republican Party and viewing organized labor as part of left-wing 'unpatriotic' America.A great picture to watch, if you care to see the friendly, timid and meek Macy (played beautifully by him) get caught in the carnage of race and hate in the mid 40's in NYC.A tough, emotionally charged film. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first reviewer is right - In this movie we see ourselves, snuggling up to the majority, being agreeable, trying to stay out of trouble, just trying to live our lives, and we see how easily these very human traits, so fundamental to the functioning of society, can lead us to become complicit in a great evil.The story is set during World War II, with the radio, newspapers and movies reminding us of Hitler's attacks on Jews to underscore the irony of the same kind of violent anti-semitism taking place in America. At times that seemed a little heavy-handed to me.It feels more like a play than a movie, but it's so thought-provoking that such quibbles mean little. Perhaps less trivial is the fact that the entire plot hinges one one little fact that struck me as rather implausible. Larry has lived an uneventful life until middle age; yet all it takes is his beginning to wear a pair of spectacles for everyone - EVERYONE - to, at the first glance, take him for a Jew. I willingly suspended disbelief because the plot kept me moving forward, but the implausibility did bother me throughout the film. (And, quite frankly, I didn't understand why his wife was also taken for a Jew. Larry seemed to think so because her name was Hart. And later when he married her, I don't know why his neighbours assumed she was Jewish.) For the first part of the film I wondered if there were going to be elements of fantasy. Larry's unassumingness seemed exaggerated, almost to the point of the grotesque. Why not call the police on seeing the rape, even if the attacker was a neighbour? And I thought the lighting seemed to suggest something slightly unreal - the red of the houses seemed too red, Gertrude's entrance seemed deliberately overlit, generally the colours were almost crayon-like in their intensity.In the credits I see that it was filmed on Campbell Avenue and Wallace Avenue in Toronto, so I plan to drive down there (near Bloor & Dufferin) today to check out the colours. Really ) It was good to be reminded that the clergy at that time were often leading the evil of racism. (Remember how the pope refused to speak out against Hitler, seeking only to get protection for the Church? It was the same pope, by the way, who, when Rome was about to be liberated by American troops, requested that the first soldiers to enter the city not be black. Check your history.) I don't recall ever hearing of this movie before. That's a shame. It certainly is of great interest to every thinking person, to everyone interested in American history or racism; it's one of the clearest illustrations I've ever seen of Bertrand Russell's dictum, Do not go with a crowd to do evil. "},{"Title":"Jew","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a movie about a man everybody thinks is Jewish.This is a movie about Lawrence Newman, who lives in Brooklyn in the 1940's, at the time of WWII.One day, when he gets himself glasses, people start thinking he's a Jew.And that only, because he looks like one.And he lives in a very antisemitic neighborhood.So some people start treating him like dirt.They make that judgment, being a Jew, of Larry's fresh wife, Gertrude Hart, too.That makes their lives unbearable.Neal Slavin's Focus (2001) is a fairly good look at the antisemitism.That's a problem that won't go away.The movie is based on Athur Miller's novel, which, I admit, I haven't read.But the movie is really good, so I'm sure the book would also.The actors do good job.William H.Macy is always good, and his work as Larry Newman is brilliant.Laura Dern is Gert Hart and she's magnificent.Meat Loaf is almost scary as the neighbor who wants to keep Jews out by any means necessary.David Paymer's character as the Jewish shop-owner Mr. Finkelstein is the most sympathetic in the movie.Paymer is the perfect choice for the role.One of the greatest scenes is in the end when Mr.Finkelstein and Newman fight against those Nazi-like people with baseball bats.They join together to fight the evil.The Christian and the Jew. "},{"Title":"The ignorance of people can be amazing.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very good movie about anti-semitism near the end of WWII. The scene that really speaks loudly of the ignorance of these people is the meeting at the church when the priest is giving his speech against the international money grubbers and communists. It sounds amazingly like the speeches that Adolph Hitler used to force down his peoples' throats, yet none of the meeting attendees seem to make this comparison. "},{"Title":"Macy is the (Every) Man!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" FOCUS (2001) *** William H. Macy, Laura Dern, David Paymer, Mead Loaf Aday. Macy gives another patented and mannered yet excellent performance as an EveryMan in a nightmare set in WWII era Brooklyn his milquetoast faces Anti-Semitism and neighborhood paranoia/fascism to the hilt despite his not being Jewish leading to a boiling pot of one's beliefs and the fine line of standing up for one's self in the face of unparalleled madness.  Based on a novel by Arthur Miller, director Neal Slavin allows the acting to come forth and gets it in bulk with exceptional work by Dern, Paymer and surprisingly Aday as the next-door-neighbor from hell.  Superb production design by Vlasta Svoboda transports one back in time to the era of change in America for the good and bad.  "},{"Title":"Humanity and its obvious blemish.","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well acted drama based on a novel by Arthur Miller. Something as simple as a pair of glasses becomes life altering. Lawrence Newman(William H. Macy)is a man that has chosen to be satisfied with his mundane life; the same job for twenty years and still living with his mother. He is told by his boss to correct his vision with a pair of glasses. Newman's life drastically changes and delves him into hell. The glasses he chose makes him look Jewish. He looses his job and becomes the object of heavy scrutiny by his Brooklyn neighborhood. Searching for a job, he encounters the attractive and outspoken Gertrude(Laura Dern), herself living with conflict because of her Jewish appearance. Soon the couple's new life together becomes a nightmare filled with humiliation and bigotry driven attacks. A very apt cast that features Joseph Ziegler, Peter Oldring, Kay Hawtrey and of musical fame, Meat Loaf. "},{"Title":"When their problem becomes my problem...","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Apparently the novel portrays Lawrence Newman as an anti-semite whose fortunes change when he gets jewish looking glasses. In the movie, he seems to be concerned about the plight of jews, but is not willing to take a stand for them.The facsinating aspect of the story to me is the struggle of viewing the problems of others as their problem, even when Newman is appalled by it.I think I will find a copy of the book to read to see how Arthur Miller originally considered the problem..... "},{"Title":"This is a morality play in 20th century setting.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Focus is an engaging story told in urban, WWII-era setting. William Macy portrays everyman who is taken out of his personal circumstances and challenged with decisions testing his values affecting the community. Laura Dern, Macy and David Paymer give good performances, so also the good supporting ensemble. "}{"Title":"Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men?","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Arthur Miller certainly knows.  His stories give a clearer picture of what it means to live in the United States in the 20th century than any other writer I can think of.Focus, based on one of his novels, is no exception.William H. Macy and Laura Dern give fantastic performances here. Emotionally bruising but ultimately rewarding, this movie is excellent. "},{"Title":"Another great movie starring William H. Macy","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Focus is another great movie starring William H. Macy. I first discovered Macy in Fargo and I've seen a few of his films and he hasn't yet deceived me. Macy is the archetypal nice guy with something to hide. In Focus, he plays the role of Lawrence Newman, a loyal and hard-working stiff, who harbours his handicapped mother at home. The scene is set after World War II, at the height of McCarthyism. Newman is the head of Human Resources for a company which is basically, anti-Semite. After he accidentally hires a woman of Jewish descent, he is asked to buy a pair of glasses, to improve his failing eyesight.Unbelievably, the simple act of buying glasses has great repercussions on his life and that of Gertrude Hart, his wife (played by a great Laura Dern). As the film unravels, Newman will begin to see a whole different world, where being Jewish is akin to being an animal.The movie is disturbing in the way it shows that being racist was something fairly normal. The chilling thought is that in some places, it probably still is. "},{"Title":"To see or not to see...","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Headlines warn us of the current campaign to demonize drug users, note the nostalgia for Mussolini in Italy and remind us of our wont to profile likely terrorists. Focus reminds us of the evils of rampant fear and distrust and the anti-Semitism disguised as pro-Americanism of the WWII era. What goes around...Lawrence Newman (William C. Macy) becomes the unfortunate victim of hate crimes after he is mistaken for a Jew and these attacks increase when his bride, Gerty (Laura Dern) highlights the look. Newman rails against the false accusations when they cause him direct harm but he minds his own business. We see the rise in anti-Semitic attacks through his myopia, a condition not completely cured by eyeglasses.Macy's typical everyman role is featured again and the long road to realization that we are all connected nearly costs him his life. What is it about the character Macy portrays to us? We can't choose to ignore the violence, hate, and bigotry because citizenship forces us to take sides. Newman's dilemma is that he has no alternative but to side with the mistreated and goes through hell to see it. And our sadness is that most of us need to be beaten up to realize the dangers surrounding us.Let's focus.  "},{"Title":"Focus on Reality","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The most striking feature about this well acted film, is the almost surrealimages of the era and time it was shot it. I could sense the time and moments were stark and very real. Even the language was so well chosen. It's all too often when colloquialisms of today's world are carelessly used in movies aboutanother time and place "},{"Title":"a long way from Paradise By The Dashboard Lights","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Look...I've come to expect this level of acting from William Macy...the guy just keeps putting in terrific performances...but MEAT LOAF? Just when did His Loafness decide to leave Jim Steinman behind and throw his decidedly lower weight around in the wonderful world of Stanislavsky? Well...what can I say? I'm duly impressed. To paraphrase an old adage It ain't the meat, it's the emotion...and the Loaf is quietly buffing up his acting chops of late..Laura Dern carries off the 40's look perfectly here...great job by the costume and hair departments...David Paymer is typecast but right on the money. Solid camera work throughout the flick. The plot line is reminiscent of Gentleman's Agreement (post-WWII anti-semitism). Well worth your time...particularly for the growing legions of Bill Macy acolytes. "},{"Title":"Wow. Intense. Emotional. Praise-worthy.","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw it at the Toronto International Film Festival. Director Neal Slavin's impressive starring cast includes William Macy (seen in The Contender at last year's TIFF), Meat Loaf (AKA Meat Loaf Aday, AKA Michael Lee Aday), David Paymer, and Laura Dern (also starring in Novocaine, also at this year's Festival).Based on the Arthur Miller novel by the same name, Focus follows Christian but Jewish-looking Lawrence Newman (Macy) as he struggles among the hatred and anti-Semitism in his neighbourhood.  Pitted between the Jewish store-owner down the street (Paymer) and his card-carrying anti-Semite next door neighbour (Meat Loaf) Newman faces difficulty in dealing with inner conflict and conflict around him. Guilt over knowing what's right but not doing anything battles with wanting to blend in and keep peace with the neighbours. Things gets more complex when he meets and marries Gertrude (Dern) who everyone thinks is Jewish. Gertrude teaches her husband a few things about judging books by covers.Will Newman stick up for the Jewish man in the end or will he flee? Go see it to find out.The acting was fabulous. The writing was incredible. The cinematography was excellent. The sound was well done. Technically amazing, the movie was disturbing. Chilling. Emotionally intense. I found myself bringing my knees up into the fetal position a couple of times. I have great admiration for everyone who worked on it. I have not seen a film this good in a long time. It touched me.Wow. "},{"Title":"Strong look at prejudice, Well acted, visually remarkable.","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a very strong look at prejudice and group mentality.  The cast is composed of superb actors doing a remarkable job.  The sets are beautiful and just a bit stylized. The art direction is top notch along with great cinematography.  The story is taut and shows how prejudice and bigotry can flourish easily.  It is disturbing for its realistic violence and protrayal of a fairly typical community. I was very impressed. "},{"Title":"Powerful and Disturbing","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I cannot remember a film that demonstrated the true ugliness of prejudice as this fine film does. What makes it such a powerful film, is that it shows the true stupidity of racism. However, it is subtle. In fact, throughout the whole film, Macy's character sees how wrong and absolutely unfair anti-Semitism is, but his only complaint, is that he is not really Jewish and as such, it is not fair that he is being persecuted. Yet, he has done nothing wrong and he is being attacked. Obviously, this is the point of the film. Racism and religious bigotry is wrong, whether it effects you directly or not. Sadly, this picture casts a light on a truly dark period that is still with us in many ways. Powerful film and important. Macy gives another fine performance and is clearly one of our greatest actors. "},{"Title":"Focus Delivers Pure Enjoyment And Makes You Sympathetic All At The Same Time","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  MPAA Rating PG-13My Rating 10 and upMy * Rating 9.5/10William H. Macy delivers a stunning performance as the role of Mr. Neuman. He makes you feel sympathetic and scared for him simultaniously. The story starts out as a comedy and slowly but steadily becomes almost like a horror film with twists and turns that Macy effortly masters. I couldn't take my eyes off this film even after it ended, and I couldn't beleive it ended when it did. A MUST TO SEE.THIS PARAGRAPH MAY BE CONSIDERED A SPOILER BY SOMEAfter you watch the film, look at the plot this way The Neumans are the United States as a whole, and the charactor Meat Loaf Aday plays is the people in the United States who are anti-Semetic.This was a very enjoyable film and would reccomend to anyone I saw in the street. "},{"Title":"What a terrific eye-opener","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had to call my mother (a WASP) to ask her about this.  Was it really that bad in the 40s in New York?  Surprise, she couldn't remember.  So I told her to see the movie.  Arthur Miller, in not a screen play but a NOVEL for a change, was 30 when he wrote this in 1945.  It is a painful depiction of anti-Semitism.  Yet oddly enough, there is a tender story of human relationships (Finkelstein, the Jew, with Newman, the non-Jew, primarily) underlying the cruel story.  The acting is competent and the cinematography is very good.The only reason I can think of for this not making it big in the theatre is that it's >>aaagh<< controversial.I actually give it ten of ten.  Maybe a bit high, but it's so worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Exceptionally Good Use of the Medium","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Without question, film is a powerful medium, more so now than ever before, due to the accessibility of DVD/video, which gives the filmmaker the added assurance that his story or message is going to be seen by possibly millions of people.  Use of this medium, therefore, attaches an innate responsibility to the artist, inasmuch as film can be educational, as well as entertaining, which dictates that certain subjects should be approached accordingly and with a corresponding sensitivity and sensibility.  A film like Spielberg's `Schindler's List,' for example, is important, in that it keeps alive the memory of that which must not be forgotten, and as history tends to repeat itself, Spielberg's film can be viewed as a valuable tool in preventing a recurrence of that tragedy.  In that same vein, this film, `Focus,' directed by Neal Slavin, is important, in it illuminates the problematic reality of anti-Semitism, which for years beyond number has affected millions of people, is still unimaginably prevalent today, and like any manifestation of bigotry, will perpetuate itself if left unchecked or ignored.  Born of a xenophobic strain, it's a disease infecting society which, unabated, could be terminal; and with it's penetrating insights into the condition, this film is an effective vaccine that just may at the very least help stem the proliferation of it, and hopefully may act as a step toward eradicating it altogether.Lawrence Newman (William H. Macy) served his country in the Great War, and has since lived a quiet, conventional life in New York.  He's had the same job as a personnel director for some twenty years, and owns the house, located in an average, middle-class neighborhood, in which he lives with his mother (Kay Hawtrey).  Lawrence is the kind of guy who gets by just fine by minding his own business and refusing to involve himself with matters that are not (he feels) his concern.All of that is about to change, however, as with the advent of World War 2, Lawrence, along with the owner of the corner market, Mr. Finkelstein (David Paymer), inexplicably finds himself a target of the neighborhood xenophobes, who have aligned themselves with the `Union Crusaders,' a national organization currently taken to channeling their fears and hatred upon Jews, or anyone who even `looks' like a Jew.  And suddenly Lawrence finds that he can no longer just stand on the sidelines and watch the game being played; because now, he IS the game, whether he wants to be or not.Working from an intelligent, well written screenplay by Kendrew Lascelles, which he adapted from Arthur Miller's novel, Slavin presents a chilling scenario that incisively examines the effects of bigotry upon those against whom it is leveled; and when one considers the fact that this is not merely a hypothetical situation, but a depiction of reality, it becomes all the more disquieting, even unnerving.  And what makes the film so effective is Slavin's obvious grasp of his subject, and his studied presentation, which is thought-provoking in it's subtlety.  In the opening scene, Slavin establishes Lawrence's `character,' and very soon afterward reaffirms it in another scene, which affords the audience the opportunity to observe and assimilate how Lawrence's mind actually works; the thought processes that direct his life.  With that in place, then, Slavin is able to take his audience along with Lawrence as his problems gradually begin to unfold.  By so doing, he effectively illustrates how the problem evolves, rather than merely stating the problem and addressing it head on, which heightens the viewers emotional involvement, and ultimately enhances the impact of the film.  Slavin makes an important statement with this film, which is not only an indictment of bigotry, but carries a cautionary message about apathy, as well.  And to his credit, he never hits you over the head with it or engages in subjective finger-pointing to make his case; instead, he proceeds carefully, taking great pains to be as objective as possible with all that he is submitting for your consideration.  His approach is that of a cinematic diplomat; and it's an approach that serves Slavin-- and his film-- quite well.As Lawrence, William H. Macy-- one of the best character actors in the business-- gives an amazing performance, establishing the credibility and believability of his character with a sensitive, honest and introspective portrayal.  He never attempts to circumvent the personal flaws of Lawrence's nature, but uses them, instead, to create a character that is decidedly three-dimensional, which not only makes him convincing, but serves to reaffirm the integrity of the portrayal.  What makes it so compelling is Macy's ability to convey the process by which he examines his own conscience, which successfully enables the viewer to share in the experience of his personal epiphany.  In the final analysis, it's the strength of Macy's performance, more than anything else, that makes this film so significantly distinct.  Another of the film's strengths is the performance turned in by Laura Dern, as Gertrude Hart, a portrayal that effectively complements Macy's work, as well as that of Slavin.  Dern lends tremendous substance to her character, capturing her physically as well as emotionally, and her colorful zeal crates a striking contrast to Lawrence's reserve that works extremely well, for her character as well as the film itself.And just as Sean Combs recently (in `Monster's Ball') made a good case against dismissing out-of-hand the acting endeavors of an established `rock star,' Meat Loaf Aday gives a powerful performance here, as Fred, Lawrence's next-door neighbor.  It demonstrates, too, that a true artist will produce, regardless of the kind of canvas he's given to work with.The supporting cast includes Michael Copeman (Carlson), Kenneth Welsh (Father Crighton), Joseph Ziegler (Gargan) and Arlene Meadows (Mrs. Dewitt).  The kind of film that makes a filmmaker proud of his craft, `Focus,' offers a memorable experience that hopefully will prove to be enlightening, as well, to those unaware that such conditions have existed, and still do-- even in this, the land of the free.  10/10.                      "},{"Title":"Makes you think...","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being relatively young, I didn't know how bad anti-Semitism was in Brooklyn, where my family is originally from.  This movie absolutely horrified me.  I've seen many movies about prejudice, racism, and anti-Semitism, but this seemed to hit me harder than most.This was definitely one of the best indie films I've ever seen...I had to travel 45 minutes to see it, and it was well worth it.  Nearly everything about the movie was great.  Sometimes it was a little slow, but that didn't really bother me because the movie was very atmospheric.  It took place in the 40s, and it really did look like it was the 40s.  The acting was great...William H. Macy as always was wonderful, so was Laura Dern, and I was pleasantly surprised by Meatloaf's performance, playing the vicious anti-Semite neighbor.  9/10 "},{"Title":"pure praise","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Did this gem go direct to video?  Fabulous art direction.  Mood that never misses a beat. The Truman Show meets Metropolis. An excellent cast. I've never seen Laura Dern better, and Bill Macy is always fabulous. Same said for David Paymer, and Meat Loaf. This is just an incredible film. "},{"Title":"Simple yet powerful film that somehow escaped theaters","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is rare that a movie attracts me from the start, yet when I saw reviews for Focus I went looking for it right away.  But all the marquees on the local Nickelodeons never posted the title I was looking for.  Perhaps they needed the room for Bubble Boy or Glitter. It seems that intellectual films have trouble finding ground here in the American heartland.  A movie like this needs to be viewed by everyone. It deals with a moving subject that is based in complete truth and disturbing facts about our history.  It can open the eyes of its audience for them to see the workings of ignorance and prejudice in everyday American life.  But to heck with that, say Midwesterners, we want to see 'Scary Movie'!A wonderful every-man actor, William H. Macy stars as Lawrence Newman in the film based on the novel of the same name by Arthur Miller.  Newman is a Fred Rodgers-type living with his mother in Brooklyn during World War II.  Everything in his life is neat and orderly until his neighbors begin expressing disgust at a local Jewish man (superbly played by David Paymer) who opens a small news stand on their block.  It is obvious that Newman (Macy) doesn't agree with the other citizens, but tries not to get involved like a lot of Americans.  When his lunkhead neighbor (played here by Meat Loaf Aday) tries to get Newman to come to one of their meetings, he simply brushes them off.  Things change for him we he buys a new pair of round wire-rim glasses and begins to look like a Jew to others.  He begins to loosen-up a little after falling in love with a beautiful typical '40s blonde bombshell and marries her (played by Laura Dern.)  This just brings about more talk of him being Jewish, and his neighbors think she's a Jew as well.  Newman believes that by telling others that he is indeed not a Jew that the trouble will end.  This does nothing but create more trouble because, well, ignorance knows no logic.Not only dealing with a good subject, this movie was beautifully filmed using sharp colors and odd camera angles.  The director shows typical uniform America of the 1940's with simple tricks such as having all the houses painted the same color and using Miller's dry but true-to-life small talk in the script. (Ya know they say we may travel to the moon in rocket ships after the war's over says Newman. That's not possible. You would be blown to bits. says his neighbor, all the while Paymer's character is picking up garbage dumped on his stand in the background.) It is almost presented in a comic book format, will a kind of surreal texture to the scenery.  Macy's character tries his best to stay in his normal life, but keeps finding himself and his new wife in very anti-semitic surroundings.  Things shown in the film, such as the Union and the businesses and hotels that only took in Christians, really existed.  Americans pushed out Jews in mainstream life as much as possible, even while Hitler's Final Solution was in full swing in Europe.  I was delighted to see a film that dealt with this shameful facet out of American history.But, of course, I had to wait till it came out on video.  It seems it is getting harder and harder to see an intellectual movie around here.  (For example, only a few theaters showed Momento last year, another very smart movie.)  Audiences in the Midwest need to see more of this kind a film.  It touches base with deep subject matter and leaves you thinking, and maybe a little motivated.  But I guess they saved their money for American Pie 2. "},{"Title":"Well done and thought provoking","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story and writing were great.  Very thought provoking and relevant. The cinematography was outstanding.  Acting was spotty in places, but overall did not detract from quality of the movie.  Macy was great as usual.  The movie left me feeling personally affected by the experiences told on screen. That's a sign of quality moviemaking. "}]