[{"Title":"A film that is horrific and unsettling, but real. Excellent.","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"25 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Congo is a sad country which started with massive disadvantages (King Leopold used it as his private route to personal wealth) and never recovered.The Belgians made little provision for independence, but that is not unusual in Africa and other countries have managed OK despite a bad start. Congo never did.A combination of tribal and ethnic conflicts, underhand colonial behaviour and Cold War politics meant that failure was inevitable. Lumumba was brutally murdered by his own countrymen with America and Belgium cheering from the sidelines.Lumumba never had a chance and he made it worse for himself by delivering an un-programmed and  fiercely anti-colonial speech on Independence Day. This is not made too clear in the film - you have to listen really hard to know that that is what was happening. As a result of that unwise speech, he destroyed his relations with the Belgians and gave the Congolese people hopes and expectations that could never be realised.He also made an enemy of the leader of the Katanga region.He was thus regarded by his own people as having reneged on promises after an impossibly short time in Government and then, having been publicly and privately brutalised by Congolese troops, finally murdered by the Congolese leader in Katanga, who ordered two Belgian policemen to dig up and destroy the body. All true and faithfully, if gruesomely, repeated in the film.Everyone comes out badly in the film - which is only right and proper. Belgians for practising apartheid before the word was invented to cover the Boers in SA. How could anyone operate a system where, as a native, you had to be assessed to see if you had developed (`evolved' - shades of Darwin) sufficiently to be licensed to have wine in your house?The Americans come out rather lightly in the film. Maybe it was not known at the time the film was made that the CIA station chief (Devlin, not Carlucci) was sent poisoned toothpaste to introduce into Lumumba's bathroom cabinet (he didn't). By order of Eisenhower.The Congolese come out worst of all, appropriately, since in the long term they are the ones who also suffered (and continue to suffer) the most as a result of not being able to act together irrespective of tribal origin.There is still in reality no country that is Congo. It remains a collection of tribal and ethnic groupings. And therefore weak and poor and ready to be exploited. All this is accurately foreshadowed in this excellent film.A film that is horrific and unsettling, but real. Excellent. "},{"Title":"Reviews raise problems!!","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film has both people that enjoy and people that loathe it. However I was struck by the fact at how many non-Africans had seen and commented on this film. Here we see a massive problem arising.Firstly It is a fact that African history was passed along orally and the only real written history in Africa was created with the advent of missionaries on the continent. To this day there are more books written about African history by non-Africans than there have been of Africans. This means that Africa has seldom, if ever, been presented the way it sees itself. Lumumba is a film made by an African filmmaker, shot on the African continent with African actors and yet we see Americans and Europeans commenting on it!The fact is that most of these people have an imagined history of Africa. On user commented that the USA was 'forced' to intervene in Congo, because Lumumba called in the USSR to help out his army. What the hell was the USA doing in Africa in the first place? And I answer; they were securing their economic interests. How dare outside powers even allow to excuse their intervention in the African continent, when they are in majority at fault for the situation many African countries find themselves in today.Secondly There were a couple of comments on the acting and style that this film was made in. Many people don't realize that the entire world does not exclusively copy the Hollywood model. We see different characters in different environments. Lumumba shows a different view on an African hero and even though this view is not entirely accurate, what view ever is.So don't watch and judge this film according to your standards, because you most likely have no idea what you are talking about. Rather than being prejudiced towards the film, just let it talk to you and present you with its argument...for a change!  "},{"Title":"inspiring tragedy","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I liked this film but to like it, you must know more about the history of Congo. You must also know some more about Belgians and their disrespect (and that is a metaphore!) of the Congolese state. Lumumba and the Congolese people didn't deserve this as he was right. We Belgians did exploit them for decades. But just because Lumumba reacted not so friendly to Bwana Kitoko (the king was called this way by the Congolese in a previous visit, he was hailed as a great leader) they had to further destabilize Congo and assassinate Lumumba. So he called for the help of the USSR, that was his only option as everybody else was against him. For the Congolese people the US didn't do anything like they did for us with the Marshall Plan. They did support Mobutu's cruel dictatorial rule with lots of money. What good did that do for the average Congolese?And the trouble didn't stop with the flight of Mubutu. In modern sociological terms, Congo is considered a failed state. And that has it's reasons (and we Belgians are responsible for a large part of those). I hope that Lumuba's dream will still come true and that the Congolese peace process will last so peace and a way of living that is accepted by all Congolese may finally come for them. Back to the film You can't expect to understand the complex situation the new independent Congo was put in just by watching this film. That's like thinking the film Enemy at the Gates will explain me everything about the battle of Stalingrad. The film is restricted in many ways and the viewer must understand that.  first It's a film, not a documentary. Some of the scenes are interpretations but they are needed for the plot. second The main character is Lumumba. Not everything about the troubles in Katanga or elsewhere is told, neither is everything about Mobutu told. It would have been an endless film that way.  third The film is an African film, let them create their own ways of telling this story. White people shouldn't tell them how to tell a story. But I'm glad that some funded this film that tell some people more about an unclear history. It might encourage them to find out more about Lumumba or various other things after the credits roll away and that is a good thing.  "},{"Title":"Moving, sad, fascinating","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Wow. What a fabulous film. The artists are to be congratulated and thanked for making this whole era come to life.Should you go to this movie? Well, my wife didn't want to go because she guessed that it would be upsetting. She was correct It IS deeply upsetting to see cruelty, treachery, panic, wobbly social institutions, etc.On the other hand, there's nothing like a strong dose of the truth. I don't know enough Congolese history to have an opinion on the accuracy of this tale, but the movie certainly had an emotional truth to it.In fact, it reminded me of something Meryl Streep once said. She mentioned that the purpose of a movie is to tell you what it felt like to be there -- wherever there might happen to be. By that standard, this movie succeeded. The film showed me -- a white guy from an American suburb -- what it means to have guts and commitment to high ideals during the most chaotic of times.If that sounds intriguing to you, go see Lumumba! "},{"Title":"Censorship in TV version fo this film, but only in US?","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I just saw this movie last night, 2/21/02, on HBO TV in New York and noticed a fascinating and rare bit of censorship within it. In one late scene in the movie when Congo politicians and 1-2 Americans meet around table and vote whether Lumumba is to be captured/killed, the apparent American, perhaps a CIA officer, is addressed by Gen. Mobutu and asked how he wants to vote. But the American's name uttered by Mobutu is bleeped out in the televised version I saw and heard. Then in the film's final credits, this same character's name is masked over and appears only as Mr......  played by actor Dennis Thatcher.  So  what IS the name of the mysterious man, no doubt too accurately identified, in this movie, airing on American TV some 2 years after it was made. "},{"Title":"A must see film. Excellent drama with historical backing","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is the best movie I have seen in a long time.  It is also the best movie seen that uses a drama to tell history, without going to speculation such as with JFK,Nixon or Hoffa. It deftly depicts the clutches that Belgium had on the Congo. It also teases out easily for us the European and American forces that were behind the power the inflict the Congo today. The film was sure to specifically implicate the U.S., rightly so, in the murder of Lumumba. This film could never be made in the U.S. for U.S. film rarely criticizes itself in acts of imperialism and murder. (Save Stone's JFK) It also lets us in on the problems that were present with the inner conflict of the Congo, between Lumumba, Mobutu and Katanga. We can see how precarious countries sit in establishing new governments when their history is one of colonization and those who were the colonizers continue to pull the strings of power and force.  The film is excellently shot with Eriq Ebouaney an excellent Lumumba. The cast is great and they really draw you into the feeling of the climate in the Congo during that time.Again, this is a must see for those who love drama with a correct historical background. See my notes on Quilombo. "},{"Title":"Lumumba - More Than Just Black and White.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" To answer the question of a previous reviewer who asked the name of the U.S. official mentioned in Lumumba, the name of the character is Mr. Carlucci. Frank Carlucci is reported as having been at that time Second Secretary at the U.S. Embassy in the Congo. Subsequently, among other assignments, he was appointed U.S. Ambassador to Portugal, Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Secretary of Defense, and is now the Chairman of the Carlyle Group. It's hardly surprising that Carlucci's biographical sketch on his www.carlylegroup.com web site fails to credit his service in the Belgian Congo. If his name was deliberately censored from the HBO version of Lumumba it may have been to avoid the possibility of HBO's being sued in U.S. courts. Carlucci's name, however, is clearly mentioned in the theatre version of Lumumba that I saw recently. In the event, I expect that he would deny any involvement in Lumumba's murder.Others have commented on the evenhandedness with which the film Lumumba treats the parties concerned Lumumba-supporters, other Congolese, even Belgians. A somewhat more sinister view emerges, I think, from the BBC documentary entitled Who Killed Lumumba?, based on the book The Murder of Lumumba by Belgian historian Ludo de Witte. When examined closely, these films demonstrate that the fate of Lumumba and the history of the Congo is not just a matter of black and white. Only Lumumba's murderers believe that. "},{"Title":"Essential viewing","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I feel very fortunate to have the chance to not only watch this film, but also learn more about this fascinating person and time.  Lumumba is an outstanding portrayal, giving a full sense of the story without falling into the usual Hollywood trappings - yes, he is shown with his wife and children, but the essence of the story is his politics and those of the still-emerging independent Congo.  The film is brilliantly made, moving along at a pace that is consistently engaging.  I look forward to seeing other Raoul Peck films, as well as more from Eric Ebouaney! "},{"Title":"absorbing dramatization","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I was a pre-teen when news of Lumumba's assassination hit the news so I very vaguely recall at the time it was sad a leader who tried to shuck the reigns of colonialization was killed for efforts towards independence.There is woefully insufficient time in a 2 hour movie to completely explain the whos whys and wherefores of a political assassination. Suffice to say the victors write the history and even if the truth were portrayed adequately, who's truth would it be? As the character Lumumba says in the movie, he came 50 years too early.I found the story fast paced with good production values. It mirrored the all too brief time in power for a promising African leader, and there is a dearth of them lately. That continent still suffers a vacuum in its leadership, a state that will take another century to rectify. The film and life of Lumumba is a lesson of how badly things can go wrong in a climate of conflicting objectives and numerous parties and forces acting in a volatile setting. Congo had just gained independence and tribal rivalry reared its head very quickly. It is suggested for example that Lumumba seek sanctuary in the province of Katanga, where months before he had been refused landing rights in a flight to visit the troubled area. Politics makes strange bedfellows.The time of the 1960s was the height of the cold war and Lumumba's courting of Soviet aid to fast track his country did not win any favours. No doubt the superpower USA had at least some hand in his death, much the same as Ngo Dhin Diem in Vietnam around the same time. Attempts to assassinate Fidel Castro at that time are also well documented so it may be some measure of just desserts that Kennedy met his end with an assassin's bullet.Read up on that period of history then watch the movie to get additional value for the time you invest, and then you will be prepared to better understand contemporary events in far off places when national interests are at stake. Oil, diamonds, bauxite, coffee, whatever; liberty always seems to take a back seat when these interests get the ear of the powers that be.Realism in the film is reinforced with the french dialog. I also understood the subtleties having studied military coups in university under a black professor who came from Nigeria. "},{"Title":"The Best Political Film Ever ( spoiler only if you are unfamiliar with Congo history)","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" When it comes to political movies I usually come out feeling empty. They generally take up some moralistic stance and you have a clear good vs bad story line as if it is some sort of Batman movie.But with Lumumba it is the first movie I've seen that showed politics for what it is, and the real issues of trying to rule a country of broken people who have known no other rule but violence. There were no good or bad there were just interests and conflicts of interest. This is the only political movie in my opinion that one can come out of it truly learning something. Especially for anyone with their eye on politics as a career this movie shows you, you cannot rule on what you want for a country, but what the country wants from you.That's why I disagree with a lot of reviews that say everyone comes of bad, I think they come of too idealistic, (the Belgians want the perfect colony, Lumumba wants a perfect Unity Congo, Tshombe wants wealth and riches, America wants the perfect ally against communism, Russia wants the perfect aide for Communism). And the Congolese? They come off used and abused, ( best example in the movie when Général Janssens tells his black troops your government lied to you and it leaves them all in an uproar) they are always being pulled and pushed into supporting this person or another.This movie shows in politics a mistake can cost you dearly and this movie everyone makes mistake after mistake until it escalates and ends up destroying the country. Their intentions might be good (or at least in the characters opinion), but it's everyone's mistakes that lead to the downfall of Congo. I don't think anyone is bad in this film, I just think they want too much from people sick of giving and want to start taking.Overall, it's not just the best political film, it is a great film in general. Acting is fabulous (Eriq Ebouaney as Lumumba was perfect casting I really believe him) script flawless, editing perfect pace, and production value higher than I expected for a central African film. A must watch. "}{"Title":"an important piece of history gets its due","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  There are lots of comparisons in the comments on this site to JFK, but for me -- an American who is old enough to remember these historical events -- the film that came to mind is Gandhi.  Not because Patrice Lumumba was any Mahatma Gandhi, but because of the rather extraordinary casting of individuals who are practically ringers for the originals (not only Lumumba himself, but also Tshombe, Kasavubu, Baudoin and, creepiest of all, Mobutu) *and* also excellent actors.  I was a little suspicious there would be a tendency to make a saint of the protagonist, but I found the film pretty fair on that score -- Lumumba's own arrogance and impulsive mistakes are portrayed as well.  These pale, of course, in the face of the duplicity of his enemies, be they European (though the Russians get off the hook a little easy here -- they, too, were playing games in Africa for their own gain), American (the more effectively sinister for being onscreen only briefly) or African.  POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT  The ending felt like phony uplift to me, given the current state of Africa generally and Congo especially.  But overall this is well worth a look, whether you lived through it or it's all new to you. "},{"Title":"A moving, true story of an African hero","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The story of how the (communist) leader who freed the Congo from Belgium imperialism was eliminated by the Western powers through the hand of Mobutu. A story of struggle and injustice, of hope and the search of freedom. The story could be the one of any African country. A very moving film with images full of symbolism and beauty. If you have to see only one foreign film this year, see this one. "},{"Title":"meaningful film about an important story","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" an excellent, thoughtfully produced historical drama--well played, artfully written, shot in ways that convey accurate visual images of the congo, and with more than a few moving moments, especially for those who care about the history of Africa and imperialism. however, a fair amount of worthwhile content gets lost in translation, and because names, acronyms, and so forth are hard to follow. so i would strongly recommend checking a neutral source such as wikipedia to get a basic sense of the story being depicted (and the subsequent history) before enjoying the film. if you have the DVD version, there is also some useful historical background. there is a point towards the end of the film where the name of a character who then speaks with an American accent is actually beeped out--a simple google search of lumumba film censor or something similar will reveal a truly fascinating (and perhaps disturbing) twist regarding the production of this important film. this film, if coupled with a little outside research, helps contextualize dozens of other films relating to central/east Africa and/or imperialism, e.g. hotel rwanda, shake hands with the devil, various adaptations of conrad's heart of darkness, and even ali when mohammed ali visits kinshasa. "},{"Title":"Gotta See This","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Good Movie, acting was terrific especially from  Eriq Ebouaney(Lumumba)and very well directed.It also shows how Lumumba was cornered by the Belgians, U S A and United Nations and how they labelled him a `communist' to scare people as they did to all the Honest True African leaders like Nkrumah, Kenyatta, Nyerere and many others. It shows how western countries preach democracy while they have something else on the back of their minds. It is a story of injustice, struggle and brutality.It shows how Lumumba couldn't control his people, yes they were his people, but before we put the blame on him,  was he getting enough if any from the people he appointed in his government like Mobutu? Or his colleague had other things in their minds, to find out go and see the movie! Certainly Mobutu did, went on to loot the country for the next 35 yrs, before he was overthrown and fled the country. Died a billionaire.Some flaws There was too little explanation how the man (Lumumba) got to rise in the first place. Also there should have been more explanation about the country, Congo Kinshasa (after independence), now known as Democratic Republic of Congo formerly known as Zaire when it was under Mobutu. There should have been an explanation why he (Lumumba) couldn't keep the second largest country in Africa in one piece. And also what was going on with Tshombe and Katanga . Just heads up if you gonna watch the movie Tshombe was controlling the Katanga region which (if I am not mistaken) is the number one copper producer in the world.In all it is a good movie to see. You will learn something new about Africa, it's leaders and it's people and probably will open your eyes why this continent is ridden with wars.  "},{"Title":"A most important and powerful film","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  First of all, it is interesting to note that one of the users here who commented on this film (from Belgium) had to add that Lumumba was communist.  If this user indeed watched the film, the message was that he was not communist but pigeonholed (by none other than Belgium, the U.S., the UN, etc.) as a communist leader for other individuals', corporations', and country's political and economic gains.  Even if one decides to accept that the film partakes in revisionist history it would be naive to assume that Lumumba was communist, especially coming from the country which granted the Congo independence, and since Lumumba was elected DEMOCRATICALLY to his seat as Prime Minister.Onto the film...This is one of the most important and powerful films I have seen in quite some time.  Depicting the struggles of the African freedom fighter, and ELECTED Prime Minister's struggles as its first leader, Mr. Peck, does a quite commendable job of putting together all of the pieces into one work.  And this must have been quite some task. Due to the fact that most people outside of the Congo and Belgium likely do not know the history of Lumumba and the Congo, outside of some light coverage of African Imperialism (hopefully) in one of their high school/secondary school (or maybe university/college level) history classes, he had his work cut out for him.And to to think that Oliver Stone's JFK took over 3 hours, Lumumba runs under 2 hours.  And a most engaging 115 minutes it was, as we find that his desire to not compromise with Western powers (whom he holds responsible for the atrocities to his people, particularly Belgium), while trying to deal with power struggles within his own borders, apparently even with some of his friends, it is amazing that the man lived as long as he did.This is a MUST see for anyone interested in equality, justice, humanity, history, politics, and true freedom.  You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"riveting","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The American dream unfolding in Africa -- from beer salesman to prison to leading your country -- in a movie that unfortunately will get a shrug of indifference in the U.S. Raoul Peck certainly paints in Lumumba a picture of a passionate, intelligent and caring man with a simple dream of self-rule for his people, who if just given the chance ... well, who knows what might have happened? You want to damn the Belgians and Americans and the puppet UN and say just mind your own business and give these people a chance, but then someone can throw Rwanda at you and say here's what happens when we don't interfere - 800,000 butchered.As to the writing, it's amazing the character development packed into two hours. A charismatic Eriq Ebouaney as Lumumba, a young and ingratiating/sinister Mobuto, the territorial and menacing Tshombe, the impotent president Kasavubu, the hapless friends and family, even the limited roles of the Belgians and Americans have depth and character. Thanks to the likes of Peck and the people that make a movie like this happen for giving us something of substance and integrity to balance the recent ridiculous and insulting Hollywood sell-outs (Pearl Harbor and U-571 come to mind) that also purport historical overtones. "},{"Title":"A very interesting movie if you are interested in Congo's recent history.","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Being Belgian myself, I take interest in the history of Congo. It has been our only colony for many years (Rwanda was a Belgian protectorate, but not a colony), and it is part of our country's history. Nowadays it seems to be very popular to say that all that the Belgians did to Congo was wrong, especially in the 19th century. I'm not saying that bad things didn't happen. Of course they did, but back then this wasn't abnormal. Do you really think the French or the Brits were that much nicer in their colonies? No, they weren't. It was 'normal' at the time for our king Leopold II to use Congo as a way to gain personal wealth. It was his private property (it didn't belong to the state then) and he tried to make the most out of it. Of course gruesome things like hands being chopped off happened and yes to todays standards that's inadmissible, but in those days it was common practice. And it has to be said, all this didn't happen anymore during the last decades... I know several people who have lived an worked in Congo for many years before the declaration of Congolese independence. It's true that they had several black servants, but they are very nice people and I really can't imagine they ever treated them bad. For as far as I know they have always treated them with a lot of respect (However, I'm not saying all Belgians did). In fact if they weren't that old now (almost all about 80 years old now) they would love to return to Congo.The good thing about this movie is that it gives an historically accurate vision on what happened during the last years of Belgian governance and the first years of Congolese independence. The story isn't as black and white (perhaps not the best words in this context, but how else to explain what I mean) as I feared it would be. It doesn't say that all the Belgians did was wrong and all the Congolese did was good. It shows perfectly how the Congolese, in their rush of getting independent from the Belgians, didn't mind to accept help from the Russians as well as the Americans, who both had more eye for the raw materials like copper, diamonds, bauxite, rubber,... and getting the Congolese in their political 'camp' and weren't all that interested in their independence. It does not only give a good idea of how Lumumba became more powerful, but also how Mobutu played a double role. It shows the Belgian reaction on some of our compatriots being violated, threatened and even murdered (My father was one of the paratroopers who were send to Congo to rescue the Belgians). It gives a good idea of the political problems Lumumba encountered as the province Katanga didn't want to be part of the Congolese Republic, the role that the Belgians had in the murder on Lumumba ... it all gets it's part in this movie.The story seems to be very accurate and the characters really look and act like the real ones. This movie has been able to give a very good idea of what life in Congo in the late fifties and early sixties was like and should be seen by everybody who is interested in the history of the country. But it should also be shown in history classes, especially in Belgium, because it's a part of our history that should never be forgotten. I give it a 7.5/10, perhaps even an 8/10. "},{"Title":"little known history","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Patrice Lumumba was the first elected prime minister of Congo. The movie opens with a dead Lumumba as he is dismembered by two white men. Lumumba would rise in the political stage. He would be arrested and then leads a united delegation to gain independence from the Belgians. His MNC would win the election and he becomes the prime minister. After some turmoil and chaos in the country, Lumumba would be overthrown two months later. He would be killed four months after that.This is biopic of a little known piece of African history. Firstly, I found the dubbing distracting like early kung-fu movies. Secondly, the movie is probably too saintly with the portrayal. The man is almost always soft spoken and reasonable. He is a politician and he should be a much more interesting character than this. This is a white bread saint character. It would be helpful if he can clarify his philosophy. Other than gaining independence, I don't get much of a sense of his politics. Thirdly, there is also a lot of complicated history that needs some explanation. There are characters that needs to be given time. The movie should create a character (usually a reporter) to explain what is happening in the political world. The movie also skips the election which should be a powerful section of the movie. It is commendable to make a movie about a forgotten history but this could be done better. "},{"Title":"Good Movie with a few major historical shortcomings","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie was intended to explore the powers that resisted and ultimately ended Lumumba's political movement in the Congo with historical accuracy. Although it goes to great lengths to meet that end, it falls horribly short in two major ways. One, the CIA is mentioned just one time. Two, JFK is portrayed as though he authorized Mubutu's offer of a military takeover. This is despite the fact that Lumumba was killed three days before JFK became president! With the information now available (read JFK Ordeal in Africa by Richard Mahoney), there is no doubt that the Dulles brothers using the CIA were chiefly responsible for Lumumba's assassination. Kennedy was heartbroken by the news and understood and advocated for a united Congo much like Lumumba did, opposing Eisenhower and the CIA. Not to mention the Belgians and British. Although one could argue these points do not have a major impact on the movie, they are critical to understanding not just the Congo during that period, but the intense internal conflict in the United States between large interests (Wall Street represented by CIA) and JFK's vision for the world (third world independence and development, anti-imperialism). "},{"Title":"A sad, true story.","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Lumumba is a well-made, well-acted story of a man with a dream for his people, for his (newly independent) country.The man - Patrice Emery Lumumba. The country - the Congo.I will not comment on hypothesizing, supposing what was in people's minds at that time - as I don't know.And hindsight is... well, just that.What Lumumba is, is a story of a man who - while he had the love of his people, was not as adept at the shadowy game of politics.It cost Mr. Lumumba his life.It cost the Congo so much - for so long afterwords.This story is done beautifully chiefly on one man's shoulders - Mr. Erie Ebouaney.He magnificently portrays Mr. Lumumba.As this is a story we (sadly) know the outcome to - Alex Descas as Joseph Mobuto is wonderful as almost a 'non-person.' Until - one moment - of one image - Mobuto - in power - seated on a chair, wearing the leopard skin hat in which the image of Mobuto is most identified.It sent a chill through me.Terrific. "}{"Title":"skin of  event","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" bitter, cruel, realistic. not exactly a manifesto. just a picture. not portrait of a hero. only drawing of a kind of Don Quijote and part of an African country tragedy. a film about basic values. about hope and need of change. about a world. and about a sacrifice out of eulogies. the real honest review in this case is silence. because the reality of Africa remains for many of us - Europeans or Americans - not very clear. shadows, hypotheses, silhouettes, legends - that is the heart of our knowledge about this subject. and the difficulty to understand has cause the present. the globalization is not different by the vision of USA or Belgium about Congo in 1960. the manipulation is stronger. and Africa may be the name of Balkans or South America. so, this film is only skin of real events. a skin like a map after a strange hunting. "},{"Title":"Well-documented political drama (less boring than I'm making it sound)","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A movie like Lumumba stands or falls with it's main performance, and I'm glad to say Eriq Ebouaney (copy-paste to the rescue) definitely knows how to hold up a movie. His acting has a wonderful natural touch to it, which makes it tough to imagine the movie with anyone else in the lead. Lumumba was a pretty complex political figure, it's good to see that he's become a complex character as well. The second main thing this movie has going for it is probably it's pacing. The movie seems very compact, it knows when to move on. It never drags, and the mere fact that it manages to cram this story into two hours without leaving any important stuff out is an amazing feat. It also employs that narrative structure where the entire movie is told in flashback, which works out really well here and also comes with some excellent voice-over monologues. Even if you're not a total history buff, hell especially if you're not a total history buff, this movie is very compelling. Excellent production. "},{"Title":"Moving, and painfully real . Lumumba merits  wider recognition.","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In the film, Lumumba, we see the faces behind the monumental shift in the Congo's history after it is reclaimed from the Belgians, and we see the motives behind those men into whose hands the raped and starving country fell. Lumumba is not a movie for the hyper masses; it demands the attention of its viewers with raw, truthful acting and intricate, packed dialogue. Little of the main plot is shown through action, it relies almost solely on words, but there is a recurring strand that is only action, and it is the stroke of genius that makes the film an enlightening and powerful panorama of the tense political struggle that the Congo's independence gave birth to. This film is real. It is raw inits depiction of those in power, and those on the streets. It is eye-opening in its content. And it is moving in the passions and emotions of its superbly portrayed characters. Whether you are a history fan, a film buff, or simply like good stories, Lumumba is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Factual and a story that needed to be told.","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film was a revelation. Well directed, a clear and consise story and a political message that can translate to any country. The film shows a director at the top of his form. Puts JFK to shame by the sheer weight of the proceedings. This is a story of liberation deferred. It's a story of the Congo but it is also the story of Africa after liberation. A powerful film that anyone who cares about the destiny of a country should see. Excellent! "},{"Title":"The HBO version stinks","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Dubbed beyond comprehension, the HBO version of Lumumba is a disastrous rendering of what looks like what was once a decent film. Some scenes simply don't make sense in English and the actors bring zero energy to their voice reading. Add in the self-censorship involving CIA operative Frank Carlucci, and you have a film stripped of both its drama and its power. Here's hoping the subtitled version gets to American television screens at some point.  "},{"Title":"The life of Lumumba and his relationship with the western powers.","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  'Lumumba' is a touching biographical movie of Patrice Lumumba, a nationalist (not a communist) who sacrificed his life for the cause of unification of his people. The movie also depicts the complex relationship between the Congo and several western countries, particularly Belgium and United States. "},{"Title":"Gotta know kind of story","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It is always great to see a movie that teaches us about history in Africa as they are definitely too few.  However, the movie depicts Lumumba as a political leader who wanted the new independent country to be the same as the old colonialist one..., I felt it hard to sympathise with this kind of leadership, yet the movie is somewhat like a homage to the man.  There was too little content, explaining how the man got to rise in the first place, and the whole context of Belgium letting them go.  So it is certainly worth going to see as the acting and photography are excellent, especially Mobutu himself.  I would just have liked a better political analysis. "},{"Title":"Fairly interesting docudrama.","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a pretty good film about the rise and fall of Patrice Lumumba, first Prime Minister of what was formerly the Belgian Congo.  It was done on a small budget and lacks certain production values but it was well presented and the acting sufficient to tell the story.Many people have complained in other reviews about the angle from which it was directed and whether the story is accurate or not.  I'm not an expert on Congolese history, so cannot offer an opinion on that score, but it's obviously a complex situation and not easily covered in a two hour film.The Belgian Congo was an important battleground in the Cold War right around the time of the transition to the Kennedy administration, and no doubt the United States had a hand in Lumumba's execution.  He was, after all, a nationalist outside of the American sphere of control and was flirting with the Russians (much as Fidel Castro was doing across the Atlantic in Cuba).But there is much more to the story.  Prime Minister Lumumba wanted to unite the Congo and control it with a central government, but there were regional powers and economic forces working against him.  I suppose anyone trying to do what Lumumba was aiming to do would have been at risk at that time and place.  Even now, over four decades later, with Mobutu Seko gone, there is much civil strife and no one has united the country.Raoul Peck, a Haitian who has lived in Zaire, does a fair job of directing this story.  He presents Lumumba in a heroic light but also shows the flaws in his leadership.  His life isn't overly dramatized like what Spike Lee did to Malcolm X, and, thankfully, he didn't take the Oliver Stone approach and make it into a big international conspiracy.  It's history lite, but seeing as how this is a subject not covered very often, it's valuable nonetheless. "},{"Title":"The Rubber","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Approaching any work, the viewer comes with certain presumptions about the compact with the artist. In the case of biographical films, that compact bears special attention.Why would someone make a film like this? Because the person in question is so compelling a being that simple exposure to that life uplifts us? Because there is a political story of injustice we (someone thinks) need to be told? Because the situation supports a drama with universal truths? Because it is a handy framework for a filmmaker to make a film?If you guess wrong you'll be disappointed, because each of these goals results in a radically different film. I believe Peck's case is a matter of the fourth choice.It is not an overly romanticized portrait of a noble man like Stone's depiction of Malcolm. It glosses over the complexities of the situation too glibly to remotely inform of the various evils and incompetences visited on that patch.No, I think it masquerades as a polemic built around a saintly figure, but really is just a handy excuse on which to build a competent film. Peck is a man already known for documentaries friendly to class struggle. But this and the others I know are substantially less articulate than Lumumba himself.This film is only two years old now, and I got more power out of knowing that as many as a third of the cast in the crowd scenes are dying of AIDS, perhaps already dead.Ted's evaluation 2 of 4 -- Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Whose side is mr.Peck on.......?","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I have just seen Lumumba and I think it was disgusting.The basic storyline is the formation of the first democratically elected government of Congo, but this attempt is sabotaged by external (mainly Belgian) and internal Congo forces.Lumumba is being remembered as a hero, but Mr.Peck seems to be able to rewrite history and make it seem like his execution was Lumumba Patrice his own damn fault.As a viewer you have absolutely no clue why people hate him in the end, why the people around him leave him and he is left alone. You are lead to believe that this was because of his nationalistic lectures he held in government and you can almost(!) understand why his opponents wanted to kill him.Mobutu is pictured as somebody that (with Belgian help) was just trying to restore order at high costs. No, I don't know what mr.Peck was trying to tell with this movie, but I can't imagine this was his goal.I guess he was trying to tell his opinion, but this movie tells the story so badly that I have my doubts if he in fact wasn't trying to tell something else.... "}{"Title":"Well done film","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I suspect there's some revisionist history going on here,but one definitely comes away with the feeling that Patrice Lumumba was a trouble-maker who incited his people to violence from the moment the Congo declared independence.His inability to control his people and his decision to bring in Soviet help to get his military back in line was obviously what got the United States involved and led to his assassination.However,by replacing him with Mobutu,the United States didn't solve anything.They made the situation just as bad.Well-acted with excellent cinematography and a rousing score.Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Sadly ineffective","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  So I rented this movie hoping to learn about the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and the beginnings of its independence from Belgian rule.  I was excited to become familiar with the figures involved in its history, mainly Lumumba and Mobutu.  I wanted to see how the new Congolese government attempted to bring together the various groups opposing colonial rule, the political motives behind each one, the reasons behind Belgium's decision to give the DRC its independence, and also how the United States and the former USSR were involved. Sadly, all of my questions went largely unanswered.  My belief is that this movie was made by people who, through a passing familiarity with the story of the DRC's fight for freedom, saw a story filled with drama and emotion, and decided to exploit it.  They then proceeded to try and stuff all the dramatic points into a storyline, briefly filled them out with dialogue, went to the set and shot it.  I could be wrong, but if so it's all the sadder, because then the makers must have simply become too tied up in getting everything in, and ended up glossing over all details in an effort to create an encompassing history. Whatever the reason, the fact is that the movie could be a timeline of sentence-long statements and facts printed on the screen.  The film goes through each major occurrence, and tells the viewer point-blank the main idea of what's going on, completely smoothing over the actual details in favor of getting across the big things.  For instance, there is the scene when Lumumba is captured by the increasingly rebellious army controlled by Mobutu.  In the situation the soldiers have three possible viewpoints one that sympathizes with Lumumba, one that vilifies Lumumba, and one that stands in the middle, sympathizing and yet obeying orders. Correspondingly, there are three soldiers that speak in the scene, uttering lines that unadornedly show their points of view.  Then, to avoid dealing with the actual tensions that these opposing viewpoints bring up, the scriptwriters simply inserted some random shooting, more army guys show up and they just end up beating everyone up. This is the extent of the reflectiveness of the movie.  Most of the time, each character simply states their basic motives, the other characters respond with theirs, and that's that.  There's little telling through actions; even the things they say are direct the point of painfulness. It's hard to believe that the people represented actually acted like that. Also, in the trend of this directness, things like political tension between factions is reduced to simple acknowledgement of the fact-- we never learn what these factions are, what they're fighting for, their power, basically anything except that they exist.  The characters likewise are one-dimensional and flat; unfortunately I don't know whether Lumumba was actually a freedom fighter passionately devoted to ideals of Congolese unity, but after an hour or so of the movie I certainly didn't trust it to tell me so. The DRC, like many developing countries, has a complicated and important history, especially in the period leading up to and after independence. But the telling of these histories will not be useful unless there is recognition of the intricacy of the situations.  Lumumba fails to give proper attention to these details, and ends up telling the viewer little except the most general of outlines. "}]