[{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"59 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I will admit that when I first heard a Disney movie called The Princess Diaries was coming out, I thought it would be corny. But upon actually SEEING the film, I found (as is usually the case when stupid judgmental people make up their mind about films without watching them, I won't name names, you know who you are...Tom!) that it was in reality a charming, original, humorous and thoroughly entertaining family film.The plot is fairy tale in nature Mia is a social misfit with terrible hair and no self-confidence. Her only friends are eccentric activist Lilly and rock band headliner Michael (played by real-life rocket Robert Carmine of Rooney) who has a little crush on her. Then, who of all people should turn up but Julie Andrews to tell Mia that her father (who she hasn't seen since she was tiny) was actually royalty and that she, Mia, was princess of a country no one's ever heard of. What it comes down to is this She has until a big embassy ball to decide whether she wants to give up the crown (and basically open the country up to a hostile political takeover) or take her place as princess. After a makeover (at the hands of funnyman Larry Miller), some training and at least four horrendously traumatizing incidents, she decides...well, that would be giving it away, wouldn't it?This is not a movie for little girls dressed in tutus who want to be princesses when they grow up. For the first time in the studio's tenure (I'd wager) this film depicts the responsibility of royalty. Mia tackles with the pressures of ruling a country. But for my money the best part of this movie is the love story. No, not Mia and the uniquely attractive rocker (although, that is great). A second, unscripted love story exists between Andrews and her chauffeur, Hector Elizondo. That's terrific.It's about being yourself and bettering yourself. It's about knowing who your real friends are. It's about living up to your own expectations. It's about smushing an ice cream cone on the blouse of a bitchy cheerleader who deserves it. And maybe that sounds corny to all y'all (rustic expression) but I know a lot of adults who could use lessons like these. "},{"Title":"A surprise treat!","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"35 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  When I was 32 years old, back in 2001 when this movie came out, I took my then 7 year old daughter to see this move. As a parent I often have to suffer through books my children read to me, music they like, and television shows & movies that I have no desire to see. The previews made this movie look like the standard Disney channel fluff I occasionally have to endure. However, I found that I actually enjoyed this movie.Garry Marshall basically redressed his PRETTY WOMAN storyline for kids. He even brought in Hector Elizondo, the hotel manager in PW, as the head security officer for the Queen of Genovia, who is played by Julie Andrews. The story also has aspects of the LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY novel in it.The story is not all that original. A long lost heir to the throne of Genovia has been identified as a klutzy teenager who lives in San Francisco. The Queen of Genovia goes to San Francisco and attempts to persuade her to come back to Genovia and take her place as a princess of the realm. From their the typical hijinks ensue. The princess gets an education in proper royal behavior & procedures. The Queen learns to loosen up and relax. Princess Mia also struggles between dating the school jock, who ignored her before she became famous and dating an unpopular guy who has been her friend for years.The story is predictable and hold no real surprises. Despite this I still found myself enjoying the film. Julie Andrews did well in her role as the Queen and it was a treat to see her in another Disney film. I was surprised by how well Anne Hathaway did in her role as Princess Mia. She held her own against such performers as Andrews and Elizondo. This movie could have come off as cheezy but thanks to the director and skilled actors it proved to be a real treat. I remember back in 1990 when PW came out that girls thought it was so romantic that a hooker could find romance, true love and wealth. In my opinion PD is a much better role model. I'd rather have my little girl wishing she that she was heir to throne than a hooker who happens to find true love. Anyway, thanks to my daughter I discovered a film that I really enjoyed It is also because of her that I just saw the sequel, PD-2. It was even better than PD.  "},{"Title":"Fun & Entertaining!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. It was fun to see a fairly clean movie that was fun to watch. The acting of Julie Andrews and Anne Hathaway is superb and the story shines out hope. The director takes a very unlikely event and makes it believable, teaching us all something in the process. It was refreshing to see a teen film without all the sexual inuendos and crude language. "},{"Title":"A Princess who bring me some memorable moments.","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"39 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" The Princess Diary talk about a 15-year-old teenager whose name is Mia wants to be invisible at school. One day, on the contrary, she was told to be the Princess of a country, which is very opposite to her former expectation. What a big turning to her life ! What she will undergo ? Mia is my very first and memorable impression about this movie. Anything about her comes from Anne Hathaway's virgin performance. After deeply understand the character-Mia, Anne let Meg's story vivid on the screen. Her acting is natural and every detail show a combination of her own understanding of the character and the shining of the character itself. I noticed some details about Mia,which is very sophisticated. Mia's school uniform represent the 1950's elegance. The black socks and ties. What a copy of Audrey Hepburn in Breakfast at Tiffany's. Mia's smile remind me of another famous actress-Julie Roberts, who has become a mother recently. The beautiful big smile is very eye-catching and also memorable. Oh,I remember another person who also have those big smile. She is Amélie Poulain. The Story is philanthropic and extraordinary.It's not simply a Cinderella story.But, a great story about grandmother and granddaughter, a education-valued story about mother and daughter, a special story about father and daughter,a ever-sweet story about first love, a beautiful story about friendship. Above all, it's a growing story. Based on Meg's classic story The Princess Diary, the motion picture make her characters believe-like in another artistic way. Just like having read Margaret's story (Gone With The Wind), you then watch O'Selznick's GWTW movie. Your feeling will be like I seemed to be a part of the story. Those characters are just and always around you! Clarisse The Sound of Music is recognized as a movie that is priceless, so, this also recognized the supporting actress's performance is priceless. Julie is an actress that could act well on any characters. The governess,the grandmother or on Broadway, etc. Helen (Caroline Goodall) played a vital role is Mia's growing period. This daughter and mother is a good role model. Because they show the grand respect for each other. Anyone can't grow without friend, the princess,too. From the friendship with Lilly, Mia knows how to tell the truth, how to apologize and how to deal with something that is uniquely occurred in teenager, which is called Growing Pains. Like other reviewers, I also feel the last sentence Mia told Michael is Soooooooo...... Cool ! -O You saw me when I was invisible. Why we feel cool ? Because that's what true love is. And, especially, that's what true love is to a princess !! Joe is a person we can't ignore. He acted as a imitate friend to Mia. He told her what she should be. And he is virtually the bodyguard. Oh, by the way, he is a very very special one ! Some of the songs in The Princess Diary is also memorable. A Summer Song remind me of those romantic school kisses. The final song Miracles Happen is special designed for this movie, for Mia and also for all of us. Now, I am recommending this movie to YOU from my heart. "},{"Title":"Typically Disney","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  A fun story - if entirely unoriginal - about an awkward and unpopular 15 year old San Francisco girl (Anne Hathaway) who discovers out of the blue that she is the heir to the throne of the small, fictional European principality of Genovia, and has to deal with all the adjustments that requires.It's typically Disney-esque. There's nothing here that would cause you to blush even a little bit as you watch this with your 8 year old. The strongest language used is shut up - and it was quickly explained to the Queen that in America shut up doesn't necessarily mean be quiet; it might just mean wow!There's a strong cast. Hathaway put on a very good performance in the lead role of Mia, moving from shy and awkward teenager, to sudden celebrity causing her to have to deal with being popular not for who she is but for what she is, to - finally - elegant princess. Julie Andrews was - well - Julie Andrews. She didn't miss a beat in her portrayal of Queen Clarisse, and Hector Elizondo handled the role of Joseph - Mia's driver and bodyguard - with great style.It's a fun movie. Nothing heavy, nothing that will cause you to think too much. Just nice, light fun. It loses a few points for being entirely unoriginal (how many movies have used this theme?) but is still enjoyable to watch. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Cool  movie - great plot","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"26 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the few movies that really made me meditate of my own life, and the invisibility around me. I think that Anne Hathaway and Julie Andrews are the coolest grandaughter-grandmother couple I've ever seen - Julie Andrews being such a great actress, and Hathaway being so beautiful. Lame acting for Lana - whoever interprets her - doesn't look like a real spoilt brat - See Freaky Friday's spoilt brats for more. Anyway, cool, great movie with a superb plot - can't wait for part 2. I give it a 10. The love story between the two characters - Mia and Michael was so nice, and the line You saw me when I was invisible was sooooo cool.  "},{"Title":"favorite movie","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie and although it may have been slightly cliché, the dialog was quite smart and it was quite a funny movie. I think that if you expect the movie to be Oscar worthy, it will obviously fall short. But as it only attempts to be a sweet story about a misfit 15 year old turned princess, it completely lives up to it's potential. I think that Julie Andrews completely made the movie and that Anne Hathaway also did an excellent job. The movie is great for people of all ages because it has a simplistic plot yet has great one liners and great repartee between the characters of the Queen and Princess Mia. I also think that the minor characters are great also because they provide even more comic relief. "},{"Title":"Anne Hathaway's makes it memorable","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Though this story sounds like a cheesy teenage fairy tale attempt, it is something quite the contrary. The 'girl who finds out she is a princess' story, has been most certainly covered, but this makes you forget about it being a fairy tale cliché.All thanks to Anne Hathaway, who just sizzled as Mia &#150; her cool/ funny tone of voice and personality, just made her picture perfect. It was as is she was just born to play it. In the end, this movie ranked no.19 in the top 20 movie list of the year 2001, grossing more than 100 million at the box office&#133;.something which it completely deserved. Julie Andrews, makes a sudden re-appearance as Queen Clarise. Though she does fit perfectly to what the casting director's envisage of the Queen, there is something that does not fit, to make it perfect. However, that does not stop anyone from not enjoying the movie and having fun. Mandy Moore's debut performance&#133;well was HORRIBLE (listen to her cover version of 'Stupid Cupid'- its even worst than her acting)! But because Anne Hathaway's character was brought out with a lot of strength, all these minor faults seemed invisible. Hector Elizondo was equally good as the chauffeur Joe. He had wit and the personality. Heather Matarazzo always plays a freak, and in this case, it is still the same.This may be a kiddie movie, but I believe it was made for everyone to enjoy it- and it did serve it's purpose. I ENJOYED THIS MOVIE SO MUCH and would make a great recommendation, for anyone who just wants to make movie night fun.  "},{"Title":"It rules!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised to see that the overall voting average for PD was in the 6 range, as so many people I know enjoyed it as much as I did. Anne Hathaway plays the role perfectly, making the awkward Mia extremely likable, as the heroine always should be.  Julie Andrews shines like a true royal.  The entire supporting cast adds something special to the film. It's quality family fun, and destined to be another Disney classic! 9/10 stars! "},{"Title":"She rocks. She rules. She reigns.","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Mia Thermopolis is a smart but shy girl. She is not from the group of the popular people and also has as an expectation in her life to be invisible. But she doesn't know one important thing She is the only heir alive to the throne of Genovia! Her father, Philliph was the prince, but he needed to get a divorce of Mia's mother,since she didn't want to have a life full of rules and obligations. Now, Mia is going to have classes with her Grandman, Queen Clarisse Renaldi, to things like history, art until how to sit and band in order to behave as a princess. Paolo also helps in her looks making Mia become a very beautiful girl.This movie is very lovely, but I never read the books to compare. But I can say that I loved to see Julie Andrews as a Queen, and to see the new and beautiful actress Anne Hathaway in her debut movie! "}{"Title":"Loved it.","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I think the Princess Diaries was one of the best Disney movies I've seen. Anne Hathaway has it all! She's pretty,smart, and funny! I loved the comedy in the movie and the story was good too. It had some scenes with feeling, I love movies like that. I know Anne will never read this but if she ever does....You're doing a wonderful job and doing what you love and don't let anyone tell you different. "},{"Title":"They killed it. (herein lay spoilers)","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie completely killed the novels.  In my opinion, it's not the acting that totaled it, it's the stupid plot/corny dialogue that threw the last dirt onto the grave.****SPOILERS*****Basically, Disney dumbed the entire plot of Meg Cabot's series for the twelve-and-under set.  Instead of Mia's father having testicular cancer, and Mia's parents never being married, Mia's father divorced her mother and then died tragically.And then there's the whole Grandmere scandal.  In the novels, Grandmere is the antagonist a scary pain in the ass grandmother who Mia constantly struggles against. In the movie, Mia and Grandmere suddenly become best friends.Plus, what's with the yoga?  And debate class?  Mr. G and Mia's inability to do Algebra and sports are comic reliefs in the book.In my opinion, had they followed the books more and NOT Disney-ed it up, the movie would have been okay.I loved the casting for Michael & Lilly Moscovitz, as well as Lana. "},{"Title":"old fashioned fairy tail","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I liked this movie because it reminded me very much of an old fashioned fairy tale. It was predictable and consistent and could have used a plot twist here and there , there should have been a bit of intrigue after all it is about a princess. The film was however entertaining and typically the kind that Disney has excelled at over the years. I certainly recommend this film for family viewing. Julie Andrews does a fine performance as the Queen and Anne Hathaway does a fantastic job as the princess, I think she has a great career as an actress ahead of her. A typical Disney Fairy tale and I'm glad that Disney is going back to doing these kind of movies. "},{"Title":"The Princess Diaries","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I think I only decided to try this film from Disney Studios because of the cast, and might be alright for a cheap giggle, and that is exactly what it was, from director Garry Marshall (Overboard, Pretty Woman). Basically socially awkward but bright San Francisco 15-year old teenager Mia Thermopolis (debuting Anne Hathaway) raised by single mother Helen (Caroline Goodall) discovers that she is related to royalty. She can't believe that she is the daughter of the deceased Prince of Genovia, with his wife Queen Clarisse Renaldi (Dame Julie Andrews) as Grandmother, who tells her she has to decide whether or not to take his place. For a while Mia tries to live normally with this revelation being secret, even after being primped up, but she is being stalked by the press when the truth is blurted out. It looks like she is convinced of saying no, but changes her mind after reading a letter from her father, and she is a real princess by the end. Also starring Hector Elizondo as Joe, Heather Matarazzo as Lilly Moscovitz, Mandy Moore as Lana Thomas, Robert Schwartzman as Michael Moscovitz, Escape to Witch Mountain's Erik Von Detten as Josh Bryant, Sandra Oh as Vice Principal Gupta and Larry Miller as Paolo the Hairdresser. Hathaway in her first film is quite good, Andrews brings the usual sweet-faced radiance to her role, and while it isn't the funniest family comedy you will see, it isn't too bad. Okay! "},{"Title":"Warm and sweet","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" This film is about a 15 year old ordinary school girl finding out her royal descent all of a sudden.Anne Hathaway is great as a mischievous girl, and her transformation into an elegant princess is stunning. She expresses her character very well, be it the shy girl, the mischievous and happy girl or the elegant princess. Julie Andrews is amazingly elegant and noble as the Queen. The film is warm, sweet and fun. It also has the obligatory moral message about egocentricity being bad. Mia also makes the point of her being the same person before and after being a princess. I think it is an important point, as contrary to popular belief, status does not really change who you really are. This film serves its purpose as warm entertainment, and it will bring a smile to your face. "},{"Title":"Great Movie for the Awkward Girl in All of Us.","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I remember when I first watched this movie. I was an intensely tomboyish preteen and pretty much against all media with the word Princess even associated with it. Needless to say, I was not super excited when my cousins came over and popped this bad boy(err..girl) in our VCR. I honestly didn't expect much Disney, princess, tiaras, romance, please.But as I began watching it, I soon realized that I identified completely with Mia,(Anne Hathaway) an extremely awkward teenage girl who was rebellious, weird, unpopular, and yet, was offered the one thing that almost all teenage girls dream of princess-ship, complete with new looks, limos, balls, gowns, hot guys, and power. Whoop!Yet, she practically had to be dragged into it kicking and screaming. Forget preppy hair do's! Just leave me alone! Here was a princess story I could relate to! Mia wasn't some whistling girl with a pure heart who caught birds on her fingers while working at a terrible job, that really wasn't that terrible because she made it fun! She was an ungraceful chick who had learned to cope with the hardships of life, but not in the usual way. Everything about her was weird, and she liked it like that.But Mia had to grow up during this movie. She went from awkward to awesome in a matter of two hours. I loved the transformation were she went from laughed at, to applauded for by the end when she slams ice cream all over Lana's(Mandy Moore) cheer leading outfit(something I personally loved because I was not particularly fond of cheer leading at this point..) Overall, great chick/ teen girl flick. It makes you believe that no matter how messed up your life is or you are, you still have a chance to be some super cool girl. And who doesn't want to be a princess? Really. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I really liked this movie. I first watched it when I was seven, and I loved to watch it. Now that I'm thirteen, I have had more and more fun watching it. Now that I'm older, I can understand more, and I've read the books, and although the movie is not anything like the books, I still love them both. Also, I've started listening to Mandy Moore's music (Mandy Moore played Lana in the movie). I found her song Stupid Cupid on limewire, which was in the movie. When I was little, I liked the song, but I didn't have it on a disk or anything, so I would always fast forward to the part with the song in it, and rewind it over and over again to listen to it. But now that I'm older, I found Stupid Cupid on limewire, and I put it on a disk so I could listen to it whenever I wanted to without turning on the TV and all that. Six years after the movie came out, I still enjoy watching it. I got the movie on DVD, and I love to watch it when I don't have school. I'm sure that any girls would love to watch it, and maybe boys would want to watch it, too. "},{"Title":"Wow, I can't see why this film has such a low rating on IMDb","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I am a forty-something year-old father and not the sort of person to which this film was targeted. I like foreign films, classic Hollywood and even silent films and am very critical about the horrid quality of the films that have been released over the last thirty years. Because of all this, you would assume that I would hate THE PRINCESS DIARIES--I sure did. But when my oldest daughter insisted we buy this film and watch it together, I was genuinely shocked that I found myself enjoying and being sucked into what is essentially a teen and pre-teen girls' film. Due to terrific writing, very good acting and a fairy tale-like quality to the film, I was very, very impressed.The movie, by the way, reminded me of a much better retooling of the old Grace Kelly film, THE SWAN. However, unlike THE SWAN, this film was really engaging and sweet.FYI--SPOILER ALERT!!! I have never seen the sequel to THE PRINCESS DIARIES and have no desire to. That's because the fundamental message in the first movie is that you need to be true to yourself and your friends and no matter what the pressures were, the new princess did not forget her friends or nerdy boyfriend. However, the main plot idea of PRINCESS DIARIES II is that she's in search of a prince to marry--what happened to the message and happy ending to PRINCESS DIARIES?! "},{"Title":"A fun and bubbly rom-com that took me back to my memorable teen years","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" This entertaining and hip teen comedy was a surprise winner for me. Definitely not part of the target audience (though I do consider myself young at heart!) I was charmed by Ms Hathaway's naivety and photogenic presence and the always reliable Julie Andrews who wonderfully never takes herself too seriously, poking fun at her family-friendly screen persona. Garry Marshall demonstrates his talents of sweet irresistible romantic comedies in what could be called his follow-up to his 1990 smash Pretty Young Woman. And with Hathaway, he has found his 21st century young muse.The storyline fits perfectly into the soapsud daydreams of all young ladies. Never the popular kid graced with mawkish looks and a geeky personality, Mia Thermopolis resigns herself to a life of miserable loneliness and school bullies. However, in a moment of emancipation, she is uncovered by her Grandmother Clarisse Renaldi and when told that she is the last remaining bloodline of a royal family, she must take over the throne of the idealistic kingdom of Genovia. Cue Cinderella-like transformation and plenty of vivacious trying on of clothes and groovy pop tunes.The film has a simple but great (even hackneyed) message at heart, to be true to yourself and never forget that your friends and family can be the most honest and important in your life. It could have come off contrived and cheesy but the film still conveys heartwarming moments and a sincere semblance.There is great energy in the film and some of the scenes in the palace and garden are quite picturesque and dreamy. The storyline can be pretty thin considering the good-guy-bad-guy syndrome but Mia's closest friends are still commendable and mature young people capturing the trials and tribulations of teenage fitting in, first loves, peer pressure, pressure from Mums and Dads and realisation of adult responsibilities.I had a really fun time with this film, absorbed in it's fairytale story lines and taking myself back to when I was young and naive. Thanks to the irresistible company and chemistry of the two female leads I was able to totally identify with their dilemmas. This film has Disney written all over it. A good simple message at heart and fully of quirky side characters and a charismatic underdog. Lovely to look at and listen to (I went out afterwards to check out the soundtrack!), this one always brings a smile to my face whenever I catch it on TV - I had a good time. "},{"Title":"The princess diaries is the coolest movie","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie.I recommend to anybody and I will tell you why.It is set in the odd San Franciso city where teenagers go to the odd you know high school and there is the nerds the cheerleaders and the hottest popular guy in the high school.The story is set around the life of a teenager living in San Franciso her name is Mia Thermopolis and she lives in an old fire house with her mother who is single.Mia is the odd teenager who is geeky and is clumsy and has boffy hair and glasses and doesn't get seen at school and get's past as invisible.The only companion and best friend that looks up to her and wants to help her out is Lilly who has a brother Michael who likes Mia Thermopolis secretly.One day Mia's world is turned around when a long lost grandmother comes to San Franciso and wants to met up with Mia.When Mia mets up with her and tells her that she is a princess the next ruler to reign after her dad which was a prince that she didn't know he was a prince.She has to attend princess lessons before she makes her decision of ruling a country as their princess.She under goes a whole transformation make-over where all of her boffy hair is short and straight and no glasses but contact lenses.One day she get's out to the press before her ball when she was supposed to be introduced to the world. I will stop and let you watch the movie because it is the best ever and I hope you like it. "}{"Title":"A Truly Wonderful Film That Really Deserves a Higher User Rating","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Okay, first things first This film's user rating of 5.8 on this site makes me really mad. I'm a teenage male, and I absolutely love this film. Which must mean there's something special about it.Well, let's see. Anne Hathaway and Julie Andrews do an amazingly wonderful job acting in this movie. I have never seen better grandmother-grandchild chemistry on screen. It is absolutely enthralling and enchanting, watching them.The storyline is also very pleasing. An awkward high school girl suddenly learns she is a princess. Of course, in the movie it is actually much better than I just made it sound. Mia's transition from normality to royalty is very engaging to watch.And, unlike the sequel, you can relate to Mia in this movie because, when you look past all this princess business, she's really just an average teenager who's worried that she won't make a difference in the world.On an entirely unrelated note, I actually sort of like Mia's hair before her makeover. True, Anne Hathaway's hair looks better when it's straight, but I found the frizzy hair quite endearing. Must be a turn-on for me. . .But seriously, you must absolutely watch this movie. Everyone involved with it has done an excellent job in making us want to watch (and rewatch) this modern fairy tale. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"I hear that a lot of people don't like it, they must be crazy!","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" A very modern, comical follow-up to My Fair Lady. Lots of reviewers and critics are not happy with what they see in The Princess Diaries what I say is what's wrong with it?. I'll agree that there is hardly any action or violence in it but isn't it about time that movies these days ought to be softened up a bit? Pirates of the Carabian and the Lord of the Rings Trilogy were successful and they are disturbingly violent and rather grim. This film is very easy-going. The story is simple, Mia (Anne Hathaway) is a self-conscious teenager who wants to lead a quiet, happy life but when her abrupt grandmother (Julie Andrews) travels from Europe to America to tell her that she is a princess of a large country. Mia is totally shocked and her grandmother expects her to be calm and think nothing of it - how harsh is that? Mia's warmhearted mother makes a compromise that she would attend princess-lessons and if she really doesn't want to accept becoming a princess then she doesn't have to. The Queen still isn't impressed but this helps Mia feel better about attending Princess-lessons and reluctantly does so. Being an all-American, rather an affected-by-hormones kind of girl things don't go to plan especially when Mia thinks she has won the affections of a teen-aged boy she is sexually attracted to who goes to her school but she doesn't know that she is being used in order for him to become famous. The Queen is very angry about how much she let the royal family down. Mia tries to explain that she didn't do it deliberately but the Queen won't listen. A few days later the Queen comes to Mia's house and apologises. The night the grand ball takes place for Mia's speech, her heart is telling her that being a princess would be the right thing and so she announces to everyone at the ball that she will be the new princess of the European country. Now hearing the story I've briefly explained, how is that rubbish? It's interesting, fun, romantic, extremely funny, heartwarming and all it has missing is the violent action and horror audiences today expect from a good movie, and to me that is a very good thing. I advise you to give it a go - you might be surprised. "},{"Title":"Cute, funny, sassy and most of all ... innocent.","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Some people have said this movie is a Disney version of Pretty Woman.The difference between Pretty Woman and Princess Mia... Pretty Woman - prostitute, Richard Gere gives her money to buy cocktail dress.She already is beautiful. Princess Diaries - young teen, not very good looking, royal blood,grandmother Queen of Genovia, has to learn to walk, talk, eat and behave like princess. OK, yes, Mia isn't very attractive before she finds out she is of royal blood. Yes, she's attractive when the glasses come off and make up goes on. However, I wouldn't say that it was offensive to women in ANY manner! It really annoys me that an innocent movie like this receives a bad comment on the front page of IMDb that everyone can see when it is clearly not true. This is a nice movie to sit down with the kids and watch.It is innocent, there are no connotations of any kind but most of all it's just entertainment.It's Julie Andrews for crying out loud!! One person went so far as to write it as 'Disneyfied version of Pygmalion'. However, Pygmalion got its own remake with a new title 'My Fair Lady' with Audrey Hepburn.As Queen Clarisse would say to a comment regarding Pygmalion to Princess Diaries ... tosh!And I am inclined to back her up. So,if you have nothing nice to say about anything then ... do what Ronan Keating does... say nothing at all!! "},{"Title":"A cheesy but EXCELLENT story.","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I love the story of The Princess Diaries and I own all the books. I've seen the first film but I haven't had time to watch the second one. I soon hope to buy it on DVD. Michael Moscovitz is one of the BEST characters you can ever hope for. He's almost TOO good. Ha ha. Julie Andrews made the EXCELLENT appearance and I hope she's as good in the second film. Joe is also an fantastic character and I hope he gets some more good film gigs. I hope that someone reads this as I need someone to clear up something for me. Well, as I've said I haven't watched the film yet and I can't find any clear storyline anywhere, so, I wondered if Robert Schwartzman, who plays Michael Moscovitz, is actually IN the second film. Thanks, hoping for a reply SOON. B. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" When Brazil was released, I was an early teenager and I couldn't find anything exciting in this gloomy and old-fashioned movie. How wrong I was! Since then, I've seen it again many times and have appreciated every single bit of it. It's a masterpiece and I can now say I consider it the best love film ever made! Simply brilliant! As with all great films, there's no need to describe specific scenes or events to justify its greatness. Finally, let me link this film with great family film works. They prove here why comedy is a very serious matter. This film is not only comedy, although it has its moments, but he makes evident that a good comedian can produce a much deeper and dramatic film than a serious director. "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" When I first heard the title of the movie, I thought it would be exactly like the book. Boy, was i wrong. The movie is close to the book but not exactly like it. I think one of the reasons the changed the movie from the book is because the book is for older kids while the movie is for younger kids. The movie is for kids who dream of becoming a princess one day.The movie is basically about a girl who wakes up one day and figures out that she is a princess (what are the odds of that?). She has to learn the rules of becoming a princess and slowly starts to like her best friend's brother. The movie has a happy ending so all's well that ends well. "},{"Title":"a complete surprise","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" i remember seeing previews and ads of this movie and not really being interested. not even Julie Andrews caught my attention and I'm a huge fan of hers.my mom thought it would be a bright idea to buy this movie for me as a Christmas gift. well I'm sure you can imagine my confusion and disappointment by this gift. i remember feeling bad for making my mom sad for just trying to buy me something that i would like so i decided to watch this movie and all i can say is boy was i wrong.i really thought this was a darling movie for the little girl in me who dreamed of being a princess as a child. i thought everyone was up to par with their performances but the one my sister and i couldn't shut up about was Joe the driver. he had the best one liners and just cracked me up with the simplest actions.Garry Marshall really seems to understand the human condition and really knows where the jokes are for all his films. although i had VERY few pet peeves about certain parts, overall this is a really fun movie to watch. "},{"Title":"The Princess Diaries is a delightful film for people of all ages to enjoy.","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I think that The Princess Diaries is excellent entertainment for people of all ages. This gem of a G-rated movie works well on all levels of perspective. The two leads, Julie Andrews and Anne Hathaway, give pleasing performances that are sure to captivate everybody from toddlers to senior citizens. The supporting players here are also great, but the story revolves mainly around Hathaway's character and how her life takes on a whole new meaning after she is informed that she is a real-life princess.The cast is outstanding and the story is mesmerizing. If parents are seeking terrific films for their children to view with them or their grandparents then The Princess Diaries is a surefire winner. This movie makes me incredibly happy. Andrews is astounding while Hathaway keeps us amused with her stunning performance. Both actresses, indeed, have tons of charisma. This motion picture will forever remain to be a favorite with me! "},{"Title":"Totally Loved it!","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" When I was staying at my mums house for a few weeks on holidays she bought both 1 and 2 on DVD, we sat down and watched them both one after the other. If your looking for a nice fun light hearted movie that you can have a few laughs with along the way then Princess Diaries is definitely perfect for that. I believe that was the aim for the movie when they made it, in which case they did it and did it well. If your a female who is in to nice light chick flicks then this one would be well suited for you, as well as young girls as its really suited for all ages. Probably not the kind of movie most guys would go for but then I don't think it was aimed at the male population either. (Having said that though my boyfriend watched it with me and had a few laughs along the way too, not that I think he would admit that ;)). "},{"Title":"What a GREAT MOVIE","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I am a teenager and i happen 2 love the PRINCESS DIARIES I think it is a wonderful story about a girl who isn't very popular in school and is basically a geek but then is told by her fathers mother that she is a princes WHAT A GIRLS DREAM but not for her she just wants 2 b invisible not b the center of everything and run a country i think its a wonderful adventure 2 c how she changes 2 become a princess i think this movie is great for children and adults as well This movie was such a pleasure for my family and i to watch we all loved it I have given this movie 9 stars out of ten because in my opinion this movie is really great and I recommend this film and also PRINCESS DIARIES 2 ROYAL ENGAGEMENT 2 everyone <333 "}{"Title":"Quite predictable, but consistently enjoyable, 'The Princess Diaries' is a sweet, charming, and satisfying film...","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" The Princess Diaries 'The Princess Diaries', based on the novel by Meg Cabot, surprised me, as I was expecting nothing more than a lazy 'Cinderella' knock-off. In actuality, it kept me entertained and interested throughout, leaving me very pleased. It's refreshingly clean for a family film - no potty humour or cringe-inducing slapstick. A stunning-as-always Julie Andrews carries the movie, but I truly enjoyed the performances by Anne Hathaway as Mia, and Heather Matarazzo ('Welcome to the Dollhouse') as Lilly. Quite predictable, but consistently enjoyable, 'Diaries' exceeded my expectations. I recommend it highly to anyone looking for a sweet, charming, and satisfying film.~ 8/10 ~ "},{"Title":"movie","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" To whom it may concern, I was wanting to know if there if a making for princess diaries 3. If so when will it be coming out. I want to say how much this movie has inspired me to go out and not be afraid to be what I want to be, even if you get put down or laugh at. I have been able to look at a new day without saying help me I don't want to be here. Your movies are so inspiring that I am 25years old and I still love to watch them. Thank you for everything that you have done to help me through everything. I hope to see more of your wonderful movies in the near future. I will always love the princess diaries movies the best. Anyone can be a princess on the inside even if you really aren't.Thank you, Connie "},{"Title":"Skip the flick, read the book (spoilers)","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Before seeing The Princess Diaries in theaters, I was browsing through the book store and came across a book by the same name. The words 'Now A Major Motion Picture' were right across the front. I decided to buy it and read it, since the movie looked interesting enough and the short description on the back of the book sounded good. A week after I read it, I saw the movie and was highly disappointed. The book was a very well-written story meant for the younger teen set. The movie was a piece of fluff designed for those ages 5-9. The movie lacked any kind of depth, and it's the kind of film that makes you wonder if the screenwriters even picked up the novel.Julie Andrews was good as the airy-fairy You Will Prevail grandmother, but the grandmother in the book (known not-so-affectionately as Grandmere) was--for lack of a better word--a complete bitch. The romance that Mia's mother had with her algebra teacher Mr. Gianini in the book was cut down to a single date with Mia's debate teacher in the movie. And the biggest skewered plot point of all in the movie, Mia's father is dead, which is why Mia has to step up as princess. In the book, her father is very much ALIVE, but he can't bear children, so Mia (his illegitimate child) must reign.Let's just put it this way if you want a cheesy puff piece with little to no character development or plot, see the movie. If you want something with a bit more depth and characters that you can actually care about and relate to, pick up the book.  "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing compared to Book","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I am a huge fan of the books. They are hilarious and I enjoy reading them greatly. Meg Cabot's sense of humor is simply fabulous and the characters are wonderful! The movie...oh god. Where do i start? Everything is completely and totally 100% opposite of what happens in the book. When you compare the book to the movie side by side, the book's humor completely overshadows the movie. The movie is funny to a fine point, whereas the book has me crying from laughter. Julie Andrews was wrong for the part. Her grandmother is SCARY AND MEAN. NOT nice. Mia was fourteen years old! FOURTEEN! Everything about this film screws up the original book i fell in love with. Do yourself a favor Read the books "},{"Title":"Cute Fairy Tale","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I'll preface this by saying that it was late night and a choice between Cheers reruns, paid programming or this movie, so I chose this.  Having said that, I actually don't regret my decision as much as I thought I would.The Princess Diaries is a modern day fairy tale about Mia (Hathaway) who lives in San Francisco with her divorced mother.  One day, her estranged grandmother (Andrews) comes to visit with a proposal for her  She would like Mia to be her successor and become Princess of Genovia.  Hilarity ensues because Mia is pretty much a regular teen who is clumsy, awkward and in desperate need of a professional makeover, so she spends the next several weeks in etiquette lessons, getting re-done and trying to decide if being a princess is what she really wants in life. The film was cute, at times extremely corny, but watcheable.  It featured surprisingly decent acting by Hathaway, who made up for the horrible Mandy Moore.  I especially enjoyed Hector Elizondo, a good character actor who was kind of hilarious doing his best Shaft impersonation as the Queen's head of security.  Heather Matarazzo who was also featured as Mia's best friend, continues in her quirky girl tradition, but still can't live up to her role in Welcome to the Dollhouse.  This is one of the few kid's movies that I wouldn't hesitate to watch with a kid, because it's tolerable.  It's also so predictable that if you snooze in the middle of it you won't miss anything when you wake up.--Shelly "},{"Title":"A pedantic waste of time","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Not even good performances by Julie Andrews and Hector Elizondo could save this from being a dreadful waste of time.  It was so predictably awful that I can't believe it did even relatively well in the box office.  My only surmise is that a lot of people thought it would be good and by the time they discovered it wasn't, it was too late to get a refund.The story had potential, but as usual it was taken to such extremes as to defeat the original purpose.  The melodrama and the predictable bad lines were so consistent that we actually started a betting pool to call what would happen next.  It was the only way to survive watching the film.If this is the sort of thing we allow our children to watch, it is no wonder they grow up with their minds made of mush.  There was absolutely no substance to this movie - nothing you could wrap your mind around and think about.  There are good movies out there aimed at teens, such as 'Ten things I hate about you' and 'She's all that'.  These movies center around fairly normal people with normal problems, mixed in with good lines and imaginative plot twists.  But this movie seems to say that your life will wind up perfect only if your grandmother happens to be a queen and you wind up being a princess.  The only thing you might improve by watching this movie is your ability to groan. "},{"Title":"Heather is back !","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes women act so well I could just marry them immediately for that. Well, after her wonderful part in Strike! - she was definitely even better than Kirsten Dunst or any other of the teenage casts there - I never saw any other movie of Heather Matarazzo. Now here she is back again, and I was surely happy about seeing her again !However, the movie itself failed completely.Well, no question, there was a good cast, good acting, very nice background. Especially, I liked Heathers part (closest friend of the princess) and the queen, and the funny house the princess lives in. Camera and directing itself wasn't bad, either. And about that Mandy Moore - she was just as evil and stupid as her character should have been, I don't know what else people expected from her.But the story itself was narrated in such an unbelievable boring and lifeless way ! The characters showed nearly no development and appeared lifeless in an unnatural degree. The storyline offered no surprise whatsoever and always took the most obvious way.Interesting smaller roles occur sometimes but offered no surprise either. For example, the neighbor of the princess, I always expected that something will happen with him, but he just stays a little weird, with no further characterization.Or the other pupils in school. They just stay the same throughout the whole movie ! Any REAL girl who would switch to such an attractive outfit would get masses of attention from boys. But again, the other pupils just stay lifeless around and treat her nearly as if nothing has really changed. That was so unnatural !Same with the princess. Her behavior was so damned predictable all the time.In short, the writer of the script absolutely had no clue about real people, and made most, if not all characters appear flat and super-stereotype. Many parts of the script also smelled like an old man's phantasy.There where still some nice little jokes in the script, for example when the princess should give an address to her school class, or how she damaged some statue. As such, the movie wasn't really pain to watch - but I didn't felt very well entertained either.Strike! was a masterpiece, I liked it even more than Matrix, but this one here is just plain boring. I hope I get the chance to see a better one with Heather soon !  "},{"Title":"One of the dumbest movies I've seen.","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  A waste of so many talented people - and my time.  It was supposed to be funny, but I heard not one laugh in the theatre during the showing.  It was a cute premise, and I thought this director would always do things well. But is was a dumb, boring movie, in my opinion.  The three who were with me agreed. "},{"Title":"Terrible movie.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies that I have ever seen. I am in the age group that this movie was made for, and I hated it. The plot was childish and totally absurd. Who ever heard of a Genovia or whatever it was?? It was very slow moving, and the viewers never got anywhere in the movie fast. Remember the trailers? The trailers were funny, which was the reason that I paid to see this movie. The movie is soooo slow.The acting also contributed to the terrible plot. It was way too overacted. Mia's friend Lilly totally drove me insane with her whining. Trust me, if you watch the movie, you will be thinking, Just shut UP ALREADY!!! once you hear that girl speak. Her part totally ruined the movie.All-in-all, skip this one. You'll be glad that you did. "},{"Title":"Awful and horrendous","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I just LOVED the Princess Diaries books by Meg Cabot, and my friend loved the movie, so I went and saw the movie with pretty high expectations. Ten-twenty minutes into it, I was like, Um, What??? Halfway in, I was outraged. Leaving the T.V room of my friend, I was determined that I would like to sue Disney and the makers of the movie. What is WITH those people? Why couldn't they stick to the book? The book was funny, original, and interesting. The movie was seriously crap. One of the best things about the books was the setting in New York, not to mention Grandmere's total scariness, Lilly's bossiness, Lana's total cruelty, and TINA HAKIM BABA. None of these things were there in the movie. Lana Weinberger (Thomas?) was not even mildly threatening. The school was more like some museum. And, what, there weren't even any students in for Assembly when Mia threw up? Michael was scarily creepy-looking. Josh was - less said about him, the better. Julie Andrews was graceful and supportive and beautiful - but, HELLO, GRANDMERE IS NOT SUPPOSED TO BE GRACEFUL AND FRIENDLY AND BEAUTIFUL!!! Anne Hathaway as Mia was the only watchable thing about the movie, and not even because of her (lack of) acting skills, but because she was at least portraying Mia like in the book. And she is also quite pretty. But apart from her - and the part in the movie where Mia dines with all those important people, and where she gives her speech, and of course the part where Lana sings that song at the beach party - the movie is TERRIBLE!!! "}{"Title":"Not bad, but potential for more","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" The Princess Diaries is an American movie from 15 years ago that runs for almost 2 hours. It was the big screen breakthrough for Academy Award winner Anne Hathaway. And even if her character is the undisputed lead here, they still chose Julie Andrews (whose character really anybody could have played) as the first credit. Pretty ridiculous if you ask me, even if Hathaway was pretty much a nobody back then still. But lets talk a bit more about the contents of the film. It is a nice story from ugly duckling becoming a beautiful swan and even a princess later on. Of course, it was pretty difficult to make a stunning actress like Hathaway look bad in the first third of the movie. The first genre description here on IMDb is comedy and I think there are some funny moments, but overall I would really see it more as a family film, maybe even a romance movie. Sadly,t he romance part is as uncreative as predictable.Some good moments in terms of Hathaway's performance and in terms of the script also make this one work. Nonetheless I must say that the entire royalty story was not really necessary here. It did not add too much for me. Instead, I would have preferred maybe a film that would have run for 90 minutes only and been more of a high school comedy. The movie actually attempts too much and sometimes it seems a touch of try-hard in achieving genuinely funny comedy. And there are many occasions when they do not succeed. I would say Hathaway is almost too good of an actress (also back then already when she wasn't even 20) for the material here. This is a decent film, but not one that could not have been better on more than a handful occasions. A sequel was really not too justified. Finally, before I finish the review, I don't want to forget to mention Mandy Moore. I am a great fan of her and it is always nice to see her, especially her Stupid Cupid performance. This one may have been among the main reasons why she got cast in A Walk to Remember, one of my favorite films of all time and there she plays a completely different character to the vain spoiled school girl here. As a whole, I recommend The Princess Diaries, mostly for Anne Hathaway's star-making turn. "},{"Title":"The Diary is Full of Clichés.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" The Princess Diaries (2001) Dir Garry Marshall / Cast Anna Hathaway, Julie Andrews, Hector Elizondo, Larry Miller, Heather Matarazzo Family film about maturity and responsibility as Anne Hathaway learns that she is the heir to the thrown of Genovia when her grandmother pays a visit. She is given a makeover and, TA-DA! She really is beautiful! Puh-lease! As if we couldn't tell that Hathaway is beautiful. We know where it is heading and it never gets more entertaining than frying it under a magnifying glass in the hot sun. Director Garry Marshall can create humour and has done better and funnier films. With this film he seems to present a juvenile version of his acclaim Pretty Woman. This theme has been recycled to death through countless films, many of which are as bad as this one. Julie Andrews and Hathaway are at the mercy of recycled material and both do well with what amounts to absolutely nothing. In supporting roles are Hector Elizondo is standard as the limo driver who has that hint of wisdom. Larry Miller can be funny but here he plays a makeup consultant and totally over the top. Heather Matarazzo plays Hathaway's neglected friend. Her role is more or less to be the dopey irritating friend. More recycled bull about taking an already hot young woman and prostituting them with a lame makeover. It is nothing to include in any diary, royalty or not. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Cute.","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Anne Hathaway makes a cute San Francisco teen age preppie. The Zeitgeist demands that she dress and act like an iconoclast. She and her friends are rowdy, rude, unkempt. Her hair looks like it was attacked by a mad dog.Then, it's discovered that she is heir to the throne of Genovia or Ruritania or Arcadia or someplace. She is visited by the queen, Julie Andrews, a warm personality who has brought innumerable consultants and factotums who are intent on turning Hathaway into the Princess she will become.The director, Garry Marshall, does a good job. He's an Italian-American and must have gotten a kick out of Larry Williams as an uncredited hair dresser and make up artist named Prego Putanesco. As he trims her up, he remarks, I love your eyebrows. We'll call them Frieda and Kahlo. Now, if this were a dumb movie made only for young girls barely into their growth spurt, would a joke like that have been included? (Hint No.) I kind of enjoyed it. Nice shots of San Francisco in winter's rain.The fairy-tale story is pretty damned hoary. (I think that's called iambic dimeter. The voices tell me to do it.) Yet the setting, the gags, and the animated performance of Anne Hathaway who has the sparkling grin of a toothpaste commercial, bring it all over the goal line. "},{"Title":"I think this movie is really wonderful.","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" When I watched this film I have really interested in it , and I really like Princess Diaries . Perhaps there is something not very interesting but it doesn't make this movie bad . I really like changing with appearance and character of the main hero . And I love Anne Hathaway(Mia Thermopolis) her play was wonderful . I recommend it to you . But remember that this film is for girls 11-13 years old. If you want to change yourself watch this movie. If you want get fun , watch this movie. Probably you could think that this movie isn't instructive , and the worst is - you could be right...But it doesn't make this movie silly ,or boring. "},{"Title":"Anne Hathaway's Film Debut","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" The Princess Diaries is a comedy that is based on Meg Cabot's novel of the same title.It stars Julie Andrews.It also marks the film debut of Anne Hathaway as Mia Thermopolos,a teen-ager who later discovers that she is an heir to the throne of the fictional country called Genovia. It also stars Heather Matarazzo, Héctor Elizondo and Robert Schwartzman. Garry Marshall directed the film.Mia is a teenage klutz who's openly mocked by the popular Lana Thomas. Her only friend at her exclusive prep school is the socially outcast Lilly. But her life takes a dramatic turn when her mom mom later reveals that her late biological father was in actuality the crown prince of a small European nation, Genovia.Later,Queen Clarisse Renaldi looks out for Mia and teaches her to acquire royal behavior.Meanwhile,her romantic inclinations is torn between a handsome Josh and Lily's brother,Michael.This is definitely a good film for teen-agers.But for adults,it may look dated as it was made during the 60's due to its somewhat old fashioned screenplay and dialogue between the character.Also,the transformation of Mia from a geek into a princess is something that many viewers are definitely familiar with that the movie provides nothing new or refreshing in its story.The only thing that is worthwhile watching is the cinematography as it presents to us a great scenes with San Francisco on the background. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Mia is a high school teenager in San Francisco - clumsy, not one of the cool kids, but not without her own virtues - who discovers, to her horror, that she is actually Crown Princess of a small European country, and the Grandmother she didn't know she had wants her to take up her official responsibilities.This Disney adaptation of a popular book stars Ann Hathaway in her first film, and she conveys Mia's anger and distress at having her well-ordered world pulled upside down just as well as she conveys the humour in Mia's gawkiness.The film is essentially a mildly romantic high school comedy, but it has a serious thread about responsibility, not to mention a subtly understated autumn romance between Mia's grandmother (Julie Andrews) and her chauffeur/head of security (Hector Elizondo).This film could easily be prejudged to be teenage fluff there is considerably more to it than that. "},{"Title":"If you liked the books, don't watch the movie.","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Watching the film by itself, it's easy to call it a good movie. Julie Andrews steals the show (as always), and Anne Hathaway does a good job, except she seems too grown-up after the makeover bit to pass for a teenager. Mandy Moore is clearly destined to be a teenager living in California for the rest of her damn life (sorry, Mandy). The storyline flows in a reasonable manner Mia Thermopolis is a teenager living in San Francisco with her mother, who is an artist and has raised her with the financial help of her absent father. Her best friend is Lilly, and Lilly's older brother, Michael, serves as the token love interest. Mia's main concerns in life are the fact that she doesn't have breasts and she has a hopeless crush on Josh, a popular classmate who looks like he belongs at a country club rather than the beach. Mia finds out her dead father was actually a prince, she is the heir to the throne, and the entire plot consists of Mia trying to be a princess and having to decide if she actually wants to be royal or not, while dealing with the humiliation of her mother dating her teacher. Good, right?Except, if you've read the books, you realize that there is more to this story that should have been included, and that serious changes were made. In the books, Mia Thermopolis is a teenager living in New York with her critically acclaimed artist mother who specializes in still life. Mia's concerns are the environment, failing Algebra, and the fact that her mother is dating her Algebra teacher. Lilly Moscovitz is still her best friend, but her parents are psychoanalysts, and she is actually a lot meaner in the books than in the movie. Michael is actually a genius, as is Lilly. Mia's father is still alive, and is not a soft-spoken version of Billy Mays, but a bald, European prince who bribes Mia into attending princess lessons. Mia's grandmother is not Julia Andrews-esque, but is more akin to the likes of Cruella de Vil and Emily Gilmore. This woman has tattooed eyeliner, smokes like a chimney, and has an ugly dog named Rommel. Joe the chauffeur is now Lars the bodyguard, and Mia has more friends in the book than in the movie. The books offer a juicier story, more relatable and believable characters, and definitely is not a film that Disney would have wanted to make.The movie alone is okay, but compared to the books, it needs to be shelved in the let's not ever do that again of book-to-movie classification. "},{"Title":"Anne Hathaway is adorkable","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Mia Thermopolis (Anne Hathaway) is a dorky invisible teen who everybody steps on. She lives with her mother (Caroline Goodall) in an old fire station in San Francisco. Her only friend is Lilly Moscovitz (Heather Matarazzo). Her dead father's mother Queen Clarisse Renaldi (Julie Andrews) of Genovia has come to town to tell her that she's the only heir for the throne. She is shocked since her mother never told her any of this and she doesn't want to rule. Joe (Héctor Elizondo) is her new driver. She is given princess lessons by her grandmother. She is picked on by mean girl Lana Thomas (Mandy Moore) and her friends, but she is infatuated with Lana's jock boyfriend Josh Bryant. Meanwhile Michael Moscovitz is in love with Mia.There are many things wrong with this movie. It's cheesy. It has a few too many stupidity. The mother needs to be played by somebody more compelling. The one thing that this movie has is the lovely Anne Hathaway. She is terrific as a dork. She actually makes the cliché ugly duckling work. She does great pratfalls even when the movie turns into a slapstick affair. And then it has the regal Julie Andrews who can really class things up when she wants to. "},{"Title":"The best of Anne Hathaway","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I love this movie because it was funny and it's better than what they produce on Disney now. Old Disney was the BOMB!!! New Disney now freaking sucks because it's not authentic anymore. What they have now are lame and cheesy movies and they aren't even funny. I am sorry for this generation, even if there are movies like frozen and other movies that encourage feminism, Disney can't produce anything that is good. I stopped watching Disney channel because of this. People actually like this and I am pretty sure how awesome it was in the early 2000.disney movies are too predictable. Even the shows are predictable Sorryifi disappoint anyone but it's the truth. Disney can't make anything funny "},{"Title":"A slightly boring bland rom com","Date":"1 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" The Princess Diaries is a 2001 Disney movie starring Anne Hathaway,Julie Andrews,Mandy Moore,and Hector Elizondo and tells the story about a young girl named Mia(Hathaway) who is considered a nerd in her school. She has a crush on this guy called Josh even though his got a girlfriend who is the bitchy cheerleader Lana Thomas(played by a very young Mandy Moore when she was sporting her natural hair colour blonde in this movie) and she has a best friend called Lilly. But when Mia's grandmother wants to see her(Julie Andrews) she of course is shocked to discover that she isn't a nerdy teenager at all, but a PRINCESS. Mia doesn't want to be a princess of course but she has to wonder can she rule Genovia and make the people of Genovia and the entire world rule upon her or will she ditch being a princess?Overall this was an OK movie. Yes granted im a fan of Anne Hathaway since her days in this movie and Mandy Moore since 1999 along with Julie Andrews(who looks so ravishing in this movie btw)but the whole concept to it is boring,Moore played a bitch in it,Hathaway looked slightly uncomfortable and the story was just downright boring.Overall its a 4 "}{"Title":"Fun to watch!","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I actually had a lot of fun last night watching this typical Disney story. Not that it shines with wisdom or depth, but it's an easy, comfortable movie to watch, even if you're not into the whole royalty-kind stories. At some point, it kind of makes you dream about having an estranged grandma that comes with a throne, which, I guess, we can all relate to. It was nice to see Anne Hathaway again, but the true delight of the movie has to be Julie Andrews. The woman rocks! And the royal parts suit her best, she does have a regal attitude. A true Dame, indeed. So yes, I could watch this again and again, and still enjoy the princess's makeover like I did the first time. "},{"Title":"this ain't no Fonzie","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" When I first heard of The Princess Diaries around the time that it came out, I was a little perplexed at learning that the star shared a name with William Shakespeare's wife. To be certain, my friend and I had plans to see Rush Hour 2, and we couldn't understand why TPD was playing on more screens (fortunately, we managed to see RH2).Anyway, now that I've seen TPD, I'm going to offer a weird analysis of it. Probably the most confusing thing about is that Garry Marshall directed it. Who's he, you ask? The creator of Happy Days. Yes, the man who gave us the coolest greaser in history now gives us a story of a benevolent but awkward teenage girl who learns that she's actually the heir to a throne, and has to learn how to behave like a princess, with mixed results. Maybe the fact that Marshall gave these dissimilar pieces of work says something about the duality of humanity.This is the sort of movie that I usually only watch to heckle like the characters on Mystery Science Theater 3000 do to really crummy movies. I didn't heckle this one, however. I guess that since Anne Hathaway has done a number of more serious roles - Brokeback Mountain, The Devil Wears Prada, Rachel Getting Married - since then, it's much easier to accept her as more than just another pretty face (although I do find her quite attractive). The movie itself is totally predictable, so I still hold that Happy Days is Garry Marshall's best creation. As the Fonz would say I knew dat! "},{"Title":"Ann Hathaway in her defining role","Date":"20 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Many people don't like Fluff movies like this. I can tell, because I get negative reviews whenever I write good things about these types of movies. But I think secretly, even some macho men likes these movies. I personally don't care because if it's a good movie, then it's a good movie whatever the genre is. If there's one word to describe this movie, it's Ann Hathaway. All the movie's goodness owes to her. She's convincing as a princess, and she really is an interesting character in this movie. My eyes were pretty much glued to her all through the movie. Much like Julie Andrews attracted attention when she was younger in The Sound of Music, she carries the movie with her presence. Julie Andrews by the way also appears in a supporting role in this film.The movie definitely made Ann Hathaway a star. She's probably deserving, because she still has nice presence in a more recent movies like the Dark Knight Rising.In any case, this is a good movie, and is definitely worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Childlike Fun That's Amusing and Endearing Even Years Later","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" This royal film's got it all a princess, a queen, a classic Cinderella story, a ball, cute boys, a quirky BFF... you name it, you got it! I'd say pretty much any female will find this movie a pleasure to watch, as it fulfills the childhood fantasy we've all craved in a humorous and tasteful way, and in the end leaves you satisfied and feeling good.The characters are all endearing and special in their own ways, from Mia's disgruntled neighbor, to the classic mean girl, to her typical backstreet boy crush. I admit that sometimes it does become a little trite and cliché at times, what with the overdone stereotypes, but it keeps the viewer intrigued so it's not at all negative. It might even make you chuckle believe it or not! However this movie, like many other movies, is not for everyone; rather, this movie is better suited for tweens and teens. And when I say that, I am in NO WAY belittling it or putting it down, because to me 'Princess Diaries' is and always will be an enjoyable, funny, and at times childish film. (Not gonna lie--most guys will probably find no joy in watching it, but that fact does not a bad movie make.) I've seen this movie numerous times, and it seems I can never get tired of it. Cheesy? Yes, but in this case, the cheese works. "},{"Title":"Pretty!","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" The Princess Diaries is titled Pretty Princess in Japan. Mia is a inconspicuous student, and lives in San Fransisco with divorced mother. One day, her estranged grand mother comes to visit her suddenly. The grand mother is queen of Genovia, and she tells that she wants Mia to be a princess, because father is a prince, but he died. Mia don't know that and she is shocked. She needs a professional makeover to be a princess, because she is a normal teen. She has princess lessons under the ground mother temporarily, but she must make a choice between life of San Fransiisco or the life of Genovia as a princess.Anne Hathaway and Julie Andrews co-star in this movie. Their combination are very funny, and their relationship strengthen gradually, that is heart-warming. Moreover, Anne is so lovely! When she is dressed up, she is very prettily, this is a girl's dream! The plot is good, but little childish, because Mia is in love with a friend, but hardly development. This movie is a typical chick flicks movie, but kind of comedy, not romantic comedy, I think. "},{"Title":"Lovely Movie!","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" The princess Diaries is the one of my best movies.Mia, played by Anne Hathaway, lives in San Francisco with a mom. But, one day,she finds that she is a princess of a small European country because of her deceased father. She must make a choice between the life of a San Francisco or the life as a princess in a small European country. Because her grandmother want Mia to be a princess, she have take a lesson of the beauty that make her looking better and more princess lesson...This movie is a sort of dramatic comedy and fictional movie. I think this is like not only the familiar Cinderella's story,but also a sweet story of misfit 15 year old teenager turned princess. Mia also show us a life of teen and just girl. Besides, the acting of Anne Hathaway and Julie Andrew is excellent. It is a heart- warming act as a granddaughter and grandmother. this movie is really fun. You must watch this movie! "},{"Title":"Good Movie, Awful Adaptation","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" The Princess Diaries A teen girl learns that she has inherited the throne of Genovia, a small, little-known European country.If you're watching this movie because you enjoyed the books, you will be SORELY disappointed. The only real similarity concerning the plot is Mia turning out to be a princess. They added random things, changed characters and omitted crucial points/characters in the book. I won't go into detail, but as a book adaptation, it sucked.However, as a movie, it was quite enjoyable. Most of the acting was good enough for me. It's a good movie if you just feel like chilling and eating snacks that make you fat, in that it's fun, light-hearted and quite funny. It's cute, and it will appeal to a lot of people.If you don't like teeny-bopper movies, then this is NOT for you. This movie screams teeny-bopper. "},{"Title":"Castle at the end of the movie","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" The Castle at the end of the movie is Longford Castle on the banks of the River Avon south of Salisbury, Wiltshire, England. It is currently the seat of William Pleydell-Bouverie, 9th Earl of Radnor, and is not open to the public. Longford was the model for the 'Castle of Amphialeus' in Sir Philip Sidney's The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia (1580, pub. 1590). In the 1914-18 war the castle was a hospital1. In the 1939-45 war the castle was occupied by British and American troops and entertained Montgomery, Mark Clark and Creagh1. Longford Castle is shown from the air at the end of the movie The Princess Diaries as the castle in Genovia. Wikipedia link http//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Longford_Castle "},{"Title":"The Princess that ROCKS! (Happy 19th Birthday IMDb!)","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Normally, I'm not a huge fan of chick-lit Princess movies but this one however is a must see! I loved it! One of the reasons why I love it is because of it's fun. This movie throughly did not fail at having the entertainment factor. Everything the plot, the characters, made it the perfect Princess movie to date.Anne Hathaway did a sensational job. In the movie, you can easily see how she progresses and builds confidence in her role. She delivered something entertaining to the audience, which is obviously great.Julie Andrews is brilliant as usual. We've seen her in titles such as The Sound of Music, Mary Poppins and even Shrek and it was wonderful to see her in this movie. She was the perfect choice for her role and I think she was the heart of the movie.As I have said, what makes this the perfect princess movie is the fun factor. This mainly focuses on the jokes, which is part of what delivers in the entertainment. There were some really funny ones such as Mia's reaction to her being a princess and the royal dinner with all the posh people. But also, this film has this light-hearted feel to it which is one of the reasons why I love it so much and one of the reasons why it makes me smile.Overall, this movie (I can't believe I'm saying this!) is by far the best Princess movie I have ever seen. I know it's a bit cheesy but like I said, it is simply delightful and it delivers. By the way, I have heard that today is IMDb's 19th Birthday I would just like to say, congratulations to everyone, that's IMDb staff and all for marking the 19th anniversary of this successful website and it's been a pleasure writing all my reviews on here. "},{"Title":"Charming and likable, though somewhat uneven.","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I really liked this. Loosely based on the books by Meg Cabot, Princess Diaries is a charming, if somewhat uneven film, though it does boast a spirited and lovely-looking Anne Hathaway in the title role. Though the film does belong to Julie Andrews as her grandmother, the wonderful actress who brought us classics such as Mary Poppins and Sound of Music. Hector Elizondo is also fun as Joe. The film has some lovely locations and costumes, and the two actresses are well supported by some very talented co-stars, such as the lady who played the bitchy Lana. The film also has a feel-good nature about it, that just adds to the film's appeal. However, the film isn't without its flaws. The story had an oft-tendency to become predictable, and the script while very funny on the most part, had some clichés here and there. There were some scenes that were a little, and that word I am putting a lot of emphasis on, slow and could have been developed a little more. On the whole, and I genuinely mean this, a charming, likable, if not entirely successful film. 7.5/10 Bethany Cox. "}{"Title":"Coronation consternation?","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" A wish-fulfilment movie from Disney that should please all girls and women who still enjoy a girly night in, this movie (yet another from the king of chick-flicks, Garry Marshall) puts Anne Hathaway in the place of every young, awkward teenage girl who longed for more. Unlike many people though, Hathway gets more. A LOT more when it is revealed to her that she is, in fact, a princess and needs to be educated in the ways of royal formalities before a very important upcoming event that will decide the fate of her, hitherto unknown, principality (or empire or kingdom or whatever the most appropriate word is).Helping, and sometimes hindering, her along the way are her grandmother (the current royal ruler, played with grace and wit by Julie Andrews), the main royal chauffeur/companion/butler (another great turn, this time from Hector Elizondo) and her schoolfriend, played by Heather Matarazzo. Then there are the dignitaries to be met, the people who end up fussing around the potential princess and those who just want their moment in the spotlight (including Mandy Moore, good here but even better in Saved! for those who are interested).It's a standard comedy of manners, awkward duckling trying to become graceful swan tale and yet it fills each scene with so many decent actors (Hathaway herself has great presence and is eminently likable, doing well alongside the veterans of the industry) and jogs along at such an agreeable pace that despite the familiarity of it all and the very Disney-ness of things it becomes more comforting than irritable.Despite my very male-ness, I couldn't help but enjoy this. It's perfectly crafted family entertainment.See this if you like Anne Hathway, My Fair Lady, Dave. "},{"Title":"Cheap and dreary","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Anne Hathaway's first feature and a Julie Andrews Disney comedy. This bubblegum-blistered bop-a-pic has very little else to recommend it, with the possible exception of Hector Elizondo reprising his background fixer from other Pygmalion parodies, like Pretty Woman. There's a real paucity in good acting from the high school support cast and the adults are recklessly awful as well. What did Sandra Oh think she was doing?Alas, Julie Andrews has played this one all wrong herself. All the straight bits come across perfectly well (an English accent = European aristocracy, no actual acting required) but the stylised/comic moments are foul. Hathaway is the saving grace of the picture and disproportionately deserves the career she has subsequently enjoyed, given that this is a saccharine mess. She's perfectly good at the slapstick but tellingly she's measured and convincing in the key dramatic moments. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable film","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I enjoy both of the films. Enjoyable but not perfect films. The reason I saw both in the first place was to watch Julie's performance. She is perfect in her role as Queen Clarisse Renaldi.Hector Elizondo was also god in his Joseph/Joe role in both films.I hated Larry Miller's character. It was SUPPOSED TO BE FUNNY. I found it hurtful & rude.This special edition is good. You have both the wide screen & full screen viewing options.Extras good. Outtakes, deleted scenes good. The A New Princess on disc 2, the making of special was good as well BUT MISSING 1 THING. WHERE THE HECK WAS HECTOR ELIZONDO? A staple in Garry?s films, why was he not spoken to? That I thought was disappointing not to have that.Review for Special Edition DVD "},{"Title":"Mamma Mia - what a great movie","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Such a great movie.Disney's best chick flick ever.Mia Thermopolis (Hathaway) is a shy, unpopular 15-year old girl and she has some big news. Her Grandmother, Clarisse Renaldi a.k.a the Queen of Genovia (Andrews) flies in to tell Mia that she is a princess because her father died recently and what Mia doesn't know that he was the Prince of Genovia. Shocked, Mia has to make of choice that will change her life forever. Eventually, she makes up her mind of being a princess and she has princess lessons and a total princess makeover. Now, Mia and her grandmother soon start to develop this bond and has a big future ahead of her full of challenges and choices.Anne Hathaway did an amazing job with her role, it was flawless and complex and she put in lots of energy to it as well. Along with Julie Andrews who was once starred in Mary Poppins and The Sound Of Music and she still delivers magic to the audience. Overall, very good performances by the cast.The plot was well-thought out and solid from beginning to end. It starts off at Modern Day San Fransico and we see a teenage girl, with glasses on daydreaming in the morning and that's when we have the build up of all the characters, then at the end, we see a beautiful girl, confident and happy about who she is. So it is very simple and also realistic as well, so well done writers.Overall, a great Disney chick flick, with fantastic performances and a fantastic plot. Also, it leaves a great message to little girls to believe in themselves. Two thumbs up for Princess Diares. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie!","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" There is an ordinary girl Mia who lead a normal life with her mother and a cat. Her parents divorced when she was young and after divorcing, her father died. When Mia meets her paternal grandmother, she is told the truths that her grand mother is her Majasty the Queen of jenovia and Mia is a future princess. Though she does not want to be a princess, a loyal lesson starts to polish both her appearance and personality. She become beauty little by little and she has to decide whether to be a princess or not.It is a kind of a romantic comedy and a heartwarming movie. Not only the plot, but also the acting are wonderful! However, some people may think it is a childish movie, but I strongly recommend this a light, entertaining movie! "},{"Title":"Just for Julie... and your girlfriends!","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" A cute little film about a normal (actually she is a geek, and perhaps not that normal!) girl, who becomes, what every little girl has dreamed of as a child. And that is cute. The actors are great, funny and they do it well. They have reason to be proud of this movie. For that I will give them 2 point! The next 2 points are for Julie Andrews and Anne Hathaway. She plays Queen Clarisse, and she does it very well, even though I don't think I would ever have imagined her, in this kind of film. Anne Hathaway, playing the darling Princess Mia, is also very funny and no bad actress at all! The last point is for the director I can't believe he actually had the guts to do this. But I have seen some extra material from the movie, and it seems to me that the team had a hell of a lot fun. And that is important too, when you make a film. The perfect film to discuss clothing! So watch this movie with your girlfriends!!! "},{"Title":"Modern Cinderella story makes good.","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" After what seems like three decades of dark absence of newly introduced Disney live action family movies, the machine seems to have been rebuilt and keeps popping out winners.As a child, I was more a Candleshoe kid than an Apple Dumpling one, meaning I have always preferred mystery and adventure to warm, fuzzy feelings and smarm. I'm much the same today, so I had not seen either of the Princess Diary movies until someone (who does not know me at all) gave me the PD2 on DVD. So now, I own one of them. I really didn't have a choice after that. I'm kinda stuck in my ways, and I just won't watch 2 without having seen 1 first, so I rented the first, watched it and then watched 2.This was a great movie! It was sweet, and tender where it should have been, and serious in all the appropriate places. Capped off with stellar performances and Julie Andrews (!!), what was not to love?Though this is far from my typical fare, it was a very entertaining and memorable experience.It rates a 7.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Good family fun.","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  If you like good clean family fun then you'll love this one. If you don't like family films or Disney films then don't go to see it and if you don't like Julie Andrews or this kind of film then don't waist your time because you won't like it. But this dude loved it just like he was a little kid.  Ever since I was a little kid I loved Julie Andrews. Mary Poppins and Sound of Music are my favorite films. Anne Hathaway delvers an outstanding performance as the soon to be queen of genovia.  The guys just can't help to fall in love with her beauty and kindness.  Anyone with kids has to take their kids to see the sequel, but rent this one first if they haven't seen it or buy it for them on DVD it's well worth it.  I don't have any kids, but I bought it on DVD anyway. "},{"Title":"Never Judge A Book By It's Movie","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Princess Diaries series written by Meg Cabot was a witty and realistic portrayal of a fourteen year old girls life. The movie, however, is far from witty or realistic. The characters are not well defined. The performances are really good, and it is a fairly interesting movie, but it lacks the finer details. There are some elements that make a movie great and this movie lacks those elements.As a movie, i would say that it was a fairly good attempt at a children's movie. It was enjoyable in some parts and it was fun to watch. But it is the kind of movie that one would rent rather than go to the cinema to watch. In fact, a person who has not read the book might think the movie was original and fascinating. But in my opinion, The movie was a poor reflection of the book. I know it is only supposed to be based on the book and is not supposed to be a movie replica of the book, but there are some things that one should never change, and The Princess Diaries has changed those things. Still, I'd recommend this movie. It's worth one watch. Just one, though.  "},{"Title":"Good, an Everyone laughs movie!","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorite movies. Anne Hathaway (Mia) was exactly what was described in the Princess Diaries books. She was klutzy, and really unsure of herself, but as the film progresses, Mia becomes more sure of herself. I really liked the part when Mia gets her makeover.It's cool to see how she transforms from one extreme to the other, and how stable she gets after her makeover. What I didn't like about the show was when she first goes to see her grandmother and they have all those cameras and security stuff, it makes the place to cheesy. But overall, this is a very good movie, and I believe that everyone (not just girls) will enjoy this movie!  "}{"Title":"Brainless, but fun","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I actually liked this movie, though if you are looking for plot twists, this is not your film. The movie it totally predictable, using a formula played out in nearly every girl in America's head-- teenage girl with all the typical teenage problems suddenly discovers that she is actually a princess.And therein lies the appeal. It is a totally fantasy movie, where you can imagine along with the protagonist, what it would be like if suddenly you had all the money and connections a girl could ever want. These are the kind of movies I rent when my husband is out of town and I want to spend a night in front of the TV with a pint of Ben & Jerry's. I've seen the previews for the second film, and I am planning on seeing it when it comes out on video!  "},{"Title":"I thought it was good!","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so the plot is a bit common and overused, but hey the people did a great job on it. Specially the casting. I thought Heather Matarazzo and Robert Schwartzmann/Carmine/Schwartzmann-Cage were cool. And I definitely liked Julie Andrews because she did a good job as well.The best was the soundtrack specially the one Rooney song. I liked Krystal Harris. What I don't get is why are the Backstreet Boys in the clip? Oh yeah, their song was pretty cool too. I didn't think it was them, but when we got to the credits and we stopped to read the ones for the songs I was like Oh, my god, is that the Backstreet Boys? which was kind of cool cos I haven't listened to their stuff for a while. So all in all I thought it was that good, you know, thanks to Rob Carmine(whatever his name is) and Heather Matarazzo, I went and bought the thing on DVD! "},{"Title":"Robert Carmine Schwartzman is sooo hott!!!","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I thought the movie totally rocks not because Robert Carmine Schwartzman is hott, but also because I really liked the meaning of the movie. The movie inspired me and my sisters. We Loved It. I still do. After I watched it, it made me really think. I have watched it for like... 17 times and I'm still not bored of it! Maybe it's because Robert is soooo hott!!! "},{"Title":"Good job (well, mostly)!  Andrews, Elizondo, Hathaway were great","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This variation on the 'My Fair Lady' theme made a good family movie, one which had many opportunities for offensive content but took very few of them.  Rebellious wallflower Mia eventually learned poise, sophistication and concern for others, though she risked forgetting  who her real friends were.  For a newcomer, I thought Anne Hathaway did quite well.  One example  in the 'Wonderful World of Disney' presentation of this movie on ABC, we were given a behind-the-scenes look at the movie.  It seems that one of Hathaway's many falls was unintentional, but she recovered quite nicely.  Her best performance came toward the end.  The physical comedy was good. Of course, learning how to be 'proper' and look attractive was one of the main themes, carried out quite well by all involved, especially the man who fixed Mia's hair.Julie Andrews did a magnificent job as the Queen, with her best work coming after a traffic accident.  She was proper and sophisticated but never completely out of touch with the needs of her granddaughter.  She, too, could be 'cool'.Hector Elizondo also did a great job as the chauffeur.  He could have easily played the King, if there had been one, but he made the most of his role, coming across as quite intelligent and caring.At times, though, this movie got off track.  I didn't particularly care for Lilly, but that didn't necessarily mean a bad performance from Heather Matarazzo.  Perhaps I disliked her because she was so good.  I'm going to say that the movie might have been just fluff without introducing some of the other plot twists.  Then again, those very plot twists might have added to the impression of fluff.There was one curse word in two hours (including breaks).  Anything else that could have come close to being off-color stayed within the bounds of decency, though one gag just barely did (no pun intended; see below after spoiler warning).I didn't care for a lot of the music, but then I'm not in the movie's target audience.  One song I did like was played when Mia would fantasize about kissing.It wasn't the best Disney movie ever, but I was pretty happy.COULD BE A SPOILER A possible red flag  a prank by Mia's so-called friends when she was changing clothes.  Not what happened by itself, but the aftermath.  Still, the dialogue wasn't overly explicit.   "},{"Title":"I really liked this movie!","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is my all time favorite movie.  Whenever I pop this movie in my VCR it always reminds me that miracles do happen! Robert Carmine was an AWESOME Michael Moscovitz (really cute too ;-)) and I am sad that he's not going to be in the sequel but it was his choice......  "},{"Title":"i've been an ugly duckling","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a princess or anything, but i have felt how she felt in this movie. i was so ugly and dorky. after high school i picked up a copy of InStyle. it changed my life dude! this is a sweet story. it's a little far then the norm of course, but you got to love it. thats from a girly girls point of view.  "},{"Title":"L_O_V_E The Movie","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I just LOVE the movie... Great cast with so many new faces but they are awsume...Love the story it is so different from the book but non the less love it... I have seen it for over 20 times and i am still not sick of it...Its just another teen movie but with a different twist and a story that you can totally relate to someone in the movie...Just LOVE IT "},{"Title":"Fun and frolic...","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I love how whenever someone does a light-hearted movie like this, all the master critics come out en masse to trounce on it....'pretty woman' without the hookers, read the book instead etc. etc. and the assorted inane 'it sucks' responses.This is fine.  Don't share in the joy of it with those who like it...generally bad reviews come from people who would not watch a particular film in the first place.  I liken it to sending your grandparents to see the Fast and the Furious versus On Golden Pond (Not that there's any comparison and like F & F was some how on Academy award level...).Regardless, if you like light-hearted fun movies, this one is for you.  You may come away loving it as a lot of reviewers here have.  I loved it.  I didn't spend my time looking at the technical aspects, but they are all solid here.  The acting was good, the play simple and somewhat predictable, but still, it was a feel good movie like Fly Away Home or______(put one of your favorites of the genre here...).  It was funny, the acting talent--talented and the direction et cetera, immaculate.  By the way for all would be film aficionados in critique--if you didn't hear it form the horse' mouth, and there are no glaring mistakes, how can we know if it did not come out exactly how it was wished?This was not meant to be a blockbuster, had its own specific audience in mind, though I'm sure grownups as well as kids might like it, and was made to satisfy people who like this type of general feel good story.  On these levels, and I can be quite critical myself, it satisfies and succeeds.If you're the type that likes to see blood and explosions and violent cuss fests and the like, well, you'll be bored and project your boredom on the players here and spout off garbage like sucks.  For these viewers, stay away!  For anyone who likes innocent fun and can relax in their seat, this is a great way to spend some popcorn time...    "},{"Title":"I Found It Cute","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Anne Hathway does a very nice job in playing the dorky, invisible Mia, in her sophomore year at school. The whole cast seems to work together quite well and the acting is not that bad in this story of a school nerd who finds out she is a princess of a small country in Europe. This movie seems to stay true enough to the book and it doesn't go too over the top. Even after Mia has gotten her makeover and everyone knows she's a princess, she isn't instantly popular and well-liked, she's still made fun of and that seems realistic, given her previous situations. This film started the whole unpopular-girl-turns-pretty theme, and it's still the best! "},{"Title":"Modern day fairy tale","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The movie is essentially a reworking of the Hans Anderson story of The Ugly Duckling .and revolves around Mia ,a 15 year old San Franciscan who discovers she is the heir to the throne of a small European nation.Her grandmother the Queen travels to California to persuade her to accept her new role and to groom her for the position.Deportment and a makeover follow along with some changes in her place in the school pecking order.We follow Mia through the process of coping with the way her world is turned upside down ;how friendship and a warm family relationship keeps her grounded and the need to keep in mind the value of responsibility and duty.Its pleasant and likeable with Ms Hathaway showing great dexterity as a comedy actress ,backed up by sterling work from Julie Andrews and the dependable Hector Elizondo.Striking if somewhat touristy shots of San Fransisco help and if this does not cut too deep it is at least a pleasant diversion "}{"Title":"Andrews a highlight in otherwise average film","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  THE PRINCESS DIARIES has a great premise. Mia (Anne Hathaway), a young teenage girl discovers she is a princess and has to decide whether or not to accept the throne. She attends princess classes under the tutelage of her grandmother (Julie Andrews), as well dealing with a plethora of normal teenage problems. However, the screenplay is poorly developed and does not invest enough on the changes that take place inside Mia. While things like posture and presentation are important assets, Mia's inner journey should be even more important. Anne Hathway manages to make us care about her final decision, particularly in the final third of the film. Julie Andrews as her grandmother, the queen, is a delight - absolutely charming and graceful, with a fine grasp on the responsibility she has as a royal and the lessons she learns about becoming a grandmother. Perhaps the relationship between the queen and the character Joe could have been developed more; there are a few hints that never really come to fruition.The other thing that lets this film down are the production values, which seem little better than TV quality. Indeed, the whole outing feels more like a television pilot episode or a television movie from one of those 1980s and 1990s Disney offerings like NOT QUITE HUMAN or A BRAND NEW LIFE. Tweenagers will probably enjoy this one a lot.It's a pity, as this film has the potential to be everything it claims to be 'hilarious, hip and heartwarming'. Especially as the people involved have a lot to offer. But on this project, they don't quite manage to pull it off. "},{"Title":"Warm n Fuzzy","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Meg Cabot (who HAS written other books) but at the time I saw this movie I didn't know who she was. I was also twelve Cough At any rate, I get a serious attack of the fluffies whenever I watch this movie. It's almost like eating mashed potatoes when you feel bad (or whatever your comfort food is). Whenever I'm sad it just brightens me up. When I'm happy it sets me quoting it for the rest of the day.I realize it's not like the books at all. The books are sassier and Mia is a more assertive character, not to mention the Grandmother is the revenge of all grandmothers who have taken for granted. However, this watered-down Disney version stands well on its own, with an easy charm. There are social castes and the movie stretches them to the point that it just makes me laugh (oh like YOUR school was ever that).Like I said, it's like comfort food and it's sure to give you a case of the fluffs. "},{"Title":"A little cheesey","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  It was interesting to see the transformation from ugly duckling to swan in the princess.  A great makeover!  Parts of this movie were uninteresting, but for the most part it was cute.  I liked the relationship that was established between the chauffer and the princess...that had substance.  I would grade this movie a C+. "},{"Title":"This movie was delightful","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I turned this movie on for lack of any other substantial entertainment on TV last night and was more than happy I did. This was a delightful movie, pure & clean wholesome fun. This is a movie very typical of Garry Marshall. As a photographer I would have killed to get still shots of some of the scenes in this production, well maybe just given my left arm.  The previous review evidently comes from a different generation than I and would prefer the all too common sexual overtones or violence prevalent in the film industry today. I found this to be light and entertaining - many laughs here. Anne Hathaway did an admirable job in this production as did the veterans Julie Andrews and Hector Elizondo. This movie is worth seeing and I would suggest that once it starts, be prepared to sit in one place so as not to miss any of the subtle nuances  of gestures & facial expressions that lend so much to this film. "},{"Title":"cute and charming","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie is adorable.  I went to see it the day it was released in theaters just to see Julie Andrews on the big screen-I vowed to like it no matter what, just because she was in it.  I kept my vow, but with very little effort.  I don't know what it is about this movie that makes it so cute and so rewatchable (I know that's not a word-bear with me).  I guess everything just works-Julie and Anne Hathaway and all the other performers work really well together and it's actually somewhat intelligent.  Yes, it's rated G (which I think is great anyway-go Garry Marshall for not giving into temptation!) and it's meant for young girls, but it isn't a movie that insults your intelligence.  I can't explain it, it's just a cute movie.  Can't wait for the sequel. "},{"Title":"Definitely a girls night in movie","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I loved the books.  They were fun and fairytalish and yet real at the same time.  I could relate.  I know for Hollywood they need to brush up a few things to make it shorter etc. but they seem to have slaughtered Meg Cabot's wonderfully written story.  The only thing from the books I think is most of the names and the fact Mia is a Princess.  However, putting the book aside, just as a movie it's one of those to watch when your feeling depression/having a sleepover/are ill.  It's a comfort movie (kinda like comfort food).Anne Hathaway was brilliant but the way she portrayed Mia (and the way she looked) was not quite how I imagined.  I have never been a fan of Julie Andrews but even I think this was one of her weaker roles.  She didn't shine.Basically it's watchable but very annoying if you've read the books.  Also there is hardly any real plot and is a typical Disney film (And everyone was nice to each other through out the whole film and then they lived happily ever after).  So if you like Disney Go watch! "},{"Title":"Finally, a movie I can never get bored with","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I've watched this movie ??? times and truly enjoyed it. I myself felt quite a bit like Mia, being this social outcast when it came to school. Having to deal with the teasing and the one-liners of Lana Thomas (Mandy Moore). When the revenge came with the cone, I was thinking, woah, that Mia's got some spine. An what happened to Julie Andrews? I haven't seen her in ages and all of a sudden she shows up in this spectacular performance as the queen of Genovia. Cool. "},{"Title":"Great!!!!","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie, and i know it's old, about 2 years since been out, but i saw what that other person wrote, and i just have 2 say it's not true. I loved the movie. The books are good too. If u get a chance, rent the movie, it's worth seeing. "},{"Title":"i liked it","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  in all honesty i really liked this film theres was a magical element to the film that just says wow! its every girls dream to become a princess(whether they are willing or not to admit it) its one of mine ill admit it, the acting was really impressive especially from Anne Hathaway... i even liked the character of Josh Bryant played by Erik Von Detton, i think he made a major acting improvement from when he was in odd man out. Mandy Moore's performance was pretty good too and i want to see how she is in a walk to remember. i don't understand how people can dislike this film its a kids film anyway so why cant they realise it and watch it as if its a childs filmin my oppinion its cute and sweet and i have and will carry on recomending it to everyone i know "},{"Title":"I really liked it!","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I thought this Pygmalion-clone was absolutely charming, and I enjoyed it very much!  My only regret is that I can't find a copy of A New Princess - The Making Of The Princess Diaries, which I would love to see. "}{"Title":"Good movie, not for everyone","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I've noticed a lot of the people who didn't like it completely over analyzed it and were obviously looking for reasons to hate it. The other people who didn't like couldn't even use correct grammar and punctuation. The latter are often who complain about (gasp) morals like prude people complain about S&V. Its really funny when a person uses words like sucks or even stronger words and expects to be taken seriously. Profanity and idiotic slang don't make you sound any cooler, just very immature.Getting back to the subject, when I go to a movie I only concentrate on the story and try and get caught up in it. I was entertained and didn't get bored. So overall I thought it was a cute, funny, movie. Actually the reactions of a few of the characters were quite realistic. I read one comment that said any teenage girl would be ecstatic if she found out she was a princess. I am around the main characters age and I know if I found out I was a princess I would be scared stiff and horrified. Also, many of my friends would not want to have a make over even if they did have frizzy hair and groucho eyebrows and would be angry if their best friend had it done. Of course many other girls would act completely different from the characters, but it really depends on the individual. I can't help but wonder if a few of the reviews on this website were written by childless 30 something year old males who think they know exactly how a 15 year old girl would act. Or else by normal parents with normal kids who are good looking, trend following, and non-geeky. A lot of commenters only went to this movie to hate it. They're long time anti-disneys who love writing bad reviews. They look for every single flaw imaginable. But really, you don't go to a movie to nitpick, you go to a movie to sit back, relax, get caught up in a story, and (in this case)have fun. This still won't be every person's cup of tea, and its definitely not the pervy comedy that most movies are now a day, but that doesn't mean you have to loathe it. Just don't watch the movie again. As I said, I liked this movie and I would recommend it to girls and even boys who don't mind cute (clean) humor and fantasy. "},{"Title":"Innocent cute teen film!","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Anne Hathaway provides spark and cuteness to her role as Mia, the ordinary teenage outcast transformed into a adoring Princess. With the excellent Julie Andrews playing the Queen of a made-up country in Genovia, and a decent supporting cast, 'The Princess Diaries' becomes a decent entertaining Disney flick. It still retains the fantasy-like aspect (though politically correct) of a glorious kingdom within a foreign land to the U.S. without singling and misrepresenting the people of a real nation. Anyway, I don't really take the Genovia aspect too seriously as this is story involving a far-fetched fantasy about growing up by becoming a Princess of a distant land! Who cares if the writers make up a country? Hector Elizondo (Pretty Woman) plays Joe, the Queen's bodyguard and mentor to Mia and as usual he's always likeable in that department. Mandy Moore was decent as the nemesis, and Heather Matarazzo (Scream 2) was funny as the supportive friend. Worth checking 'The Princess Diaries' out, and don't take it too seriously. A fun family film with a rehashed story, but a story that usually works!*** ½ out of *****! "},{"Title":"Nice family film","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The basic premise of the movie is the same as the book (an American girl finds out she's a European princess) on which it is based, but almost all of the details (including the setting) have been changed.  Juli Andrews (Queen Clarice) gives a commanding performances and really moves the film along. Anne Hathaway does a good job as her grand daughter Mia.  But, Hector Elizondo's character (Joe) doesn't really seem necessary.  Nothing particularly memorable or ground-breaking here, but a nice family film (with a lovely opening theme song) all the same. "},{"Title":"Silly, fun movie, even if it didn't do the books justice","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not for those in the mood for a serious film experience. To put it lightly, this movie is Pretty Woman without the prostitution (which isn't surprising, considering Gary Marshall directed both).Anne Hathaway is charming as Mia, the unlikely princess, though it's a little hard to believe that someone as gorgeous as her would be labeled an outcast. Hector Elizondo is perfectly droll as Joe the bodyguard. Robert Schwartzman and Mandy Moore both do the best they can in their roles as The Not-So-Unattainable Crush Michael and The Bitchy Cheerleader Lana (respectivly), though both parts were severly underwritten.However, the two stand out stars were Julie Andrews as Queen Clairisse and Heather Matarazzo as Mia's friend Lily. Both are extremely talented actresses in their own rights, and they just steal the show whenever they're on screen.I won't waste time complaining that the books by Meg Cabot were better (they are). But if they's been literally brought to the screen, this movie never would have been the G-Rated Disney smash it was. (Not that there's anything wrong with being G-Rated!)However, the books had a certain adolescent raunchiness (as well as a completely different version of the Queen!) that just got lost in the translation.Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"THE CUTEST GIRL IN THE WORLD","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is a cute movie,with the cutest girl in the world in itAnne Hathaway.Her smile alone is worth the time it takes to watch this movie.She should be a big star in the near future.She is gorgeous & hot,hot.hot. "},{"Title":"Really good movie!","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Unlike many of the other people have commented, Princess Diaries is a fantastic movie!  It is so refreshing to see a fun heart-warming movie that is clean and G-rated!  I say- great job!!!!!  I definitely recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"The popular decision...","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I was impressed with The Princess Diaries, and not because of its plot, its story line, its actors, its characters, or even its music.  No, I really liked it for its issues concerning popularity and just how dangerous it can be.The Princess Diaries does have a nice plot, story line, actors, character, and music.  But it is a great role model for children, showing them that the popular thing isn't always the way to go.  Mia's encounters with Josh and the cheerleaders is a perfect example of why popularity is not always cool.As for the plot, its decent, but could use a little flavoring.  It's kind of corny that she is a princess (the title is probably the most corny part of the movie), but the story flows along smoothly.  The comedy is great and the irony is remarkable.  I enjoyed the constant predicaments Mia had to work her way out of (or into), including the press.The actors are all good, and I was impressed by Anne Hathaway.  If I'm not mistaken, this is her first acting job.  Forgive me if I'm wrong, I was told this.  But if it is, she did excellently.  She's also a really pretty young girl, and it's a nice transformation in the movie, showing that anybody can become beautiful if they try.All in all, The Princess Diaries is quite a good movie and I would recommend seeing it.  Don't let the cover and the title steer you from seeing this movie; it's really good. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the greatest 'magical' films I have ever seen.  The cast do a fantastic job and with names like Julie Andrews, where could it go wrong? Every scene is worth watching.  I love it! (I also think that Robert Schwartzman who played Micheal Moscovitz should of been in it more!) "},{"Title":"Gives you that warm fuzzy feeling!!","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  To put it in a nutshell I love it!! And that's despite the fact that I read all three books and am generally wary of adaptations of any kind. Although only the basic ideas and names have survived, the movie is true to the spirit of the books, and that's what counts in a good adaptation. This is a heart-warming, funny movie with great comic timing and laugh-out-loud one-liners. You can feel that the leading ladies, especially Anne Hathaway (and everybody else, for that matter), had a lot of fun in making the movie. If you buy the DVD, make sure you watch the movie with both commentaries. You'll enjoy the movie even more!! "},{"Title":"Charming and Sweet","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"   Okay, I admit it Princess Diaries was not the most witty, well-acted, inspiring film I have ever seen in my life. But... it never claimed to be.  My brother brought the movie for me when it first came out, and all for one reason Julie Andrews. As an avid Julie fan, I was chomping at the bit to see her latest release. No matter it was a kiddie flick. I wanted to see Julie. I found the movie better than I expected. It was charming, and it had its funny--okay, downright hilarious--moments, but the most important things is that Julie practically glowed. She looked so beautiful, and so elegant, and it thrilled me to just see her, healthy and happy on the screen once more. The main thing to keep in mind with this film is that it is a Disney movie for kids. It's not supposed to be a mature adult comedy, so don't expect it. It's just a kiddie flick, good for some innocent laughs, and a chance to see one of the greatest actresses of all time--Dame Julie Andrews herself. "}{"Title":"Fun, and typical Disney","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Don't rent this one expecting innovation or new ideas, but it's a fun film that the whole family can enjoy.  It's pretty much typical Disney -- why does the word hijinks come to mind whenever I think of this kind of movie?  The story, with its parallels to Pygmalion (and hence My Fair Lady) and Pretty Woman, was predictable, but I suppose I was in the mood for predictable because that didn't bother me.  It seemed like half the supporting cast of Pretty Woman was in it; I noticed Hector Elizondo, of course, and the man who played Mr. Hollister as the (rather odd) beautician, as well as Dennis the elevator operator as the neighbor, and even the man from the French restaurant with a repeat of his it happens all the time line.One endearing thing about this particular homely-girl-becomes-attractive script was the way Mia (played quite well by newcomer Anne Hathaway) would lapse back into her pre-princess-lesson self under pressure.  Well-done.  However, I would *love* to see a movie where the homely girl stayed homely and people learned to like her anyway.  Or even one where you couldn't tell from the homely girl's first scene that it had taken a great deal of work to make the beautiful actress look homely.  I have never liked the two-faced Hollywood treatment of looks -- they give lip service to the fact that it's a person's self who matters, and not his/her appearance, but everything from Beauty and the Beast to She's All That has as a pivotal moment the transformation from ugh to wow. All in all, this is a good movie if you enjoy the likes of The Parent Trap and its remake.  By the way, if you've read the book, you'll want to forget that while you watch the movie, or you'll spend the whole time being bothered by the MANY changes. "},{"Title":"A most entertaining film, the critics missed the point on this one.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  a few SPOILERS - A good director makes all the difference in a good or bad film. Garry Marshall directed Princess Diaries. In an earlier time he brought us Pretty Woman, was involved with Laverne and Shirley,, and over the years has been involved in many, many high-profile films and TV shows, as a writer and/or director. His director's commentary on the DVD's bonus features is probably the best I've ever heard. He comes across as such a warm and caring individual, and he manages to imbue his films with that feel.Most critics gave fairly low ratings for Princess Diaries. However, for anyone who likes to be entertained this one does it. Some complained that it has mostly recycled ideas. So, what film doesn't? Anne Hathaway (same name as Will Shakespeare's wife) carries the story exceedingly well in her first role, even though she was a few years older than the 15-year-old Mia she plays. Mandy Moore demonstrates really good acting chops as the pretty and spoiled popular school cheerleader, a role totally different from her next film, Walk to Remember where she plays a spiritual girl with a fatal illness. And what else can be said about Julie Andrews, here just perfect as the Queen of Genovia, situated right between France and Spain!  -)The film has one, very simple message.  Maturity comes when we quit thinking about I, and start thinking about how we can use our talents to help others. That's Mia's challenge in this film. Mia has thick hair and eyebrows, is clumsy, gets sick when faced with talking before a group, and by her own admission, her biggest goal in life is to remain invisible. She was doing a pretty good job of that when her grandmother, the Queen showed up. Seems that Mia is the only blood heir of her recently deceased father, and she is the rightful future Queen of Genovia. The second half of the film deals with her new-found fame, flocks of reporters, her training to be more polished and graceful, attending a state dinner, and most importantly deciding whether she will accept the role as Princess of Genovia. Ready to formally reject it, still thinking of I, she reads a letter her father had written, and in the end she flies to Genovia to start her new life.The writing and directing make this a fun movie. Even though the theme has a serious note to it, the whole thing is presented in a very humorous manner. Much of it obviously tongue-in-cheek. The antics on the P.E. softball field. The neighbor Mr Robutussin. The evil-looking, hook-nose woman set to become Genovia Royalty if Mia rejects her title. The policeman and cable car engineer who end up at the final party, smiling over their honorary titles Knight of the Rose. In total, one of the more entertaining films we have seen recently. Garry Marshall's commentary selectable on the DVD is distinctly different from all the others I've heard. He nevers wanders way off the track, but stays with what we are watching. You can hear the big grin on his face as he tells how the filming was done, points out specific story-development shots, discusses the various actors and what films they have been in, why it was shot in S.F. rather than N.Y. (his grandchildren!), and interesting insights throughout the film. And YES, Anne (Mia) did accidently slip and fall on the wet bleachers, but it turned out very fitting for her character, and she was not seriously hurt. But, when she was rubbing her right hip while going back up the steps, she had a real reason to do so!!  "},{"Title":"It ain't so bad","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"     I'm not a teenaged girl, so don't ask me what I was doing with this movie...somebody lent it to my sister.  I guess I started watching it with zero expectations, which I think these days is the only way to go.   Wouldn't you know I actually laughed here and there.  What can I say?  There were actually some unexpectedly funny moments.     People have complained about the transformation of Mia.  Well, they could have done without the face makeover, I suppose, but that nest of hair had to go.  I can't believe her mother never took a hairbrush to her before she slid down the pole to go to school.  (They live in a converted firehouse...the mother was some kind of beatnik once.)   Julie Andrews is so cosy and reassuring as the Grandma, and keeps saying the word Genovia with such conviction and such a straight face that you want to believe it exists.  It was also cute to see the little romance going on between her and Joseph...a queen and a chauffeur!  There's hope for everyone.     Now I'll nitpick what was with the blond boy Mia had a crush on?  His face looked like melted plastic.  Every time he had a close-up I was startled, and lost track of the plot.  And why, oh why, is the dramatic final scene always done in the rain?  That has got to be the tiredest shtick ever trotted out in Hollywood.  Why do the writers think that the defining moment of a movie is more dramatic if the character making the speech is dripping wet?   But in the final analysis, I recommend this movie.  No swearing, no smut, some genuine laughs, mostly likeable characters.   "},{"Title":"Dear diary, I liked this movie.","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I wasn't about to see this movie in the theaters, I saw it on cable. but I'll be damned if I didn't like it. Of course, the first thing I see is the very attractive Miss Hathaway, at least, I saw the *transformed* Mia Thermopolous in the original commercials. But then it surprised me to see an actual story, with a reluctant 15 year old girl learning that she is an heir to a throne. Mia's reaction is understandable, and fairly realistic. What results is a tough decision for someone in her position.The extremely awesome supporting cast includes Julie Andrews, Hector Elizondo, Hathaway, and Heather Mattarazzo. The comedy, while not drop dead hilarious, has it's kid friendly chuckle moments. The dialogue is completely devoid of any profanity, but, there are a few jokes that grown-ups will get. (Look closely when Mia goofs up, a couple of times she mouths sh!t)The transformation part is slightly disturbing. Mia was cute and I can't see how this country was so regal that she couldn't be herself. I didn't mind too much when she became hot in a G-rated way (and she looked even more hot in the sequel, too). But to see that she still couldn't be wholly accepted even after she looked different or better, probably saves this less than original plot point.This movie is good for repeat viewings. It's entertaining, amusing, and charming. And acting saves the show. Hail Genovia! "},{"Title":"You'll laugh, you'll cry... well maybe not cry!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is definetly a winner! I mean, how often do you take a book and turn it into a comedy-- a disney comedy?! With laughs, dramatic moments, gossip school scenes, and family relationships The Princess Diaries is superb (and i never use that word) Which tells you...? see this film! "},{"Title":"I thought it was cute and funny","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Princess Diaries was much better than I thought it would be. I laughed out loud several times throughout the film.  It was also nice to see something that managed to be funny without using foul language. (SLIGHT SPOILERS) One criticism I have is if I was told I was a princess, I wouldn't act like I hated the idea and didn't want anything to do with it. But that is what Mia does when she first finds out. I think anyone who was the laughing stock of the school would be elated to learn that they have something unique about them and could put all those bullies at school in their place.  Also, who wouldn't want to have a professional hair stylist come in and redo their hair, make-up, and wardrobe so it would be fitting of a princess.(END OF SPOILERS)FINAL VERDICT  I think this movie is worth seeing.  Whether your're young or old, there will be something you like. It may be the laughs or the whole fantasy of becoming a princess! "},{"Title":"So Much Fun!","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Princess Diaries  was exactly what it was created to be cute, clean entertainment; nothing more, nothing less.  It was such a refreshing change from the usual obscene junk Hollywood dishes out every month.  The slapstick humor at the dinner party had me rolling in the ailes, literaly, because I couldn't get a seat in the theater it was so packed.  And the ice cream incident was a classic bit of creative revenge.  All in all, one of my favorite movies of the summer. "},{"Title":"LOVED IT!!!!","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie! I've seen it many many times and I never get tired of it. The actors were all great and the plot was wonderful. I especially loved Robert Schwartzman(Michael) on account that he is extremely gorgeous;o). Julie Andrews was a good choice for the queen. I would have to say that the weakest actor/actress in this movie was Mandy Moore. I think there are some singers that should stick to singing(as well as some actors that should stick to acting). Although there were many changes from the book the plot, characters, and many other details remained the same. I hope there is a sequel to The Princess Diaries, but if you loved it too and you can't wait for a sequel then read the three books. They are incredible, I couldn't put them down! "},{"Title":"Julie glows in it!","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Princess Diaries is one of the best films I saw this year.It has a cute story and ofcourse nice scenes.There are some funny scenes like the trolley scene and the Princess lessons and there are some romantic scenes like the one that Julie Andrews and Hector Elizondo dance the tango.Julie Andrews is stunning and gorgeous as always and the acting is perfect.It was the best choice they did to choose her as the queen since she is one in real life too!She is perfect and the scenes that she is in are the best.Hector Elizondo is very good too in his role as the bodyguard and choffer of the queen and the princess.Anne Hathaway is pretty good too especially if you consider that she is a newcomer.Mandy Moore is good too as the evil cheerleader.All the actors were great but Julie Andrews was excellent.I strongly recommend it for everyone  "},{"Title":"A cute movie","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Finally, a cute G-rated movie (which means it can be watched by a five year old safely) such a rare commodity in Hollywood nowadays. The story was geared for children and should be viewed as such with no high expectations of excellent acting (except by Julie Andrews and Hector Elizondo) or unpredictable plot-lines. My young daughters, including my almost 18 year old love this movie.  Non-threatening and fun to watch. "}{"Title":"Not THAT Bad","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  If only people would understand the difference between a fun movie and one you should be taking seriously, please lighten up. This is not meant to be critiqued like it was supposed to be some big masterpiece. The plot seems like it would be geared toward 11 and 13 year olds, but it's unfair to say it doesn't appeal to an older audience, I'm almost 19 and I enjoyed it, so did my sister AND my mother, in fact she's the one who convinced me to rent it. The acting isn't mind boggling but it isn't so bad where you're rolling your eyes at it. Julie Andrews was excellent though and she looks good for her age too. I think some parts were cliched and a bit predictable, but who cares? It was still a cute movie. I don't think anyone should write off this film just by it's appearance, like I did, cause you'll be pleasantly surprised. And pay no mind to these skip it, it's a waste of time comments, that's crap. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Well, I saw this movie once and as soon as it came out on DVD I added it to my collection. Its a Pretty Woman story about finding the beauty within yourself...not just physical beauty, but the beauty of courage, appreciating yourself and doing things for the good of being good rather than the good of being popular. That being said, it is directed at children, because youngsters get very little of that kind of message today...sometimes I doubt if even parent send it. Society today doesn't often present anything to the younger generation other than eye-candy movies that insult their intelligence. This is not one of those. There have been those that look at this movie and see a dangerous message about having to be physically beautiful...perhaps that is a valid argument, but I don't think so, that is the argument of the hypochondriac of the movie world...this movie is a harmless touching comedy with a good message underneath for anyone who cares to notice  "},{"Title":"Wanted to see it again and again","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I saw it with my family, which is the right thing to do since this is a family film.  So anyway, while watching it I noticed how great the cast was (with the exception of Mandy Moore and Erik von Detten).  Julie Andrews made a comeback in a great way, playing the Queen in this movie.  And newcomer Anne Hathaway came onto the big screen in a great way.  Her acting skills were shown greatly throughout the movie as Mia.  And even Heather Matarazzo made me smile.  Wait she always does.  I think Heather is a great actress, and it really showed as Lilly.  I want to see there be a The Princess Diaries 2 because this movie was so great.  As I said Mandy Moore cannot act in this movie.  That is why I didn't want to see A Walk To Remember, but Mandy could actually act in A Walk To Remember.  I wonder what her problem was in The Princess Diaries?  Anyway, go see this movie with your family.  It's real fun.7/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent film!  I laughed the whole way through.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Light-hearted and fun.  Perfect for the would-be royal in all of us, the film is suitable for the whole family.  Julie Andrews shines as the queen in a modern day Pygmalion story.  She mentors her granddaughter from the clumsy, shy teenager into a sophisticated young lady capable of expressing herself.  Based loosely on the Meg Cabot books, the film's setting in San Francisco leads to beautiful scenery and some great fun at the expense of those pesky hills.  The cast does a great job, despite being largely young, lending a fresh, light atmosphere to the time honored story.   It is definitely a feel-good movie that kept our whole family laughing.  Highly recommended for the romantic at heart. "},{"Title":"The Princess Diaries has something for everyone","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  It's difficult to let Eisner's Disney in the house with small kids these days without strapping the mouse to the lie detector and asking him some very pointed questions.  Not all of what comes out on the Disney label is appropriate for the under-14 set.  So with just a touch of skepticism, I asked around about it after hearing a good review from another source and I was surprised to find everyone liked it well enough to recommend it.  So I took my daughter on a date to her very first movie, complete with popcorn, Coke and candy.  And I only had to take out a modest bank loan to cover the concession costs.  But I digress...The Princess Diaries is a movie that everyone over 5 can enjoy.  Remarks that explode the left coast's loss of touch with reality may sail over kids--and some adults'--heads (i.e. a high school PA system asks, Would the Feng Shui club please stop moving the tables on the lawn?).  As with Garry Marshall's other recent film, Runaway Bride, Hector Alizondo comes away with some of the best lines and certainly the best delivery.  Julie Andrews pulls of the role of Queen nicely, although the emotional separation she feels is a bit underplayed.  The kids can really relate to Mia, who comes off as, well...a princess.  A happy ending seals the deal.  Others have said the acting is mediocre, but what can you expect from a mouse?  I stand up and applaud this movie, if only because it provided a wonderful date for me and my baby girl.   "},{"Title":"cute little movie","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This was a cute little movie. I mean its not a golden globe movie, but just a cute disney movie. I loved it. I would give it 8/10. I rented it on video, instead of going to the movies. Mandy Moore made a camo in the movie. She did a horrible job even though she was only in a few scenes. Still horrible and annoying.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, not great","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This has that Disney fairytale touch thing. Julie Andrews was great, why I saw the film in the first place. But the friends I went with (3 of them) all fell asleep! The movie's ok. It's got that and they lived happily ever after... plot. But I've seen better. "},{"Title":"A good,The best movie","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Ummm...i was actually begging my whole family to see this movie,just by looking at the previews.When i saw it i really,really liked it a lot and i think that they should make more movies like this one,i also think that there should be a part 2,with of course the same actors and actresses!-) "},{"Title":"NICE FAMILY FILM","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This nice family film beat my expectations. Its gentle humor is suitable for all audiences.Teen and pre-teen girls may identify with the central character, who goes from wallflower to royalty overnight.No profanity, violence or nudity--but I liked it anyway.  "},{"Title":"Good for laughs...","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie on DVD, on a Sunday night, when there was nothing watchable on TV and it was money well spent. Its a pleasant movie and so many of the scenes had me rolling with laughter - especially the ones on Mia's Softball Practice, her hairdo makeover and her first formal dinner appearance. Good to see Hector in a role similar to the one he played in Pretty Woman. As always, he brings a touch of class to what he does. Some of the dialogs and scenes might be a bit contrived, but if you're interested in laughing your heart out a few times - this movie will be well worth the time. "}{"Title":"A good one","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Princess Diaries is a good comedy with a somewhat original plot.  The story reminds me of King Ralph with John Goodman. However, unlike King Ralph, this one has the newly discovered royal as a high school girl who it not very popular.  The comedic scenes that follow are great as this student struggles to find out who she is since she has discovered she is now, which proves difficult since she now must get involved in the world of the aristocracy. The acting by Julie Andrews and Anne Hathaway is first rate and really makes the film enjoyable.  The plot is a little predictable but the Director, Gerry Marshal, did a great job with that short coming with some good dialog.  This on is good for all ages to see.Overall, worth your while (8 out of 10). "},{"Title":"One of the greatest family films ever made","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I had wanted to see this movie ever since its premiere in theaters and when I finally got to watch it, I was not disappointed at all.  I loved every single minute that I spent watching this dynamic film because the story is such an eloquent mix of humor and delight.  I think that the characters were people that you could relate to and care about and were portrayed very nicely.  This movie is a great deal of fun to watch and is a very special treat for people of all ages. "},{"Title":"Great story, and rated G!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Can you believe that somebody actaully made an excellent movie without profanity, bare bodies, graphic violence, etc? Well, Disney actually pulled that off with THE PRINCESS DIARIES. This is a teen-female coming of age/ugly duckling story; however plot is well conceived (if only just a little predictable) and very well executed. Naturally, people will comment about Julie Andrew's stellar performance as the Queen of Genovia, and about Anne Hathoway's believeable job as a teen confronted with genetics, the press, and sudden popularity--a girl who before this had one ambition in life to be invisible...and I'm very good at it!In my mind, the glue to the whole movie was Hector Elizando's Joe. Serving as the conscience of both the Queen and the Princess. He has some great lines and helps move the story along.It was nice to watch a movie that told a great story (with good lessons) that I could share with my kids...and still enjoy myself. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly excellent movie.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't very excited to see this one at first, but it's refreshing to see such a good, family movie when there is so much crap out there that markets to families but really shouldn't be shown to kids. The no violence, sex, and foul language, combined with an unstoppable cast makes this a 9, if not a 10. If you've been looking for a suitable kids movie that adults can enjoy, this is it. "},{"Title":"A delightful fairy tale","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film with fine performances by newer as well as veteran actors.  It is a throwback to older movies designed for entertainment rather than to shock or to dazzle with special effects.  It can be enjoyed by moviegoers of all ages with no violence, bad language or nudity, a rarity these days.  It won't win any awards but is more entertaining than most movies issued last year.  "},{"Title":"WOW this was a cool movie!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Princess Diaries was such a good movie. Disney lately doesnt have too many movies I'd like to see, except for the animated movies. Like inspector Gadget, that was dumb. But this on was so good.  enjoyed the whole movie. I loved the music in the movie and the theme song. This was one of those rare Disney films that I really care for. I've seen it 6 times already. This movie has magic to it. This is one of those films that everyone can watch. From adults to children. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good family film that has magic to it. You'll love this movie. I did! "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Princess Diaries is a must see. I loved all the Charactors in it. It was well writen and is great for all ages. This is the first movie I have ever fallen in love with. It is also very uplifting and sweet movie. I just hope everyone has the chance to rent or buy this movie. It is also on Disney! So make sure your childern and yourself get to watch The Princess Diaries. There are also to music videos after the movie which the kids would love.Thanks! "},{"Title":"Royal","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This was a good movie. I think I can start by saying that I don't think much of Mandy Moore as a singer but hey she was a pretty good actress here. So is Anne Hathaway who is also very pretty and the rest of the people in the cast. Although it could have been shorter and some parts seemed kind of pointless, this is a fun, enjoyable, and cute movie which is appropriate for all ages. It also has a happy ending which is always good. At first this just might seem like a movie that is fun and harmless to watch without really learning anything from it but I think you can learn a few things from it, like believing in yourself and your dreams and working to make them come true for you. Also facing your responsibilities. As the song goes, Miracles happen when you believe. That is also a cute music video at the end of this movie. "},{"Title":"best film of 2001!","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  What a film! Forget the critics and academy who phonily nominate  artsy, serious films like shakespeare in love, english patient's wife or this years's beuatiful mind year in year out for academy awards, this is the best I've seen in a longtime. The very very best! Anne Hathaway, a relative newcommer who had one brief tv series, sparkles and radiates and does everything else a princess does in the starring role of a nerdish girl who learns she's princess of a far off mythical country named Genovia. Julie Andrews shows why she is a dame , perfect, sassy and fittingly sophiscated every step of the way. Even Hector Elizondo gliters through his relatively small role as the bodyguard/chauffeur for said Genovian royalty. I believe Elizondo's young daughter also has a brief, cutesy cameo as a Genovian royal subject. Heather Matarazzo, from the well received bizarre Welcome To The Dollhouse about a prepubscent trying to fit in at home, school and the love business, is the quiessential best friend portrayer, the daffy, delightful, witty Lily. Mandy Moore shows her ability to handle acting well in her first filmed acting performance as the bitter, jealous, conniving Lana. Lastly the woman who plays Mia's ( Anne's) mom is fine too as a would be bohemian artist/sixties holdover. All in all the film is so well paced and easy going, likely mostly owed to the genius of producer/director gary Marshall who according to the dvd featurette comes across as so well liked. To me Marshall is as much the genius as is Coppola, Speilberg or Altman. The story also is fast, free flowing and fun- and funny, often funny. Lots of amazing slap stick andd gags exist here in tihs movie and Anne Hathaway in particualr is so god naturedly a natural at pratfalls. Anyway I say please se this movie, rent it now on vhs or dvd or even better buy it! worth owing for sure! I give it a 25 on a scale of 1- 10! Ultra recommended!! "},{"Title":"Amazing film","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this just last night, it was definetly one of the best films ever,they picked all thew right people to play the parts, Anne Hathaway was amazing, as was Julie Andrews and Eric Von Detten, even Mandy Moore was good and some people said her acting was bad when I think she acted out the part really well. This is a must see film "}{"Title":"Anne Hattaway dumps the movie, in spite of Julie Andrews","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  It is a pity that Anne Hattaway was casted as the leading actress in this movie, because she is just terrible in it. She almost dumps the movie. Her scenes with Julie Andrews are a little more acceptable, because Julie can save them all. However, whenever she is alone or with the other actors, it is embarrassing to see her. She just doesn't know how to act. Garry Marshall could have a done more for this movie, specially with this so-called actress Anne Hattaway. "},{"Title":"Awesome Chick flick","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie it rules. It was surprisingly good because I'm not into these kind of films. Anne Hathaway did an awesome job so did Julie Andrews. The humor was good for disney movie. I'm a big disney fan you'll like it. This is a great film to see on a date. Mandy Moore makes a good appearence. I rate this 10/10  "},{"Title":"Disney at its best","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is a hopeful Cinderella story, but that's okay because everyone, including the writer, the cast and the crew know that.  The film is exactly what it intends to be.  Garry Marshall made some good choices (check out the deleted scenes on the DVD), and Julie Andrews was both regal and real. Although jealousy and a weird neighbor keep it on this planet, it is safe for viewers of all ages.  If you're looking for a pure feel-good fun, this is recommended. "},{"Title":"A must-see film!","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I am actually at loss for words, for the film is indescribably delightful! Of course, parts of the film plot differs from the book (of the same title) written by Meg Cabot, of which it was based on. Nevertheless, the film is an excellent story of a teenage girl, Mia Thermopolis, who is living in suburban San Francisco, who discovers that she is a royal and legitimate heir to the crown of Genovia. The story then continues as Mia struggles to discover who she really is, dealing with the near break-up with her best friend, Lily, and (of course) romance problems. In the end, Mia finally triumphs and realises that being a Princess is what she was born to do, after all. A very nice story which leaves you with a warm fuzzy feeling at the end of the movie. I hope Disney Pictures will continue the story of Mia with a sequel, I will definately be the first to watch it! "},{"Title":"Wonderful! Disney is once again doing high quality movies!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Those of us who were fans of the Wonderful World of Disney and the great movies Disney produced before Walt died, will be thrilled to watch this movie! Great story, great acting, and CLEAN!! No filth that has to be sorted through or explained to young children!My whole extended family (age 3-61) gives it a 10! Thanks Disney! Keep up the great work! "},{"Title":"A great story for the whole family!  A+","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I bought this movie for my 11 year old daughter never expecting to fall in love with this movie.  This is not a typical teeny-bopper movie.  This movie is like  Lucille Ball being in My Fair Lady.  It is beautifully put together.  Very funny and quite touching.  I will watch this movie again and again.  A real pleasure to watch and highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"disney disney disney...","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  well, disney did it to me again... making me think for about 100 minutes that the world is full of hope ;Pgood movie, julie andrews performs as usual...great. the teens in the movie mostly all did a good job...now i respect prince charles so much more.................... "},{"Title":"Charming movie- *really* could've done w/o Mandy Moore","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  7/10 ~~~~~ This movie didn't turn out as bad as I thought it would be.  It held your interest with its comical and dramatic moments, yet didn't contain any sex, drugs, or violence that usually comes with movies involving teenagers.  It's a good film for a rainy day, but I have to say that some elements of the story are a bit disappointing.  The target audience of the movie is young pre-pubescent girls.  They're being shown that all they need to do is get their hair done, pluck their eyebrows, and slap on some makeup and they'll look like a princess. This really isn't what we should be showing girls this age who already want to look like Brittany Spears. Other than that, it's a cute movie with a wonderful performance by Julie Andrews. And one more thing- Mandy Moore needs to stick with singing because she sure as heck can't act.  (I'm not saying she can sing worth a darn either but that's a different story.)**I think Robert Schwartzman will be someone to watch for.  He can act and he's good-looking. )**  "},{"Title":"CHEAPER THAN CHARM SCHOOL","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  A cheap way to teach your daughter about good posture.  Other than that, the message to young girls was straighten your frizzy hair, pluck your bushy eyebrows, doff your glasses, be lucky enough to have a royal relative and you will be a success.  I liked Bridget Jones' Diaries' message better be yourself.And Julie Andrews has never been able to act.  Sing? Yes.  Act? No. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie for newer age!","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie has it all, gawky girl, Queen grandmother, and teeniebopper romance.  Anne Hathaway was shining in this movie.  Herclumsiness did not look faked, and the transformation she goesthrough is great.  She looks totally different at first but you can seethe real Mia shine through even though she looks preppy.  JulieAndrews was wonderful.  She was elegant, graceful, andeverything you would think a queen should be.  She was justradiant.  A great good time movie and heart warming. "}{"Title":"Feel good movie","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  It was pretty good actually. The typical Disney fairy tale, with a predictable ending.  Julie Andrews is quite good as the grandmother, and the other actors, and actresses were good too. Except for Mandy Moore, I mean her acting was horrible. But it's a feel good movie and you come off believing in fairy tales. (at least for the moment) "},{"Title":"Something different","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsI went to see this film because I was intrigued as to how Mandy Moore's acting skills would fare,and because I suppose I fancied something a little out of the ordinary from the type of movie I would usually watch.And watchable I guess is the word to describe it.Pretty Woman director Garry Marshall allows the pace to drag a bit in parts,and perhaps it is a little too long with the running time being just under two hours.And there's certainly a few cliches here and there.But it's got very funny moments,it's acted well and the soundtrack's pretty great too.Which makes it fine because it's both sufficent if you're looking for something different.....and most probably if you're not.*** "},{"Title":"Good clean fun! Just as a movie like this should be!","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"                ******May Contain Minor Spoilers******Mia is a nice, clever teenage girl who lives with her mum in San Francisco.  She's not very popular at school though and she feels invisible most of the time. She's still happy though and spends a lot of time with her mum and her best friend at school Lily. Suddenly, when Mia's grandma, who she has never met before arrives and tells Mia, that she's the princess of Genovia and her late father who had just died recently was the prince of Genovia, Mia is of course very shocked by all this and doesn't really want anything to do with being a princess.Mia and her Grandma finally come up with a comprise though. Mia will think about leaving San Francisco for Genovia and reign as the princess if she has time to think about it, in the mean time though she will take 'princess lessons', which includes getting a new look.Mia has to keep the secret of her being a princess from everyone for a while though, including from her best friend Lily. When the secret is let out though, suddenly everyone wants to be Mia's best friend and the press keep following her. Everything of course works out in the end though. o)The cast in the movie includes, screen legend Julie Andrews, newcomer Anne Hathaway, Hector Elizondo, Heather Matarazzo, the cute Robert Schwartzman and singer Mandy Moore,-who I guess could of done a little better here. Everyone here is really good in the movie though.The Princess Diaries is like any Disney movie, good clean fun. There should be more movies out like this. The good thing about the movie is it's original and quite funny too, especially the scene with Mia at the dinner party, which is *REALLY* funny. The music in the movie is good too. I just brought the soundtrack which is really great. The Princess Diaries is a highly recommended movie for all ages and I give it an 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie was excellent. It was clean, family fun and I wish there were more movies like it. It is definately a movie to take your family to see. Little girls everywhere would especially love this movie. Definately a MUST SEE!  "},{"Title":"This is a great movie for all ages.","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  It's not often that I go to a movie and laugh out loud, but I did at this movie...and so did the other person who went with me.  They were playing a double feature (Shrek and Princess Diaries) and I have to admit that I laughed more at Princess Diaries.  Not all of the acting was a 10, but the laughs made up for it. "},{"Title":"Nice time with the kids","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Charming little film for young girls. Even the three small children who accompanied me enjoyed it.  For grown-ups there are some laughs but few if any of the adult double entendres that abound in cartoon Disney films and serve to keep adults interested. (Only go if you are in charge of taking the kids!) Ann Hathaway is a fine actress and a real one to watch in the future, but it is very difficult to believe she is 15 once she receives her transformation (hair job) into a princess. It's nice to see Julie Andrews; she's made a few of these kid type Disney films over the years and carries herself well throughout. The scene where she knights (sort of) a traffic cop and a cable car driver is a hoot. Somewhat sentimental and family oriented, the princess comes of age and stresses the importance of her father and mother.  That was nice; perhaps a bit teary for the non-cynical types.     "},{"Title":"A lot to like, but...","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful, natural acting by Anne Hathaway and Heather Matarazzo. Julie Andrews is luminescent. The story is a positive one for young people and the adult audience I saw it with laughed in the right places and sincerely enjoyed it. However, the director could have eliminated some of the screwball situations and the script could have used a re-write. Some lines were unnecessarily clunky and detracted from the general believability of the fairy tale. Princess Diaries 2? Inevitable but hopefully not as unimaginative as titling it Princess Diaries 2. "},{"Title":"Pretty Woman for the Young & Innocent","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion, the team that has brought us films such as Pretty Woman has done it again.  Right down to the makeover.  It's a feel good story where the heroine is the underdog, but she still comes out on top.  It's a cute and sweet film.  No, it won't win any Oscars or Golden Globes, but I found it very enjoyable as did the group I saw it with.  I wouldn't immediately write it off as a bubble gum, teenybopper flick even though it does have Mandy Moore in it.  It's perfect for a group of girls no matter how old to enjoy on a lazy Sunday afternoon.  It's a great film for a mother/daughter day.  If you're looking heart-stopping thrills, a tearjerker, or an emotional rollercoaster, go elsewhere.  But if you just want to enjoy a simple movie rooted in simple values of family and friendship, pick this one up.  And just one more note, Anne Hathaway is a promising young actress as she showed in the short-lived Fox show Get Real as is the actress who played her best friend, Heather Matarazzo which she has proven in more gritty roles she has played in guest spots on ER and Law & Order. "},{"Title":"Delightful!!!","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I would just like to say THANK YOU to Garry Marshall for this movie. I enjoyed it myself, but it was refreshing to have a movie to take my girls to that I didn't have to worry about language, sexual content or violence. Thanks so much for this movie!!!! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Class...!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The long, long overdue return of Julie Andrews to major motion pictures could not have happened in a better setting or with a better producer. An Icon who helped make Walt Disney Pictures something more than a bastion for animated specials (not that these haven't been wonderful, consistently avant-garde, and unforgetable), we have the Lady back once more in the role of a mentor -- and she does this so well -- this time not for a proper British household, nor for a large family on the brink of the impact of a world war, but this time for a young girl who simply dares to dream. And daring to dream is something we ALL need to do.Anne Hathaway is an outstanding find and I hope we see more of her; it took a lot to encapsulate essentially two personas for a newcomer. She was equally successful at both and the results are no less than noteworthy. The audience is kept entertained throughout the film, truly a feel-good adventure in a time when the world most needed one, and excellently supported by Hector Elizondo, Heather Matarazzo, Robert Schwartzman, and a surprise cameo by ... (go and see the film to find out !!!).Not since Victor Victoria has Julie Andrews thrilled audiences like this, and said film garnered her third ocsar nomination along with a basket-full of others (6 more). That was 19 very long years ago.Treat yourself to a fabulous performance by a Veteran and Living Legend, a thrilling newcomer, a wonderful story and chance to feel good. The film's only draw-back, although it was pulled into the humour effectively, was the dialect of the city in which the story takes place.  But don't let this stop you. Rating is 4 stars (on 5). A must see -- don't wait for video or cable!  "}{"Title":"Good, clean family fun","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is a good film for family viewing, and for anyone who is just plain tired of sex, violence, and vulgar language. My friend and I, both middle-aged women, saw this film on a Sunday afternoon amid the presence of families with children. The idea was simple, but showing a good, typical teen-ager becoming a real-life princess. For children, it's important for them to see good teens rather than the usual ones who flock our screens with violence, despair, drug use, etc. This is reassuring for parents who want to enjoy a film with their kids but not to cringe with embarassment. I don't think this is the kind of film that most adults would want to see as a rule, but it was fun and entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Julie Andrews at her best","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a typical Disney-style movie. Julie Andrews is excellent in the role of Queen Clarisse Renaldi. She plays the role well and with styleAnne Hathaway plays the role of Mia Thermopilus,a 15 year old girl who finds out shes a princess!!! Shes stunning and truly acts like a princess.Hector Elizondo is adorable in this movie.Hes not a constant figure in the movie but the parts he is in are funny and sweet.Mandy Moore plays the typical blonde cheerleader bitch who only cares about herself and no one else.Its a must see for the teenagers and its a bit of fun for the adults too.If you dont want to go see it because of the teenager focus,go see it for Julie Andrews excellant acting!! "},{"Title":"Delightfully original and fluffy entertainment.","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  THE PRINCESS DIARIES (2001) Rating 8/10Why did most critics and viewers dislike this film so much? It was directed by Garry Marshall, who also directed the much-loved Pretty Woman, the film had a good cast, plot, some very funny moments and brings up one of the most original ideas for a film in ages. The movie also gets by without having any coarse language, violence or cheesy moments whatsoever. Okay, maybe some critics out there noticed the movie can be repetitive in places and some may find the story a little far-fetched, but I found this family comedy to be a delight. The movie stars Anne Hathaway as a nerdy girl at school who suddenly finds out she is princess of Genobia. This girl has curly hair, glasses and ugly shoes. So the transformation begins to turn this dork into a member of the royal family. And what a transformation it is! Anne Hathaway plays both sides of her role astoundingly and manages to bring up one of the most enjoyable performances by a young actor so far in the year. Julie Andrews is typically engaging, giving a really believable portrayal of a Queen whom must be someone who people look up to as well as trying to fit in grandmother-granddaughter time. The film's script is brilliantly original and has lots of great laughs, moments of intense family poignancy and each of the characters has something in them that we can all relate to. This movie has been labelled as `a chick flick' but I think, I hope, boys and men will find something in this movie that they can appreciate, and I hope everyone can find the time to see this movie because it is truly fun to watch, even if at times it can sort of repeat the meaning it has just brought up a few shots ago. The movie has some great costumes and very good makeup for Anne Hathaway and as a whole, the movie is just really likeable and enjoyable, and I could not of wished for a better Midday watch. "},{"Title":"Something worth seeing!","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  For those of you out there who love a laugh, this is definitely the movie to see. Anne Hathaway shines in this feel-good Disney movie alongside Julie Andrews. As with all other Disney movies, this film appeals to both adults and kids as long as they have a sense of humour! Follow Mia Thermopolis through this thoroughly amusing film that tells of her path to becoming a princess! )  "},{"Title":"Julie Andrews Is Back And Keeps This Movie Flying","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Princess Diaries was completely slammed by the critics here (probably because it is a G rated movie with no swearing or violence) so I was interested and pleasantly surprised by this movie! Julie Andrews holds this picture together with her grace and charm as Queen Clarisse Renaldi, Her sheer screen presence illuminates the screen she is ably supported through a fine cast especially Anne Hathaway as Queen Clarissa's long forgotten granddaughter who finds out that if Genovia is to exist then she must decide if she wants to ascend to the throne! Julie Andrews decides that she is to be the one to educate the gawky teenager ( which is a hard act to follow especially as Julie has a perfect speaking voice and stands as straight as a die!).All in all of cause everything works out okay and everyone lives happily everafter. After such a long absence from the big screen (especially in this country) I for one hope that it won't be such a long wait next time to see Miss Andrews on the big screen again "},{"Title":"A Really great family movie!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is one Movie the whole family can see!It tells the stoy of Mia Thermoilps and her finding out who see really is.It is about a girl becoming a Lady and finding out who she is and learning about the joys of life.But throw in that she just found out she was a Princess!This is one of the best movies made this year! I hope they make more movies like this one, then Hollywood would have me acting there! "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie...","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Princess Diaries is just one of those special movies that brings joy to all those who watch it. It is very funny, and yet with a beautiful simplicity at the same time. It was also fun to see. A great family-and-friends movie. On a scale of 1 to 10, this movie would get eleven. Don't expect any Oscars. But believe me, if you go see it, you won't be disappointed... "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Princess diaries is a wonderful movie.  Anne Hathaway is very funny as the possible princess and should be starring in many more movies.  This is a tale of a teenage girl who must make a decision as to whether or not to accept an offer to become a princess of a foreign land or stay in her current life as an American high school student.  It plays very much as a story and not as a rock video.  it is not a parody and is not seeking to make teenagers look sleazy and moronic such as in American Pie films.  It is more related to the film Legally Blonde and if you liked Legally Blonde you will probably like this film.It shows a wide range of personalities and is a film of wonder and excitement.  It is also a film for all ages from 6 to 90.  It is also wonderful to see that Julie Andrews still looks and acts so well.  The supporting cast is excellent. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Teen Comedy with a Classic Twist","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Typically, a movie about a teenage girl finding out that she is a princess would only be of interest to young girls, and maybe teenage girls. But this film successfully brings something for all audiences. The fairy tale-like story and lack of obscene language makes the movie good for young children. For the parents, you have Julie Andrews and the many jokes that anyone will find funny. But most of all, this can be considered a movie for teenagers. Being sixteen myself, I am happy to say that I found the characters very easy to relate too. I found myself really feeling for Mia. And being a male teenager, I found the leading lady to be gorgeous. (Especially after princess lessons) Then you have the presence of pop singer Mandy Moore. This is a terrific movie for everyone. It's both a movie to see with children and an ideal date movie. "},{"Title":"Charming and Fun","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The fact that the action is completely predictable from beginning to end does not detract from what is a wholly enjoyable movie experience.  Anne Hathaway is beautiful, fun and charming as the heroine, and Julie Andrews IS screen royalty, which makes her perfection, as the queen.  Obviously geared to young ladies, everyone will find something to enjoy in this rarity; a family film.  Recommended. "}{"Title":"A refreshing, hilarious, glance into a teenager's dream","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I was incredibly pleased with this movie.  Apart from nicely, tightly, written dialogue, wonderful direction, and flawless acting, it was a refreshing break from the potty and indecent humor that as of late has invaded the big screen.  The characters are real while at the same time of a fairy tale essence.  It's funny, but dramatic.  It's great to see some clean movies out there that aren't positively pathetic.  Will absolutely be seeing again! "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The princess diaries was a pretty good movie. there were tons of laughs and the movie kept you entertained through out it is recommended for any age group and i will go see it again i rate princess diaries 8/10 "},{"Title":"It's refreshing to see a decent movie!","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I was thrilled to see that someone saw the need for a funny, interesting and decent movie at last! It was an exciting fantasy that any teenage girl would love to be a part of. It stresses the lesson that friends should care about you because of who you are instead of what you look like or what you own. It was presented in a refreshingly clean manner. When I saw the movie, the theater was half full on a Tuesday night, which was a much better crowd than when I saw PG movies, so I think that this fact proves that there is a desire for good, clean movies. "},{"Title":"Very Endearing and Touching","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The first time I watched this movie I had never heard of it, but after I watched I went back again with my little sisters' to watch it again, It was a wonderful experience just watching Mia become Princess and finding true love.  Julie Andrews was beautiful, I loved her and I loved her in the film...she played a wonderful Queen, I can't wait to buy the film for my collection.  I totally recommend everyone to watch this film, total chick flick that guys will enjoy as well! "},{"Title":"Really cute!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was really cute! It was funny and well acted. I don't know if Anne Hathaway has been in anything else but she's pretty darn good! If you're around 10 or 12 like me then I can guarantee that you'll really enjoy this movie. It's well worth the money ~) "},{"Title":"What a fun, cute, feel good movie!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I can count on one hand the number of times the movie audience has applauded at the end of a movie that I have attended.  Chalk up one more. Anne Hathaway is delightful as Mia, she carries the movie.  Even though I never for a moment thought of her as a 16 year old, it just didn't matter. How nice to see such a quality G rated movie.  If you like to laugh, don't miss it. Normally, I would not recommend seeing a movie like this at the theater, but the audience reactions make it worth the ticket price. "},{"Title":"Everyone will like this movie!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This was a really great movie! At first, I didn't know what I was going to see, but it turned out pretty good and pretty funny. The actors and actresses all do a great job on this movie as well and it was cleverly wrote making it a clean movie for anyone to enjoy. I think all ages would like this-even teens because it relates with high school some.As far as reality goes, I guess it could happen but I don't know if Genovia is a real country or not. And although most critics say that it's really boring, I thought it was really good-it was kind of long, but just like most movies.And the music in the movie is also really cool.  "},{"Title":"Me, the Princess? Shut up!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie. It was funny and good for family. Very skilled. Verygood casting. Very good acting. I liked this movie. How could you notlike this movie? I'm surprised this movie got rated G. Garry Marshalldirects good movies, like this one. Anne Hathaway was good and funny.Julie Andrews kicks butt again. Heather Matarazzo is working in a not sodirty movie. Mandy Moore is getting into the acting busin "},{"Title":"Alright for the main family but Mediocre","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie is good for something. If ever the need arises to air out the brain and heart a bit and just lay back and let something flow over you that will graze you not. Here it is. This is the sort of movie that is hard to hate. It is cute, the acting is usually all right, the plot does not require any though process at all, unless you are sick with the obvious and are trying to complicate it within your mind. There are some snicker moments, but nothing to really laugh your head off, so your tummy is safe from hurting. All in all a very, very safe movie that leads to a very safe obvious ending. One word comes to mind; mediocre. Still, the mediocre has its points. It is safe, nothing like those risqué love it/ hate it movies that often are opposite of the mediocre label. Overall, not the best, not the worst movie of it's sort, very obvious, somewhat enjoyable, and extremely forgettable. By the way, did any one else think that Mia looked a whole lot cuter when she was the dork then the ironed out Barbie doll?  "},{"Title":"Charming, pleasantly-surprising, ugly-duckling comedy","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Although the movie's poster by itself (let alone the trailer) pretty much tells the whole story, The Princess Diaries is a delightfully well-done retelling of the ugly-duckling/girl-transformation story. Garry Marshall has a deft hand with comedy, and this sweet-but-not-cloying, G-rated film covers enough bases so that it really IS one that the whole family will enjoy. Julie Andrews is, well, Julie Andrews. What a classy dame! She delivers everything you would expect, and more. Hector Elizondo is his usual solid self, teen singer Mandy Moore does a funny turn as the nasty queen of the in crowd, and there are strong supporting performances from Heather Matarazzo and others. But the surprise is probably Anne Hathaway, in only her second or third film, whose performance as the duckling-turned-swan is completely on the money. She is convincing as a klutzy, ill-at-ease teenager, and morphs smoothly into an Audrey Hepburn clone who is really quite stunning. Everyone in our family, from teenage girls to middle-aged Daddy, enjoyed this one. "}{"Title":"A very adorable movie!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This was a very adorable movie, lightfully, no violence some good laughs especiall how the queen and princess  after some minor incidents and very funny traffic accident. as well, and I hope they do have a squell! -they should also this movie based on a book called the princess diaries and apparently the book is already has an squell! now I'm ready for the book.. (although the book has mia living in NYC -while movie has her living in San Francisco) "},{"Title":"Pleasant diversion from usual blood, sex, and violence","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  It's true, this film is not going to win any awards.It's also true that it contains no nudity, profanity, or real violence.  For some people, that makes for a boring time.  For others (like me), it's a pleasant diversion from the usual stuff that comes out of Hollywood.  Not that there isn't a place for movies containing adult themes...there certainly is.   It's just that so many times violence, sex, and the rest is thrown in with no real substance or merit.The Princess Diaries is what it claims it is a nice fairy tale that warms the heart.  No, it's not an artistic masterpiece.   Yes, it's a movie to take the kids to (especially young girls) that won't drive you up the wall.   Prediction Anne Hathaway will be around for a long time.  I hope that movies like this will be as well, as it's nice to sit through a film that provides a clean, pleasant escape. "},{"Title":"not bad...","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Ok, this isn't a movie I would regularly see, as my three favorite movies are pulp fiction, requiem for a dream, and fight club. but my mandy moore loving friend dragged me to it. it was a cute movie, and i actually enjoyed a movie that didn't involve violence. i thought they were crazy to cast mandy moore in a movie, but she actually wasn't that bad. except for that song she sang, she didn't annoy me that much. and the girl from welcome to the dollhouse was in it and i like that movie alot. so all in all it didn't suck, but its no pulp fiction, thats for sure.  "},{"Title":"Satisfying family flick","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  A typical Disney fluff of a movie that flows along with the many carbon copies of the ugly duckling formula. Though seemingly always predictable and formulaic, the movie retains a sort of mild watchability that is sure to please family goers expecting more than just a retread of toilet humor.The beautiful Anne Hathaway lights up the screen and the always elegant Julie Andrews fills in the rest of the charm. Some jokes and gags usually miss, and the movie is marred mainly due to overlength. All in all, a pleasant, if heavily flawed, movie-going experience aimed towards families.  "},{"Title":"Fun and entertaining","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this film with my wife. We both thought it looked entertaining at least. I was very pleasantly surprised to find it was a very well made, heartwarming film. It isn't high art but it doesn't pretend to be. Although some have said it gives mixed messages about person worth and value, it still manages to remain more positive than not. I think far too much emphasis is placed on the importance of films as social commentary and instruction.The first criteria are, as always, does it entertain. This fine film from Garry Marshall does just that. Anne Hathaway is wonderful in her role as the title character. I really enjoyed her all to short run in the TV series Get Real and I am glad to see she will continue to be around. With her obvious talent, charm and beauty she is an actress that should be around for a very long time. Julie Andrews added the perfect counterpoint to Hathaway's klutzy teenager. She is beautiful and elegant as always. Hector Elizondo did a great job with his character, with the just the right subtlety. The appearance of the singer Mandy Moore in a film probably aimed at young people is not a surprise, what was refreshing was the avoidance of the obvious type of role these performers get. She was cast as a heavy, Hathaway's nemesis and a cliche but all too true cliquish cheerleader.Anyone out looking for an enjoyable trip to the theater can't go too far wrong with this. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good movie for one that's rated G","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. Given that the movie was rated G, I went into it with more than a little skepticism with regard to its quality.  And yet, there was something about the trailer that spoke to me on a level that I cannot define.  The movie was cute and sweet.  The clear lack of violence and other R rated material was a refreshing break from this summer's other box office hits.  Julie Andrews was magnificent as the queen. Why indeed, she was born to play a queen.  Her grace, elegance and charm gave the movie a sense of excellence that could not have been achieved otherwise.  Anne Hathaway, the talented 18 year old who plays Mia, walked the fine line between portraying the fairytale'ish princess and your everyday 16 year old teenager with exceptional skill.  Her clumsy screw ups and other social gaffes were charming and endearing.  And who could forget Hector Elizando?  It is his acting that gives the movie the touch of humanity that so perfectly complements everything else in the film.Indeed, this is a movie that everyone will enjoy.  There is a part, within every one of us, that wants to be recognized, to be a princess (or a prince in the case of a guy).  And it is precisely to that part of us that this movie speaks.  "},{"Title":"Will fame and glory spoil the invisible girl?","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  When Anne Hathaway's name came up first in the opening credits, my wife and I first thought, Who is this infant, and how does she deserve to be billed above Hector Elizondo and Julie Andrews?  The answer is she is an amazingly talented actress who flawlessly carries a delightfully charming film!  She is in almost every scene, and she does better than hold her own with Elizondo and Andrews.  Check out the scene near the beginning where she is making faces at herself in the mirror, trying to see if she likes any look!  What adult has the courage to be filmed doing that?  Anne Hathaway is fearless!The movie itself is better than fluff.  But not a lot.  It is nothing life-changing.  It is cute.  Julie Andrews has done much better.  She did better than phone it in.  But not much.  Still, she is Julie Andrews, and who better to play the regal Queen?Hector Elizondo is one of my favorite actors, but he had little with which to work here, though not as little as he did in The Runaway Bride.  But I don't think he stretched any thespian muscles here either.My recommendation?  Go see it NOW!  Remember the name Anne Hathaway.  I hope she will be around for a long time.  If her skill increases with age and experience, I can't wait to see it! "},{"Title":"The Movie is so-so, but Hathaway is gorgeous.","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I was somewhat dragged to this movie, though I did want to see Hathaway, since she looked beautiful in the previews.  I can now say after I have seen this movie that Anne Hathaway is the most beautiful girl I have ever seen. If you are male, go see this if only to see her.The movie is so-so, but that's not what I went to see it for. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Who said that this movie is only good for teen girls???!!! I am a 17-year-old guy and I love it. I wasn't gonna come to this movie, but now i am glad i came because it's so good. All actors did great! I am annoyed at all those critics who thought this movie was bad, guess they didn't know what they were talking about. Some even said that Anne Hathaway is 21 years old! In fact she is born in November, 1982, which is 18 years old, and she must be 17 when she shot the movie. Only 2 years older than the role of 15-year-old Mia Thermopolis, she was great. Can't Wait for Video to come out!!!!! GOOD JOB DISNEY! A Great funny movie that doesn't have sex and violence in it.  "},{"Title":"Rated G for GREAT!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best films that I've seen in years! Complete in all elements and enjoyable for all ages. I hope that Hollywood will take note of this movie's certain success and realize that a movie appealing to all ages can be rated G if creativity and thought are substituted for sex and violence. "}{"Title":"I can't wait to get it on video","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie because it looked like a great movie to see while I beat the heat of Boston's heat wave, but I didn't expect to enjoy it so much. Garry Marshall set out to make a film you can take the whole family to see and he definitely succeeded. I enjoyed it throroughly as an adult, and I know some kids who would love it, too.Julie Andrews sparkled as the Queen, and Hector Elizondo stole his scenes with such understated performances he deserves to win an Oscar. As far as Anne Hathaway goes, it's hard to believe the ugly ducklig freak of the beginning of the movie is the same person as the Princess at the end, with Ms. Hathaway taking a challenging role and making it so her own that it couldn't have been performed by anyone else.Fans of Marshall's Pretty Woman will recognize not only Mr. Elizondo as the chauffeur, but also Larry Miller (the hairdresser) and Alan Kent (you may not reconize his face, but listen for that unforgettable line It happens all the time.).Karl Walter Lindenlaub's cinematograhy was superb, with even plain interiors looking marvelous. Sound was perfect, and John Debney's music was spot on, if you can ignore the fact that the people supposedly playing instruments are clearly faking it. (Couldn't they find actors who could at least fake it better?) Gina Wendkos' script (from the book by Meg Cabot) is one of the best I've seen on screen in a while, with every line perfect for the scene and no groaners. "},{"Title":"Best Movie of the Year","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie was all I hoped it would be and more.  It was funny, charming, sweet, and clean.  The acting was great and it was wonderful to see Julie Andrews in a new movie.  The new comer Anne was also great. Any female of any age will LOVE this movie.   "},{"Title":"good clean fun!!!","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  What a treat. This movie proved that Hollywood can still put out movies that are funny and entertaining and not fill them full of strong language and filth. This movie is just good clean fun.We can all relate to the princess and her feelings of inferiority, so it's nice to be able to laugh about it for a little while. We need more movies like this "},{"Title":"It's Summer, it's fun, enjoy.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  OK, The Princess Diaries will never make the American Film Institute top 100 (or 1000 probably). It is light-hearted, light-headed Summer escapism where the good guys win.On a technical level, the movie needs a lot of work - continuity, plausibility, cinematography, etc. But the characters are engaging, the premise tried and true, and the opportunity for follow-up dialog compelling. Lighten up, buy some popcorn, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"LOVE IT!...","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I really really enjoyed this movie..it was great-- fun, serious, and I thought the acting was perfect...I'm not so sure about Mandy Moore's part, but luckily she didn't have many scenes. Anne Hathaway is very talented and I cant wait to see what she does next! I kinda liked the book a little better, it gave you a better understanding of Mia and her life, although I know it would be hard to cram a book into a movie, word for word...but the ending was perfect and I still give it two thumbs up!! "},{"Title":"Good family movie!!!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I love it when any movie company makes a good family movie.  I saw this movie with my 12 year old daughter & my husband.  We all enjoyed it very much.  It was a nonviolent, noncussing, nonsex, humorous family movie.  I hope they keep making them.  The only criticism I have of this movie is that Disney made it.  Disney in keeping with their tradition, changed the way the book read the main character & the story.  Disney had to make the girl grow up with out a father, where in the book - the parents were not married but the father was very much a part of his daughter's life.  Disney too many times likes to make their families disfunctional.  Look at most of their movies - even their animated movies usually don't have both parents.  Mulan was the first in a long time that had both parents present.  Sorry to tell them this - but not all families are divorced or one parent families. "},{"Title":"Wish I could give higher than 10","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Disney has always had a rep for making family movies, but lately the family movies have really been lame.  Disney has been concentrating on its animation side, it seems, and has let the live side slip badly.Well, they have recovered bigtime with Princess Diaries.  I don't mind admitting that I laughed, I cried and at one point, I even yelled Way to go! (cracked the audience up completely) - you'll know exactly where when you see the movie.Julie Andrews is always classy, but Anne Hathaway is the shining talent here.  She has great comic delivery, both verbal and physical.  And Hector Elizondo plays his part to perfection, as always.  If you remember him as the hotel manager in Pretty Woman, you'll immediately recognize him as the head of security.This is a wonderful movie.  Walt would have been extremely proud of it.  "},{"Title":"It's About Time!!!","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I personally can not think of the last time a live action feature was rated G but boy did Disney strike gold with this one.  The Princess Diaires should now be considered one of the best family films of all time as it provides constant entertainment for both children and their parents.  Anne Hathaway is enchanting as Mia the awkward teenager content with her life of invisibility.  It is not easy pulling off the Sabrina act but Ms. Hathaway did so with with flying colors.  Julie Andrews could not have been more perfect for her role as Queen Renaldi as she shows the world that she is still one of the most elegant actresses in history, even at the age of 65. Hector Elizondo, Gary Marshal's ever present good luck charm, gives a memorable performance as Joe, the backbone of the Renaldi Dynasty.  Do not wait for this fantastic flick to hit video stores, it is well worth the absurd prices of today's movie theater.  Bring your loved ones, bring your friends, and bring yourself to the best feel good movie to come along is a long time. "},{"Title":"Good family movie, particularly for young girls","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I took my wife and 3 year old son to see this, because it's truly a miracle when a clean, moral movie comes out that I can take my young son to see.A few months ago I read an article by a women who was commenting on the sad fact that little girls don't want to grow up and be princesses any more. They want to grow up and be Britney Spears, Madonna, or perhaps their favorite hollywood actress.This movie did brought back the desire to grow up and be a princess, and as proof, just as the movie was ending, a little girl in front of us turned to her father and said, I want to be a princess daddy.It is a refreshing movie, and the only reason it gets poor reviews is because of its strengths. In this day and age its a bad movie if it doesn't have sex, drugs, violence, or potty humor. So, if that's what you are looking for, then don't waste your money. But, if you want to see the way movies used to be, and if you want a movie that will inspire your little girl to grow up to be a princess, then this movie is perfect. "},{"Title":"Good but Cliched Ending Spoiler Warning","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  It was a quite good movie, with an actually fairly believable plot, plenty of humor, and a few dabs of romance.Mia learns how to follow her heart, for herself, not for her friends, popularity, or family.Though the ending is kind of cliched, and easy to guess, it was the ending girls everywhere hoped for, I'm sure, and Mia makes the choice that she, not anyone else, feels is right.This is a good movie for all females and fans of fairy tales. "}{"Title":"Great movie for the entire family","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The movie pleasantly delivers everything you would expect.  And unlike a lot of other teen movies of late, the characters--especially Mia and Lilly--reveal a depth of experience, an ability for self-examination, and a thoughtfulness that is often lacking.   "},{"Title":"Inspiring for awkward teens with out being too sappy","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is a great film for teens and pre-teens that is hip and clever enough for the adult who may be stuck accompanying them. It sends a great message to kids about friendship and family with great comedic dialogue and physical comedy that keeps it from becoming preachy or too syrupy. As a mid 30's male, I was surprised at how many times I laughed outloud. Julie Andrews is, as always, a class act and this new kid Anne Hathaway has future Hollywood darling stamped on her forehead. This is a good one to see with the daughter, niece or little sister if you want to look like a cool dad, uncle, or older brother. "},{"Title":"Heather Matarazzo was annoying","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Could anyone else not STAND Lilly? Heather Matarazzo, already mildly annoying, makes this character even more annoying. I could barely stand to see her on screen.Besides that, Anne Hathaway is good (thank goodness she got the part of Mia and not Heather), although she looks way too old to be a sophomore. The plot of this movie was interesting, and it was a little long, but overall pretty good. Girls age nine and under at the theater were going crazy for it. So, if you have a pre-pubescent daughter, she's sure to enjoy this girl flick. "},{"Title":"A great Movie","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I would say that this is a great movie. I saw it with my friend, and we are both 14, and we liked it. You wouldn't even be able to tell it's a Disney movie, If they wouldn't have said anything. It's funny and has some hot guys in it too. Mandy Moore and Anne Hathaway and Eric Von Detten did a great job. Julie Andrews has acting like a queen, She has it down pat. I would see this movie 100+ times before i get tired of it. I usaully don't care much for movies like this, but this is probably the best disney movie that they ever made. I can't see how Ebert gave this movie a bad review!!! "},{"Title":"Once again it's the damn critics, who are these people?","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I guess you need an IQ of 5 to be a critic and get paid for it. Once again critics say this movie is not good and give all the reasons why. Well if you participate in this site as I do, you will already know that WE never ever listen to the critics, one person's opinion. Was he 12 years old or 52 years old?  This movie is a delight and everything about it is a delight. Garry Marshall has that charm and repeats Pretty Woman for the teen set in a wonderfully funny and beautiful movie. Julie Andrews is great as is the new young lady who plays the lead role of the Princess. Hector Elizandro is simply fantastic as he too is usually and of course he bridges the gap from Pretty Woman. We saw the movie with our daughter and 6 year old granddaughter and 10 year old grandson and they loved it as much as we did. So to hell with the critics. We got more than our monies worth and recommend it wholeheartedly to people of all ages and genders.   "},{"Title":"Fun and Funny","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Princess Dairies is one of the funniest movies that I've seen this year. It's a perfect entertainment film for this summer and fall.  Sold out movie theater on its premiere night with tons of families with small children. Julie Andrews is looking and acting great and Ann Hathaway is delightful. Except of rather weak speech at the end, this movie is a treat as a comedy and feel good movie. "},{"Title":"Tough to sit through this Disney eye-roller","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes you see a G rated film that is so cute, inspiring and fun, that you can't contain yourself and wish you had an endless supply of kids to take with you to see it.  Sometimes, a G rated film like the Princess Diaries comes along, and you wish just once, that those horrible kids you took to better G rated fare would quit begging to go and see this made-for-TV-movie hidden on a real reel.Too many times during this film I caught myself rolling my eyes and wishing I'd wake up in something as innocent and charming as Legally Blonde, a similar but superior chick flick.  Both stories are about outsider girls attempting to become insiders than enjoying their outsider-ness.  Well sort of.  See, Legally Blonde did have an actual point.  Sadly, the Princess Diaries either had no point, or was trying to say, even if you neglect those people closest to you, you will always get a second chance at being actual royalty.A lot of this movie seemed to be about how cool it is to be famous or have a famous friend.  A little of this movie seemed to be about how much responsibility being famous is and how pretty much anyone can handle the job.Allow me to point out some of the sadder inconsistencies for a moment. 1. Hector Elizondo (a Garry Marshall regular) plays the Genovian National Security Adviser to the Queen/lovable limo driver to the new princess. 2. No matter how famous you are, self serving people will first try to climb on your bandwagon, then for some reason try to destroy you, and once destroyed, they will try to destroy you again. 3. Even the meanest of cheerleaders never see you coming at their pearly white cheerleader uniform with a chocolate ice cream cone. 4. Celebrity can solve all of your problems, even slamming into a San Francisco trolly full of people. 5. Girls always dump on the guy they eventually fall in love with because the guy they hung out with instead of the nice guy was actually a real jerk. 6. Every hairdresser has an entourage, is available at a moment's notice, is flamboyant, and always brandishes their hairdressing equipment like they were guns in a John Woo movie. 7. The prettier of the outcast friends will always be the one you are so charmed by.  She gets the guy.  The other one gets to still be her friend. 8. Somehow, you can pay for a pizza before it arrives, and have the pizza have a note written in M&M's even when you are racing against the clock to make it to a royal ball.Needless to say, this movie falls flat early, and never re-inflates.  The ending is a real DUH ending.  Take your stupid friends kids to see it or something like that.  And I was appalled to learn that something as haphazard as this story was actually a whole book.  I'd call it a cliche, but I don't even get what was going on, ever.  It was that bad. "},{"Title":"refreshing to be spared the profanity and special effects so common today!","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This was a very pleasant movie to watch. It was refreshing to be able to see a story without the profanity, gore, and special effects so common in today's films.  Although the story was somewhat predictable, it was still exciting and enjoyable.   "},{"Title":"Anne Hathaway rocks, rules, and reigns.","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I think that Anne Hathaway does an outstanding job in The Princess Diaries (2001) this being her movie debut, like others are saying Julia Roberts WATCH OUT because theirs a new girl in town and that is Anne Hathaway. Expect Anna Hathaway to be in more movies soon and possibly on TV once again. I must say that when I found out that Anne Hathaway was playing the part my heart skipped a beat I was so excited I know that it must sound weird but I just knew she would be in a movie real soon and this movie is a must see for all ages.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful film for kids and adults alike! Garry Marshall did it AGAIN!","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Garry Marshall did it again! A jewel of a film a heart-warming and wholesome, funny Disney production!!Julie Andrews shines as always! Excellent choice and I was glad she didn't passed this one up. Hector Elizondo, simply marvelous! The role fits him to a T! Anne Hathaway, the NEXT Julia Roberts!!! WOW! What Garry Marshall did to Pretty Woman, he did it AGAIN with The Princess Diaries! KUDOS to Garry Marshall!!I went to see this film due to the long absence of Julie Andrews on the big screen. Knowing, this was a Disney production and Rush Hour2 and Planet of the Apes were showing in the same Cineplex as this, I didn't expect such an overwhelming  croweded  theater for The Princess Diaries. Not only there were children (grade school ages, teenagers) but adults my age were there too! On top of that young boys (high school level) were among the movie goers!This film is a hit. I laughed, I chuckled, and  clapped so hard , it  put a smile on my face throughout the film.I recommend me this not  only to kids but to my age groups (20 something, 30 something and beyond) !!Thanks Garry Marshall and THANK YOU Julie Andrews to once again grace the big screen!!I can't wait to get this on DVD!! "}{"Title":"Fun and Funny","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Princess Dairies is one of the funniest movies that I've seen this year. It's a perfect entertainment film for this summer and fall.  Sold out movie theater on its premiere night with tons of families with small children. Julie Andrews is looking and acting great and Ann Hathaway is delightful. Except of rather weak speech at the end, this movie is a treat as a comedy and feel good movie. "},{"Title":"There should be more movies like this.","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  i went to see this film on a rainy day with three little boys (8, 10 and 12), three little girls (7, 9, and 12), my mother, father, and aunt. every single person left the theatre laughing and talking about it the whole way home. needless to say it's not often that a movie entertains so many different age groups equally.  my mother, of course enjoyed julie andrews. the girls loved erik von detten and mandy moore.  i loved the storyline and the adorable newcomer robert schwartzman. in an age of big budget blockbusters and sappy overly dramatic love stories, it is so refreshing to see a movie that satisfies the entire family, while still managing a g-rating, so that the entire family can enjoy it together. "},{"Title":"praising the Princess Diaries","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Finally!  A film of summer 2001 that did not disappoint me!  I've seen so many this year that did... including Artificial Intelligence and America's Sweethearts.  However, Princess Diaries was delightful.Anne Hathaway brings an incredible, youthful presence to the screen with professionalism that is often not seen in young actresses.  She is complemented perfectly by the veteran performance of Julie Andrews, who always radiates on screen and stays true to form in this film.Erik Von Detten and Mandy Moore are possibly not cut out to play bad guys -- they seem better-suited for the nice guy/gal roles -- but for these particular characters that they play, their jobs are well done.I was thoroughly entertained from moment one until the last, and I'm not even a member of the likely targeted age group.  And speaking of one of the last moments -- that kiss -- YAHOO! -- bravo to the people who realized the importance of the climax kiss and orchestrated it so well. G-R-E-A-TAll-around A+.  Go see it! "},{"Title":"Julie Andrews rocks!!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  If you are a fan of Julie Andrews, you cannot afford to miss this movie! And for the miniscule minority not familiar with her astounding past performances, here is a chance to see one of the 20th century's most talented performers bringing class and character to a quintessential Disney family film. As Queen Clarisse, Julie Andrews is completely believable, and displays a definite flair for comedy and spontaneity (especially in the streetcar accident scene). Anne Hathaway is excellent as the awkward teenager. This film is definitely not for a sex/drugs/violence loving audience, or for the incurable cynic. But if you want to enjoy a nice afternoon at the movies immersed in a fantasy set in beautiful San Francisco, do not miss this movie! My vote 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Family film","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Unlike so many of today's family films, this one can actually be enjoyed by the whole family.  Or at least by the females in the family, for it is something of a chick flic.  It is funny and charming, without insulting the intelligence of everyone over the age of 8.  A wonderful movie about family, duty and self respect. "},{"Title":"Fantastic girl flick!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  My daughters, ages 7, 7 and 6 have been begging me to see this movie and for once, a movie aimed their way looked appealing to Mom.  So we did a girl's day out with another friend and her 5 yo daughter and we had a BLAST!Funny, sweet, endearing and I cannot believe its been 40 years almost since Julie Andrews played Maria Von Trapp, another Cinderella.  As a former *invisible*, I really appreciated this aspect of the movie.  I enjoyed all the performances, but especially Julie Andrews.  And personally, I thought Eric Von Detten as her misplaced dream lover was UGLY!  Neither my friend nor I saw anything within his skinny shallow frame that should appeal to Mia other than he was popular and she wasn't.  Robert Schwartman, however, as the boy who pines over the invisible girl who doesn't even notice him is a real cutie!  I hope we see more of him in the future.This will remain a classic feel-good movie I plan on watching over and over with my girls when it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"I loved the film!!!!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Last night my mother (41), my grandmother (65), my sister (11) and I (17) all went to see the Princess Diaries. I swear the whole theater was filled.  Every age group you can imagine was there and everyone enjoyed it.  My mother and my grandmother liked as did myself and my sister.  Its definitly a family movie, its cute and sweet.  The jokes are funny and they are clean, very clean cut.  Julie Andrews and Anne Hathaway were the perfect pair as grandmother and granddaughter.  Simply I loved the movie and everyone should go in see it.  Bring your daughters, sisters, mothers, and grandmothers to see it.  Have a girls night out.   "},{"Title":"Pretty Woman for young girls. But sadly, there are no hookers in our film","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I read that this movie was suppose to be for girls between 6 and 10, but I'm 15 and I LOVED it! Sure at times it was predictable and corny, but it was a cute movie, and it had a great message for younger girls. At some point thru the film, I'm sure any girl could relate to Mia somehow.I think Julia Roberts should watch her back because Anne Hathaway is a great young actress whos soon going to be on the cover of every magazine. Mandy Moore is an ok actress, at times you could see the cutesy pop-singer in her, more than you could see the mean cheerleader she was suppose to play But she did a good job for her first film, better than most singer-turned-actresses do.Overall I give the film an 8/10. I wouldn't mind seeing it again. "},{"Title":"Kudos for Disney!","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I found the movie refreshing.  Julie Andrews was as always, fantastic.  Anne Hathaway was great in her role as Mia, a princess of a small European principality.  The movie starts by presenting a shy girl, who gets extremely nervous when she has to present a debate and who everybody (except her friend Lilly) make fun of.  In the trajectory of the film, we see Mia go from a girl with really bad hair and bad posture to become a young girl that could rival any of the real princesses.Overall, the movie was great and the acting was superb.  I'll look forward to future films starring newcomer Anne Hathaway.  If you're looking for a light movie with lots of laughs, then this is the movie to see.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"great...even on the very first row","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was very entertaining.. I am not exactly a pre pubescent little school girl, but I am still young both with age and at heart. Julie Andrews like everyone else proclaiming, was indeed at her upmost while Anne Hathaway was the perfect remedy for a lot of the summer flick disappointments. My friends showed up late and we had to sit on the very front row to the far end of the theatre, but we all still enjoyed it thoroughly. I will be in line to purchase this movie when it comes out on DVD. - PS... do NOT think this is gonna be some serious, deep thought movie. its airy, light, and just strictly honest entertainment.  "}{"Title":"Being a princess isn't all it's cracked up to be...","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  There aren't any Oscar winning performances in Princess Diaries, so if that's what you are looking for, keep looking.  If you just want to have some fun, head to the Multiplex now.I've been looking forward to this movie for months.  I'm a die hard Julie Andrews fan and like fairy tales (so sue me.)  Looking at the critics reviews today depressed me.  My paper said it was a bomb, Ebert seemed to hate it with every fiber of his being.  My sister, niece and I went anyway, and had a blast.  Mia isn't the most believable nerd, lets face it frizzy hair, glasses and bushy eyebrows don't hide the fact that she is a beauty.  But clumsiness and low self image are fun.  Lilly was the perfect best friend, and Michael a wonderful not so secret admirer.  I loved Joe and Grandma.  Josh and friends were slime balls.In the end this isn't a story about make-overs being life altering.  Mia is uncomfortable in her new skin and her false friends are quickly found out.  Mia learns that believing in herself is what counts, and her grandmother learns a few things too. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest comedy chick flicks of the summer.","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most enjoyable movies I have seen all summer.  The humor is very witty and nicely put together.  This movie is for everyone.  Hector Elizondo who plays Joe does an excellent job in this comedy.  Mand Moore and Anne Hathaway seem to have a bright future after this excellent movie   "},{"Title":"Go with your favorite girls","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  You know, in a summer full of heartless sequels, glitzy visuals, and movies with big names but no story, it's good to see a cute, fun and enjoyable family film.We all know the story, a kind of Cinderella mixed with my Fair Lady. Mia, a geeky barly noticed Highschool girl suddenly is the Princess of a Monaco-like country. While she is in training to be a princess, she is trying to discover if she is cut out to do this, and how superfical some people are.It's not perfect, but the cast is delightful. Anne Hathaway is a great young actress. I loved her in the short lived Fox show Get Real and she is charming as the unexepected Princess. Julia Robert was great as usual and is as good as actual royalty. I even enjoyed the secondary characters, Mia's brutally honest friend Lilly and Lilly's strange but sweet brother Michael. Even Mandy Moore and Erik Von Detton are fun as the popular cheerleader and super jock everyone knew in highschool.All I can say is it ain't shakesphere, but it is a clean, cute and humorous family movie that everyone will love, especially girls. "},{"Title":"A satisfying, appropriate family film.  Julie Andrews shines!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Princess Diaries surprised me, as I was expecting a silly children's story.  In actuality, it kept me entertained and interested throughout, leaving me very pleased.  It's 100% clean - no sex, no language, no violence.  A stunning-as-always Julie Andrews carries the movie, but I truly enjoyed the performances by Anne Hathaway as Mia, and Heather Matarazzo as Lilly.  Sometimes predictable, but always enjoyable, The Princess Diaries exceeded my expectations.  I recommend it highly to anyone looking for a clean, funny, sweet, charming, satisfying film. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!!!!!!!!","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I really really liked this movie!!!  It was nice to see a movie that teens will appreciate without the crude humor.  I read the book first, knowing that I would see the movie and wanted to see the differences between the two...THERE WERE TONS!!!!!  Don't get me wrong, I loved both the book and the movie, but it seemed as if the only thing that was the same was the concept...and most of the people's names.  They weren't even in the same city!!!  The actors did an awesome job, and even Mandy Moore was believable as Lana Weinberger.  Too bad Erik von Detten had a jerk for his part...Anne Hathaway was great, and she will be in many movies in the next few years after this performance.  Julie Andrews was, of course, awesome...Could you expect less?  In the book, one of the major topics was Mia's mom dating her teacher, but it was only mentioned in the movie.  They went into more detail with Michael in the film though, and I didn't mind, because I found him strangely attractive...Hehe!!!  Good looking guy, let me tell you!!  Anyway, this was a great movie, for it being rated G, and I can't wait to see it again when it is released on the 3rd!!!!!!  A wonderful tale of finding yourself, and I would recommend it to MANY people!!!! "},{"Title":"This is a precious movie.","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie to be very funny. Anne Hathaway is a natural. The acting, in my opinion...was quite good, so to each his own. I am happy to see that Hollywood can make a movie like this, and it not be PG or PG-13. Charming charming charming. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable!  Take the kids and have a good time...","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those pleasant summertime popcorn movies that doesn't involve explosions, guns, swords, scatalogical humor, or flying ninja kicks. It's a Cinderella movie brought to you by the folks who have the Princess Mythology down pat, Disney (in fact, they even take a few seconds before the film begins to crow on that point -).  The plot is formulaic, but don't let that stop you.  Anne Hathaway, looking like a junior Julia Roberts, does splendidly as the young girl who merely wishes to stay invisible.  Julie Andrews gives a performance that's practically perfect in every way.  Most notably though, is the fine work of Hector Elizondo, who manages to carry off an enjoyable role as Chief of Security for the Queen, caretaker for the Princess, and, ultimately, as the key figure that brings out the real humanity in both the Queen and the Princess.  Other characters are primarily foils, and suffer the doom of single-dimension stereotypes.This one won't win Academy awards, but it will win your hearts -)  "},{"Title":"Great for 10-year-old girls","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  My 5-year-old son fell asleep at this movie, but my 10-year-old daughter really enjoyed it.  Here's her review  The Princess Diaries is a great family movie because It's got funny jokes, it's happy, and we can probably Relate to the stuffy cheerleaders, embarrassing moments And that feeling like you're at the top of the World. I'd give it a perfect 10! "},{"Title":"cute movie, amazing young actress","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I may be a 21 year old guy, but I loved this movie.  I wanted to watch it upon seeing the trailer for it back in June, and I finally did at an advanced screening July 28.   It was funny, and had a ton of heart which the laugh-heavy trailer didn't even hint at.  It was cute and yeah, predictable, but I didn't care because I liked it. Julie Andrews was superb, but what else would you expect?  Hector Elizando's Shaft-looking character (heheh) was subtley funny.  and Anne Hathaway... WOW!   She's incredible.  Talented to be sure, but beautiful would be an understatment.  I think I'm in love with her! the other performances though Larry Miller, Mandy Moore, and Caroline Goodall were just cardboard cut-out characters, and could have been played by anyone. I loved the movie, and I found a new dream girl.  GO SEE IT (but don't think too hard 'bout it)! "},{"Title":"A family jewel!","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Princess Diaries is the family comedy of the summer! Julie Andrews returns to the big screen with a family jewel of a comedy! Look out Julia Roberts, Anne Hathaway is on your coattails!  Bottom line Great fun for all ages without the toilet humor of so many of this summer's releases.  "}{"Title":"A good modern day fairy tale","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Okay most of the moments in this movie I would have to say would be funnier to little kids but the movie was a good modern day fairy tale. I'm sorry but I have to say this- Robert Swartzman who played Micheal is a major babe. sorry I had to say that. Anyway this movie is made for all ages- younger kids will think it is a funny Disney movie and will like it because it has pop princess Mandy Moore in it, teenagers will like it for the charming actors and the high school scene and adults will like it because it is a movie that they can see w/ their kids were they don't have to worry about scenes w/ sex, drugs, language, or violence. So this movie is good for all ages.  "},{"Title":"Royalty as only Disney can portray it","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Can real life be allowed to interfere with a good story?  Thankfully, not if Disney is involved.  Carefully extract the unhappy bits of reality, mold what remains around a clean, clear story, set it in an almost real semi upper class artsy community, and then use life actors to people some two dimensional cartoon bad boys and girls who really aren't all that  bad. .. and you get the base you need to be able to blend in a clear, fifteen year old bit of spice that cannot offend.Almost too nice, the Princess Diaries will become another Disney rental classic, played and played again until the tape dies or the DVD warps.  It is enjoyable, clean fun.And as much as I hate to admit it, I do highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I just saw The Princess Diaries tonight at a sneak preview and I absolutely loved it.  It was very funny and I loved the story.  Although it doesn't follow the original story exactly, it's still good.  Usually when I read a book before I see the movie it's based on I get really irritated because they change things I liked about the book, but I didn't get irritated with things in the movie at all.  They left out a few characters, but they left in some very good scenes, like when she cones Lana!  I was very pleased with the scene where Josh kisses Mia because she hits him with her shoe and originally in the book she didn't hit him at all.  This was a great movie and it is definitely a must see. "},{"Title":"Pleasant family film rings true.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" THE PRINCESS DIARIES   **+_   Disney Comedy Julie Andrews, Anne Hathaway, Hector Elizondo Dir Garry MarshallAn unpopular 15-year-old San Francisco girl discovers she is actually the princess of Genovia -- a small European country. Her grandmother (Andrews) gives her lessons on how to behave like royalty. Meanwhile, she must keep the whole thing secret from the kids at school. This 'G' rated film addresses peer acceptance, body image, fear of public speaking, and choosing the right boyfriend. While the basic plot line requires a certain suspension of disbelief, the characters and circumstances inside that framework ring true. It's a pleasant family film with good family values. PRINCESS DIARIES will probably be most appreciated by young women. There are no car chases or explosions. "},{"Title":"Perfect Timing","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Seeing an early screening of this movie hit the right spot for me.  It had a lot of spunk throughout it, reminiscent of Pretty Woman, but that is where the similarity ended.  With crisp direction, present-yet-not-overwhelming fashion and a gorgeous backdrop of San Fransisco, this film is sweet candy for the eye. Anne Hathaway proves herself with a confident acting ability.  Hector (no, not Larry) is to this movie as Rupert Everett was to My Best Friend's Wedding.  His scenes shine noticably well while, expectedly so, Julie Andrews brings class to the movie. I say perfect timing for a reason.  Look at the box office in general.  We have been lacking a good quality young adult (with an appeal to all ages as well!) movie with clean language and a healthy air.  This spans a skew of role models for young girls, and gives parents a G-rated (gasp! put that against comparable movies like She's All That and even Clueless!) movie they won't mind watching with their children. "},{"Title":"For young girls (and those young at heart)","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Princess Diaries is a misleading title even though there is a blank diary as part of the plot.  This G film is definitely for young girls (and those young at heart) since it tells the story of a teenage girl who is not one of the in crowd.  Our central character is a princess, but does not know it as the film begins.  We watch as she is transformed, both physically and internally.  Julie Andrews does a fine job as the royal grandmother who had never been around.  "},{"Title":"Better than I Expected!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I saw it on Thurs, July 19th in Gaithersburg, MD and much to my surprise it was a lot better than I expected.  It is predictable, but it is very enjoyable for kids and adults.  I am not sure what demographic Disney was going for, but I would say 8 on up would sit through it.  It is 110 minutes, long for a Disney movie, but there is more to it than what is in the trailer.  I think Disney has a hit on their hands with this one if they market it correctly.   "},{"Title":"Cute. Funny. Predictable.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I had the chance to see The Princess Diaries at an advanced screening. I have to say it was a pretty decent movie. Garry Marshall (Director of movies like Beaches, Pretty Woman, and Runaway Bride) seems to use his usual charm once again.  Anne Hathaway is pretty funny as Mia.  (And, by the way, what a makeover!)  Even Heather Matarazzo as Lilly had her moments.The Princess Diaries is good, but not original.  Haven't we seen this type of story before in movies like Pretty Woman, She's All That, and Miss Congeniality?If you've seen the previews for The Princess Diaries and liked what you saw, you'd enjoy this movie.  If not, then maybe you shouldn't bother paying to see it in the theaters.  It's as funny, cute, and predictable as it looks. 6.5/10  "},{"Title":"You can polish a turd...","Date":"5 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" 2 hours of my life that I will never get back. It's bad enough when a film is formulaic; when the filmmakers are so incompetent that they can't follow the formula, then you know you have the makings of a true stink-bomb. The only reason that I gave this piece of media 2 stars is because of Anne Hathaway and Julie Andrews. They take Z-grade material and with considerable effort elevate it to... a W. In addition to the poorly written script, which made She's The Man look like No Country For Old Men by comparison (why I keep getting sucked into bad tween comedies is a topic for another time), the supporting acting, excluding Elizando and Matarazzo, was abysmal. The whole thing played like a bad 80s film, only without the kitsch factor. Avoid this film like the plague. "},{"Title":"Silly and Predictable, but entertaining nevertheless","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Last night I was just looking for a good new movie to watch and I was looking in my mom's film collection and came across The Princess Diaries, so I figured I would give it a shot. I love Julie Andrews and Anne Hathaway, so it seemed like just a fun little movie that I could watch before I fell asleep. I have to say that The Princess Diaries is a modern day fairy tale and that it is absolutely charming. It had cute laughs and is perfect for a teen audience, I could see some adults enjoying it as well. The actors were wonderful and the plot was reasonably good.Mia is an average girl in San Fransico, her goal in life though is to remain invisible by keeping her frizzy hair, bushy eyebrows, and clumsiness to push everyone away. She has a couple of friends, Lily and Michael, who genuinely care about her and her mom. But one day her long lost grandmother, Clarisse Renaldi, who is the queen of Genovia comes to tell her that she is the princess and must learn how to behave like one to rule the country. Mia takes the lessons and decides that she will find out if she wants it or not. But there comes a price when the school finds out and starts to love HER publicity a little too much.The Princess Diaries was very cute, my only problem was that it was extremely stereotypical and at times a bit too predictable. But seeing where this movie was aimed at, I'd say it did a job well done. Julie and Anne had great chemistry, they are such wonderful actresses that they really made this film enjoyable. This was a cute film, I would recommend it to others for an afternoon watch. It's just a harmless film that I'm sure anyone could be touched by, even if the ending was extremely cheesy.6/10 "}{"Title":"Royally Lousy","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I knew this movie wasn't going to be spectacular, but it was even worse than I thought it would be. It had the potential of being a really funny fish-out-of-water movie, but instead it is very bland and contains both shoddy directing and editing. It didn't really feel like there was that much of a stretch from the protagonist being a nerdy student and then being a princess. So basically what we're watching is not a movie - but just an extremely long and drawn out makeover movie. It's very predictable - even for a predictable movie. And Julie Andrews, as the queen, can't seem to figure out whether to overact or underact. I mean for God's sake, she talks to the main character in an office, not even from a throne. Whoever made these weird decisions really dropped the ball. Even if you have very low expectations for this movie, which I had, you still will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"for every girl who ever wanted to be a princess","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" This film is every young girl's dream to learn that she is a princess. 'The Princess Diaries' is a film about a socially-awkward teenage girl who learns how to act like a proper lady in order to take on her title as princess. This film is definitely targeted at young girls, and it has plenty of comedy and charm to keep entertained. The film teaches girls that, deep inside, a princess is waiting to come out, and every girl has the opportunity to become a princess and become beautiful, even if she is socially-awkward and clumsy. The film has little to be desired, and it is just one of those films with little substance but some comedy and a storyline aimed at young girls (and older ones too). Men and boys will probably not enjoy this. "},{"Title":"Falls short of good family entertainment.","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Although this film did portray the common, unpopular/unattractive introverted girl becomes popular/beautiful confident princess scenario, the attempts and quirky remarks and acting of some of the cast members made it a movie to forget. This movie is so predictable you might as well just watch the advertisement on TV a couple times and call it a day. Not to mention the annoying acting skills of Mia's best friend Lily. If she made one more bitter and unnecessary comment in an attempt at humor, I was going to shut it off. The message this movie attempts to get across is old, bland, and boring. Don't waste your money on this crap. Anne Hathaway does a fairly good job with the material she was given to perform. ANYONE could have acted the part of Julie Andrews. Anyway, I know people are thinking dont pick this apart take a happy movie for what it is. While I'm sorry, but I wasn't happy after watching this movie, I was relieved, that it was over. "},{"Title":"What happened to the characters?","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" What happened to Boris Pelowski? Was he replaced by Jeremiah Hart? What about Tina Hakim Baba? Where did she and her bodyguard go? Where did Lars go? Why was he replaced with Joeseph? And Renaldi...isn't it Renaldo? Josh Bryant is Josh Richter. Why do they change the names? Patrick O'Connell is Mr. Gianini yes? What about Mia's dad? Isn't he alive int he books? Why is he dead in the movie? Mia never gets straight hair in the books. She keeps the triangle mess. What about all the protests Lilly takes part in? Or the Grandmere name? Mia never gets a Mustang in the books and Michael's band isn't known until after the Cultural Diversity Dance. Lana Weinberger is in the movie Lana Thomas. What about G&T Class? All they show is History and Grandmere doesn't want the press in the movies but does in the books. Also in the books Mia's in 9th grade and flat chested. Why is she in 10th and has not-so flat chested in the movie. Why must they change movies so much? "},{"Title":"A priceless Cinderella story","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" The Princess Diaries is 1 of my favorite movies. I love it because it is funny, cute, romantic, and it had a good story plot. This movie has good humor ,not cheese humor, and it is a chick flick but not so much that guys won't like it. Also it is a good teen or family movie because it doesn't have a dumb plot that doesn't make any sense, or any bad language ,or sexual content. Also Garry Marshall, the directer, did a very good job turning the book ,The Princess Diaries by Meg Cabot, into the movie. As well Anne Hathaway did a super job for her first movie. Julie Andrews did a good job acting too. Well, this is another priceless Cinderella story with an urban twist. I suggest you see it if you have not, I'm sure you will like it or even love it! "},{"Title":"Only for girls who never grew up...","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I normally avoid these kinds of movies, where you are used to drown in sticky-pink-teenage-dreams thought out by middle-aged people regardless their gender, but was forced by a rainy afternoon. I am not a big fan of Garry Marshall and was not looking for anything else but brainless mind-stimulation... And certainly didn't get anything more!The idea is cute, but is a syndrome that most girls are done with when they reach the age of 10... The princess-obsession I mean.It's cruel to drag yourself or any of you loved ones through this more than once, and if you think the present of Julie Andrews gives the movie any credits YOU ARE WRONG! It's torture to watch her mingle with anything modern if you are like me, and never got further than The Sound of Music. Anne Hathaway is okay and Hector almost a necessity when you're talking Garry Marshall, but come on!!   The movie has its moments, but somehow it's like someone is trying to make a kiddie-version of Pretty woman&#133; "},{"Title":"Why was this soap opera rated G?","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I am lucky that I preview most films that have teens in it, as I did this one.  There was a lot of very sensual kissing scenes, and one fairly disturbing scene of attempted rape.  I'm not quite ready to introduce my little girl to such things.                                                                                                                                                               That having been said, it was nice to see Julie Andrews in a movie, as well as the ever distinguished-looking Hector Elizondo.                                                                                                              Anne Hathaway stars as a young girl who discovers that she is the only living descendant of the current Queen of Genovia (Julie Andrews), and must make a decision.  Shall she carry on with her normal life?  Or will she accept her duty to her country?I give this movie a 5/10 "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have seen in a theatre","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  To disagree with previous comments, this is NOT watchable.I can't believe I paid to sit through this in a movie theatre. It is the lowest value creation ever to come out of Hollywood. There was not one redeeming quality. Oh, sure the casting is not without its charm. Everyone will pay to see Julie Andrews, and Anne Hathaway is proving to have some nice talent - just watched Nicholas Nickleby tonight and quite enjoyed her in that one. But the cast can in no way make up for the horrible experience of watching this disaster. I am seriously disappointed in every member of the cast and crew for allowing themselves to be a part of such a disservice to mankind. The ill-conceived plot hangs together by a thread. The story displays absolutely no evidence of research or intelligent insight into either the factual or the fantastic. Not only is the story bad, it is poorly told. There are no thrills, suspence or even concern stirred in the audience about the fate of the characters, nor is there any hint of humour. I would have enjoyed it more if some Rambo-like character had burst in at the end and killed everyone. The film has nothing to offer but a mediocre moral - I believe that if you watch this film, you will get the same value out of it as you will from reading the following lineNice people can make people smile and clap, especially if they get a makeover.There, now you can save your money. And I'm not exagerating or joking in any way; it really is that far away from having any substance or entertainment value.If you want to see something of about the same genre and quality with significantly more entertainment value (this REALLY isn't saying much) watch Fran Drescher in The Beautician and the Beast. If you don't like it (I really had to force a positive attitude to find some amusement) then you will HATE the Princess Diaries. HATE.I would give this negative stars if possible. What a stupid piece of dung. Someone should sue Disney for producing it. What's worse, they're making a sequal. I weep for our culture. "},{"Title":"anne hathaway,the sexiest innocent girl next door on film","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  i have watched this movie many times.it is a refreshingly good movie.it has good morals,and an extremely adorable lead character in mia,as wonderfully played by shining newcomer anne hathaway.mia is a sweet girl,who is just trying to get through high school.she is smart,dedicated to her studies,friends,her mom,&her late father,s memory.it is good to see a teen movie where the teen girl&her mom get along almost like best friends(much like the gilmore girls on tv).even when mia&her mom disagree,there is never any lingering bitterness.they would do anything for each other.and what can say about anne hathaway.she is simply adorable&gorgeous.even pre-makeover,she is as cute as a button-the guys at her school must not have any taste,because even then,she is a knockout.and post-makeover,one wordWOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!! after the makeover she is a major smoking hottie-deep,dreamy brown eyes.luxrious hair.that whispery,breathy,baby-doll,sex-kittenish voice.&what a body.my one regret-at the beach,they did not put this hottit in a two piece bikini. ms.hathaway is truly a gem on&offscreen. "},{"Title":"Very Stupid","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie has some of the worst acting I've ever seen! Except for Julie Andrews of course. I most of all don't like the person who plays Lily. The only people who will like this movie is people who like to fall asleep in front of the tv.MAJOR BORE!! My recommendation is DON'T SEE THIS MOVIE!!! Anne Hathaway will never have a job again thanks to this horribly done movie! Rated G "}{"Title":"Classic ugly duckling story, only this one is devoid of any substance.","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Awkward teenage girl discovers an amazing secret about herself, is given makeover to reveal that underneath those glasses she's devastatingly beautiful, and gets the guy. Is it just me or have I seen this movie not once, not twice, but at least a thousand times in my mere 16 years of life?This giant mistake of a film revolves around the film's protagonist, Mia Thermapolis (Anne Hathaway) whose entire existence depends on remaining invisible. With an exception of almost vomiting on an audience full of not so innocent spectators one can say that she's going a bang up job of it. That is until her long lost grandmother (Julie Andrews) pops up and reveals that Mia's father was the prince of a the nonexistent country of Genovia. For the simple purpose of there being a movie, Mia's father completely ignored the necessity of procreation to secure the family blood line and only had one daughter. And this makes Mia.get ready.princess of Genovia!It turns out that her mother knew all along (how could she not), and thus Mia has a chance to throw a hissy fit. As you know, no movie of this caliber is complete without at least one of those. Ms. Thermapolis and Mia's father divorced when Mia was very young, and her mother thought it would be in her best interests to lead a normal life. You know, one where she lives in a firehouse, slides down a pole to get to the first floor, and occasionally throws darts at large boards covered in balloons filled with paint.Mia's not too keen on being a princess, but she and her mother decide that Mia will test out the waters before she makes any major decisions. In turn, Mia finds herself taking lessons in princess etiquette, and finally getting some of that good old movie makeover magic that's the basis for the rest of the film. Enter the stereotypically flamboyant man to do the job. After gasping at just how bad Mia supposedly looks, he straightens her curly hair, ditches her glasses for contacts, tweezes her eyebrows into arched oblivion, and smothers her in makeup. In the end she doesn't look any prettier, just a lot less distinct.The rest of the movie is just cotton candy flavored filler whose sole purpose is to make up the remaining 90 minutes of the film. Mia falls out of her chair. Mia can't put on pantyhose. The chauffer who seems to do everything except drive the limo gives Mia pep talk after pep talk Lana (Mandy Moore) terrorized the quiet kid with the oddly colored hair and Mia sticks up for him by dropping ice cream on her cheerleading uniform because as you know, all problems in Disney movies can be solved with a food fight.Will Mia end up with the blonde, boy hand pinup (Erik Von Detten) that everyone but she can see through from the beginning of the movie? Or will she end up with the nice older brother (Robert Schwartzman) of her best friend Lily (Heather Matarazzo) whose attraction to her is made painfully obvious? Will the popular kids all of the sudden want to become her best friends only to stab her in the back, while her true friends rein supreme? Will Mia accept the crown at the end of the movie? If you don't know the answers to these questions before you even start watching the movie you were either born and are currently living under a very large rock, or one of the people who keep writing screenplays for movies like The Princess Diaries in hopes of enticing preadolescent girls across the globe.Each character's actions are as hackneyed and predictable as the movie being viewed by the unsuspecting public. This fact alone may be the reason why not actor in this movie really shined, though potential is definitely evident. Anne Hathaway is cute and giddy without crossing the Meg Ryan line. I would have liked to see her make her on screen debut in a movie that doesn't involve her having to run into things and fall down for laughs. Julie Andrews unfortunately doesn't fair as well. I half expected her to burst into song or spin around on a hill like an escaped mental patient. At least it would have given her character some life.Mandy Moore also makes her feature film debut playing the token nemesis of any hard working, ridiculed teenage girl; the not-so-nice cheerleader with the jock boyfriend, entourage of followers who want to be just like her, and no motive in sight. And no surprise to us, there's a little cheesy singing performance on the beach thrown in for no reason other than no singer/actress can be in a movie without showing off her pipes.On the plus side there is a nice message about the meaning of true friendship and the rewards of remaining true to yourself. It will sit very well with the demographic audience of 12 and under. That audience will most likely enjoy The Princess Diaries. Too bad I can't say the same thing for myself.With a G rating and the word princess in the title, I have to ask myself, what was I really expecting?  "},{"Title":"What a total waste of time.","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie ranks as 1 of the 2 worst movies I've had to waste 90 minutes on. Cute? Charming? How? In what way? There are dozens of ugly duckling turned swan movies. This one is not only riddled with the cliches of any and every other movie of that genre, but the acting is TERRIBLE! Who could possible believe that this girl was anything but an actress playing a part. ugh! If I had seen this at a cinema I would have walked out. Now I know why it got such terrible reviews in Europe, it well deserved every single one! "},{"Title":"I hate myself","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I'm in a car with very young kids.  I'll save you the details, but I don't really have much say.  These kids are between ten and seventeen years younger than me.  There's a tv with a dvd player inside and we end up watching The Princess Diaries.  I don't like Julia Roberts, I don't like the new generation of brainless Disney films, and Garry Marshall generally doesn't do much for me.  Also, the previews for this film made me want to slit my wrists against the plastic armrests. So we finally arrive after only watching an hour of the movie.  This would seem to be merciful except for one disturbing fact  I wanted to watch the rest.  What the (insert expletive that IMDB won't allow) is wrong with me? I get bored watching I Spit on Your Grave but here I want to know the end of a movie about a f**king princess?This movie's all good and stuff.  I hate it but it works.  I don't know, it just doesn't suck.  I mean, it does, it's terrible.  I can't wait for the sequel though (they better still make it).Oh God, why? "},{"Title":"okay, but slightly annoying","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I thought the movie wasn't bad.  Julie Andrews certainly does a good job. There were many funny bits, but still I disliked a few things about it. For one thing, I did not feel the need for Mia to get transformed.  I never thought she looked ugly before her transformation.  I thought she looked like a perfectly healthy and rather nice looking teenage girl.  Also, the movie gave me a slight impression of being too girlish/childish for my interests. "},{"Title":"Absolute Perfection!!","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I have read reviews that state this movie was poorly acted. I completely disagree. This movie was never meant to be Citizen Cane...it was meant to be a Disney Adventure about a young girl who discovers she is a princess and in a few short months must look, act, and fit the part of being a Princess of a country called Genovia. The writing for this film is perfection, each character no matter how small or insignificant has so much depth and you feel for them and care for them and it's the kind of movie you want to see over and over and over again forever. It's an instant classic. The creation of Genovia without even being there or showing it is brilliant. You long to see this beautiful country and you imagine all sorts of things about it. The movie is hilariously funny without taking away from the plot of the movie or moving to stupidity rather than just being funny. Anne Hathway is perfect as misunderstood Mia who is practically invisible to everyone at school except her best friend, her best friend's brother, and her mother. She plays the part to perfection, and her physical comedy is so natural and funny. This movie is not only made to delight the younger people but adults will love it too if you truly love a decent, funny, cute movie. Julie Andrews as expected is beautiful and regal. If anyone was meant to play a Queen, it would be Andrews. The part fits her like a glove. She moves us and awes us the way a Queen actually would. Everyone in the film plays a part and without any one of them it wouldn't be the same spectacular movie. This movie will stay in my top ten films for all time. Everyone must see and own this movie and I hope HOPE HOPE that a sequel will be in the works as I understand this could be a trilogy. 10/10! "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  bland, generic, for girls only","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I don't know why I let my SO talk me into renting The Princess Diaries. Maybe I have a brain defect.I do like the occasional kids film, even though I'm not a kid and don't have kids. I enjoyed Cloak & Dagger, and Shrek, and Toy Story. But this one is true Disney Generic. Only a kid -- with the limited world experience to recognize banality -- could enjoy through this film.Acting and plotting were bad, the film hasn't got any high stakes or zip, and no, Julie Andrews doesn't help much. If you really must see something in this category, try the Parent Trap (1998) remake of the 1961 classic.Who should see this film-- Girls younger than 12 with nothing better to do on a rainyday.-- I can't think of anyone elseI'll give The Princess Diaries a direct-to-video quality 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"CUTE MOVIE FOR YOUNG TEENS, THE REST SHOULD ABDICATE","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Rather tepid, uncreative offering from Disney, Inc. involving the well worn formula of yet another spin on the rags-to-riches story. Anne Hathaway plays Mia, and of course, Julie Andrews, do the best they can. They are troopers with a so-so script that really keeps its focus on the teen trauma, that IS adolescence. Unfortunately, adults will become rather distracted and start counting the lonely minutes, as the film wears on. The script tends to really drag, laden with the usual provisos that require more than a few dull-witted adults, hip kids, et al. Worse yet, the script aims at the adolescent thought zone and stay there, making it way too cute to suspend a gram of belief. Throw in the fact grandma is the head of state of a country, and knowing her name and being totally oblivious to this fact, is a serious stretch.Julie Andrews comes as close to anyone, to being the antagonist of the film. I'm sorry, but the mere thought of Julie Andrews being nasty or even rude to anyone, could bring down the republic. She is a goddess of musical entertainment, and we would still worship her anyway. The real standout of this pic is Hector Elizondo, who is believable, likeable and charismatic, as Joe. The scenes between him and Julie are some of the best. THE PRINCESS DIARIES is not one of the best, but it's not the worst, by far. Just don't expect any of the usual nod and wink moments of adult humor, that keeps those over twenty on their toes. This one makes it over the hump, to be recommended.   "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good - Anne Hathaway is going to be a huge star!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I was completely expecting to despise this movie. The only reason I watched more than five minutes is because I was lazy. Fortunately, it turned out to be quite good. I mean, yeah, it is sort of trite. It doesn't ask for too much. You know, be yourself kind of thing. Anne Hathaway is at first provided with hair, eyebrows, and glasses that don't make her ugly at all. In fact, when she gets her magical makeover, she's no more pretty than before. So what makes this movie good? Well, Julie Andrews, for one. It's just wonderful having her back in a movie, for God's sake. But it would be a very slight film if it weren't for Ms. Hathaway. She's a very rare breed indeed she's Hollywood A-list material, easily one of the most beautiful faces out there. But she's also a fine actress. Her character is the typical accident-prone, romantic comedy type, but Hathaway provides her with so much character that it's difficult not to be swept off your feet. Even in scenes that were clearly terrible, she shone through. I laughed at jokes that were quite bad. Her character's growth was nothing but cliches, but she convinced me. Also of note is the excellent supporting cast Hector Elizondo especially, but also Heather Matarazzo, so great in Welcome to the Dollhouse, and Sandra Oh, who was great in Don McKellar's film Last Night. Most people are, of course, still going to hate this movie. That's fine &#150; there is plenty to frown upon. Young girls will very much like it. It's very harmless. The lessons taught are all valuable ones, however cliche. 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Totally and only for kids","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  To be fair, this movie MUST be recognized for the intended target audience Young girls, maybe 8 to 15 years old. My childless roommate, a female, thought some of the dialogue and behavior of the title character was a bit fakey. My experience with young adolescent girls in the household was that the movie dialogue was actually right on key. Kids have a way of over-dramatizing things, and a penchant for making even the most ordinary situations theatrical and melodramatic. The Princess Diaries certainly seemed to capture that.The thing is, what truly interests and occupies a 13 or 14 year-old girl is NOT what interests anybody else. Thus, the movie comes off as kind of stale, lame, and way too low key. In our house, we gamely tried to get in the spirit and enjoy what the movie could offer us. Sadly, that wasn't much, and we ultimately gave up and quit watching before the end. Within 4 or 5 seconds we had forgotten that we had even been watching it.But for the kids-- it seems wholesome and authentic, and possibly just the thing for those angsty early adolescent theater queens. Rent or buy it for them, but save yourself the trouble of dismissing it. "},{"Title":"Nice but not much else.","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  While this film was nice it seemed to be lacking something. The wit that could easily accompany a film such as this was missing. All we see are plain, bright people winning at the end and the beautiful but talentless people, while not necessarily losing, just looking silly.I laughed in spots, quite a few spots, and this is never a bad thing. However, memories of the movie will disappear within a week or two, and I will remember that it was nice but that's about all. It's been done before, and better. "}{"Title":"What was Julie Andrews thinking!","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe Julie Andrews agreed to lend her presence to this shocker.Lame story and screenplay, poor acting from all except Andrews, avoid this film.A waste of 2 hours. "},{"Title":"This glass slipper is cracked...","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  A weak plot line combined with completely boring sets.  The girl playing the lead was merely adequate.  She hopefully will not get much more work out of this performance.  She had zero star power.  Julie Andrews while never a personal favorite, had her obvious talent wasted on a meaningless role. The rest of the movie and its cast had me yawning and looking at my watch. Good thing I pick the next movie to go too, right honey!!! "},{"Title":"Cute and instantly forgettable.","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  If I were between five-ish and twelve-ish, I'd be about to tell you that I'd just seen the most awesomest movie ever!As it is, I'm an adult and I found Princess to be charming but not much else.  A big pile of cheese surrounding lovely performances by Julie Andrews and Annie Hathaway.  This is the kind of movie where the cat steals the show. "},{"Title":"Watchable, mildly amusing and a film you can't hate; but overall dissatisfying","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I know what you're all thinking.  It's a G-rated comedy.  What do you expect?  Well, after seeing Shrek and Osmosis Jones I've realized something many people seem to overlook  It IS possible to make a good-natured, clean family movie that satisfies adults and kids alike!The Princess Diaries is a pleasant family flick that I can't say I hated. It's watchable, it's mildly amusing.  Even captivating, in a most lightweight sense.  But the humor is often flat and predictable, and delivered in a forced manner.  The characters are treated like plot points. The plot is as predictable as night and day.I'm not expecting subtlety, darn it!  I understand this is supposed to be a lightweight family film, but so was Shrek!  So was Osmosis Jones!  But I received a ton of laughs out of those films.  I only got intermittent chuckles out of PD.  It's like the writers felt, Heck, I can't put any scatological humor in this, so I may as well try to muster whatever I can out of a G-rated comedy by lowering our standards totally and creating jokes so cheap only five-year-olds will find this funny.  And of course only a five-year-old girl can be fascinated by the completely by-the-numbers storyline, which scoops up every possible fairy tale and love story cliche to the last predictable note.  In the spirit of films like She's All That we're introduced to a supposedly nerdy female character who looks very attractive in the first place, yet everyone looks at her like she's an ogre. Only She's All That had a good deal of humor and charm to make up for it. This movie is fueled solely by obvious plot points.Anne Hathaway, though extremely beautiful, is phony in her performance. She never convinces us that she is in fact this nebbish fifteen-year-old girl and her performance is way over-the-top.  It's nice to see Julie Andrews grace the screen after all these years.  That was a treat.  Though she has to work with a low-level script, she holds her own and keeps the charm on full blast.  She's just as great as she was in The Sound of Music and Mary Poppins.  Hector Elizondo (a Garry Marshall regular) also gives us another impressive performance.  He's another one of the film's saving graces.  He says a funny one-liner--the one subtle homosexual reference in the film  (holding a box of high-heel women's shoes) Shopping in San Francisco, the salesperson asked if I want them wrapped or do I want to wear them out of the store?  Also to help spice things up is the great Larry Miller, who steals the show in practically every supporting role he's in. He plays a flambouyant Italian fashion expert, who gives Mia (Hathaway) the big makeover.The plot has everything we've seen in the past teen-bopper flicks, only sanitized and more dumbed-down in a G-rated fashion.  We have Hathaway as the nerd, Heather Matarazzo as the nerdy best friend, the popular girl in the school/cheerleader (Mandy Moore) who is hot and looks down upon every other girl because she's so hot and all the fellow students view her as a goddess (yet everyone in the audience hates her guts--isn't that ironic?), we have the hot Backstreet Boys wannabe who also happens to be as subtle as a fire hydrant--not to mention a complete jerk--yet the main character has a huge crush on him and we have Matarazzo's brother as the guy who's always had the hots for Mia and also happens to be a complete outcast--despite the fact that he's also dashingly handsome.  I would go into the whole plot, but after I just introduced you to all the cardboard characters, you probably would've guessed the whole darn thing by now.The Princess Diaries is somewhat of a guilty pleasure.  Despite its outburst of cliches, it's a pleasant and happy journey.  And quite frankly this could've been as nauseating as an amateurish teen comedy like All I Wanna Do if it wasn't handled by Garry Marshall.  OK, this is not strictly a teen comedy, but most of the action revolves around teens.  Marshall was desperate to direct a movie that his children can enjoy, since Pretty Woman and Runaway Bride aren't films designated for the twelve and under crowd.  So if Marshall's raw ambition wasn't put into this work, I perfectly understand.  If you have young children, they'll love this movie!  They'll eat it up with a spoon!  And though I enjoyed it to a degree and you can--in some aspects--say it's fitfully entertaining, but older audiences still won't find PD ultimately satisfying.  As I said, I've seen Shrek and Osmosis Jones, and to tell you the truth I think adults will enjoy those movies MORE than children, though that is the target audience.  So I don't want to hear any crappy responses like, Hey!  It's a kid's movie!  What do you expect?  Go see the two movies I just mentioned.  THAT'S what I expect! Family comedy doesn't entirely translate to  Lower your standards.My score  5 (out of 10)      "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts &#150; Your Clone is Ready...","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The ongoing debate over human cloning was apparently settled some 20 years ago, at least in Hollywood. First Leelee Sobieski became Helen Hunt's `chip off the old block and now we have Anne Hathaway subbing for Julia Roberts.  Besides Hathaway's remarkable resemblance to Roberts, her on screen personna is a virtual copy, though Hathaway gives it a fresh take and is, if possible, more winsome and winning than Roberts.  Hathaway has a real future, should she pursue it, at the very time Roberts career will likely take a different turn.Garry Marshall's `The Princess Diaries' is, in many ways, a G-Rated remake of `Pretty Woman;' though it's `fish out of water' theme is universal.  An adorable cast, headed by Hathaway, Julie Andrews and Hector Elizondo gives this movie the perfect combination of  charm, humor and romance.  This is the perfect movie for the whole family.  Preteens will enjoy the physical humor; adolescents the attractive young people discreetly on display and a story to which they can personally relate; adults the wry, suggestive, but not smutty dialogue and the elderly the return to romance among both `young' and `old.'There's nothing offensive in `The Princess Diaries' and much to recommend it.  This is a movie that succeeds at everything it attempts. See it.  "},{"Title":"ZZZZzzzz....","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  My summary basically describes my thoughts on the movie. I didn't fall asleep mind you (due to the numerous little girls in the audience laughing almost every 2 minutes) but I wasn't far from doing so. This is an okay movie, it was obviously not meant to be an Oscar winner, but it's nothing very fresh either. Julie Andrews does what she can as a queen who has come to talk to her grand-daughter Mia (Anne Hathaway, in her first role) about taking over the thrown as princess of a small European country. Mia is, of course, shocked but eventually does agree to take princess lessons and then the predictability really comes full circle. The jokes and laughs can be seen coming from at least five miles away and the outcome is so obvious it seems that no real effort was made at anything but a predictable one.Again, this is an okay movie (and that's being generous in my opinion) that should please little girls and maybe teens, but young adults (like me) and adults will likely be checking their watches or lulling off into a slumber.I give it ** out of 4 stars.  "},{"Title":"trailer is great...","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  the trailer is great. the movie however... lacks what the humor necessary to really be referred to as a comedy. while it is a light hearted and entertaining escape from reality, it seemed disappointing and rather bland. the acting is fair as is the story... trying to create a fairy tale from adolescent angst seems just a bit to contrived and clumsy. "},{"Title":"Julie Andrews glows in a Disneyesque Pygmalion story.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so don't go see this if you're looking for an adult film.  The preview audience I saw this with were primarily prepubescent girls who absolutely loved it!  They laughed out loud a lot, they were charmed with Mia's charm, they loved her story.It was cute, not very well acted but it had Julie Andrews at her most glowing, beautiful best.  She kept your focus whenever she was on screen.  Hector Elizondo was sweet and Mandy Moore was the typical stereotypical evil cheerleader.  Mia's best friend is the outstanding young actress from Welcome to the Dollhouse.   It has all the presence of a Disney-touched film, all the way down to momentously inspired water fountains and twinkle lights going off simultaneously with a kiss.Go see it for fun, for mindless laffs, for Julie Andrews, not the acting. "},{"Title":"Uninspired, clumsy and boring","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Usually I don't mind a good modern fairy tale, even if they are by their nature utterly predictable. As long as they have just a little charm, a small point to make - even if it is fortune cookie wisdom - and some likable characters, I'll happily let myself be entertained and block out the real world for a while. But Princess Diaries has none of those redeeming features. It's blunt and heavy handed, choosing slapstick over wit, archetypes over character development, and offering a stuttering, wobbling closure (is it about finding personal courage, which you can argue the film has been about from the first scene, or is it about thinking about others which is nothing the film has given any attention to but that is what the final speech is about?).Up from one to two stars for the decent cast, who do what they can with what they're given. "},{"Title":"Tolerable, but underwhelming make-over comedy is undeniably 'tween proof...","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Modern-day teenage wallflower in San Francisco finds out her estranged, deceased father was really a European prince and that she is of royal blood; her grandmother, the Queen of Genovia, arrives and gives the clumsy girl the requisite make-over, but what about the schoolboy who has a crush on her, furry eyebrows and all? Meg Cabot's book becomes Disney fodder for girls under 12. Director Garry Marshall doesn't try very hard to add any dimension or substance to the proceedings, and Anne Hathaway's nerdette is inconsistently developed (she says her main goal is to be invisible, yet she hangs out with cool, quirky kids, hopes to drive a fashionably trendy classic car, lives in a reconverted firehouse with her post-hippie mother, and ditches her eyeglasses without ever one complaint over the nuisance of contact lenses). The film is piffle, but it does have some drive for the first hour. Once the transformation is complete, the movie runs out of processed ideas and has to come up with some sort of logical ending, which it struggles with painfully. Followed by a sequel in 2004. ** from **** "}{"Title":"A teenage girl from Chicago finds out she is the heir to the throne of made up country Genovia in this sickly sweet fairytale story.","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" This is the grossest misrepresentation of a book I have ever seen. Being an avid lover of the books I was reluctant to see the movie from the second I saw the trailer. I really wish I hadn't wasted my time. This film is aimed at 6 - 10 year old girls as opposed to the 12 - 16 year old girls the books are aimed at therefor the plot is completely edited and sugarcoated and lacks the bite of the books. As much as I love Julie Andrews she was entirely the wrong woman to play Grandmere who is completely evil in the books unlike this kind, sweet, understanding lady she plays. I could spend literally hours pointing out exactly where all the main problems and plot differences lie but instead I shall just tell you to read the book or not bother at all. "},{"Title":"Nicely Cast, Dismally Written","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" This movie has a few saving graces - namely, its cast. Anne Hathaway, Robert Carmine, Heather Matarazzo, and Larry Miller are wonderfully cast so as to bring to life the characters of the charming novel chronicles of Mia Thermapolis. It is near impossible to imagine anyone else in the roles of Mia, Michael and Lilly. However, other characters (most often ones invented for the movie to suit other Gary Marshall regulars), are not very well-cast. Julie Andrews is far too sweet for the horrific terror that is Grandmere in the books. Other attractive, but not necessarily talented, actors fill the parts of Mia's family, friends, and enemies, including the otherwise winning Hector Elizondo who doesn't suit the original role of Mia's Swedish bodyguard Lars at all.This movie, if aimed toward its original intended audience, and written extremely better, would have been a cult classic, if not an everlasting cinematic masterpiece. The novels by Meg Cabot are a perfect blend of comedy and near-tragedy, and, if properly adapted, would surely have an impact on its viewers. The characters in this movie are POORLY developed. Time and again, sacrifices are made to plot and character to set up for slapstick moments or otherwise clichéd Disney bits. With all of these sacrifices, it's hard to find these moments the least bit endearing. The whole movie is but a splay of these various Disney bits. Unnescessary changes are made EVERYWHERE. Names are changed, the entire setting is flopped to the other side of the country, the antagonistic Grandmere is replaced with sweet grandma Clarisse, instead of rendering Mia's estranged father impotent he is killed off, Genovia is changed from sensible principality to inexplicable kingdom, and numerous names were ever so slightly altered for no apparent reason. Another issue that should be much more heavily touched upon is the ethnic cleansing of the casting. Originally, Albert Einstein HS was much more diverse. Indian characters Tina Hakim Baba and her boyfriend are not even supplanted in the film (robbing it of a touching arc in the story that displays Mia's sensitivity). Also removed is Shameeka, one of Mia's black friends. This really upsets me because these were all very good characters besides adding a healthy dose of ethnic variety. Also supplanted is Lilly's boyfriend, a Russian violinist, with magician Jeremiah. Makes you wonder if perhaps the original novel was a bit too racy for Disney, if you'll excuse the pun.If there had even BEEN a plot for this movie, I would have been satisfied. However, it seems as though there was not even a semblance of it. It is just a collage of exhibitions of Mia's clumsiness. Intelligent humor, dry humor, sarcasm and aspects of the liberal lifestyle of Mia and family of the novel are completely eradicated. This film robs the novel of its charm, and its only redeeming feature is, again, the casting of the lead characters (excluding Julie Andrews).Not only is this a dismal failure as an adaptation, its immature humor gives the film a feeble foundation - capitalizing on slapstick and the makeover turning point for Mia, it is hardly anything new, and only Anne Hathaway and company make this film truly worthwhile. It is my hope that this film will someday be revisited by a screenwriter who would remain truer to the witty and fun novels that it claims to be based on. It would be a shame that such a film mightn't have Robert Carmine, Anne Hathaway, and Heather Matarazzo in it. "},{"Title":"Tired, overworked clichés in a pink, plastic wrapper","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" This film made me very uncomfortable for a couple of reasons. The first reason was that it was a cliché of the Hollywood cliché about royalty and royals. Do they really think aristocratic life is like this? The second reason this film made me uncomfortable was that I think some people might actually thinking exactly like B Hollywood scriptwriters think aristocrats and their that art (the term used loosely here) imitates life. Imagine a bunch of people walking around with their noses in the air and behaving help behave, while an American teenager educates them on pop culture. Cue the jealous stepsister and you have an awful fairy story without the magic. Awful, plastic B-grade smeh that should not have made it onto cable TV, and I shouldn't have watched it. "},{"Title":"Disney's candy factory working full throttle again","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" It's sometimes unbelievable if you see what kind of movies are made in the Disney Studio's. Sometimes I really believe old Walt has missed the chance of his lifetime by not starting a candy factory. I'm sure he would have done great...The Princess Diaries is about an ordinary girl who's biggest ambition is to go through life without being noticed and she is succeeding perfectly. On one fine day however she get's to hear that she's really a princess and the future queen of a small kingdom somewhere between France and Spain. Normally that little country would be called Andorra, but that's not really a cool name, is it? So why not change it to Genovia? Who would notice? Certainly not the Americans, they don't know anything about Europe, so why would they know anything about a small country in Europe? Of course her head starts to spin as she is getting prepared to become a real princess. She almost forgets her friends. She no longer cares about the boy that loves her anymore and tries to get a prettier boyfriend. But of course in the end she realizes that what she is doing is all wrong and she becomes some kind of modern version of a fairy tale princess...This movie is just childish, very unbelievable and full of stereotypes. I guess it is perfect for teenage girls who dream about becoming a princess and need this kind of modern fairy tales to escape the hard reality that life is... The only problem is that I'm not a teenage girl, I can see past all that sugar sweet nonsense. Even though I didn't really like the movie, I have to admit that it had some good things too. From time to time I was able to smile because of some jokes. It will never be my favorite movie, but I still give it a 5/10 because of that. "},{"Title":"Did the people who made this even read the books???????","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I loved the books 'The Princess Diaries', Meg Cabot did a good job. They were funny and sweet and I stupidly assumed the movie would be the same.All the aspects I enjoyed so much about the books were gone. Where was Mia's evil grandmother? She was replaced by Julie Andrews. I kept on expecting her to burst into song and start running down hills.And then we move onto Anne Hathaway. Wooden is a word that perfectly describes her acting. Okay so she had her moments. Sometimes I really did feel for her but for the rest of the film she was annoying and nothing like what I had expected. In the books she was great, in the movie...not so much.As far as I could see there were three good things about this film.1. Heather Matarazzo-she completely put across the character of Lilly. She was feisty, funny and sarcastic.2. Mandy Moore-I was not expecting much, I assumed she would be just another pop star turned actress. But I was suprised. She was good. Lana had been a real b***h in the books and Moore managed to portray that very well.3. Robert Schwartzman-very cute, and from what I remember not a bad actor.I have one question Why the hell would Meg Cabot allow this movie to be released where any association was made to her books???? "},{"Title":"Terrible.","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Princess Diaries liberally borrows from Garry Marshall's other movies, namely Pretty Woman and Runaway Bride. This movie was clearly such a vehicle for a Disney franchise, that it didn't even attempt to try. Shake off what's been done before and slap it up on screen.The cast that should be 15 looks more like they are aiming for senior citizen discounts.Save your money, catch it on cable with a book or a magazine to take the edge off during the numerous slow spots. "},{"Title":"The worse little girls movie of 1966","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Ugh, this was bad. Garry Marshall is losing the ability to make watchable movies.  I never confused him with William Wellman or Hitchcock, but they were at least entertaining on some levels.  This is just an exercise in cuteness that does not wear well at all. I really do not want to critcize this movie because I am glad that movies like this get made.  By 'like this' I mean encouraging movies for kids that are not strewn with lousy attitudes by shower-deprived actors who act like they are 37 already.  But the first rule is to make the movie good!  Anne Hathaway is a put-upon geekette who hangs around with Heather Matarazzo, who has made a career playing those characters.  It must have been agony for Heather to watch another actress play her part, but this is still Disney, after all, and still Julie Andrews.  Inexplicably she is never told she is royalty and gets angry at her hippie mom for not telling her the truth and for Granny Julie for staying out of her life.  See, now she has to rule Genovia, which hopefully has better screenwriters than we here in the States. Princess aspect kicks in at the last minute. The movie is cruel at times to Anne, even after her title is discovered, and you want to get as much mileage out of that as possible.  Larry Miller, Sandra Oh and obviously Hector Elizondo are around to ease the pain, while Julie Andrews is not exactly magical, its still very nice to see her.  I've been watching that woman on screen for over thirty years now..I think Anne Hathaway is very talented and I hope she gets better offers from this - at least it would have served that purpose.Sorry, this one is a loser. And there is no DIARY!  2/10. "},{"Title":"You can't be seriously trying to make a movie here","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Ugh, what a horrible movie. It's target audience is obviously young children, but it was still appalling. I doubt many people can seriously look at this movie and like it for more than anything but entertainment value, which it still didn't have much of. Julie Andrews is an award-winning actress, why did she participate in this movie? I have no idea what she was thinking. Other than Julie Andrews, the acting in this movie was painful. The directing was the worst part of this movie, I have no respect for Garry Marshall. His decisions were poor and ill-timed. I don't suggest that anyone but young kids and bitter-sweet Mormons should see it. If you don't believe me, see it and judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"trite","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  this is a movie for 6 year old girls who have been taught that being beautiful and a princess in a magical land is the ideal life... no wonder women read so many self help books...  Dr. Phil where are you ?? garbage movie... "},{"Title":"Pretty Little Woman","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.What a machine is the Disney factory! Their movies are safe, formulaic and competent.Here we have `Pretty Woman' straightened out, clarified, without the prostitution, and with a more personable actress than Julia.  "}{"Title":"The queen sucks.....also the princess","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  In the last two years I have already seen Notting Hill-The runaway bride-Next best thing-Return to me-Bridget Jones diary-Nurse Betty- Legally blonde and some other buls... like those, but this movie overpass everyone. My masochistic instinct and my movie hunger together push me to go on making something so bad to myself and so I watched also this atrocious Princess Diary. This is a movie made for girl 5-12 years old and mentally postponed. Never in my life I have been seeing something so stupid and so boring. Evidently there is a new category of moviegoers made with some ignorant and stupid kind of girls not used until now to go to the movietheater. We have to learn to strongly avoid movies created for them. Don't see this nastiness even rented in vhs. My rate is 1 (just because zero is not accepted) "},{"Title":"Wicked","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" This film is wicked, I've watched it like, a hundred times and i'm 18. And i'm still not fed up of it, in fact i will probably watch it tonight.How people don't love this film is crazy. Anne Hathaway is such a talented actress and shows it in this film, With people like Julie Andrews and Hector Elizondo and such like working on a film together how can it not be great. I would say the reason i like the films obviously because an unpopular girl gets one over on the popular, but also because of the love story between Mia and Michael, it's sooooo sweet.If you haven't seen it yet you really should. I mean even if you don't have kids or a younger sister just watch it.Anne Smith "},{"Title":"Maybe 8-15 year old girls would enjoy this","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I've seen a lot of bad movies, but this one takes the cake. Julie Andrews does an excellent job in her role, but there is little else to compliment in this film.  It is cliche' driven and generally most of the players overact, possibly to compensate for the story that trudges along.  Perhaps young girls would enjoy this film, but I don't think any adult would want to spend the time watching this ruined fairy tale. I give this movie a half star, only because Julie Andrews does such a fine job. "},{"Title":"A very poor film full of every teen cliche in the book","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  John Hughes was the 80's king of the teen movie - see Ferris Bueller and Pretty In Pink - if only the people that greenlit this travesty had seen how to do it properly we may have been spared this film.Throw in every teen cliche in the book, some classic sterotypes - dork, outcast, mechanic etc - and just for good measure Julie Andrews as of all things a Grandmother who just happens to be Queen - oh my god !I am just so glad I didn't have to pay to see this as otherwise I would have been a tad miffed - how this did so much business in the United States is beyond me.Watch at your peril... "},{"Title":"A few words from a simple-minded Disney fan","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I'm sure you'll find that as you read this you will discover a few words to me means something short of an essay, and simple-minded comparative to an analytical computer. Which I will apologize for in advance (I know myself too well -_-).The Princess Diaries is bound to be one of Disney's classics. There is no question about that. Many people have submitted such comments as It wasn't as cheesy as I expected or It was much better than I thought. Another prevailing opinion is that the casting of the movie, and the chosen director, were great. On all of these points I most heartily agree on.Now, the negatives. The strongest opposition to the movie is that it is totally unfaithful to the series by Meg Cabot. Personally, I have never read the series. BUT! Before you sigh and turn away, read the next sentence I HAVE skimmed through the first book, (in my case, skim means reading it in a complete random order, although by the end I did manage to read most of the book) so I AM aware of the father's inability to...uh...reproduce, Lily's original Russian boyfriend (who played the violin, I believe?), the grandmother's not-so-pleasant personality, etc.None of which are portrayed in the movie. Which is a great disappointment to those who are die-hard fans of the series.But. It's only common knowledge that novels remade into movies are always twisted and changed until it only resembles the original storyline. It's usually only the extremely popular or classic books, with worldwide recognition, such as The Da Vinci Code, the Harry Potter series, and The Secret Garden, that are saved from facing total transformation. And even then, most people that I'm acquainted with have confessed the novelized version is always the better.Yes, there are exceptions to what I'm saying. Of course there are. But hear me to the end.Disney, especially, has a tendency to turn everything into a children's fairy tale. Because the entire company is a company devoted to children. Its aim is not to portray a novel the way it is written, but to give a classic happy story to their fans. That is the contract it has forged with its audiences.Take the Disney classics, for example. Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, The Little Mermaid...they were all based off original fairy tales. But even they were changed completely in Disney's portrayals. Belle (Beauty and the Beast) originally had two jealous sisters. Aladdin had a mother and an evil uncle. Ariel (The Little Mermaid) turned into bubbles (died) in the end. None of these happened in the movies.But we (the Disney fans) love them. Not because we loved the original fairy tales and loved to see them on screen (if that's what you wanted, you would've watched the original French movie Beauty and the Beast), but because we fell in love with the movie itself, the characters the movie gave us, and the story the MOVIE told us.>>The Disney movies stand for themselves. I think that's their strong point. They don't have to rely on what novels or fairy tales they were originally based off of, but they stand as independent films, having EVOLVED from another novel or fairy tale.Everyone's watched Disney films. This should have been expected of the Princess Diaries, too. I'm sure Meg Cabot was aware of Disney's reputation--if she wanted her novel to be copied onto the screen, she would have chosen 20th Century Fox or Warner Bros. That's what J.K. Rowling did. I'M surprised so many people were shocked to find the movie was not like the novel.To be fair, I do admit that Disney HAS, on some occasion, been pretty true to the stories some of the films were based on. (Holes, for example, and Chronicles of Narnia.) But a storyline like Princess Diaries' couldn't go that way.>>I do think that out of all the movie companies, Disney was the best choice for this movie--the other companies may have been more faithful to the series, but only Disney would have made it a classic.And I am a personal fan of Julie Andrews and Anne Hathaway, and they pulled off a great combo in this film, I believe. I also enjoyed watching Mandy Moore in A Walk to Remember, so I had my eyes on her during this movie, too.Everyone's entitled to their opinions, definitely. So while I will never tell anyone off for hating this movie, I will also take the liberty to say that The Princess Diaries, while not Academy Award material, is definitely one of my favorite and heart-warming films. "},{"Title":"Nothing special but still quite enjoyable if you are in the mood","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Mia is a geeky teenager struggling to get a grip on life in San Francisco with her mother when she gets a visit from her Grandmother &#150; over from Genovia. Mia has never met her but is surprised to learn that Clarisse Renaldi is actually Queen of Genovia. This isn't as much of a surprise as the news that Mia is actually a princess and that she is next in line for the throne. While Mia struggles with the decision of staying in her life or starting anew as Princess of Genovia, her classmates struggle with the change and Clarisse tries to make Mia into princess material.Although this film is a predictable mix of Pygmalion and teen comedy, it is actually quite enjoyable if you are in the mood. The Disney logo and obvious soundtrack selection should tell you whether or not you are in the target audience or not (I wasn't), but if you can get into it this moves forward with a familiar charm mixed with some nicely comic touches. The storyline goes more or less the way you expect it to but it is still quite fun and I wasn't bored at any stage. The developments and character changes are a bit bland (the romantic threads particularly so) but things keep moving anyway. The look and sound of the film is derivative &#150; the direction isn't anything special and the choice of teeny pop is boring and a bit annoying.Anne Hathway is poor at first but gets a bit better as the film goes. Her geeky turn is strictly by the numbers although she is better as her character moves away from this end of the spectrum. Much better is the supporting adult cast. Andrews' is an obvious turn but she works well and makes for an enjoyable contrast with Hathaway. Likewise Elizondo is a nice addition and works with the material well. The others include Moore, Burbano, Oh and a few others but mostly the cast are just serviceable and do enough to carry the film along.Nothing special then but still enjoyable. It plods along nicely enough with plenty of rough charm and a comic air. The cast are mixed but mostly the adults give a good account of themselves with not a great deal to work with in regards material. Obvious stuff then but has enough to it to be enjoyable if you buy into it early on. "},{"Title":"One of the most romantic Disney movies I have ever seen!","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Even though I've never read the book, THE PRINCESS DIARIES, in my opinion, is one of the most romantic Disney movies I have ever seen. If you ask me, Michael Nyman's score was absolutely romantic. In addition, I thought that the performances were superior, the directing was excellent, the costumes were perfectly designed, and the casting was perfect. Also, when Mia (Anne Hathaway) got hazed, I felt really sorry for her. You poor thing. When she fell for Josh (Erik von Detten), I got all warm and tingly inside. In addition, when Lana (Mandy Moore) got coned, I felt really good. Kudos to Garry Marshall and everyone involved for a job well done. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Julie Andrews or Anen Hathaway, or you enjoyed Meg Cabot's title novel, I highly recommend this movie. You're in for a feel good time, so see this movie today. You're in for a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Hathaway and Andrews Shine In Otherwise Routine Film","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Garry Marshall's brand of humor is sometimes hit or miss and in The Princess Diaries, it's a miss. Anne Hathaway stars as an ugly duckling with self confidence difficulties, who supposedly is the heir to some imaginary country wedged between France and Spain I think. The Princess Diaries is full of stock, formulaic situations which are resolved in predictable fashion before the fadeout. The movie is saved by the charming presence of Anne Hathaway, Julie Andrews, and a host of good supporting actors. Andrews plays Queen Clarisse Renaldi of the imaginary Genovia. Her right hand man Joe is Hector Elizondo. Whenever the two of them are on screen, they lift the movie above the ordinary. Heather Matarazzo plays Hathaway's nerdy friend Lily Moscovitz. The interplay between the two is genuine enough for us to believe that they're really friends. Mandy Moore and Sandra Oh appear in the movie in small roles. Marshall sets up a number of situations in the movie, but then he fails to deliver. The scandal in the film is an absolute joke and really makes little logical sense. The film is routine in its execution and since it's rated G, it's really only for the tween set. ** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Book vs Movie - Book wins.","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Okay, I will not deny that the movie was brilliant, because it was - but what ruined the movie for me was reading the books. The books are much better, with a deeper plot line, and the movie had very little of the original aspects, which upset me. Where was Tina? Where was Boris? They were all key characters in the book, and there's no reason they shouldn't have been carried off into the movie. But anyway.Anne Hathaway is a brilliant actress in any movie she does, except for the fact most of her movies are the same, but that's beside the point. She's perfect for the part. I also liked Heather Matarazzo as Lilly, and I'm glad they were both in the second movie. Julie Andrews was wonderful to, and it's nice to see that after all these years, she can still play a strong, and good character. A character and actor I didn't like though, was Jeremiah Hart, played by Patrick Flueger. If he was supposed to be a replacement for Boris, he was a very weak replacement. The character could have been a bit more similar to his equal in the books, and the acting could have been better.For a Disney movie, this is quite good, but in regards to linking to the book - it was done very very badly. "},{"Title":"A nice, sweet-tempered fairytale.","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Dear Diary,Today I saw this really sweet Disney movie called The Princess Diaries, which I thought was going to be really yucky because it said Produced by Whitney Houston at the beginning, plus it had Mandy Moore before she dyed her hair and did that Christian movie. Plus I'm more than twice the age of the audience for this, and I'm not even a girl...Anyway, it was all about this American teenage girl who was a bit of a freak and looked kind of like Mike Myers in drag to boot, who found out from her grandmother Julie Andrews that she was actually the Princess of a European country called Genovia, so she got a makeover that turned her into an American Cat Deeley, started taking lessons in how to be a princess from the grandmother and her security chief/chauffeur (No bobbing of the head, please), and had to decide whether or not she was going to take the job. Go on, take a guess; I knew this was based on the first of a series of novels, so I could sort of guess how this was going to end (leave the door open for a sequel or a Disney Channel TV show?).But even though a lot of it was pretty obvious and stuff - was she going to throw over the guy who really liked her and chase the A-crowd hunk? - the main character was likeable and Anne Hathaway did a good job playing her, plus she had Julie Andrews and Hector Elizondo along. (I heard he's been in every movie from the director.) I liked Heather Matarazzo as her best friend and the guy who played her neighbour as well; some of the music was a bit too The Box-ish for me - the orchestral music was good though - and it did feel like a really long episode of The Wonderful World Of Disney, but it was sweet, funny and charming in the end. I liked it. 7/10. "}{"Title":"good, but NOTHING like the books!","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  **SPOILERS** okay, first of all, Mia doesnt go out with Michael until the Third book!!!  Yes, its a whole series.  so far, there's 3 books and more on the way (supposidly 7, Meg Cabot wants to follow Mia through all 4 years of high school, and the third book only has her in  December of her freshman year).  And her grandmother is a LOT MORE meaner than Julie Andrews.  And she also doesnt become friends again with Lilly in one day, it takes about 2 weeks, and makes more friends.  Plus, Jerimiya (I think thats the spelling) is suppose to be a Russian exchange student named Boris.  Anyway, thats all I have to say about The Princess Diaries. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  While this film was semi-entertaining at times, it was usually just annoying.  Now, I don't as a general rule like Pygmalion stories, where a girl is taught to be completely different from who she is, that she is not worthy of being taken seriously unless she wears her hair a certain way or dresses a certain way.  While her mother and her (by the end of the movie of course) boyfriend both cared for her no matter what, no one else really did--including her grandmother.  Actually, the thing that really bugged me the most is that the director should have left in 2 of the deleted scenes available on the DVD version, one of her mother's date with the teacher and reaction to the new Mia, and one of Mia with what's-his-face-boyfriend-guy. The movie was discontinuous and incomplete without them.  Plus the acting was generally nothing special.   "},{"Title":"sigh...","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Well, we had a big snowfall this weekend, so my wife and I decided to rent some movies to pass the time... unfortunately, she really, really wanted to see The Princess Diaries.A bit of back story  about a month ago we were watching The Sound of Music when the subject of Julie Andrews movies came up.  And of course, since Miss Andrews appears in The Princess Diaries, that came up, too.  My wife wanted me to go out and rent it, but I narrowly convinced her that we wouldn't have enough time to watch it.  I just let the subject drop, hoping she'd forget about it.  And then this cursed snowstorm hit.Anyway, back to this particular story.  We also rented Elmo in Grouchland for our 3-year-old daughter.  And after having seen both films in the same day, I can honestly say Elmo is the better picture.  And I fell asleep while watching it.Yes, sleep is definitely preferable to viewing The Princess Diaries.  The only thing that redeems this movie is the fact that Julie Andrews and Hector Elizondo are in it.  But if you're subjected to this movie by your Mary Poppins-loving wife, just close your eyes and succumb to the bliss of sleep.  You won't miss a thing.  "},{"Title":"this movie sucked","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  i think princess diaries was a dumb movie. it was just so stupid. it was boring. it had alot of cliches. the tough girl of the school was a cheerleader. sure, thats what its like in high school. the cheerleaders sit around and make fun of everyone, and no one says a thing. yea right. dumb movie. "},{"Title":"Dull And Tired Pygmalion Retread","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Ah, yes, now we have the Disneyfied version of Pygmalion, and the story is still as insulting to women as it ever was  take the ugly girl, remove her glasses, tame her hair, and give her some blush, mascara, and lipstick, and suddenly she's a ravishing waif.  How many times have you seen this before? Director Gary Marshall seems to be running out of ideas;  this is almost a remake of Pretty Woman, but without the charm, Julia Roberts, or the sex.This movie was not entertaining.  So very predictable and extremely quaint in its morals and characterizations Mandy Moore, playing the bad girl, calls people names, plays childish pranks, and sings Stupid Cupid -- and she's the ARCH NEMESIS of the movie. Even though the subject matter involves high school, this is really for the preteen set.  Anyone above the age of 12 should avoid it like the plague.4/10 "},{"Title":"Did Garry Marshall just edit the script from Never Been Kissed?","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The Princess Diaries is a complete rehash of just about any Nerd to Beauty Queen movie you've ever seen... but for Garry Marshall to make it is inexcusable.Nerdy girl is teased by group of three popular girls while hiding what she's really doing.  Her dreamboat that she fawns all over is not appealing enough to the audience to distract from the guy she really should like but won't until some misunderstanding tears them apart.  A family member has their own agenda that's intertwined with our heroine's, but the viewers favorite character will be the joke-tossing side kick that gets left in the car all the time.  Along the way there are misunderstandings with an even nerdier friend, especially after The Big Transformation into a beauty.I have strict guidelines about never giving away an ending or surprise twist in a movie.... don't worry.  If you hold the box up to your forehead even the worst Amazing Karnak could figure out everything that happens in this movie.Garry... Please find some new scripts. "},{"Title":"Very slow and unrealistic drama","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie develops so slowly and it is so predictable that it is hard to keep awake. Poor casting. Why cast an older woman to play a teenager?Julie Andrews should have stayed retired. She was great in musicals but she has never cut it in dramas and she doesn't cut it in this one. "},{"Title":" I can't get no, uh, satisfaction...","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Get away from the camera, Mandy Moore!Being a teenager myself, I was never too hot about the so-called teen movies, but I have seen some and a few of them are actually pretty damn good. But this movie is NOT one of them.First of all, it wasn't that bad. It's just that it seemed like a fun movie, but when you go see it, it doesn't quite live up to your expectations. There are not enough funny moments and the ones that are there are not that funny after three seconds. It wants to be a fairytale movie yet it's not magical enough, what with all the stuff that's supposed to make the story seem more real. It just ain't gonna work this way. I was especially disappointed by the end. There is no dramatic twist--it is way too predictable. I know you can still get cool endings even if it is so predictable you think you're the one directing it, but this movie...didn't work. And what's the deal with the nerdy guy? He is SO hot! Rent the video if you are having a boring Sunday afternoon, but expect nothing too good. Or better yet, rent Clueless or 10 Things I Hate About You . Those two are so much better and funnier. "},{"Title":"Forced and dull","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this opening day and the theatre was pretty full.Mostly younger girls (I suspect the target audience). I was looking forward to this film and the trailers looked good, but what a disappointment. Great actors, abysmal situations. The silly bits weren't. The romance didn't click. Perhaps it was a case of throwing everything but the kitchen sink into a picture and forgetting to build something. Two relatively recent movies that did seem to get it right are She's All That (where the guy actually cares about the girl) and Parent Trap II (where there is silliness and 'tension' and coherency). The audience was pretty quiet during the film (except where there were some nicely funny bits), but mostly it was a drag.  "},{"Title":"Holy s*** this film is terrible","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  If you have read the original Princess Diaries by Meg Cabot, and liked them, then I'm betting that there is a 100% chance that you will hate this movie with every fiber of your being.There are huge problems with this pile of crap.1) I doubt that anyone involved with this film has every even touched the books, as no-one seems to do anything right. Why is it set in San Fransisco and not New York City, like the books? Why is Grandmere not a complete scary bitch, like the books? Why is Lily so quiet and not competing for the centre stage of every scene, like the books? The list goes on. I did actually write a list of problems. It was longer than I originally thought it would be.2)These... God, I can't even call them actors... people are the most annoying bunch of Americans I've ever seen in any film. I'm not exaggerating. What is with the leg thing during kisses? Are any of you American girls this sad? Please say no...3) Let's just say that this film is not based on Meg Cabot's books for a moment. On it's own... IT IS STILL AWFUL!!!!!!!!Ugh, please don't bother with this movie. If you see something else on offer, even if it looks really corny and unoriginal and a waste of time, it's got to be better that this.  "}{"Title":"Terrible with a capital T!!!","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Very simply, I don't get it. A simply awful movie with bad, bad acting on the part of the lead young woman.  I'd put her acting abilities on a par with Sofia Coppola. Too bad and too bad the incredible Julie Andrews had to appear in something so beneath her talents. Run, don't walk, as fast as you can away from the Princess Diaries and the mundane pablum that we don't need more of.  Especially with actresses that aren't even ready for a television sitcom with their abilities.  "},{"Title":"Where were the Diaries?","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie, while I am sure was mildly enjoyable for the teenybopper set, barely even resembled the wonderful book it was taken from.  Why did they change so much of the plot?  (i.e. in the book, the father is living and has maintained a distant, but loving relationship with Mia.  In fact, he is the one to tell her about her heritage.  This fact leads to one of the most hilarious diary entries in the book - dealing with Mia's embarrassment over her father's sterility and the reason for it.) Also, why the need to have Mandy Moore sing her silly little Stupid Cupid song?  Was it written in her contract that she was to have her little musical number, no matter how excrutiatingly embarrassing it was to watch her.  For a moment, I thought I was watching a Back To The Beach remke.  The diary entries in the book are very honest and realistic, in that a teenager would really feel and talk the way Mia does.  But in the movie, the clumsiness and embarrassing situations are completely overdone.  I couldn't tell if the actors were over-acting all their stereotypical roles, or if it was just a poorly-written script.  This disappointing version completely lacked the feel of the book - and I am usually quite forgiving of screen adaptations of my favourite books.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I couldn't bear this movie.  I am a thirtysomething male with no kids, so I was certainly the wrong demographic.  But I generally like Disney movies, romantic comedies, Sandler movies, Arnold movies, Jane Austen movies. Hey, I like most any movie.  But I was bored and even offended by this one. The script was poor, the dialogue was vacuous, and the acting was shaky.  I considered walking out but was with someone else.  I even fell asleep two-thirds of the way through.  I guess I missed the magic entirely. Avoid this one unless you have a relative in the cast.  Take an oath right now to stay away if you are male or are over 14 years old. "},{"Title":"Insults the intellect of a six-year old.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Disney has a justified reputation for producing horribly acted sugerpie live-action movies, but this must be the worst. Even if you argue that it's aimed at 5-year olds, I wouldn't dare show this to a toddler. Acting is tremendously fake, much like a bad 3rd grade play. Story is utterly predictable, never funny, never charming. Even the musical score sounds like a casio demo tune. Utterly pathetic. "},{"Title":"watch it only when you are totally bored.","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  or watch it when there is nothing else better to see on TV.The film was set in San Fransisco. As you already know, San Fransisco is not just a city of white people, it has a great population of mixed races, Asians, etc. Of course, this film is merely a silly girl's fantasy. The casting people have done a bad job. Among all the students in that particular high school,I see no one other than white students, and more white students. Everyone is white. That is very unbelievable. I don't know the actual Asian population in S.F. however, I can't even see one student who is not white. This is not the year of 1950, in the year of 2001, are those casting people blind? Is it necessary to make this little fantasy movie white only? The princess' crash and sort-of boyfriend are also white. It is time to make a change, hollywood, if you are filming it in a major US metro city, how can you put all the white kids as the extras? Anyway, having said that, this is just a film that you can guess the ending from the beginning. It doesn't have twists, it ends happily ever after. yes, if you fantasize about the royal life, dream about becoming a star from an ugly duckling, then this is the movie for you.   "},{"Title":"The most ridiculious movie I've ever seen in my Life!","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Number one why did Julie Andrews ever agree to do this buttload of crap?  Number two the singer of Supergirl is the worst singer in the world, (especially herbring out the kid in you song), number three pick a real country, Janovia is a stupid excuse for a real place.   And as if she's going to refuse the crown, it's a really bad rendition of Citizen Kane don't watch, don't read the books  "},{"Title":"Here's why this movie is horrible","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  If you take any teenage girl, and I mean ANY teenage girl, especially one who's the laughingstock of her school and an outcast, and tell her she's the princess of a distant country...she would think it was the most incredible thing that could've happened to her.  It would've been the best news ever. Her heart would be pounding with excitement, she'd be screaming with joy.But in this movie, for some reason (read  in order to serve the plot) she hears the news and it's the worst thing that could possibly happen to her. I realize the story is a fairy tale, but the emotions should be real.The only good thing in the movie  Heather Matarazzo is yelling for her friend, and someone else turns around, and she says, Not you!  I don't even know you!  That was real and funny.  The rest of this movie was not. "},{"Title":"princess diaries drinking game","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  take a drink when you seeklutz f*upstupid pop song for the soundtrackteenage slang no one has ever heard beforeblatant product placementalmost upskirt shotstoken black kidwhenever someone calls the next line "},{"Title":"One of Marhall's worst films","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Garry Marshall has made a good amount of movies that are pretty much by the book and all the charm that the movies have are either for the braindead, or even worse, the actors' families (the ones that act in the movie I mean).  The Princess Diaries is certainly no exception as he makes a meticulously by the book corny fest (I had to walk out at one point and have a breather for sanity) with Hathaway playing a 15 year old (isn't she 21?  no sense huh?) who finds out that she is the princess of Genovia or some country and she has to take it over and will she be able to and, and DO I NEED To GO ON?  I think not.  Unless you have never seen a movie before, you will be knowing the entire plot of the movie while your watching it (I knew it before I even saw the trailer which is never a good sign) and it uh, uh, just sucks.  Let me put it this way, the only reason I saw this movie was because it was in theaters and I try to see all movies in theaters around me, that's all.  If this had been a straight to Disney channel movie, which it damn sure should've, I wouldn't touch it with a 10 foot pole.  A down a utterly flabergastly (if that's a word) shame, especially considering Andrews is the only person in the movie with talent.  F "},{"Title":"it sucks","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" they should just stick with the books. i love the books, Mia is like a real person. the chars here are so stupid. the plot is stupid. and Mia talking about lifting her foot up while kissing? and hitting josh with HER SHOE? stupid. & Michael acts like a jerk. And where did MIa get a 'baby'? and the baseball hit the parts on josh thing was overrated. Mia was funny and original. short orange hair, skinny? Anne was anything but skinny. and her hair is fuzzy and BROWN. principal Gupta's supposed to be threatening, she acts like a ditzy fan. grandmere is too friendly and kind and graceful. she's supposed to be an annoying bitch, not nice. Don't WATCH IT!!! "}]