[{"Title":"something's going on in the bedroom","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"78 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  9 out of 10Watching Todd Field's feature film debut `In the Bedroom,' I could not help but be impressed by the sheer audacity of the film, by the spot-on performances, and by the many twists and turns that no critic should reveal. Yet amidst all the film's obvious strengths, there was still something missing-something to tie it all together, something to endow the film with more than just a fleeting impression.Ironically perhaps, I was provided this missing bit of information not by the film, but by a male audience member sitting at the end of my aisle, trying to explain the point of the film in less than derogatory terms to his female companion.`You're missing the whole point of the film,' he said.  `It was all about men being controlled by women.'No doubt he read this interpretation from someone else's review of the film (and what a sweet piece of justice it would be if that critic were a woman). It is quite possible that he was not even aware of the ramifications of what he had said.  But this man's legitimacy aside, his statement has not left me since, and the film in turn has had the same luck in escaping me.We are first introduced to Frank Fowler (Nick Stahl, `Bully') and Natalie Strout (Marisa Tomei, `My Cousin Vinny'), he a young college student with no immediate plans to settle down, she an older divorcee raising two children. They are in love, though for Frank she is little more than a `summer fling.' Meanwhile Natalie's ex-husband, Richard (William Mapother, `Mission Impossible 2'), is unwilling to let her out of his life, and begins to be physically abusive to Frank. Frank's parents, Matt (Tom Wilkinson, `The Full Monty') and Ruth (Sissy Spacek, `The Straight Story')-both in top form here-show appropriate concern for their only son, and they intervene in this dangerous love triangle with unexpected twists and tragic results.The film jumps about in tone from a light romantic romp to a seeming political treatise to a creepy, nocturnal thriller.  Some have criticized the film for this alleged inconsistency in tone, slow pacing, and a deliberate ending.  But these naysayers have overlooked the point.Frank may not even really love Natalie, so much as he loves being controlled by her and sating his mother by being with her.  Richard becomes a threat to everyone because he is unwilling to let Natalie consider him out of her life; he is a slave to her whim.  The resulting tension reveals a rift between Frank's parents, and in particular, his father's actions in the end demonstrate a helpless allegiance to his wife and her command.Field, who up until now has been primarily an actor (he was the piano player in `Eyes Wide Shut'), understands these important points but does not beat the viewer over the head with them.  He presents a reality more raw and true than any other piece of film in recent memory.  Yet he does so with a restraint that Hollywood seems to have forgotten.  Most of the film's violence is overheard or implied, and only explicitly shown when necessary for the audience to completely understand what has happened.  This allows for more subtle details, like a bridgekeeper who must run around in circles to alternate traffic between the road and the sea, to emerge as truly haunting, lasting images.But `In the Bedroom' is not about any of these things.  It is, first and foremost, about its characters.  It does not fall prey to plot mechanics, nor does it flinch at exploring even the most sympathetic characters' darkest sides.  For this and so many other reasons which are best left discussed behind closed doors between loved ones, `In the Bedroom' succeeds at turning the camera on flawed relationships of all forms, and it is one of the best films of the year. "},{"Title":"perhaps not my favorite film but a perfect one.","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"63 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A dark story told with amazing weight and balance, it is cinematically perfect.  Aside from the excellent performances by Wilkinson, Spacek and Tomei, it isField's film. He uses a deft touch to examine the lives of a couple devastated by  loss. The perfection of this film lies in the small touches, the subtle gestures, the  powerful symbolism that Field displays throughout. Even the most powerfulmoment, the shooting, is done off camera. It isn't so much what you see, its what  you don't, what Field implies throughout the film. He creates moments in this  movie that convey complex emotion through subtle actions. The film createsunsettling scenes without being disturbing. Reflections of actors moving as if  underwater through their lives, we see them caught in the windows of theirhome, ghosts in their house and in their lives, struggling to cope until the film's  resolution. Attempting to heal each other and themselves through a single act of  redemption that seems at the same time surprising and inevitable. It isn't my  favorite movie, but i still think it's as close to a perfect film i've seen. "},{"Title":"a real modern classic","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"61 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"      A rarity in modern cinema, In the Bedroom is a movie for thinking adults that is one of the most thorough yet subtle examinations of violence and its consequences I've ever seen. Tom Wilkerson gives a masterful and restrained performance, and Sissy Spacek and nearly everyone else is uniformly excellent. Although it is a searing and unflinching look at nearly unspeakable grief, it is poignant and thoughtful and even has scenes of humor if you are ready for it. Todd Field's screenplay is one of the most brilliant in recent memory.       I really wish we had more mature stuff like this coming out of Hollywood. Powerful films that deal with violence and its aftermath and meaning like this make films like Kill Bill look even more repellent than they already are. "},{"Title":"Revenge shown to be illusion in this realistic work.","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"48 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film is, as all the critics say, emotionally involving, wrenching and all that.  Acting is natural and realistic, down to the nitty-gritty.  The valuable and rare thing here is that the story works against the most common plot at the movies today the revenge plot.  Here instead, revenge gets a more ambiguous and thoughtful treatment.  We are accustomed to being flattered as an audience, sent home feeling good that our side wins in the end against the evil.  In this film that stereotypical and simplistic Good vs Evil is taken apart.  The revenge leaves us feeling unusually unsettled, which is a very good thing in a deeper sense. "},{"Title":"wow...pay attention for Sissy Spacek's name at this year's Oscars...","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"50 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  So simple.  So honest.  So heartbreaking.  I dare you to see this movie and not go through a self-invasive, heartfelt understanding for the familial and emotional conflicts these characters go through.  one of the best films shown at Sundance, hands down.  Not a movie for the emotionally squeamish...brutally powerful...  Violent, excruciating truth and beauty...the raw emotional power imbued into the scenes with Wilkinson and Spacek are Oscar-worthy.  Marisa Tomei finally gets a role worthy of her talent since My Cousin Vinny.  Utterly unforgettable, and a slam-dunk certainty for some kind of oscar, whether screenplay, acting, or directorial.Wow.  "},{"Title":"Delivers what Movies are meant to deliver.","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have friends who do not want to see dark movies. Too depressing, given the news these days. I can understand that.But farce grows quite tiresome. Clever repartee is fine sometimes. Action films are frequently exhausting and you can only watch so many cars, trains, planes and buildings explode. Plus, you are hungry an hour later.This movie is a rare opportunity to miss excessive violence, pratfalls and smart-mouthed kids, teenage titillation, explosions, chases, stock characters, overacting and thin plot contrivances.Enjoy a movie where the characters are complex, the actors spot-on in their craft, and the story is compelling.Or don't. Independence Day is probably on cable somewhere. "},{"Title":"A Refreshingly Masterful Work of Art","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"29 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  `In The Bedroom' is a beautiful film, brilliantly paced, slow but steady, climaxing with Sissy Spacek's smashing of a plate on the kitchen floor, then rolling heavily into the intensity of the inevitable but shocking conclusion.Spacek's character describes the torture of the emotional rollercoaster she feels after the murder of her son It comes in waves, and then nothing... like a rest in music - no sound, but so loud.  Thusly she describes director Todd Field's unique story-telling style.  Much of his film seems to take place in that musical rest.The first and last acts are vaguely sprinkled with a hauntingly beautiful score by Thomas Newman.  But the center and longest act is void of score, leaving us to grapple with the non-cinematic, chillingly real emotions that these characters seem to be sharing directly with (or hiding distinctly from) the viewer.Cinematically speaking, the story is like an extremely well-crafted painting where the smallest, seemingly insignificant details are made noticeable in a device used by Field to allow us to peer deeper into the emotions set within the scene or shot - not merely at the shot itself.Unanswered questions and vague silences, which would never work in a more contrived picture, speak volumes here, adding shape and depth to the overall story.  And while some might see this film as morality play boosting corporal punishment and an eye for an eye mentality, ultimately it plays more as a story that tugs at the heartstrings and plays on one's fears purely for the sake of entertainment.  As much as one could look for moral opinions in Shakespeare's Hamlet, we moreover come away with an epic story told through masterful techniques - just as easily as with `In The Bedroom'.In The Bedroom is not a Hollywood action-flick.  This is not a summer-sizzle-fest or anything fitting of such tacky terminology.  This is a perfect example of modern Film-as-Art, a classically crafted story told by modestly stylized means, and it's good to see such quality work emerging in this era so saturated with cinematic cliché.Although quite unique, the film did bring to mind several other films that seem to compliment its style and mood Todd Haynes' Far From Heaven, Udayan Prasad's My Son The Fanatic, and Robert Redford's Ordinary People.  All are films that explore the dynamics of extreme challenge and change in the lives of thoroughly defined characters.  `In The Bedroom', however, seems to stand out in this company as the example of a masterpiece.GRADE A "},{"Title":"A dark drama that will have you glued to the screen","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes, it's fun to go see a movie without having any expectations, or even having knowledge of the basic plot or premise. It's also nice to see a movie that would usually get ignored in a crowded market get a large amount of attention without having the plot be too obvious from trailers or commercials. Although In the Bedroom has been in theatres for a number of months, it's only recently started getting attention and positive word of mouth after Sissy Spacek's Golden Globe nomination.Tom Wilkinson plays Dr. Matt Fowler and Sissy Spacek plays his music teacher wife, an older couple living in a small Maine fishing town, who become worried when their only son becomes involved with an older woman with two kids, played by Marisa Tomei. Their worries soon prove to be warranted, as the woman and her estranged husband proceed to destroy the teenager's life. Ultimately, it has a devastating effect on the couple's everyday life and their relationship.This movie is a fascinating and powerful character study of people in a small town and how conflict and tragedy affect them. It is a story that takes place in three clear-cut acts separated by two twists, both of which take the viewer by surprise although they're both foreshadowed and somewhat expected.It's hard not to compare this movie to the recently released Monster's Ball, one of my least favorite movies of last year, but it's a fair comparison, since it also showed a series of tragic and sudden events and how they affect the people in a small town. Unlike Monster's Ball, I found the actions and emotions of the characters in this movie to be a lot more plausible, and you can't help feeling the despair of the couple as they deal with their son's problems.In the Bedroom also compares to last year's The Deep End, and Sam Raimi's underrated A Simple Plan, two other slow movies that dealt with how small town folk deal with problems and how those problems sometimes lead to more drastic actions. It's never clear whether the Fowlers disapprove of their son's relationship is because the woman is older and has two kids or because of the problems that her estranged husband brings to the relationship. At times, it seems like the Fowlers' only worry is that their son may not go to college in order to stick around and take care of his older lover and her kids.Either way, the parents starts to drift apart due to their overpowering sense of grief and inability to change things, and it's not long before they're playing the blame game on who is responsible for their son's situation. When they finally explode, it's one of the most powerful film moments in recent memory. The shorter third act shows how they learn to cope and deal with their problems.Despite the slow pace and the excessive length, the performances and the beautiful yet subdued camerawork and choice of setting keeps the viewer riveted to the screen.It's been far too long since we've seen Sissy Spacek in a movie, and like this year's other comeback kid, Robert Redford, her age is showing. But her age also makes her perfect for the role of Ruth Lawler, as her world -weary eyes seem suitably representative of Ruth's own frustrations.Like last year's The Deep End and The Others, this movie shows how an over-protective mother can alienate her children while trying to help them. Spacek gives another groundbreaking performance that shows talented yet less experienced actresses Tilda Swinton. Nicole Kidman and especially Halle Berry how to create realistic emotions on screen. Late in the movie, there is a particularly tense yet short confrontation between Spacek and Marisa Tomei that shows how much better these two actresses are.Tom Wilkinson has played comedic parts in The Full Monty and has appeared in a number of period pieces including Sense and Sensibility and The Patriot. In the Bedroom proves him to be quite a talented dramatic lead actor, as his performance allows him the full range of emotions, and he creates a character as believable and real as Spacek's.First-time director Todd Field is probably best known as playing Nick Nightingale, the pianist who gets Tom Cruise in a bit of trouble in Stanley Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut. Field uses the Maine setting beautifully to create a portrait of the couple's life, and he uses the pacing to create insurmountable tension before driving a wedge between the couple. The script by Field and Robert Festinger is one of the better ones of the year with dialogue that is far too real, yet perfectly suited for talents such as Spacek and Wilkinson.Obviously, this movie will be getting a good deal of Oscar attention due to the performances by Spacek, Wilkinson, Tomei, and the terrific script. If you want to see action, go see Blackhawk Down; if you want to see the fine form of filmmaking as perfected by two master thespians and a talented new director, than In the Bedroom will have you riveted to the screen. Rating 9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"A Subtly Brilliant And Restrained Film About Human Nature, Instinct, And Emotion...","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Everything about this film is wonderfully done, from the restrained direction and acting, to the inexorable progression to tragic conclusion following preceding events. All the actors and acting are excellent, with a particularly subtle and brilliant portrayal by Tom Wilkinson as Dr. Fowler. Always great, he is, in my estimation, one of the unsung and underrated actors in film today. Sissy Spacek is also wonderful, and the inevitable emotional fall-out in their relationship after their shared experience is beautifully done. Very human - and very real. Though difficult to watch, it is a great film, great story, with great performances all around by gifted actors. Not to be unsung are the excellent performances by Marisa Tomei, and all the other supporting actors. A film that would benefit one to watch more than once, there is that much substance there. Worth paying particular notice to is the opening metaphor in the scene on the lobster boat where Tom Wilkinson (Dr. Fowler) explains the nature of how a lobster-trap works - and the name the lobster-men (and tradition) have given to the inner part of the trap. This is the metaphor for the human story that will, tragically, unfold. A great film, with great work all around. Todd Field is a director to remember. "},{"Title":"Not a False Moment to Be Found. Stunning.","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Every once in awhile, a filmmaker comes along and adds a pitch-perfect sensibility to a compelling story, well-written script, and perfect cast. This has happened with In the Bedroom. Though I saw, and enjoyed, director Todd Field's 2nd feature, Little Children, when it came out a few years back, I was truly astounded by In the Bedroom.At a time when Americans' tastes in films are getting more and more juvenile, In the Bedroom is that rare film; one aimed adults. The characters and story line is compelling, the shots kept simple, yet beautiful, and the feel of the film is as real as most you will see. In the Bedroom would fit in perfectly with the some of the films from golden age of the 70s film-making. Unfortunately, we are seeing this less and less of those types of films these days.It is hard to find a false moment, whether in dialogue or behavior, in this film. It deals with circumstances that we hear about every day, yet is no less captivating because of it. We are not clobbered over the head with the moments we are meant to feel deeply, yet they are apparent and often devastating to watch. There is an old saying, you know the truth when you see it, and that certainly applies to this film. There was a knot in my stomach the entire first 30 minutes of the film, as director Field slowly builds to something you know is inevitable, and almost can't bare to watch.Excellent performances turned in by Spacek, Wilkinson, Tomei, as well as all the supporting players. Proof, once again, that actors often make some of the finest directors. "}{"Title":"An acting masterclass","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" An exceptional film which emulates the astounding talents of Tom Wilkinson. I thought he was OK in The Full Monty, but he is exceedingly well cast in the role of father who is grieving inside the loss of his only child. Tom acts with intelligence and resounding compassion as a man driven to revenge. The film is delivered and directed with a slow build up of tension towards a shocking and absorbing climax. This film offers great performances from the ensemble of actors and is directed intelligently. It maybe a tragic and slow film but it will leave the audience empathising with the characters rather than sympathising with them. A truly remarkable and contemporary film. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Magnificent Films of the Decade","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" David Mamet, Eric Bogosian, Alexander Payne, and a million other misanthropic storytellers in film and out are all obsessed with familiar literary conceits regarding the middle-class and their American equivalent in Suburbia. The would-be cultural critics who point their pens and cameras on the American bourgeois insist this glossy sheen covers a subdura of rot and horror. Think of the opening scene in Blue Velvet &#151; the camera leers at a pristine lawnscape before sinking into a layer of munching insects. But satirists, especially weirdoes like Lynch and Todd Solondz, often lack subtlety when brutalizing their subjects. Todd Field has beaten them all by doing the opposite, by pulling us so close to the drama we're blinded with ambivalence. Few films have been more disturbing, more quietly devastating.Field's debut, In the Bedroom, based on an Andre Dubus short story, applies a scalpel to the internal and external horrors of a Maine seaside hamlet. Dr. Matt Fowler (Tom Wilkinson) and his wife, Ruth (Sissy Spacek), live quiet, relatively happy lives, respected in the community as people a bit better than their present stations. Matt is a family practitioner, a man of gentile affability who yearns for everyone to like him, something a family doctor yields easily; he's generous and naïve to a fault. Ruth is a bit more complicated &#151; a former academic and professor, she's been reduced to pawning her knowledge of Eastern European folk music onto a high school choir, something she probably resents. Theirs is a well-meaning but facile relationship &#151; they've long since stopped telling the truth in favor of being nice to one another. And both are somewhat guilty of projecting casual disappointments onto their son, Frank (Nick Stahl).Frank is a general success story &#151; a bright young kid possessing the self-effacing affability and good looks impossible not to like. His parents, and indeed the rest of the community, adore him. What Frank lacks in brute masculinity he makes up for in sexual prowess; he's run through a string of girlfriends, but the latest his parents find troubling. Natalie (Marisa Tomei) is a much older, freshly separated (but not divorced) mother of two young sons. Frank is allured by Natalie's beauty and unassuming nature; Natalie is allured by, well, everything Frank is. It's easy to see how the relationship would be mutually flattering, but Natalie is probably Frank's way of rejecting his parents. Ruth thinks the relationship is socially detrimental and will ultimately distract Frank from the architecture school he's poised to leave for at summer's end. Matt is concerned as well, but too proud of his son for romancing a woman he and his friends see fit to ogle. Matt beams with pride, even when his son damns him for marching eagerly in his own father's footsteps.To complicate matters, Natalie's not-quite-ex-husband, Richard (William Mapother), lurks in the fringes. If Frank is impossible not to love, Richard is impossible not to hate. He's the worst kind of man, whose brute anger and stupidity are matched by a slight physical ugliness, drunk with an entitlement so internalized he can't fathom when others don't give him what he wants. Natalie has left him, but he barges into her home regularly and harangues her for not wanting him, let alone canoodling with a younger man. Richard represents the brute atavism found in lower-class caricatures; he even says at one point No, I don't change; everything around me changes. Field hints that class miscegenation is at the heart of this conflict, but only just. Richard's family wields some power and money, but from a decidedly lower social echelon. In any case, it will only end in Frank's blood. And when that end comes, it's more harrowing than any horror film. Field blankets the entire film with dread, with suggestions of violence both emotional and physical. The middle section of the film, wherein Matt and Ruth confront a grief they're incapable of dealing with (who would be?), is as troubling as the actual death. The two can't talk to one another, to console or to blame, as each holds the other responsible for Frank's death; did Ruth push too hard or Matt not enough? Their marriage suppurates under guilt and resentment, and Field doesn't sully the atmosphere with actual words, but lets the emotions play in an understatement that mirrors Bergman or Ozu. Ruth wants to reach out to someone, to express the inexpressible. Matt, like so many men, can't describe what he feels even when he wants to; mostly he tries to pretend nothing has happened. I've never seen a portrait of grief to match In the Bedroom's quiet desperation.When the words finally arrive, they're screamed and hissed, the tension erupting from its horrible concealment. And maybe the two can forgive one another, but the sheer injustice of their loss gnaws at them, all the worse when it seems Richard will get off on a lenient manslaughter charge. Matt is galvanized with the masculine drive to fix things somehow, to mend his marriage and avenge their wrong at the same time. And with regards to the middle-class expressing the inexpressible, his options narrow to a grim inevitability.Richard's death, so implicitly yearned-for by character and audience, is nothing to celebrate; it's as horrible and damning as Frank's. Revenge might restore the balance Matt and Ruth yearn for, but the damage it will surely wreak on their humanity is truly disturbing. Field has crafted a vision of bourgeois America of devastating darkness &#151; that lower-class crimes of passion will be met with a savagery borne of cruel calculation which one is really worse? In the Bedroom is a film of horrifying human truths, executed with patience and skill, and all of it should break your f*cking heart. It is one of the most magnificent films of the decade. "},{"Title":"A Lesson in Acting","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was so well done, I felt as if I were an outsider, looking through someone's window. Then the tragedy occurs, we were treated to what probably would have happened after a crime of passion, the imprecision of the evidence, the lack of a witness, and the ability of the perpetrator to avoid prosecution. Mostly the movie is about acting. Sissy Spacek is amazing, so tightly wound and in control. Her somewhat passive husband becomes her foil until the fuse is lit. Then it all comes to a head. I can't imagine living through something like this where your allies become so worthless. There is a scene where the prosecuting attorney jingles his change and looks at his watch while spouting a bunch of meaningless jargon about justice. The father goes catatonic while this is happening. Things play out like they do in life; there are no winners and no losers. "},{"Title":"Truly Stunning!","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Todd Field's IN THE BEDROOM is an artistic and realistic portrait of domestic trouble in small-town America. Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson star as Ruth and Matt Fowler, the parents of a recent high school graduate, Frank (Nick Stahl), who has an affair with a married woman, Natalie (Marisa Tomei). A tragic event near the beginning of the film seems to stunt its action and dialogue, allowing the film to change into a largely visual piece based on memories, feelings, and silent communication; while the film's slow-moving camera, soft sunny lighting, and cautious pacing give it a resonating intensity. Set in coastal Maine, the Fowlers are a well-liked family with simple, straightforward values. Dr. Fowler has his own small medical practice. Mrs. Fowler directs the chorus at the high school. Frank is a good kid who is working on the fishing docks for the summer, waiting for college in the fall. Frank falls into a summer romance with Natalie, an older woman with two young sons and a creepy, lurking husband (William Mapother) from whom she is separated. The relationship is worrisome to Mr. and Mrs. Fowler, but they want to be supportive of their son so they gently nudge him to think about the bigger picture, without being overbearing. But when the unthinkable happens, Mr. and Mrs. Fowler come face to face with their worst nightmare. Quietly, calmly, and with the most logic they can muster, they begin a dark and dangerous psychological journey. The result, reinforced by stunning performances from Wilkinson and Spacek, is a pensive, penetrating, and utterly believable story. "},{"Title":"An Amazing Gift","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When a film with such emotional resonance and visual poise as In the Bedroom makes it to the screen, it seems an unexpected gift meant to remind us of the medium's possibility for sensitivity and epiphany. Director Todd Field, who adapted the film from a story by Andre Dubus, quietly observes the loss, rage, and inexorable desire for revenge that follows the murder of a 21-year-old son. The film opens with Frank (Nick Stahl), back from college for the summer, taking up with Natalie (Marisa Tomei), a slightly older, sexually alluring woman with two boys and an estranged husband prone to violence. It is the tender portrayal of love between Frank and his parents, even as Frank and Natalie's relationship reveals the prejudices of all involved, that makes the subsequent anguish of the film so acute. Matt and Ruth Fowler (Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek), middle-class denizens of a Maine lobster town where everyone knows each other, toil through weeks of devastation and blame following Frank's murder before their outrage obliterates all else. Field's exact handling of jealousy, class division, and grief is abetted by career-highlight performances from Wilkinson and Spacek. In the Bedroom is one of the Best American dramas to grace the new millennium so far "},{"Title":"Haunting, Powerful and Rare.","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Todd Field's In the Bedroom is a haunting plunge into one family's nightmare that's so superbly realized, it deserves all the attention it's currently enjoying--not to mention the awards it will eventually receive.Based on a short story by the late Andre Dubus, the film, which Maine-native Field co-wrote with Robert Fetsinger, stars Nick Stahl as Frank Fowler, a 21-year-old architectural student spending the summer lobstering in his hometown of Camden under the protective gaze of his parents, Matt and Ruth.As played by Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek, who deliver the best performances of their careers, Matt and Ruth have their own ideas about Frank's relationship with Natalie (Marisa Tomei), a married woman 10 years his senior who has two small children and an abusive husband (William Mapother) who dislikes being estranged.While Ruth is clear in her disapproval of Frank's relationship, Matt favors it, secretly enjoying the idea that his son has attracted the attention of an older woman, the type he might have fancied in his youth.But as this excellent film moves toward its stunning turning point, one that can't be revealed here because so much of the film's success hinges on its surprise, Matt and Ruth are forced to face the ramifications of their differences in opinion and all that has cost them.Field's focus, once on Frank and Natalie, suddenly shifts to Matt and Ruth, becoming an examination of the rage, guilt and grief boiling within them as their once stable marriage threatens to fall apart.With the exception of the film's opening, which features Natalie resting in a meadow straight out of Andrew Wyeth's painting Christina's World, Field resists the urge to romanticize Maine's landscape with clichéd, picturesque images of shimmering ocean vistas and pretty wooden docks.Instead, he uses those images as backdrops to frame the reality of coastal life-- canneries crowding the waterways, fish bait stinking up the docks. It's an insider's view that gets the small details right, respecting the complexity and beauty of Maine without sacrificing the truth.There is so much to enjoy and appreciate in In the Bedroom, I wanted to see it again upon leaving the theater. Filled with dozens of local extras, all of whom provide the authentic Maine accent that eludes its principal cast (as good as Tomei is, she sounds as if she's from a tough suburb of Boston), the film isn't just a triumph for Field, but one for the people of Maine.At my screening, which was sold out, a buzz went through the crowd each time a Maine landmark was recognized or when a member of the community took to the screen. For me, the moment came when Corinna Skall, a former assistant producer at Channel 2 who's now one-half of the popular Chuck and Cori morning show on Z-107, appears in a handful of scenes as a reporter.Toward the end of the movie, there's a shot of Camden Harbor that Mark Robson first captured in Peyton Place, the 1957 movie filmed in Camden 35 years ago that starred Lana Turner and Hope Lang.It's remarkable how little has changed, but what's just as interesting--and telling--is how this small bedroom community is still seducing audiences with the secrets it apparently keeps behind its closed doors.Grade A "},{"Title":"When Tragedy Strikes.....Chaos Strikes.","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  First-time director Todd Field's In the Bedroom is a dark and disturbing film which is both a joy and a trial to sit through. Recent high school graduate Nick Stahl is having a little bit of fun during his last summer of freedom. He is seeing Marisa Tomei (Oscar-nominated), a woman twice his age who has young children and is separated from her shady husband (William Mapother in an appropriately chilly performance). Mother and music teacher Sissy Spacek (Oscar-nominated) worries about the relationship while father and town doctor Tom Wilkinson (also Oscar-nominated) shrugs off the partnership as a simple summer fling. When tragedy strikes, the simple life in Camden, Maine turns into chaos for all involved. In the Bedroom is one of the roughest films I have ever watched. It is a movie that is thought-provoking in the fact that everything seems so normal and yet darkness looms overhead for the primary characters in the film. The fact that the film takes place in rural Maine just makes it that much more scary. When one thinks of situations from the movie occurring, few think of a place like Maine. Much like Fargo, In the Bedroom shows that bad elements are everywhere, even in the most unlikely of places. However, be warned that In the Bedroom does not go for the black humor that Fargo went for. This is a film that will chill you to the bone. It is a must-see and easily one of the top five or ten films of 2001. 5 stars out of 5.     "},{"Title":"Realistic, however slow","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be the most given-away movie ever, however, be forewarned, the following comments may give some of this movie away. (SPOILER) Although very well acted, this movie is much too slow, & not as compelling as it could have, or really should have been.  The 3 Oscar nominees are brilliant in their performances, however, are not really given the chance to shine in their roles. The one thing that was truely exceptional, were the realistic potrayals of Marisa Tomei, Sissy Spacek, & Tom Wilkinson.  When tragedy befalls Tomei's character, you almost can't help but feel her loss & angst that lies infront of her. Her brief encounter w/ Spacek after the tragedy is another well acted scene, & also the last one for Tomei, who didn't get enough screen time at all.  Showing more of her grief & sadness (which she did so well), would've helped add more drama to the movie. Spacek & Wilkinson as grieving parents, like Tomei, are very believable & very exceptional in some scenes.  Watching Spacek in her rage makes the viewer almost angry w/ her as she is tormented from her loss. Tom Wilkinson in the scene where he is subtlely crying in his son's bedroom, is so beyond realistic, it is frightening.  Both actors make you feel as if you are actually watching a true life story about a young life so tragically taken.  The only scene that was particularily disappointing was when the parents are fighting about who is to blame for what happend. Although the acting is not unsufficient, it is much too weak & not nearly as riveting as some of the previous scenes. As the movie winds down to the conclusion, it starts to drag.  The very last scene is somewhat confusing, although understanding to a certain effect. This is a mediocre movie that will stop & make you think, although if it wasn't for the acting, it would not be a film that I would reccomend at all. "},{"Title":"Another look at In the Bedroom","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I really liked In the Bedroom the first time I saw it. It's a movie with a monster who does not look like a monster. I recently watched the ending and appreciated the craft of the entire crew, especially the director in the choices he made. For me the movie is not about the crimes committed or who are your friends when times are bad, rather it's about that little monster that we have inside of us that when given the chance will choose for us to be and do unthinkable things.There are a lot movies that I've seen that never warrant a second look, much less a third or fourth. That's because the director has played all of his/her cards right up front. Once you seen the movie once there is nothing else to see. With In the Bedroom I noticed the quiet, there was no constant music theme interrupting my thoughts. I noticed the performances of Wilkinson, Spacek and Marisa Tomei.. The Tomei role intrigued me. I remembered her best as Lisa Bonet cocky room mate in the first season of TV sitcom A Different World. I noticed the crabs and the town, how there seemed be no diversity.My second look, had me pay closer attention to monster, played with perfection by Sissy Spacek. Even in her mid fifties Sissy Spacek is cute and we all had cute monsters in our life. Monsters are things that a far more relentless then we are. Monsters get what they want, with out ever compromising. They are unreasonable, like Javier Bardem in No Country for Old Men or Daniel Day-Lewis, in There Will Be Blood. Movies where the monster wins leaves the audience dissatisfied, but will to go back and take another look. My most recent look got me paying attention to the scenery, how beautiful old towns, bay views, dense forest and sea ports are. That no matter how beautiful nature is, it is relentless and will get its way. "},{"Title":"Quality drama goes in unexpected directions","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The opening scene of two young lovers frolicking in a field sets an idyllic tone that evolves to tragic death by the end of the first act. Unexpected changes of course typify the story.In the first act we meet the players. The lovers are Frank Fowler and Natalie Strout. Natalie is separated from her abusive husband and has two young boys; Frank is the son of Matt and Ruth Fowler. The Fowlers live in a small Maine town where Matt is a medical doctor and Ruth is a Brown graduate with an interest in Eastern European folk songs. The basic tension between the two cultures of Natalie and Richard versus the Fowlers is developed quickly, but with depth - we feel that we know these people and what they are thinking about each other. The class conflicts are not of wealth but of lifestyle. Natalie's husband Richard is the son of a well-to-do lobster fishing magnate, but he is a crude bully. Between raising her kids and dealing with Richard, Natalie has had a difficult life. On the other hand Dr. Fowler plays in poker games where it is not unusual for someone to spontaneously quote from poems of Blake and Longfellow. Ruth reads books on the Wyeths (in fact the opening scene is so reminiscent of Andrew Wyeth's painting Christina's World that some of director Field's imagery must have been inspired by Wyeth). Frank is going to an upper class school with a talent and passion for architecture. In one telling scene he is expressing his appreciation for a particular home design to Natalie and her reaction clearly indicates that she has not often been around people with intellectual passions. The second act deals with the effects of Frank's death and you get about as detailed a look at the consequences of tragedy on a marriage as you are likely to see. The movie title is apt, it's as if we were allowed into a bedroom where intimate matters are discussed that no one will ever know but those in that room. We come to know the secrets of Matt and Ruth in such a personal way that we are almost embarrassed by our being such willing voyeurs. Never has grief been so acutely portrayed and it will be the unusual person who is not gripped by it. Grief gives way to anger - anger at the cause of the death and anger at a justice system that moves at a snail's pace and places a heavy onus on the plaintiff to prove something in a court of law.The third act concerns an act of vigilantism on the part of Dr. Fowler. This seems out of character on his part until the brief final scene makes you realize that he is more motivated by marital considerations than by revenge. This movie is about a marriage, not about revenge.The acting is thoroughly convincing. The three main actors - Tom Wilkinson, Sissy Spacek, and Marisa Tomei - received well-deserved Oscar nominations. The entire cast is first rate. From the moment that Richard (William Mapother) comes on the scene he projects a foreboding presence.The screenplay is tight and insightful. For example, when Ruth is describing her feelings of grief to her minister, she says, It comes in waves, and then nothing. Like a rest in music. No sound, but so loud. This comment could be applied to the movie itself. Particularly effectively portrayed is how, in the throes of a personal crisis, day-to-day life seems so insignificant and meaningless.A final thought I had about this movie is how we have come to expect and accept quality cinematography. There is nothing special about the filming here, it's just extremely well done - the climatic scene between Ruth and Matt, as they move from room to room, is particularly impressive. This is an example of your not tending to notice things when they are done well, but only when not.This story is simple in its telling but complex in its themes. It engaged me from beginning to end. "}{"Title":"CBS Sunday Night Movie of the Week *SPOILER*","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dead script, Spacek is convincing but where's the focus? The emotions are predictable. It seems at times that director Field is trying to be *clever* with the camera, to what end? There is no core to this movie, it might as well continue wandering along from one scene to the next, why end the movie where it does? Revenge is boring and obvious. If someone had the nerve to recite a poem to me after a plea for emotional support I'd throw my cards down on the table and walk out of the room, I almost stopped the DVD right there it was so unbearable. Do you have any Tabasco sauce? Not believable. Why all the focus on the son when he dies 30 minutes into the film? Why the conflict with the son leaving after the summer and abandoning the children if we don't hear anything about the children after he dies? Why focus on their love, or his architecture!? if the movie is really about the parents' grieving, I mean revenge, I mean government bureaucracy, I mean small town life, I mean domestic violence...or is it childhood attachment? But it's about all of these things. Precisely, and because of that it's about nothing, it leaves you empty. I know I'm angry but I think I have a right to be, there are movies that really change something in you when you see them because they're thoughtful. I've never written a review for a movie before but this time I felt I had to, given the critical acclaim.  "},{"Title":"**Possible Spoilers Ahead** Excellent - Works at Every Level","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom was one of those films that I heard about but never saw, because of the misleading title.  I watched it for the first time last night and am glad I did.  A fantastic cast, wonderful performances, and solid direction.Wilkinson and Spacek play a normal New England couple whose world is almost destroyed when their college-age son is murdered by the ex-husband of his older girlfriend (Tomei).  When it appears that our legal system is unable to do the right thing, Wilkinson and his best friend take things into their own hand and eventually do what justice cannot.I was totally sucked into this film and cannot even remember if it had a musical score.  While it dragged a little in the middle, maybe this was necessary to set up the audience for the inevitable, and violent ending. Director Todd Field accomplished more in one steady shot than most directors do in whole scenes, like when he centered the camera on the license plate of Wilkinson's Saab as he observed his son's killer at his place of work. The bottom of the plate had one word; Veteran; This told the audience several things - that Wilkinson probably knew how to handle weapons, that he may have been in combat, or at a minimum, that he was trained how to kill by the military.  This same fact was also established for Wilkinson's partner in crime as the camera panned across numerous photos of him obviously taken during the Vietnam War.I also liked the part when Wilkinson abducted the killer and forced him to turn on a baseball game on the radio, as opposed to having to converse with the man he knows murdered his only son.  Not only did it eliminate the need for conversation in the car (as he guided the killer to his own death), but it showed that Wilkinson did not want to relate to the murderer; that he wanted the man to remain an object,as opposed to a human being - this, probably making it easier to kill him in the end.While it's a matter of opinion as to whether or not Wilkinson was justified in murdering his son's killer, the film expertly shows the trauma experienced by the family of murder victims and how normal law abiding citizens can be forced to take matters into their own hands and do what needs to be done, even if it involves breaking the law. "},{"Title":"Wanted to like the movie... couldn't.","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wanted to like this movie. But I didn't. That about sums it up. The movie follows a plot, and beats it to death by showing us several hundred shots of Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek in grievance. It's not that these two wonderful actors (although I liked Wilkinson, and not so much Spacek) don't have reason to be upset, but I wish I hadn't been forced to watch several hundred fragmented scenes that were all only about fifteen seconds long. After a certain number of shots of sad faces, I was not sorry for them anymore and became upset that the plot wasn't going anywhere. Then it did, spinning in a direction and ending in a climax that seemed totally unmotivated and unreal. (Note When Matt Fowler comes into the bedroom the final time, I totally predicted Ruth's line to the word... because I had been thinking, I would be so mad if she said this... and then she did. Crazy.) There were maybe three really exciting scenes, one in which the wonderful but under-utilized Marisa Tomei (whose accent may or may not have been a bit unsettled... are you British or southern?) got to act really hard. The rest of the movie was virtually silent, with a lot of shots of wheat-colored New England. Besides being dull to look at and hear, it was dull to watch. With the exception of Wilkinson, whose acting was amazing but character suffered, the cast (for which I had had such high hopes -- hello! Sissy Spacek!) was weak. I'm glad I saw it, but I didn't like it. Too bad, I guess. Rent it if you want, you should always make your own judgments about movies... this could possibly be your favorite movie. Don't let me stop you. ) "},{"Title":"Absolutely Terrible","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wanted to like this film so much, but I can't help feeling that I was cheated out of two hours of my life that I can never get back.  The main problem lies in the fact that this is supposed to be a realistic look at tragic events in a small town and the emotional devastation two parents feel over the murder of their son.  Yes, most of the acting was naturalistic and nuanced, but I didn't buy for a single moment any of the main turn of events.  I blame this on a hackneyed script and over confident director (Todd Field seemed to be screaming Oh, look at me, I can do long meditative shots of pretty drapes blowing in a breeze, oh, aren't I artistic?).*SPOILER ALERT* I did not believe that Marisa Tomei's character would seriously date a college age boy.  I also did not believe that her ex-husband would actually kill him (beat him up and harass him, yes, but shoot him...I just did not see that in the character).  Finally, I did not believe that Tom Wilkinson's character would seek out revenge in the fashion that he did.  The scenes that were supposed to be chilling and revelatory were for me just plain predictable and unrealistic.As for the acclaimed acting, it was good given the made-for-TV-movie plot they were stuck in.  I think Marisa Tomei was better, however, playing a similar character in Unhook the Stars.  Tom Wilkinson was solid, but he still didn't make me believe that he was capable of doing what he did in the end.  As for Sissy Spacek, for me she was simply method acting, and was far better doing it in a supporting role like the one she had in David Lynch's The Straight Story.It's amazing that two god-awful films were nominated for best picture for 2001.  While this film is horrible, at least it isn't in the running for worst picture of all time on my list like the stupifying Moulin Rouge. "},{"Title":"engaging and well-told story","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those rare movies that's about process rather than formula. It builds up to its Big Dramatic Event much earlier than most movies, then spends the majority of the film exploring the event's aftermath and how the characters cope.  Beautifully shot against the coastal Maine landscape, with strong performances by Spacek and Wilkinson.  It can get dark at times but it keeps you engaged, wondering where the plot will turn next. "},{"Title":"Sleeper of the Year?","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sleeper of the year?  Yes, I challenge you to find a more boring, slow-paced movie in this or any other year.  I was mystified as I sat watching this movie, considering the glut of praising reviews I had read for it prior. This has to rank as perhaps the most overrated movie I have ever seen.  One particularly misguided reviewer went so far as to even call it a thriller.No folks, pretentious camera angles, plodding dialog and short seemingly meaningless scenes that end abruptly do not make a movie interesting.  They just make it irritating.I read where someone has called this movie a disturbing classic.  The only thing disturbing about it, is that it is being touted as one of the year's best movies.I think this movie had enough plot to make perhaps a 15 minute movie. Stretching it to a length of 130 minutes is the epitome of overindulgence.At the conclusion of movie, I was tempted to ask the other 7 or so patrons what they thought of the movie.  As I looked around, I decided that probably it would be better idea not to wake them yet as they looked so peaceful in their slumber.  Something tells me though, they would have agreed In the Bedroom is the Sleeper of the Year!.  "},{"Title":"A literate film, but a disappointment nevertheless","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  First, let it be said that this field is superior to 90% of what emanates fr. Hollywood these days.  It is literate, with intelligent, thoughtful characters.  Cinematography of the Maine coast is gorgeous.However, the plot of this film which takes a terribly tragic direction could have been warmly emotional & far more engaging.  If you haven't yet seen the movie, pls. stop reading here.After the son's death, the parent's could have developed a supportive relationship w. Marisa Tomei's character & her two sons.  After all, I feel that Marisa Tomei & the son's (her lover's) character are far more engaging & hopeful than Spacek & Wilkinson's as the parents.  Instead, the parents take an astringent & unforgiving direction, making the film excruciatingly spare.  Neither provides us anything, by the film's conclusion, which allows us to sympathize w. them.  And their decisions at the film's ending (to kill their son's murderer) are so extreme & bizarre as to be off putting.  I found them both to be uninvolving characters ultimately making the film uninvolving as well.After reading the NY Times rave review I really wanted (& expected) to like this film.  But I really did not like it at all. "},{"Title":"Interesting idea unfulfilled","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom features a dramatically interesting premise.  How do a father and mother, who have not been open to their son's relationship with an older woman (who is not yet divorced and who is raising her young son alone), deal with the grief when that relationship results in their son's death?As such, In the Bedroom could have been an incredible look at grief and the grieving process that a family goes through when losing someone who was on the verge of becoming a successful young man.  But In the Bedroom takes a tangential turn in its third act that, in my opinion, undermines the film's premise.  It also leaves some of its characters (including two of its main characters) grossly underwritten and underdeveloped.Tom Wilkinson is truly great (and the main reason to see the film) as the young man's father who seeks relief for his grief through ways that actually lower him to the level of the man who killed his son.  Sissy Spacek is good, although her role is one of the two that lacks any depth whatsoever.  We are told by Wilkinson's character (after the fact) that she has been a cold-hearted, selfish woman.  Yet we haven't really witnessed anything that would prepare us for that revelation.  This is, of course, not Spacek's fault.  She tries hard in her role and comes off very well, but the intricacies of her character are absent in the writing.The same goes for Marisa Tomei, as the young mother whose ex-husband has killed her new boyfriend.  She gives it her all in a dramatic and very well-played role.  But the role, like Spacek's, is underdeveloped and literally disappears with one quarter of the movie still left to go.  And her disappearance leaves a large, gaping hole in the development of not only her character, but also of the Spacek character.A great deal of praise has been heaped on In The Bedroom, and normally such universal praise would indeed signal a praise-worthy movie.  But while In The Bedroom has some fine scenes and excellent performances, it is lacking a great deal when it comes to character development.  It also forces its hand with overt dashes of symbolism, such as the title reference and a final shot that does nothing short of hit you over the head with its meaning, almost as if the filmmakers are screaming, Do you get it? "},{"Title":"Whatever!!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Note - details about the movie that could be considered spoilers.I have to say I did not enjoy this movie.  I generally like every movie I see - some more than others - but this was just so dreadfully boring. Every review I heard or read talked about how controlling the Sissy Spacek character is and how she is trying to keep her son away from his girlfriend. I don't know what they saw, but if you are hosting a b-day party in your backyard for your son's girlfriend's son and attending soccer games, I do not think you are trying to keep him away from her too much.  Yes, she made comments here and there and subtly tried to get him away from her, but I in no way saw her as controlling.  The guy did what he wanted.Once the poor guy died, the movie died right along with him.  Marissa Tomei needed to be in it more.  What did Sissy Spacek do that was so groundbreaking?  I say bravo to her smoking, sleeping and sitting on the couch & watching tv skills.  She also played the silent-type quite well. She finally yelled once and broke a bowl.  I did not find anything she did award-winning.  I think I could have played her role - practically anyone could have!  If anyone deserved a nomination (not a win) it was Tom Wilkinson.And lastly, the big shock of the movie.  Who didn't see the 2nd murder coming a mile away?  I kept thinking this can't be the big shock of the movie, there has to be something more.  I was expecting the Sissy Spacek character to have committed suicide when her husband returned home from doing his deed.  Then, when she went downstairs, I thought maybe he would have committed suicide.  This was called In The Bedroom wasn't it???? Shouldn't something shocking happen there?  How often were they ever in the bedroom?  Hardly at all and when they were, nothing happened.  Sissy puffed on her cigarette as she sewed and they boringly, briefly talked.This was by far one of the worst movies I've seen and I can't believe all the hoopla over it.  What a joke!!  "},{"Title":"Awards? Why?","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am anxious to hear from some of you out there who are avid moviegoers. The general public. My wife and I have seen more than 75 movies this year. All the buzz among the critics (they are the authorities so it seems) is that this is one of the best movies of the year. Already one several awards for the movie and sissy spacek. Why? What am I missing that they see?  What makes them think this is such a wonderful Oscar caliber movie? What didn't I see? As an example, we think that Life as A House was the best movie of the year, yet it has not been mentioned anywhere by anyone. Why? Are we dumb, crazy, not observant?  I venture to say that seeing 75 movies in a year is significantly higher than the norm but less than the critics.  It is really bothersome to us as to the explanation. This was a good movie, not great, not oscar caliber, Sissy did nothing for me, the husband did more and Marissa was fantastic but only in it for about 8 minutes. Please your comments someone anyone... "}{"Title":"Disturbing and fascinating film","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the Bedroom is a 2001 film that examines the ramifications of grief on a marriage. This was done in Ordinary People where the focus was really on the son and his coming to terms with a family tragedy. In Damage, the focus is on a love affair that brings tragedy to a family. In the Bedroom is about two people, Ruth and Matt Fowler (Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson) dealing with unacceptable loss. Their college-bound son Frank (Nick Stahl) is dating a separated and almost-divorced woman Natalie (Marisa Tomei) with two small children. She's older than he is, and her almost ex Richard (William Mapother) is violent, volatile and obsessed with her. He badly wants to reconcile. Frank's mother (Sissy Spacek) is disapproving of the union while his father (Tom Wilkinson) believes it's a summer fling and doesn't intrude. During an altercation with Richard, Frank is killed. Natalie, en route down the stairs at the time, doesn't see Richard pull out the gun, so Richard ends up looking at a manslaughter charge. When the Fowlers learn that the man who murdered their son won't get the punishment that is really due him, they are devastated.Ruth, on leave from teaching music, sits on the couch all day watching TV and smoking cigarettes while Matt goes back to his practice as a doctor. The two basically stop speaking and interacting. When they finally have a confrontation, they each blame the other for Frank's death, Matt claiming Frank kept seeing Natalie to spite the controlling Ruth, and Ruth insisting that Matt gave his approval for the relationship because he and all his friends wanted the attractive Natalie and envied Frank his youth and piece of ass. The air cleared, Ruth tells Matt what has been tormenting her; Matt wants to help.In the Bedroom is primarily a character-driven story, something in these days of special effects that's not often seen today. One couldn't ask for better actors than Wilkinson, Spacek, Tomei and Mapother, as well as a strong supporting cast. Wilkinson is magnificent as a doctor whose calmness and acceptance of his usual daily and weekly activities, such as his poker game and visiting friends in their cabin hides a terrible anger and sorrow. There is no artifice to Wilkinson, no obvious acting choices, just simple acting of the truth of a character so that it seems organic to him. If Wilkinson is calm, Spacek's Ruth is downright catatonic as she stares straight ahead at the television puffing her cigarettes, stiffly goes about her business in town and gives a friend a fake, bright smile when a woman talks about her grandchildren. Finally back to work, she puts on her earphones and listens to the music she is teaching her chorus, making notes, taking a second out to slap Natalie in the face when she comes to give her condolences. Then she quickly and deliberately goes back to her music, her expression never changing. It is one of the most powerful scenes in the film. The film takes on different personas, which is perhaps a criticism - it's a light summer film about parents dealing with a young son's love affair, it's a tragic story of grief, and then it becomes black with horror. However, you'll never be bored, and the characters will keep you constantly fascinated.The bedroom is part of a lobster trap - the explanation of this starts the film, which is filled with images - a bridgekeeper changing traffic direction, manipulating the bridge by running in circles - an idyllic cabin setting that takes on two meanings. It has been some weeks since I've seen it, but I can't shake the final scenes, particularly the last moments of the film. So very ordinary. It's haunted me ever since. "},{"Title":"A classic small-town family tragedy told with visual prowess","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the Bedroom is a very quiet film that is shot and acted in a very restrained manner. Todd Field, who is essentially the man responsible for the film, uses a technique that is all too fitting for the story he tells shocking tragedy in a family and the way it changes people.In the Bedroom is about a family in Maine consisting of a husband and wife (Wilkinson and Spacek) and their only son Frank (Nick Stahl) who is in college, home for the summer, and romantically involved with an older woman (Marisa Tomei) who has two children and an ex- husband (William Mapother, currently of LOST fame). The trouble occurs as Frank naively believes he can continue his love affair without repercussions and eventually tragedy occurs.The film's true beauty comes with character reaction to the tragedy. Wilkinson and Spacek are both perfect at showing an inner monologue without saying anything, which fits Field's style a series of stills held for long periods of time (sometimes shorter but feel longer) without almost any camera movement. When the camera doesn't move, your eye has a tendency to explore and your mind a tendency to reflect, which allows the viewer to empathize with the life-altering epiphanies of the characters as they struggle. A lot is then placed on the actors to draw attention to themselves through facial expressions.Field's style also does really well with suspense. A film shot in a more typical fashion would have a very light and easy feel given the setting, but this technique give it a more ominous feel. Field really masters this film from a director's chair, but instead of an Oscar nomination for that, the credit all went to his equally strong screenplay instead.If you can handle the slow parts and keep your mind (and your eyes) open, In the Bedroom is an incredibly well-told story with dynamite acting. Family tragedy has never been so real and believable because Field gets you to know exactly where his characters are coming from. It's a treat when something so simple (less than $2M budget) can be so great. "},{"Title":"The small town seaport of Camden, Maine rivals Peyton Place as a setting for  romance and jealousy.","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  ****Contains Spoilers**** How director Todd Field (TV series Once and Again) gets so much right in his first feature film, In the Bedroom, but lets it slip away is only one of the mysteries to be solved in this slow-moving story about wife abuse and retaliatory murder.Marisa Tomei (What Women Want), an estranged wife and mother of two young boys, and Nick Stahl (TV series Seasons of Love), her grad school bound younger lover, get the movie off to a fast start with an energetic romp in a meadow on the outskirts of the seaside village of Camden, Maine.Okay, it's a bit clichéd, but their sensuous roll in the grass is so joyful it's hard not to celebrate their passions with them.  Seize the moment, there'll be no such joy to be found elsewhere in the film.The cinematic portrait the director paints of  New England small-town life --its piney woods, its rocky harbor, its everyday people-- is Andrew-Wyeth authentic.  Plain, simple, straightforward, there's no doubt he's captured the sense of this place and has a strong feeling for its inhabitants.  But like the outsiders who invade David Mamet's picture post-card town in State and Main,  the  leading cast members of  In the Bedroom never quite blend in with the scenery.Tomei is a cashier in a convenience story, seemingly happy with her blue collar lot - except when bothered by her husband (William Mapother), who's angry about her relationship with Stahl.  Stahl is a talented artist whose parents want him to go to grad school, but he's thinking of keeping on with his summer job  as a lobster fisherman.Sissy Spacek is an efficient mom, controlling wife, and leader of the girl's high school chorus.  The dad (Tom Wilkinson) is the town doctor with a comfortable practice but  happiest when he's out on the lobster boat with his son or playing cards with his cronies - who deliver up the movie's most genuine moments.Only the son seems to know his mom has turned his dad into an errand boy.  But when he is killed (murdered?), we miss the pensive energy he brought to the film.  Just as we miss the energy of Tomei when she disappears from the script and the  angry mother and grieving father become the film's central focus.From here on out the plot becomes melodramatic, the characters overly confused, and the movie slowly collapses under its own weight.Though Sissy Spacek has received the kind of praise originally heaped upon Mary Tyler Moore for her performance in Ordinary People, Spacek's role in In the Bedroom has a Norman-Rockwell simplicity that conceals the depth of character she's truly capable of portraying.The same could be said about the movie itself - In the Bedroom promises more than it delivers.  "},{"Title":"Awards aside, a very rewarding film","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" As I sat at the Montreal World Film festival in 2001 and saw the newcomer writer/director Todd Field present his first feature film, I had little indication that I was in the presence of greatness. Low-key, humble, humane like his film, Field merely let the film speak for itself. Apparently, the buzz he created at Sundance and the Special Jury Price win for his dramatic leads, Wilkinson & Spacek, did not get to his head. He would end up winning an award himself at the Montreal World Film Festival. The FIPRESCI Prize - Special Distinction with the very revealing reasoning for intelligent restraint in the story telling.Fast-forward to Golden Globes and Oscar nominations, including Best Picture and Best adapted screenplay. Todd Field came out as both a great writer for the screen, being able to translate a novel properly, passionately, powerfully, yet subtly to film and a director that got the very best out of his acting ensemble. Tom Wilkinson, Sissy Spacek & Marisa Tomei were nominated for acting awards abound and Field's vision, with crafty dialogues and apt directing allowed them to give these extraordinary performances.The context of suburbia life is something he would tackle again, in a different yet equally masterful way in Little Children (2006), but the slow undertone of mixed, confusing, potent, under the surface emotions have rarely been so effective than in this fine film.Go discover Todd Field's welcomed intelligent restraint. Field's film is a recipe for a dose of self-discovery & wisdom. "},{"Title":"Straightforward drama doesn't dig deeply enough...","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Easy-going married couple worry over their son when he becomes involved with an attractive mother of two, recently separated from her volatile husband. Personal story of loss, how close-knit people deal differently with tragedy (and also how women manipulate men), has haunting moments but isn't an emotional powerhouse--it doesn't dig deep into your heart and make itself memorable. Todd Field's direction is straightforward and smooth, and he shows a stylish eye for minute details, but the screenplay (which Field co-adapted with Rob Festinger from Andre Dubus' short story Killings) is perhaps too matter-of-fact. The cast is solid and elevates the script, which holds little mystery for us. The picture is admirable, but it leaves one puzzled with its cool and distant touch. It stays haltingly on the surface. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"when good films go bad (warning possible spoilers)","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Watching this film, every thing seemed to be going so well, until the last 10-15 minutes. An interesting plot, the shock of the the death of the main couple's son so early in the film, an intriguing atmosphere, the maine setting and a detailed picture of a small community, and excellent performances, particularly from tom wilkinson. It seemed the film would be an adult study of grief and how it can destroy relationships or make them stronger. How disappointed I was then to see it turn into a juvenile revenge fantasy destroying at a stroke all the good work the film had put in. saying that I should have seen it coming, when their son's killer is given bail, a development which struck me at the time as unbelievable, but of course necessary for the films disappointing outcome. overall then a film which should have been great but which shoots itself in both feet at the very end. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went to see this film with much anticipation, given the excellent reviews and Oscar nominations.  While it is much better than most of the juvenile fluff out there, I don't understand the hype.  The acting is solid, with Tom Wilkinson being exceptional among the cast.  It was great to see Sissy Space again, but I found her character to have one emotional note throughout and her character's cigarette smoking was completely unnecessary and distracting.  I find the positive comments about the cinematography odd, since I found myself paying attention to the camera angles too many times; if I notice, it's not subtle enough for my taste.  My main complaint is that it was just too long.   "},{"Title":"A powerful exploration of grief","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  With top-notch performances all round, this emotional  rollercoaster delivers punch. Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek deliver heart-rending performances as their world gradually falls apart, with warts and all there for us to see.  As the story develops the intensity keeps pace, and one cannot help fill deep empathy with characters that struggle to adapt to a world that has robbed them of something most precious. An explosive finale is delivered, and the film may not have won a clutch of Oscars, but has won the minds of the cinema-going public. Excellent. "},{"Title":"Scenes from a Tragedy","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom (2001/Todd Field) **** out of ****(SPOILERS)Outside of the big cities and somewhere off the interstate, there lies a picturesque small town. Most of us have been through one. Some of us might even have lived in one. You know what I'm talking about. The type of town where everyone knows each other's names. The kind of town that makes it seem like every house has a white picket fence. But what we don't see is inside the houses, and the conflicts and struggles that the people living within the house go through. And most importantly, we don't see the fights, arguments, and confessions that are expressed in the bedroom.The film is about a couple in a small town in Maine (Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek), whose 20 year-old son Frank (Nick Stahl) is dating an older woman (Marisa Tomei) whose ex-husband Richard (William Mapother) has a short temper and uses violence to express his anger. Then, the worst possible thing happens Richard murders Frank. That is where the film takes a 'Psycho-like' spin and wides up as a film about grief and revenge.This film is a masterpiece. It is quiet and observant, and shows the trouble and hardships that come out of an unexpected tragedy. All the performances are amazing and are delivered to perfection. It is filled with many great scenes as well. One of my favorite scenes is when Marisa's character goes to visit Spacek after Frank is murdered, and asks her if she wants to talk. Spacek sits there and stares at her, and then out of nowhere, slaps her. The whole time, she says nothing...and she doesn't need to say anything. We can tell by Spacek's acting what her character is feeling. I won't reveal the second twist, but I will say that the best scene is the ending, when Tom Wilkinson is lying in the bedroom, as his wife repeatedly asks him if he wants something to eat or some coffee, but he just sits there, and says nothing. Another great aspect of the film is the truthful and honest storytelling, and the writing gives the character's justice, and portrays them as realistically as possible. This is a real town (I know because I have been there), and these are real people. They have real conversations. There are two great scenes that stand out to show that these people are real. One of them being the scene after the funeral, when Tom Wilkinson goes up to his son's room and touches his pillow, and looks over all of his things. He then silently weeps. And when Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson have their big fight, in the middle of it, they are interrupted by a girl selling cookies door to door. This is a great example of how realistic the film is.In the Bedroom is quite simply the best film of the century (so far). It is realistic, honest, well acted, and sad. It is not to be missed by anyone.-30- "},{"Title":"Closeted Direction","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This film has developed a following, it is said, because of the fine performances. I suspect its endorsement of warm vigilantism in post 9-11 society has something to do with it as well, down to the resemblance of the plant to a refinery.This is a very polished work, in three acts. The central portion -- which is also the heart of the film -- is miniepisodic. Some scenes only last a few seconds, most with little or no dialog followed by fades to black. These are effective, but in a theatrical rather than a cinematic sense. And that's what's wrong here.An actor is in charge, not a filmmaker. He, therefore crafts a vehicle for the art of acting. This he does well, and is helped by a script that implies that all these characters are acting themselves. But no feat of acting, no matter how great, can satisfy us when we enter that dark space and turn our visual imagination over. For that we need someone who imagines the experience visually first, and then supports it with actors rather than the other way around. If this were approached like `Ice Storm' was, it might be a life-altering experience. As it is, we have simply another amusement, where we are taken nowhere unsafe by skilled guides.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "}{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love it when America produces a QUIET movie without tons of US cliches. Thank you, try it more! This movie is so intense it hurts. I am sure many moviegoers will confuse quiet with boring - sad for them! I almost forgot Spacek should have won that Oscar. So subtle, so genuine.  "},{"Title":"Slow....very, very slow.....and unpleasant....but exceptional.","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the Bedroom is a rather unpleasant and very slow film. I guarantee that many folks will not want to watch this film or will give up partway through it. This is because although the movie is exceptionally well made, it's also incredibly sad and its pace is like lead. Now this isn't really a complaint--just some reasonable observations about the film. So, keep this in mind before you decide to watch.The film begins with a relationship that seems rather irrational and doomed. A married woman with children is getting a divorce. In the meantime, she's having a relationship with a young man who appears to be about 18 or perhaps 19. The woman (Marissa Tomei) is significantly older and the young man is supposed to be going off to college--and his mother (Sissy Spacek) naturally wants the young man to focus on school and not this still-married woman. Soon, the estranged husband returns and begins pressuring the wife to take him back--and he becomes very violent. The wife and the boyfriend are morons--they don't go to the police and the husband's behavior escalates until he murders the young man. All this occurs in the first third of the movie and the rest of the film consists of showing the parents (Spacek and Tom Wilkenson) dealing with their grief. Neither really talks about it and they internalize their pain and become distant from one another. However, rather unexpectedly, the movie takes a very drastic and violent turn at the end--one that is quite satisfying to see but which also is difficult to watch.It's important to point this out, the portrayals of the parents coping with their grief is incredibly well done and realistic. But who wants to see this? Not most folks. In many ways it reminded me of Rabbit Hole--another amazingly well acted film about parental grief that is brilliant but difficult to watch. And, since most folks don't want to be THIS depressed, they're movies you should think twice about before you watch. Exceptional....and unpleasant. "},{"Title":"In The Bedroom Is One Of The Best Films Ever Made","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the Bedroom is a film that stars Tom Wilkinson, Sissy Spacek, Nick Stahl, Marisa Tomei, and William Mapother. First-time director Todd Field, who adapted the film from a story by Andre Dubus with screenwriter Rob Festinger, quietly observes the loss, rage, and inexorable desire for revenge that follows the murder of a 21-year-old son.Frank Fowler is a handsome and amiable young man who has recently graduated from high school and is spending the summer working as a lobster fisherman before heading off to college in the fall. Frank is also involved with Natalie, an attractive woman ten years his senior who is separated from her husband Richard, though their divorce has not yet been finalized. Frank's parents, Matt and Ruth wonder if it's wise for their son to be pursuing a romance that he won't be able to continue in a few months; Matt trusts Frank and leaves him to make his own decisions, while Ruth quietly but firmly registers her objections. One day, Richard snaps, and breaks into Natalie's home; when he discovers Frank is there, he viciously kills him. The wheels of justice turn in an unexpected direction, and Richard is released on bail, free to go his own way as he awaits his trial. Matt and Ruth are both deeply traumatized by the event; while Matt tries to deal with his hurt by retreating into his work and avoiding his feelings, Ruth instead becomes increasingly withdrawn, losing interest in her job as a music teacher and spending her nights chain smoking in front of the television.Field's exact handling of jealousy, class division, and grief is abetted by career-highlight performances from Wilkinson and Spacek which makes this movie so emotionally pure and rigorous that you're more than willing to go along with it.Also,this will definitely lingers in the mind, suffusing melancholy with the fateful pall of dread that hangs over all of life's pleasures.The story and direction are powerful enough. But it's the acting that elevates this film.It definitely works at all levels. "},{"Title":"in the bedroom will stay in your mind","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" First of all, to the 'idjit' who found the flick boring, I award two free tickets to a slasher movie celebration or, a Bugs Bunny cartoon. That will suit his mentality.Question why the R rating? It should have been a PG-13. The story of conflict within the family will hit home to many. The ending may not satisfy some, but I won't go into it it would be a spoiler. Some of the outstanding things are the quick scenes, the close-ups, the beautiful, moody photography.The acting was superb. Spacek is everyone's favorite, Wilkinson was thoroughly convincing as was the entire well-chosen cast, particularly the 'bad' guy.This movie is a gem. "},{"Title":"Unexpected","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" From reading the plot, I thought this was going to be similar to a crime story, but it's that and so much more.Tom Wilkinson Sissy Spacek and William Mapother do great portraying their characters, as well as Nick Stahl and Marisa. The cast is solid and the script is riveting.The story goes in a bit of a different direction as most, the beginning is rather fast-paced and the latter half slows down a bit, but that's what made this movie exciting, it was so unexpected.This film focuses on various aspects of life, but mainly the justice system and personal justice. There is depth to this film, but it's also an easy watch as you are drawn into the story more and more after every scene. "},{"Title":"Delicate & Rare","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There is an argument. Between a man and a woman, a husband and wife. It is fueled by their grief, their lingering shock after a tragic loss in the family. They fight about the series of choices, decisions, guidance given and withheld that led to the violence which was shocking and yet entirely predictable. The fight about that, that immediate moment, that emotional bruise that will not heal, will never heal. And in the anger, the seething recriminations, there is the weight of a lifetime of unspoken words coming to the surface, words held back and now refashioned as weapons. Then there is someone at the door. Perhaps another figure in their grueling play, someone who will change the dynamic, ratcheting up the intensity or soothing the animosity. Instead, it is a complete outsider, oblivious to their tragedy. It is a child, a girl going door to door, selling candy bars. For a moment the drama stops as the husband quietly and politely makes a purchase, helping this girl in her fund raising. No matter how devastating a moment may be for those who are in it, the outside world continues moving unimpeded and sometimes its path will trundle through. Life intrudes.That passage exemplifies the strength of Todd Field's feature directorial debut, In the Bedroom. Based on an Andre Dubus short story, the film bears a plot that invites heaving melodrama. There are plentiful examples of other films that tread similar ground, and wind up unbearably portentous. That is not the case here. The film is still undeniably heavy and grave, largely unleavened by any sort of levity or even hope. It is grim and bereft. However, it avoids becoming merely manipulative, largely due to the attention to detail. Every frame of the film feels real, often painfully so. This is because of the intricate examination of the people who move through it, and the heartfelt performances of every actor on screen. But is also because of that uncommon reminder of the ceaseless progression of the world outside of our pain. We're so used to seeing films where characters are the center of the story, to the exclusion of any reminders that anything exists apart from their reactions, their incidents, their devastation. But that, of course, is not the way the world really works. Life isn't a series of plot points. It is a vast, continuous process. It doesn't pause because of a loss, or shift into overdrive because of a crime. Intense moments don't eliminate the quiet moments. They coexist, sometimes side-by-side, and sometimes simultaneously. Film directors don't often have the patience to consider this truth. Todd Field does.Before Bedroom, Field had a reasonably productive career as an actor. As is often the case when someone follows that particular career trajectory, he is especially generous to those he casts in the film. Everyone has room to build their characters, time to dig for the deepest truths they can find in their roles. Any number of hard dramas allow for the actors to play scenes of riveting anguish. Far fewer will slow down enough to show a choir teacher enjoying a satisfying practice by her students, smiling kindly as the final note softly fades. It is a mistake to bypass these details, because the quiet pride taken in that moment tells us something about the character that brings more meaning and feeling to scenes that follow. Sissy Spacek plays it with great care, and as much conviction as she brings to the bigger, bolder scenes. She is bringing us the totality of the character, knowing full well that each bit of her&#x96;the rigidity, the fragility, the nurturing instincts&#x96;informs the whole. That is also how Tom Wilkinson plays his role, and Marisa Tomei plays her role, and Nick Stahl plays his role. They're not marking time between showcase scenes. They're filling these people, feeling these lives.It's a delicate thing, a movie like this. There are so many ways it can go wrong, and the narrative routes that are easiest to follow are also those most likely to doom the film to maudlin redundancy. The mere details of this film's story, blandly recited, are wrenching enough. The film can take care of itself, in a way. The story can filmed plainly and cautiously, sticking to the surface and still stir emotions in the viewer, human instinct trumping cynicism. This is an understandable approach. Todd Field does something different, something more. He never stops plumbing this story, these people on screen. He wants to understand them. It almost seems that he wants to honor them through unflinching, fully attentive storytelling. "},{"Title":"Use of Sound","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The use of sound in the film was interesting. Background noise was used to tell the story as much as as the filming angles. This gave the movie a compelling dimension of claustrophobia for the main characters as though everything was closing in on them.The sound aspect perfected a sense of distraction or lack of concentration that many people may feel after a tragedy. Of course the obvious scene is where the Dr. Fowler is speaking to the DA. The focus of the camera captures the movement of the DA's mouth, then the jingling of the keys in the DA's pocket. Another not-so-obvious scene is when Dr. Fowler visits Natalie in the country store. The footsteps, the creaking of the floor boards, and the beeping noises from the cash register all create the sense that both Natalie and Dr. Fowler want to lash out at creators of those noises. "},{"Title":"The power of raw cinema","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is about how a husband Matt, played by Tom Wilkinson and his wife Ruth, played by Sissy Spacek deals with the murder of their son, and how far they are willing to go through to erase one thing that will forever be a reminder to the event for them.After their son's death, Matt and Ruth, each with different personalities and views of life, handle their emotions very differently, in which it eventually puts a strain in their marriage.  After Ruth constantly runs into her son's killer, who is out on bail, along with the possibility of him being released from jail and back in their life again in only a few years, Matt decides to take care of the situation himself.  The method is particularly extreme, but it was the only way, and no doubt that he was persuaded by his friend Willis (who also assisted him) who gives his outsider clinical perspective.  We come to realize at the end that it wasn't just Matt taking care of the matter on his own, but Ruth also had knowledge of what's going to happen and was not against it.  She was even indifferent to what took place after the fact, all for the sake of her peace of mind.  But to give her that, Matt has to live with what he did forever.I think the movie tries to take the simplistic approach, going for the get rid of the problem path too quickly, and too little on dealing with everyone's dilemma and ironies that arise from their actions.  What little they do introduce is too easily overshadowed by the climactic event that occurs.  Kieslowski's Decalogue or Atom Egoyan's The Sweet Hereafter this ain't.There is very little melodrama in the film, it basically let the events drive itself.  Although I do feel in the second half of the film, while the director is trying to show the empty and hollow life the family are experiencing after the murder, he might have dragged some parts a little too long, mostly by letting much of the idle scenes continue just a bit longer that needed.  Much of it still could have been conveyed with some trimming to those scenes.Overall, still a pretty good movie.  "},{"Title":"Vigilante justice riding high...","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this film on tape after I was Nanni Moretti's The son's room because the issues with which the two films deal are somewhat overlapping, and I was interested in the cultural differences that would be revealed in the treatment of such an intimate and private tragedy. Was I in for a ride!Unlike Moretti's understated, human view of the tragedy of losing a son, this mediocre film is replete with American stereotypes. The most evident, of course, is the presence of the unredeemable bad guy. In Moretti's film, the son dies in a scuba diving accident and, while the father is briefly trying to look for responsibilities of the death in the faulty equipment, the futility of his attempt is never too far from his consciousness. In this film, the son is killed by the ultimate stereotypical bad guy, complete with evil smile, shifty eyes, and a father with a lot of money that can keep him in jail as short as humanly possible. The finale is the usual scary message that mainstream American films send us these days the world is crumbling around us, be isolated, be paranoid and, most of all, take justice in your own hands. The father of the slain son kills the murderer of his son and, in the best American tradition, this act brings back life to normal. There isn't, in the film, any attempt to analyze the psychology behind this act, or the devastating consequences that, presumably, killing a man would have on the father of the victim this (the film proclaims) is America, a bad guy is not really human, and we need to feel no guilt if we kill him. At least, this is the message that the film sends owing to its complete lack of analysis of the consequences of this second killing the American myth of closure reigns supreme and after this act of eye-for-an-eye vigilante justice the world is again the way it is supposed to be.Even the analysis of the reaction of the parents to the death of the son is often blunt and replete with cliches. In short, a film that tries to deal with some worthy themes, mainly the deep impact of the death of a young son on a family, but, at the same time, a film that reveals the absolute incapacity of the American industrial movie-making machine to deal with complex issues without resorting to cliches, surprising ending, and all the trivial paraphernalia of entertainment.In this situation, people who want to see meaningful films can only hope that European, Latin American, Asian, and American independent films will finally receive the wide distribution they deserve. "},{"Title":"A fine, intelligent, thought provoking film.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  With fine, nicely under-stated performances all round, this film shows what can be achieved with a modicum of thought and a good script!!  No need for special effects, with the characters all showing their humanity. It raises the question of whether two wrongs make a right, and the morality of murder. We need more such films, aimed at adults who enjoy being challenged to think rather than fed hollywood bull!!! "}{"Title":"Lots of foreshadowing and tedium before a surprise ending.","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought Tom Wilkinson, who played the father was very good. I thought Sissy Spacek should have brushed the hair back from her eyes and looked into the camera with some more variety of expression. One line the father had cracked me up he told her that she scared him sometimes which brought back to me her role as Carrie in those scary Brian De Palma flics.I'm afraid I thought the directing was rather plodding. I did think it was interesting that the director did not show either parent's being informed of the son's death. That was a novel touch. "},{"Title":"a good movie, but whoa...","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'd heard of this from the Oscars, as well as other critical sources.  I've heard it was an awesome movie that will go down in history.  It was a great film, but whoa...we got a little carried away here.This is a great movie.  Not because of the story, nor the directing...the greatness is the result of the abilities of the actors.  If this were cast with a lower caliber of actors, it would've been a blah film that wouldn't have had much mention.But there were the actors.  They tore it up for this.  There was no over acting, no playing it down for less is more.  Everyone in this film is someone you can believe in, they're all people you've met and live with.  At times it was painful to watch how real the characters were, because of their reactions to the story, but that's life, and this was a quiet film with honesty in mind.  It never insults your intelligence.  Not once.My only beef with this was the timing.  The directing was good.  That's all I can say.  The actors were directed perfectly, but the timing seemed a bit slow in some places.  It felt as though sometimes a point was made and a mood was established...again...and again...and again...etc...Besides the fact that the movie needed a shave, I'd recommend it to anyone who enjoys a thriller with it's feet planted well in reality.  But only for the abilities of the actors, nothing more.  "},{"Title":"I wanted to love it","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was the one who chose this movie, and with that, I was the one who was wanting to love it so badly.  I just didn't love it, and I think it is a combination of reasons.I agree that the pacing is slow, and that the camera fade to blacks at the end of brief scenes were excessive, and I also agree that the acting was strong, but, not brilliant.  I think that had you cast Patrick Duffy, Cheryl Ladd, and Lisa Rinna in it, it would have been a Lifetime Movie of the Week. The fact that you have Sissy Spacek and Marissa Tomei makes it play the cinema circuit.  With all those fade to blacks it made me wonder if it was originally meant for the small screen.I didn't feel as though the story was all that original, and the ending troubled me.  Not because of what it was, but, because it was such a sudden and surprisingly quick choice, I just got the impression that the writers were thinking, Gee, this can go on forever, how are we gonna end this baby?  Then, one of them has the cool thought, Hey!  Guys!  What about this?  And since it's late, and there are deadlines, the others say, Yeah, why not?  It was just rushed...the only thing rushed in the film, really.Let me end by saying, I love Tomei and Spacek, and I am one of the few who felt like Tomei deserved the Oscar for My Cousin Vinny--but, I don't think either of them deserve it this time round... "},{"Title":"A better class of TV movie","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film isn't quite as moving or as profound as it thinks it is. The contrast with other Hollywood product has given this relatively quiet and thoughtful American drama a sheen of excellence that it might not have earned had it been made in Europe.  But that's not to say it isn't good. It's little secret that Nick Stahl is only in it for the first third, but he's lovely anyway (certainly displaying range, alongside his part in Larry Clark's Bully), and the Tom Wilkinson/Sissy Spacek partnership is solid, if not Oscar-worthy.The symbolism is sometimes laid on a bit thick the opening lobster-catching episode and the discussion of the 'two's company, three's a crowd'  theory rather too obviously sets up the pattern of the film's human relationships. Far better is when a single camera shot carries a lot of weight as when Wilkinson looks at the lawyer's office walls and sees a chintzy portrait of his wife with their dogs, suggesting a childless marriage this is not a man who can empathise with the loss of a son. The film is so unassuming that you almost wish for a bit of crass manipulation to get you feeling more strongly a plangent score, or a grandstanding grief scene from the parents. In the end it feels just a bit too much like a TV movie. "},{"Title":"Compelling fatalism comes up empty","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Marked by terrific performances and subtle direction, In the Bedroom has plenty of strong ingredients but managed to leave me with a bad taste in my mouth.  There are deliberately disguised story twists that I won't discuss in detail, but as the film progresses and morphs, one can't help feeling like the fabulous character studies by Tomei, Spacek and Wilkinson are marginalized along the way.  Framing countless shots through windows, doors and other obstacles, Todd Field holds tension quietly and evenly throughout, but by the third act, the effect is tiresome and the story weakens around the edges.  And finally, the ending inexplicably betrays its characters and its audience.  It isn't so much that the characters behave unexpectedly -- it's that the story boils down to a theme absent from the rest of the the film.  Puzzling.  It simply isn't enough to assemble a brilliant cast and two stong acts -- your final act must at the very least answer the question, why tell this story?  In the Bedroom cannot.   "},{"Title":"Acting - 10, Story - 5","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tom Wilkenson,  Sissy Spacek and Nick Stahl are super in thisfilm, but the story falls apart after Nick's character, young FrankFowler, is killed.  In the beginning of the movie the bedroomconnection is explained to us as a large female lobster is removedfrom a trap.  We are led to believe that one of this story'swomen--Mrs. Fowler, or Frank's lover Natalie--who will step up tothe plate and take revenge. But no, after many long, slowdiscussions, it is the feeble father who buries Natalie'swhite-trash, abusive husband who murdered his son. The storydies. "},{"Title":"Is this a big joke because I fell asleep and must have missed the punchline.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are many things about this film that are done well, but plot, originality, and trendsetting ideas are not among them.  I watched every minute of this film quite intently in the theater and just couldn't believe how simple and predictable it was.  Go ahead and do the test, ask someone you know who hasn't seen the film what they think will happen at multiple junctions of a film i.e. a new boyfriend moves in and the ex is an older redneck stereotype who gets mad, what will happen?  I am yet to meet a person who could not tell me exactly what happened in every major plot turn after only a guess or two.  This movie is nothing special.  The Sweet Hereafter had lost of problems and it was still far superior to this film.  You are all sheep flocking to ''the bedroom' but everyone has already fallen asleep. "},{"Title":"Saw this one week after The Son's Room and preferred that movie.","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Strange how nothing like this comes along for years, then two appear at my local cinemas within a fortnight.In the Bedroom has, like The Son's Room, a son's death as its central theme.I did appreciate the acting in this and understand why it got award nomination recognition, but found overall the Son's Room an overall more satisfying (but disturbing) movie. If you want to be reminded-of/alerted-to the sadness of children pre-deceasing their parents, then watch The Son's Room rather than this. "},{"Title":"Did critics see the same movie I did?","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a huge disappointment, and I think the problem is in the script, and probably ultimately the short story by Andre Dubus it was based on. Who conceived of these characters? Where was the psychological truth to this movie? I didn't believe in a million years that the town doctor and his teacher wife would take the actions they did in the last third of the movie. In the scene where Sissy Spacek finally unloads on her husband, nothing she said seemed psychologically truthful, yet the movie seemed to present this as a scene of truthtelling. The ending was morally repulsive in the extreme. The one bright spot was Tom Wilkinson's acting. Save yourself the $$$ and skip this one.  "},{"Title":"GOOD ACTING -  POOR DIRECTION","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The acting in this movie was outstanding, but the picture dragged along at a very SLOW PACE.  Mr Wilkinson and Sissy played their parts to the best of their ability, but the director had very slow fade ins and I found that I thought the picture over many times as the 10 or 15 second scene changes were excessive.  Could have been a great picture if the pace had speeded up. "}{"Title":"Mostly in the back yard, actually","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A wry, slightly twisted tale about the aftermath of an affair between a college student and an older married woman. The setting is Maine, and the boy's parents are your typical undemonstrative New England types, so when they do explode it's a bit of a shock. The first dramatic event is about a third of the way through and there is a rather dull patch in the middle. The movie's nearly two hours long.I enjoyed the scenery,  the ambience of clapboard houses and lobster pots, Tom Wilkinson's unlikely performance as a Maine doctor and Sissy Spacek's performance as his wife. I did not enjoy pretty Nick Stahl's slight. performance as their boy. Marisa Tomei as the older woman was OK. The story (taken from a short story by Andre Dubus) was actually too slight for a feature, which probably accounts for the dull patch. The most interesting thing is the relationship between Tom and Sissy's characters. The only trouble is, one moment we know next to nothing about them , the next moment we are told all they didn't want the other to know what they think about each other. It's all a bit sudden. Without wishing to disclose the ending, I would like to say I found it a bit morally suspect. We get an explanation for the characters' actions, but no justification. Perhaps I missed the point and this was a terribly subtle horror movie, where morality doesn't matter. I wasn't so much as horrified as bemused. The whole thing was like the Coen brothers on Valium. Still, it's watchable, especially for the locations. The title, though, is completely inexplicable.  "},{"Title":"Been Misled","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay I'm feeling a lot better after reading some of the users' comments. (I read the critics comments first.) I saw this movie yesterday and spent the first half hour wondering why I couldn't connect to anything or anybody. The movie is far too rambling and long.  It has too many unnecessary scenes showing nothing happening, and not enough really getting into the main characters, and frankly is not that good.  Spacek was okay but only had a little serious acting to do here and there.  WIlkinson (who was the reason I went, I've really liked him in everything I've seen him in, certainly The Full Monty) was good in what he had to do.  Celia Weston was just about the best thing in it, actually the only person who really reached me.  And did anyone else see Andrew Wyeth scenes set up here and there?  Overall I went into the movie with a lot of anticipation and came out with a lot of frustration.   "},{"Title":"Great Acting...slow direction...absurd pay off!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes folks, the critics are right about the acting.  Everyone is superb in this movie although I must agree with a few of them who noted that other fine American actors could have played these roles convincingly leading one to believe that these characters are not all that complex.But the critics were all so mesemerized by the acting, that they failed to see how absurd and poorly scripted this movie really is. The one blaring moment that could have had profound interest, where the Fowler's blame each other for their misfortune is so short and truncated (they forgive each other in less than a few minutes!!!) that you feel cheated at having had to wait so long to get to this climax.The artsy direction with blackouts and short vignettes only drags an already predictable and not terribly original story.And the ending is an utter mess.  This cerebral art house film with no warning changes into an inept revenge. Believe me, there was nothing earlier to suggest that the Fowler family would resort to a solution like this. Surprising...yes; believable...hell no!And Marissa Tomei's interesting and vital character all but disappears in the second half of the film.  I sure would have rather seen her and Spacek develop their antaginism to a higher degree and forget the revenge garbage.So what we have here is another example that movie critics here haven't a damned clue. See it, if you must for the superb acting...but when it's over...you'll feel like you've had a fairly vacant experience. "},{"Title":"Over, over, rated","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is another example of how they take low-budget films and give them the royal treatment. It was an ordinary movie, but not a great one. Tom Wilkinson was very good, but Sissy Spacek was more of a supporting actress. I thought she was good, but not great! I saw other movies this year that were better. I hope another actress wins best actress for the Oscars. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Pain","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I sat through this film with my girlfriend who'd been talking about it for weeks.  I'd heard wonderful things about the acting and little else.  Now I know why.Let me say the actors were all wonderful.  As opposed to most movies, I actually felt I was watching real people.  The performances were very believable.  And for me, that alone was the salvation of the film.I don't know the actual length of the film but I can tell you it was long and it felt it.Part of this is due to the subject matter.  If your idea of a good film is watching people suffer for 2 hours, THIS IS YOUR FILM.  The movie is a well done character study of misery and grief.  Even my girlfriend who loves a good cry found the movie to laborious and depressing.  I'll say again; the film is a FANTASTIC, WELL ACTED exercise in the details of misery.  For some, this may make it a great film.  And in many respects this probably qualifies it as a fantastic film.  But, perhaps as I'm getting older, I find less need or desire to focus on the hardships of life.  And when I actually venture into a theater to watch a film; I want to escape.  This movie makes you ponder grief.  And frankly, who needs a movie to do that?If you want to judge a film entirely on the merits of cinematography, acting, maturity and meeting its goals; this film deserves a much higher rating then I gave it.  (I gave it a 6)  Matter of fact, part of me feels guilty for the low score I gave it.On the other hand, while technically it was a well made film, I was glad when it was over and don't feel better having seen it.  (Other then appreciating that a film actually portrayed real characters)  The subject matter was too depressing.  The pacing was too slow.  I released a sigh of relief when it ended. "},{"Title":"the best what?","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  We've had a lot of great, touching, well-acted, unique movies over the last few years, such as the excellent You Can Count On Me, Moulin Rouge, Being John Malkovich, Topsy-Turvy, Monsoon Wedding (to be released shortly). Even AI, to me an underrated film.Why such accolades, however, for a movie like this - well acted and shot, but utterly insignificant and pointless???What is it that others saw in this that I didn't?   Fortunately, many respondents here seem to agree that 'In The Bedroom' has been vastly overrated by some.I want the last two hours of my life back.  Where do I file for a refund?  "},{"Title":"Why is a film like this made?","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Warning Plot spoilers ahead.I normally would not say this about a film, but I think that once a critic gave this film a positive review, every other critic followed the example, not wanting to give a film that deals with such a serious and depressing situation a bad review.  The first hour of the film is completely unoriginal and as soon as the abusive husband shows up at the bbq, it is clear that he is going to cause trouble for the son and his wife, most likely climaxing in a confrontation where the son is hurt...or worse.  Some may say that a movie does not have to have an original story so long as it presents the story in an intelligent and entertaining manner, but is this really entertaining or is it simply shocking, trying to bring the audience to tears.  The film does improve after the son is murdered and it is interesting to see how the parents deal with their emotions and the legal system, but certain scenes just did not seem to help advance the story.  When the father seems to have decided that sending his son's murderer away and, in sending him away, instilling fear in him, it seems that the film may end on an interesting and different note.  However, no sooner has this idea been developed then the father resorts to murder, as most stories like this would.  I do have one question about the son's murder.  Since we do not actually see it take place, how do we know the husband acted viciously.  We are meant to assume that the son died innocently protecting his girlfriend and her children, but how can we know what really transpired. Perhaps this is the reason the father is so cold in the final scene of the film as he lies in bed considering the photo he had just seen in the husband's apartment of the couple during happier times.  Is the father feeling guilty about the possibility that he has killed a man who was a victim of circumstance or is he simply feeling guilty because he has taken a life. The film is interesting in showing how good people can do bad things (tag line of an earlier, better film A Simple Plan).  However, as it ended I could not help but think, Why does a person make a film like this?  I am aware that life is not all sunshine and lollipops, but it is also not as depressing and grave as this film.  Todd Field may win an Oscar for this film, but can he explain why he made it? "},{"Title":"So Near And Yet So Far...","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first 3/4ths of this movie has some of the most quietly glorious film-making I have ever seen.  The capture of the look and feel of small-town Maine was perfect, and the flinty nature of many of the characters was also very well captured.  I could go on and on just about the way the lighting, even the selection of the kinds of violets in the home was just right.The movie was sweet, then very sad, but the first 3/4ths of the movie was also very, very true.And that's why the last quarter of the movie is such a huge disappointment.  I kept waiting to hear a seductive female voice say Open Your Eyes... but it just didn't happen.  Sissy Spacek, Tom Wilkinson, Mariesa Tomei and Nick Stahl are all wonderful.  Go and watch them. And as soon as you see a character do something completely unreal, walk out then.  Or wait until you can rent it and fast forward once the scriptwriter and director decide it's time to start showing a rather different kind of a movie. "},{"Title":"Well-Acted But Overrated","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is no doubt about it - this movie is one of the best acted films of the year. Spacek and Wilkinson are so believable as a comfortably married couple and the supporting cast all deliver three-dimensional performances. But, the film is painfully slow and (####SPOILERS###)once it becomes obvious what Wilkinson's character FEELS he must do - it is just predictable and not very satisfying. (Strip everything else away and this movie really is just Death Wish set in New England). I mean, even though this is a small town in Maine, are you telling me there are NO forensics experts anywhere in the state that might be able to prove the gun was fired just by the ex-husband. The insistence of the lawyer that there is nothing they can do - the guy is going to get off and that's that -seemed lazy and not very believable. Do murderers get off on technicalities? Of course they do. But once that is introduced into the movie's plot. That's it. End of discussion. Why doesnt the family just get another lawyer? He's a doctor - they seem to have money. I don't know. Once the killing happens and Spacek shows amazing moments of grief and withdrawl and Wilkinson plays the confusion and rage perfectly - that just seems to be all there is. I'm glad that a film like this has found an audience and I do wish it well, I just hope that it does NOT win Oscars for writing and directing. That is where I felt the film's main problems are. I give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"HUH??!!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I do not understand why this show was nominated for a Golden Globe!! True, Sissy Spacek does a wonderful performance, and that is worthy of recognition, but for the most part, the show was boring & pointless.  I mean, there were scenes showing the characters smoking & mowing the lawn. Whatever.  At least I didn't pay to see it. "}{"Title":"Well-acted, simple, boring.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not really sure what people are seeing when they watch this movie, that drives them to rave about this movie and suggest piles of awards.  I felt that the film was rather well-acted, though Sissy Spacek's angriness seems contrived and Marisa Tomei's sadness seems more like confusion (dizziness?) to me.  Tom Wilkinson played his role extraordinarily well -- I was struck by his maintained somberness and a desire/willingness to feel better, but an inability to, due to the limitations set by the other characters. However, what truly struck me about this movie was how disjointed it felt; the combination of the lack of anything at all happening (note  I am not an action fan, it's not an explosion fetish with the short-cut scenes and obvious attempts to make the movie deep and touching came off as feeling rather pretentious, especially with the incredibly predictable resolution of the movie.  This movie felt like a Hollywood movie trying to be a moving indie flick, and fell flat on its face in that respect.  All in all, good enough to see once, but I wouldn't buy the DVD.  7/10. "},{"Title":"Only film I've seen with flawless performances, but predictable story ruins total enjoyment","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In The Bedroom, a story of a small town Maine's residents has everything to be the perfect picture.  It is brilliantly acted, shot, and scored.  However for a picture that contains a simple story and acting par excellence, the viewer is also stranded in a story that is all to familiar.The most unfortunate problem with the film, is that the story is just to predictable.  I'll put it to you this way.  The story starts off with a family couple played by Nick Stahl and Sissy Spacek, whose young soon to become adult son is in love with an older woman of 2 kids, and is divorcing an abusive husband.  Then suddenly, the community is rocked cause of tragedy that occours involving the couple.Now that I have said that you can get an idea of what has already happened, and since this film is a 'tragedy' you can get an idea of what is to follow after the tragic events.  That being said though, if it wasn't for the casting and characters in this film I would have walked out.  Every single person in this film, whether it's the distraught Mother and Father (Spacek / Stahl), the older woman (Tomei), or even just the minor characters who pop up (poker card player) all give MEMORABLE amazing performances.  All these characters in this film are so true to life and are like the people you know, it's as if they are not acting, the scenes of tension when they happen are intense.But the story comes out being just too predictable for my tastes and you sit back waiting for the ingenious performances which come in droves.  Also one part of the film which I can't give away without giving away too much of the plot I found a bit unrealistic.It is these faults which make this film far from perfect but easily worth seeing for the performances alone.  Certainly not a waste of film, but certainly a film that could have been SOOOOOO much better.Rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Whodunnit potboiler","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This overlong whodunnit is slow to get moving, but becomes mildly entertaining, with the end neatly telegraphed. The cinematography slips badly, particularly in the kitchen 'row' scene, with  a serious continuity problem. There remains scope for a sequel, a la The fugitive. "},{"Title":"Very realistic, extremely powerful, but one of the best?","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just watched In the Bedroom last night.  There were moments in this film that had my heart beat faster than it would after a one-mile sprint.  Seriously dramatic, and intense scenes.  But in the end, something didn't click for me.I find I like the film more after I think about it.  Here's something the film has that others do not realism.  This film is so realistic, it's amazing.  When you watch this film, don't watch it expecting something to happen.  Watch it like you want to feel what the characters are feeling.During the time in the film that Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek spend alone together, there are short vignettes of silence and short, coldly distant dialogue.  Many people did not like this. I thought it was extremely close to reality.  And if you hear any hype about this film, it's mostly deserved for Spacek and Tomei.  The confrontation scene at Tomei's house (CURSE ALL REVIEWERS THAT TELL TOO MUCH.  GO TO HELL AND DIE FOR RUINING IT FOR ME, I DON'T CARE HOW EARLY IN THE FILM IT HAPPENED) is so well-handled, I lost my breath.  Her acting, her begging her children to stay upstairs, and especially her stumble down the staircase... How brilliant that we hear the yelling downstairs while she tells her boys not to move. What a scene.  Still, after all this excellent material, the film left me hanging. It just didn't go where deep inside I wanted it to, I suppose.  I think most of that may have to do with my one MAJOR problem with this movie TOM WILKINSON.  I'm not going to only say he does not deserve the attention he's getting, I'll go as far as to say there were some scenes that he was EXCRUCIATINGLY BAD in.Now don't get me wrong, I think he is a good actor. There were a couple scenes (Somebody say something, don't sissyfoot around me!) that he was great in.  But the scenes he had with Spacek? I thought the poor woman had nothing, NOTHING to play off of! Here is what I thought of Wilkinson in those scenes he was like a pestering noise in a movie theatre (like someone chewing with their mouth open) during a quiet scene that I can't get passed or ignore in order to enjoy the film.  I think the way he made himself sensitive with her was just done wrong.Otherwise, the film was good.  Tomei and Spacek are the two best reasons to see it, and they both should get nominations.  I would even see Tomei should win, but Halle Berry is a better choice in Monster's Ball for the best actress choice.  Alas, I would not call this one of the best films of the year. "},{"Title":"Nice start, very slow middle, good ending","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you can suffer through the middle act, this movie isn't that bad.  But everybody's raving about the acting.  I don't get it.  Most of the time the actors stare at the ceiling, the floor, each other.  Not much happens in the movie.I almost fell asleep from the lack of conflict in the story.  People in pain is not conflict.  This was painful to watch.  Rent it on DVD if you're having trouble sleeping at night.   "},{"Title":"She came in through the bathroom window","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The director, Todd Field, was the piano player in Kubrick's EYESWIDE SHUT, and he seemed to learn a lot from the master--aboutwhat NOT to do. Field's breakthrough feature, an embellishment ofa very short Andre Dubus story, never exaggerates, never fakes,never reaches for effect. (Well, in the brief moments it does, thecontrast is so glaring as to make you grateful for the other 98%.)Field gets it all. He gets the shapeless, reaching desire of a youngman (Nick Stahl) who falls in love with a local single mom (MarisaTomei) right after college and is willing to throw his life away outof sheer gratitude and relief. He gets the desire for escape in acountry doctor (Tom Wilkinson) who runs out of his office ateleven-thirty for a lunchtime ride on a fishing boat with his kid. Andhe gets the mixture of kindness and strict rectitude in aSlavic-music major from Brown (Sissy Spacek) who relocated tosmall-town Maine with her husband and didn't look back, butseethed incessantly. Without forcing it, Field gets what the musicplaying under a dreadful showdown in a podunk 7-11 would be(Peter Frampton's Baby I Love Your Way) and how a grievingparent might look at a sympathetic D.A. jiggling change in hispocket. When the action takes a ghastly turn after forty minutes, themovie becomes a crisp portrait of what people do when mourningthe loss of a loved one the same dumb stuff they did before, onlynow they don't enjoy any of it.Though Marisa Tomei and Nick Stahl don't bring much to theircharacters (except for a brief moment when Stahl has to butter upa grad-school admissions official), all the bit parts aremiraculously filled, as if Field found the perfect small-town-Mainefaces and instantly taught them to act. And as the parents, SissySpacek and Tom Wilkinson couldn't be better. Field cast brilliantlyagainst type Spacek plays a cool, controlling, superior-feeling,iron-hard mother, and Wilkinson a soft, obliging, gently henpeckeddad. You realize how little opportunity Spacek has had to playstrength in her thirty years on the screen. (Flash through her bestroles--PRIME CUT, CARRIE, 3 WOMEN, COAL MINER'S  DAUGHTER, AFFLICTION, THE STRAIGHT STORY--and there area lot of colors, but not much steel.) Spacek is wise enough, andold enough now, to know to fill in certain things that aren't in thescript like her non-softening at the end of a bad-cop moment,where other actresses would relent and ask for the audience'sapproval; or the little chuck-under-the-chin of sweetness she offersa dimwitted acquaintance who makes a horrific faux pas--a notethat comes after she has fully, and blazingly, registered the horror.This is the kind of role where actors are frequently praised for therole itself, rather than their performance; Spacek's acting morethan equals it. And Wilkinson--the very picture of small-townsmartness and guff, cozy comfort and resolve, slowly blushing withdeep humiliation and then boiling in rage--nearly equals Spacek'sachievement. As Tomei's violent ex, William Mapother, agentleman known to me only as a relative of Tom Cruise's who iscast in many of the star's movies, gives a perfectly authentic,terrifying electric charge to all his scenes.Miramax really screwed the pooch when they sunk all theirresources into THE SHIPPING NEWS and left their truly worthwhilemovie, an acquisition, to flounder. The sheer quality of the movieseems to have miraculously overwhelmed its poor handling, andthe picture seems to be connecting with a (small) audience. Onedoesn't want to overstate matters (particularly in the context of suchlovely understatement), but Field, studying literature rather than theexample of even current indie movies, in one swoop bringsAmerican movies to a level we routinely expect from the bestEuropean filmmakers, but never from our own that is, the astute,unsentimental, finely wrought rendering of life as we live it. "},{"Title":"Good but not great - spoilers!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this was a good, but not a great film - the best things about it are the performances of Spacek, Wilkinson and Tomei, which are enough to see it for.  But the plot takes too many implausible turns, which diminish its emotional force.SPOILER***** Warning!I thought the actor playing the son was too callow to be attractive to Marisa Tomei's character, and I was totally unconvinced that the father's friend would be drawn into a murder plot - that needed to be much more the center of the story to make it believable (see A Simple Plan, for example). I thought the focus got pretty muddled before the end, and simply leaving it the way they did was very unsatisfying - unclear to me what the father's real consequences of becoming a murderer were going to be - I suppose not any, perhaps, but in that case the ending was too ambiguous to even make that a point.  Nonetheless, Tom Wilkinson was particularly wonderful, and it will be criminal if he doesn't get an Oscar nomination for this. "},{"Title":"Not emotionally involving enough","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was very excited to see this movie when I saw that it was the directorial debut of Todd Field, whom I would guess had learned a lot about directing from being in Victor Nunez's fabulous Ruby in Paradise.  Although he is clearly a skilled director, In the Bedroom does not live up to the promising reviews I've read recently.  The film has interesting cinematography, a beautiful look, a wonderful cast (the two women, Sissy Spacek and Marisa Tomei, are particularly talented), and yet, the meat of the story never lives up to all of these good qualities.  The metaphors are ridiculously heavy-handed, most notably a cut that keeps bleeding through a band-aid on a grieving father.  I found it hard to sympathize with the husband and wife played by Tom Wilkinson and Spacek because their actions always seemed so deliberate and self-involved (this may be a matter of taste because I noticed several others in the theater crying throughout the movie). However, since the bulk of the movie focuses on their perspective, it's difficult to feel connected with the overall story.  Because the film focuses on Wilkinson and Spacek's characters, who are both upper middle class and educated, and places Tomei's working class character as an obstacle to their happiness and comfort in the plot, the story seemed to marginalize the working class point of view.I would say In the Bedroom is a lesser version of two terrific movies about family and loss You Can Count On Me and Ordinary People.  Watch the latter instead of Bedroom if you want to feel a real connection with a movie's characters. "},{"Title":"Predictable and unsatisfying","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  While the acting was good in this movie, the story was weak and the ending, unearned. What was this movie trying to be? For the first and last five minutes of the movie, it felt like a thriller, and the rest, a drama in which little fresh insight was given to us about themes of loss and grief. I think the movie took itself so seriously, it tried to trick us into doing the same, yet it really didn't have anything interesting to say.  Parents turn to revenge in response to devastating loss and an unjust system? There's a rift in the marriage because of this loss? Is this new or compelling? These subjects may be true to life, but they don't make for interesting storytelling.  "},{"Title":"Tedious Beyond Belief","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After reading so many positive reviews I looked forward to seeing this movie.  Unfortunately, my reaction was not positive.The movie never got going for me or my 18-year old daughter (and incidently a few others in the theater that through in the towel well before it's promised surprise ending.)Yes, the performances are fine but certainly not Oscar worthy.  The editing is excruciating at best and the story line predictably recycled.If you want a glimpse into the lives of your neighbors and their heartaches go to Blockbuster and rent Ordinary People.  "}{"Title":"ZZZZZzzzzzzzz....","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Why o why are movies today at least one hour too long?There is nothing in this film that could not have been expressed better with fewer shots of Camden Maine's streetlights, harbor, or mannequins in shop windows. The pacing was absolutely even. Yes, this is like real life. But I don't go to the movies to see real life. I go to see good editing, good directing, good acting. At least the third part works.The director manages to include just about every art-film cliche there is. What is it with the pretentious Bulgarian singing? Is it because it is as monotonous as the editing?I was waiting for the slow motion double exposure shot. This predictably appeared late in the film. I was past all caring by then.The actors play ordinary people and the acting (while technically good) shows its technique at every turn. People stand around and react to each other or show how tormented they are by little gestures. Everything takes much too long and there are precisely three scenes in which something actually HAPPENS.It could have been much better than it was. As it was, it was physical torture. I have never looked at my watch more often during the course of a film. I didn't care about the characters and just wanted the thing to end. So did the audience.Boring, boring, boring.  "},{"Title":"Three Films in One is Too Much for Any Movie to Carry","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw the movie In the Bedroom.  I thought it was disappointing.  There are some movies that try to cover too much territory, and this was one of them.  It was three movies in one (1) boy comes of age with divorcing woman with kids; (2) an Ordinary People-type movie about the strains in a marriage caused by the death of a child; and (3) a tale of the inadequacies of the criminal justice system with the attendant question of whether vigilante justice is proper.  Each component could have been its own movie.  Lumping them together for the sake of creating a hodgepodge diminishes each.  The result was a movie that was 2 hours long, but seemed like 4.5 hours long.	The acting was generally good, although some of the accents were all over the place.  At one point Sissy Spacek (who aged beyond belief since I last saw her) yells something out in anger in a Southern accent.  Marisa Tomei did a fine job, as did the father.	The editing was innovative at times.  At others, it drew too much attention to itself.  It had 2 too many fade-outs.    "},{"Title":"the presence of an absence","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Midway through In the Bedroom, Ruth Fowler (Sissy Spacek) is comforted in her grief by a priest. In the conversation, Ruth mentions that grieving is like music there are pangs followed by periods of nothing, but a nothing, much as a rest in music, that is loud in its signification of absence. Ruth could be just as easily describing the structure of the film the meaning is in the subtleties of pacing and symbolism that emerge in the film like silences. And the silences too are pregnant with feeling. I have never seen a film so painfully close to the actual experience of grief--yes, even Ordinary People and The Sweet Hereafter, which while treading the same themes, ring with different truths. The acting is brilliant, and whether or not the Academy cares, both Spacek and Wilkinson deliver award-worthy performances. But a word to the wise If you are uncomfortable with intense feelings or recently lost someone close to you, this film may be a bit too raw. Otherwise, I can hardly imagine a film more satisfying on so many different levels. One final note Close attention must be paid to the symbolism in this film, or I'm afraid much of the film's impact will be lost. The film is beautifully lyrical. For those who like a film's meaning to clobber them over the head, In the Bedroom will be a disappointment (and forget about Mulholland Drive!).  "},{"Title":"Slightly torturous....","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I must've seen a different movie than the rest of the reviewers.  I agree that the acting was fantastic throughout.  Unfortunately, that's about all this movie has to offer.  I saw it last week at a free screening, and it still wasn't worth the money.  At first I was pleasantly surprised.  The first 15-20 minutes presented very interesting characters and an interesting dynamic between them.  Then...  phase two of the feature was a long, slowwwwwwww, torturously boring (but well acted) trip through misery-ville and pointless-town.  Part three takes a quick left turn to present an absurdly idiotic Hollywood ending that is not the slightest bit believable.  Oh, if they had only stopped after the first 20 minutes.... "},{"Title":"Not a CGI fest","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you are into films full of CGI skip this. If you want fast paced action skip this. Here is a film with actors acting. The slow, low key and tempered pace made the film very intense. I found myself watching intently and had to force myself to relax.The acting is top notch by just about everyone. The story is excellent yet sad. The pace of the film will probably bother some who want things to move briskly. I would say the weakest part of this film are the actors attempting a Maine accent. It's been discussed on the message boards. But aside from that small flaw, everything is very good here. You won't forget this anytime soon. "},{"Title":"A film that rings true","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Similar to Ordinary People, In the Bedroom follows the lives of parents after the loss of their son. While the former takes more risks and contains as many flaws in its study and judgment, this film is true to life itself. Not a single scene or moment in this powerful, bleak film rings untrue or cinematic. Its characters are three-dimensional, unanomalous people, dealing with real problems with credible solutions.The film at first centers around a young couple, an older woman (Natalie) with two children and a clutching, angry ex-husband, (Richard) and a boy, (Frank) still in school, still a teenager, questioning his current path and developing authentic, restrained ideas for his future. They try to live their lives normally, and meanwhile try to solve their dilemma with the man who perpetually tries to destroy their relationship. Eventually, Richard's jealousy and wanted dominance takes over him, and he kills Frank during an argument, and this begins a film with subtle themes and hidden, subdued grief.The boys parents (Ruth & Matt Fowler) handle the situations differently. Ruth wants someone to talk to, someone to hold and grieve with her and embrace her, but Matt wants to put this all behind him, and for his wife to talk to him again without her son's ghost haunting her every movement and thought. Their marriage is put on risk when they admit these feelings, but harrowingly and realistically, we follow them in their daily lives through effective, picaresque storytelling, dealing with grief, admitting secrets, and piecing together everything about themselves they always denied, but eventually became clear as water. "},{"Title":"Great acting......But","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I expect Sissy Spacek and and Tom Wilkinson to give good performances. Marisa Tomei should have diction lessons. I guess realism is not combing the ladies hair throughout the movie. The pregnant pauses and halting dialog was painful, not poignant. The title In The Bedroom the countless times we view sleeping heads and non sleeping heads. Being real does not mean entertaining or poignant. I bet Sissy Spacek could have done a 15 minute scene brushing her teeth and emoting in the mirror for us. Real....maybe, thought provoking.....NOT. Entertaining....never. The Black-O-Vision segment was irritating at best, not brilliant cinematography. This movie reminded me of Ordinary People very ordinary but it won the Oscar for Best Picture. But so did Titanic Yuck. This was an OK movie...not great. "},{"Title":"Disappointing...","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Maybe because I expected to see something else. I rated it 6 because the performances were great. Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek were very good, as was Marisa Tomei who was finally able to get rid of the exaggerated girly acts (exaggerated even for the romantic comedies she played in). But what spoiled the movie was the too rapid transformation that took place in the mother's character. After days of estrangement, one talk was enough to bring her close to her husband again! Not realistic at all. People like her, who are in control all their life, of them and of other peoples' lives, don't accept that so easily. I think the movie needed some work there. Ended to abruptly... in sum, could have been good... "},{"Title":"Good storyline, lethargic pacing","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I normally like movies the explore relationships in a subtle and quiet way, like What's Eating Gilbert Grape and About Schmidt, for instance, do in a beautiful way-but In The Bedroom was just DULL!This turkey drags on for 2 hours and 18 minutes and feels much longer. The filmmakers confuse low key with boredom and nuance with one-note.The normally competent Sissy Spacek runs the gamut of emotions from petulent to sullen.  The only bright spot is Marissa Tomei in an important but too small roll. She is luminous and a joy to watch in any movie. She does much more for this movie than it does for her.An overused and annoying contrivance is the same aerial shot several times of a white church steeple amidst autumn foliage and somber music to remind us that it's set in New England (gee, would anyone actually think they moved to Maui, oh wait that might have made it a bit interesting!)Anyway, the whole movie grates and grinds slowly along to a predictable conclusion.  "},{"Title":"Without a doubt, One of the finest movies ever made! (spoiler?)","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is such an excellent film. It is a tiny bit slow at parts, but isn't every movie? The acting is what really makes this movie so great. The story is about a New England couple, Matt (Tom Wilkinson) and Ruth (Sissy Spacek) Fowler who both deal with the loss of their son Frank (Nick Stahl), who was murdered by his older girlfriend's (Marissa Tomei) ex-husband (William Mapother). After the killer gets set loose due to lack of evidence, they both can't believe it. With anger they even start blaming each other. The mother chooses to not only blame Frank's girlfriend but her husband Matt also. This is an excellent movie not only good for drama fans but for others. Sissy Spacek is beyond fantastic in her role, while Marissa Tomei is very good also. I would have to say the best performance in the whole movie is Tom Wilkinson's absolutley compelling and riveting performance that should (but of course didn't) win him the Oscar for Best Actor. Denzel Washington was the most popular, that's why he won the award. It was also politcally correct at the time. If you haven't already watch this film. It is very depressing so make sure to have a tissue box with you.Grade A. "}{"Title":"Acting Good - Script Bad","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In The Bedroom is about Ruth and Matt Fowler who live an ordinary life in Maine. Matt is a doctor and Ruth is a music teacher and one summer their lives change drastically when their only child Frank comes home for the summer before leaving for graduate school and falls in love with an older woman, Natalie Strout, who is a single mother in the midst of a nasty divorce with her husband Richard. Richard is furious at Natalie because he says that she took his house, his kids and is even more infuriated with her for being involved with Frank. Richard's anger sets off a chain of events that no one would have thought possible at the start of the summer.Sissy Spacek received critical acclaim for her portrayal of Ruth Fowler and despite a weak screenplay she manages to make her character extremely believable, which helps the audience be sympathetic to her as her world starts to crumble around her, which not a lot of actresses would be able to achieve. Spacek's performance got her an Academy Award nomination for best actress, an Actors Guild Nomination for best actress and a Golden Globe for best actress in a motion picture drama. My personal opinion is that Spacek's portrayal as Ruth Fowler was one of the best performances of the year and I doubt that many other actresses would have been able to play Ruth Fowler as brilliantly as what Spacek did. Tom Wilkinson's portrayal of Matt Fowler saw him receive glowing reviews and an Academy Award Nomination for best actor. Although he received such good reviews and the Oscar Nomination I thought that his character's denial of certain events was slightly unbelievable therefore made it hard for me as the audience to feel sympathetic towards him; Matt Fowler also seemed oblivious to his crumbling marriage and as a result of this I found it a lot easier to feel sorry for Ruth than Matt.Nick Stahl as Frank Fowler was fantastic, he was also one of the only fresh faces in the cast therefore he didn't receive much credit for his portrayal of this eager young adult. Although he was only in the movie for the first three quarters his character was pivotal to the plot. Frank Fowler's love for Natalie Strout was the part of the story that set the ball rolling and was the reason that such tragic circumstances occurred.Marisa Tomei's performance as Natalie Strout also saw her receive glowing reviews and an Academy Award Nomination for best supporting actress and a Golden Globe Nomination for best supporting actress in a motion picture drama but I don't believe that she deserved them because her portrayal of this single mother was laboured and could have been performed just as well if not better than half the young actresses in Hollywood. Natalie Strout's reaction to certain events was somewhat unbelievable so it was difficult for me to sympathise with her. Marisa Tomei and Nick Stahl played two people who were supposed to be madly in love with each other but I didn't think that there was much chemistry between them whereas the chemistry between Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson as Ruth and Matt Fowler was evident and you could tell that the characters were indeed very much in love.I think that Nick Stahl and Sissy Spacek's performance was one of the reasons that the movie received such acclaim and didn't sink at the box office. Although the plot was original I found the screenplay to be slightly too thin and weak it also takes the first three quarters of the movie to actually get into it and a lot of people would have already switched off by then. In The Bedroom was an enjoyable movie but the laboured performances of Tom Wilkinson and Marisa Tomei along with the weak screenplay makes you question whether there was a better way for you to spend two hours.  "},{"Title":"not bad drama","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The plot, directing and the acting is not bad. I emjoyed watching it. The ending was alittle silly sort of ruined the story. I don't know if it deserved so many nominations. If you haven't seen 'Ordinary People' yet, it is a better alternative to this movie.  "},{"Title":"Nicely done","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  SpoilerAfter the incident, I kept saying to myself that the father ought to kill what's-his-name.  Does that mean the plot is predictable?  I don't think so. I thought the parents would suffer through and their marriage would dissolve.All the physical evidence (on the bodies) and the circumstantial evidence (what's-his-name punched out the kid a day or 2 before and there was no struggle) indicated no struggle this time.  The defendant on the stand saying there was a struggle would have made a terrible witness on cross-examination.  Bail, when the charge is murder - I don't think so. Marisa Tormei's contradictory statement at a bail/preliminary hearing torpedoes the state's case?  The court would dismiss the murder charge? The DA was going to drop it?  If the charge of murder went to the jury, the jury was going to find only manslaughter?  The judge was only going to give the minimum?  I don't think so.  The plot probably should have played up what's-his-name's daddy's money and cannery as the reason he would get off, not the lack of a case against him.Nevertheless, even if it looked to the parents like a murder charge would stick, I find the father's action understandable.  But I ask, if my friend were in the same situation, would I be an accomplice, and bury the body on my property?   "},{"Title":"In the BOREDroom","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom is my pick as this year's yawn-a-thon to miss. Now I'm not some slack jawed yokel who's favorite movies are3000 Miles to Graceland and Black Knight.  I pride myself in havinga rather good taste in movies such as Trainspotting, Requiem fora Dream, and pretty much any Coen brother's movie.  Even manyslow ones can be excellent (You Can Count On Me, Gosford Park,The Last Emperor ect.).  But this movie was SO slow and draggedon SO much that I came close to just stopping the movie andthrowing it out the window.  You don't give a damn about any of thecharacters, and the bleak Maine seascapes make me want to killmyself.  I know there's not a lot of great movies being releasedright now, but I'm sure you can find SOMETHING better than this. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Incredibly Overrated Predictable Drama","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After hearing all the hype I was shocked that this paint by numbers predictable drama was nominated for Best Picture over truly brilliant and great films such as Memento, Ghost World, several others. After the opening couple scenes you know exactly where they're going.  Wilkinson, though a terrific actor and delivering a solid performance, was obviously miscast. Spacek was OK though how she was nominated for best actress over Thora Birch from Ghost World is criminal.  Tomei was a pleasant surprise.  Director Field's mania for glacial shots intended to reveal how sooooo real everybody is way up yonder in Maine including the dreary thrift shop clothing and phony looking multi-era interiors  was beyond tedious.  Even the lobsters weren't all that convincing.  7/10.   "},{"Title":"Great Performances But...","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is vastly overrated.  Sissy Spacek does give a great performance as the mother who suffers tragedy.  But the story itself is nothing exceptional and I kept saying to myself when is something really interesting going to happen?  As Entertainment Weekly said about its Oscar prospects as best picture  it will suffer from the so what factor.  I agree.  Best Actress perhaps for Sissy Spacek (although I think Halle Berry deserves it for Monster's Ball) but this is definitely NOT best picture material.   7/10 "},{"Title":"Good performances, but ultimately unsatisfying","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkerson did an excellent job of acting in this film (although I thought they both looked a little bit too old to have a son just about to enter college). Marisa Tomei did a good job, too, but I'm not sure I'd classify this as worthy of an Oscar nomination (I felt the same way about her previous nomination for My Cousin Vinny - I'm still shocked that she won that one!).Things moved along nicely until the final act, which I felt just ran out of gas, as if the writers wanted to make a point, but couldn't find a way to make it strong enough. I wouldn't recommend this movie unless you were on a mission to see all the movies/actors that got Oscar nominations. You'll see why the two leads are nominated, but the movie will probably leave you disappointed. "},{"Title":"What a shocker!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went to see this movie with high expectations. Was I disappointed. I found this movie to be about an hour too long. I thought it was a good story but badly told. I cannot understand how people could say this is the best movie of the year. One good thing about it was I did manage to nod of a couple of times for a snooze (the funny thing is that I didn't really miss anything when I did). I think I would rate it about 4 out of 10 and that's only because Marisa Tomei was in it. "},{"Title":"This is beat out Memento??","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  How could this pretty good movie beat out the outstanding Memento for a Best Picture Nomination?  This is not an Oscar movie!!  The acting was good, especially the lead male actor.  Sissy didn't do anything that great, just moped around angry.  This movie is overrated. "},{"Title":"Very good 1st half, not so sure about the last 3/4","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm a sucker for Oscars, so naturally I had to see this film once it had been nominated. I didn't read any reviews before stepping in to watch the film. Therefore, I was really getting into the film in the 1st half hour, where the director was exploring many themes (parent-child relationship, the connection to nature, love vs. responsibility) in very interesting ways. At this point, it was already better than the starting of Moulin Rouge, which is a film that has a terrible 1st 1/4 hour. The characters also connect much better then LOTR and certainly give more room for the actors to shine. And at least it didn't duck the really unpleasant (Beautiful Mind) to win votes. And when the 1st surprise in the film came about 1/3 of the film (the whole theater gasped pretty loudly), I was thinking Great! Anything but a typical Hollywood film.However, the ending 1/2 hour was horribly Hollywood - I actually was telling myself, please don't end the film that way.... but it did. and then the whole cinema was definitely underwhelmed.The acting was very good, so it's definitely worth watching for Spacek and Wilkinson. However, it felt one scene was specially written for an Oscar nomination. (And I would say Spacek emoted well, but it does seem such a cliche simply to give Oscars to the most emotive performance. I would love for Renee to win since when was the last time a comedic actress won?) They could have given Tomei more screen time in the 2nd half, but she was pretty good at the starting of the film.Leaving the theater, I admired the director for his unflinching exploration of a dark topic but the 2nd half seems to drag simply because he just stuck to that - no subplot and too much repetition. In the end, the plot was rather banal, lifted up by some intense acting and interesting directing... but the script fell flat at the end.  "}{"Title":"In the Boredom....","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Frankly, hadn't I known otherwise, my credulity would have been stretched to imagine that this movie was actually nominated for an Oscar. Indeed, it's difficult to think that this movie would be deemed as one the year's best films even in a mediocre year, let alone one that includes the likes of Lord of the Rings and Mulholland Drive.Anyway, it seems that the story unfolds with a lot of promise for the first half hour or so till a tragic incident happens. After that, the film changes gears and goes into a brooding and meandering mode, and for most part the screenplay involves simply lingering on characters going through the motions of their grief. While this isn't bad on the face of it, the characters aren't very interesting and the film labours through the weight of trying to carry its profundity, of which it has none.The ending is unsatisfactory and completely predictable and looks like it was tacked on to give the audience a sense of closure. Sissy Spacek  Tom Wilkinson and Marisa Tomei give fine performances. The bottom line is that some good performances notwithstanding the verdict on the film is pretty clear  it's boring. "},{"Title":"dont trust your sister in law","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  My sister-in-law took me to this movie because she heard it was a great movie. Nothing could be farther from the truth. I like to be entertained when I pay $7.50 for a movie. I was bored to death as were the three other people including my sister in law. This movie never got you emotionally attached to any characters.  The movie was also so quiet you could hear all the people in the theater when they talked which was often because of this product.  I cannot believe this movie is rated this high on this site. What is wrong with you people?   "},{"Title":"Waste of Film Reel","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw it. I was expecting to be dragged by the pre-Oscar hoopla and enjoy a memorable performance by Spacek, Wilkinson et al. Who are they kidding? Is this the aftermath of the 2001 screenwriter strike that decimated the making of genuine and creative scripts? The plot is a bore, the script is cheap and the directing is sophomoric. There is not a thing that saves this film. Nothing! The scenes are quick, insipid and meaningless. It feels like a collage in which 1000 kindergarden children draw some pictures and then 1000 different directors build a different scene to make In the Bedroom. I am strongly considering becoming a screenwriter and a director because I can outdo rubbish like this. Incomprehensible Sissy Spacek got a Golden Globe, even more incomprehensible that she was nominated, appaling that she took on the project in the first place! Somebody please tell me what this movie is about. It's an overpriced and overmarketed waste of film reel in the tradition of Leaving Las Vegas and Affliction. "},{"Title":"In the Bedroom / * 1/2 (of four)","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After all of the glowing reviews, I was more eager to see this movie than any in the past six months.  What a disappointment!Viewers beware This filmic emperor has no clothes.  Some go overboard talking about its deliberate pace, its atmosphere, its subtleties and its personal drama.  In fact, it's unrelievedly slow, lacks any humor, charm or appeal whatsoever, and covers territory that has been seen many times before in much better guises.  Ordinary People and The Sweet Hereafter spring immediately to mind as films that tackled the same subject with far greater results.Sissy Spacek, who has been suggested as a possible Oscar nominee, delivers a fine and controlled performance -- but there's nothing beneath it.  No fire, no rage, no spark that lifts the role out of the ordinary.  Or maybe it's just that Mary Tyler Moore and Donald Sutherland so thoroughly explored the world of grieving, upper-class, American parents more than 20 years ago that there's really nothing left to say.Marisa Tomei, whose accent comes and goes like the tides of Maine, is fine in a role that also never comes to life.  Between Tomei and Spacek, you've got to wonder if there's something in the Maine water that removes personality.Best of the group of actors is William Mapother, who does what would seem to be impossible He almost makes us understand the human being behind the face of an abusive murderer.  He's got the sort of sneaky charm and edgy behavior that makes you sit up and take notice when he's on screen -- if the rest of the movie hasn't put you to sleep.Slow pacing doesn't need to be deadly to a film.  Nor does it have to remove suspense and excitement from a movie about murder.  In Vertigo, Alfred Hitchcock proved that a languid exploration of the human condition could be married to a thriller about murder with great results.While director Todd Field isn't aiming for something along those lines, he could have torn a page or two from Hitchcock's work.  It's always nice to see movies that consider how people act, think, feel and behave -- but it's important to keep the audience interested and awake, too.  In the Bedroom tries to do and say a lot, but in the process renders the audience virtually blind and deaf.It may be earnest and well intended in its attempts to be a Serious Film, but it comes across as pretentious, plodding and, the ultimate sin for a filmmaker to commit, just plain boring. "},{"Title":"Lifeless, boring, unmoving","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was the worst film I've seen in sometime. How it could win any award much less an Oscar is beyond me. It is unbeleivably slow and predicatble. I kept thinking go on dad have done with it. The acting was OK, but no way oustanding. Save your money folks, staring at your wall would be more entertaining. "},{"Title":"Like watching grass grow","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This may just be the slowest moving film in the history of cinema.  It takes some forty minutes for the movie to actually begin, and by that point, if you're not dead asleep, you don't particularly care what happens to any of the characters.  The movie then drones on for another hour and a half before it again captures your interest.  The only good thing about this movie is Tom Wilkinson.  Sissy Spacek reprises the role that she has played in every single movie she's ever acted in.  My suggestion is, if you insist on seeing this movie, bring along a pillow.   "},{"Title":"For a TV Movie of the Week, this is a good film","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Oops, I forgot it wasn't a TV movie of the week.  Even some of those had better direction and story than this movie.  I, like many of the other commentators, am totally baffled by the academy's nominating this film for best picture and script, let alone the acting nominations. I think the other 10 people in the theater were just as surprised.Looking at my watch is always the sign that the show is boring.  I looked at it a few times, but my husband even looked at his twice within two minutes during the supposedly thrilling end of the movie.  There were absolutely no surprises! I predicted everything from start to finish which sometimes isn't bad WHEN THE SCRIPT IS GOOD, but this script was not good.The acting was good, however, any fine actor would have done a marvelous job with this script and would have stood out as these actors did.  I am beginning to believe that you have to scream and break something (Spacek), or cry a lot (Tomei) to get nominated this year.  The performances in A Beautiful Mind out-shined these performances and those characters screamed, cried, and broke something.  But those characters I was drawn into watching, not those that I watched in In the Bedroom.Leaving the movie last night, I was discussing how many scenes were just plain stupid (I cannot think of any other word that justifiably describes these scenes as the word stupid does).  You must have a reason for showing a scene in a movie and I didn't see why were stuck watching so many of the scenes with absolutely no motivation other than filler.  Some of the conversations we were forced to watch were insipid.  I didn't care for any of the characters, not even the son.  You have give the audience reason to care and Field did not with this script.And what is it with a small town Maine doctor and teacher living in such a drab, out of date and poorly fashioned home as the Fowler's?  Not only that, but they themselves were dressed as poorly as the home in which they lived. A lack of musical score added to the boredom of this movie.  I know that sometimes, you don't need music, but it may have helped with In the Bedroom.In my final comment, I regret spending my money on this movie and will not recommend it to anyone.  I am sure other people would rather spend two hours watching TV than watching this movie.  I am beginning to believe that many of the paid critics in this country really didn't see this movie, but were reading each others critiques and revising them for their own reviews.  "},{"Title":"a  true masterpiece!!","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I found In The Bedroom to be the one of the best films made in the past few years an amazing script, beautiful direction, extraordinary acting!Todd Field actually managed to create a powerful drama of love which boils down to the eternal quint-essence of human drama true emotions are difficult to be expressed in words! That's why the film reduces to few lines, a rather simple plot but ultimately a volcano of human feelings love, hatred, desperation, redemption.The film actually evolves around one of Alexander Pope's lines Ripples last longer than splashes The first part of the film is used as a pretext for what is to follow( like the French would say is just the intrigue). We are lured to believe that the key couple could be Tomei and Stahl, with Spacek and Wilkinson as mere supporting cast. The murder is committed and like in the Greek Theatre we are witnessing what's happening offstage. Wilkinson and Spacek become the protagonists of oursecond part trying to cope with the loss of their child. Their drama unveils in front of our eyes like layers of an onion!We are slowly but powerfully led towards the unexpected ending of the film which completes the whole vision of the story. Resembling to a certain extent the same techniques used in Wong Kar Wai Cannes-Winning In The Mood for Love and Andrei Tarkovski's much-applauded The Stalker(long shots framed by one single camera like in an Italian Theatre Box) Todd Field creates a brilliant mind-boggling interior drama which gives a lot of space for reflection!A Top-Class Performance from the trio Spacek, Wilkinson and the supporting Tomei under the coordination of Todd Field!A big hand for The Academy for taking into consideration this motion picture (rather surprising!) "},{"Title":"Riveting dramatic story","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In The Bedroom is tough cinema, packed with the kind of substance and human drama that often drives casual viewers away, their psyches scorched by the lack of generic plotting and warm, fuzzy story arcs. To those who actively seek out realism, heartbreaking emotion and films which probe the complex corners of the human soul for answers that weigh heavier in your thoughts than the questions, this one is a treat. It lulls you in with an opening montage of summer romance, giving you no context of the challenging character arcs to come. We begin with Frank (Nick Stahl) a man barely out of his teens, in the midst of a passionate fling with Natalie (a fantastic Marisa Tomei), a woman far older than him who has two kids and a troublesome ex husband (William Mapother). Frank's parents differ on their opinions as far as his relationship goes. His no nonsense mother (Sissy Spacek), calmly disapproves, while his loving father (Tom Wilkinson) encourages simply by sitting back and going along with it. Then, out of nowhere, the plot takes a sharp turn into tragedy. Frank is killed in a struggle involving the volatile ex husband, leaving everyone behind to grieve. This film isn't content with a simple, standard grieving process. It insists on holding a steady, nonjudgmental gaze upon the parents, and the agonizing state they are left in. The killer is released on extended bail. The mother is torn apart knowing he is out there. The father actively downplays the devastation simply because he isn't capable of letting out what's inside him, twisting him in silent despair every moment of every day. Wilkinson is emotional dynamite, like a bleak cloud with flashes of sorrowful lightning beneath, a time bomb of implosive sadness. Spacek carries herself magnificently, especially in a third act verbal showdown with Tom that leaves you gutted and stunned. These two play their roles with uncanny precision, every movement and mannerism a roadmap leading straight to the core emotion, and shellshock of the tragedy, still being absorbed by their characters with every frame we see. It's a brave script for any group to undertake, and one which you must go into utterly prepared or you will either fall short of telling the story to its potential, or be consumed and disarmed by it, and arrive with a finished product with a tone deaf mentality. Not this one. Every aspect is treated with care, attention and focus by all involved, miraculously pulling this hefty piece off without a hitch. It's often a struggle to sit through films that don't make you feel all that great, films that tear off the superficial cloth that much of cinema is cut from, delving beneath for an unwavering look at what really goes on in this world of ours, be it large scale or intimate. It's important to experience this occasionally though, as it can often teach you valuable truths and awaken parts of your perception that lie dormant during a lot of other movies. This one won't hold your hand and provide an emotional blueprint for you to follow, but in being let off the leash, the experience may just be more rewarding. "},{"Title":"quietly powerful","Date":"5 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Married couple Matt (Tom Wilkinson) and Ruth Fowler (Sissy Spacek) live in a small coastal community in Maine. Their only son Frank (Nick Stahl) returns in love with the older Natalie Strout (Marisa Tomei) who has two young sons. Her ex-husband Richard Strout (William Mapother) is angry and shoots Frank at the family home. The Strouts are an important family in the town and Richard gets bail. Natalie didn't actually see the shooting. Marla Keyes (Karen Allen) is the defense attorney.The story is presented quietly. Nevertheless, the acting is overpowering. Tom Wilkinson is a rock crumbling before our eyes. Sissy Spacek is brilliant. Everybody is terrific. Other than a couple big emotions scenes, this movie is a study of quiet desperation. The forced smiles and the meaningless conversations hide the true intensity underneath the surface. "}{"Title":"Great Film, Marisa Tomei is Amazing","Date":"20 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not a cinematic expert but the camera work seemed particularly artful. I liked the close-ups and some of the other choices; they conveyed a lot of meaning in the film. There never seemed to be a lot of wasted footage, everything was very economical and integral in telling the story. Newer movies just inundate us with sensory data, often without telling a story. This movie told a story, I really felt like I was in a Maine town. Marisa Tomei is amazing. She is one of my all time favorites. Sissy Spacek is also a favorite and the other main characters did very well bu I am incredibly bias and would watch the film another ten times just to see Marisa Tomei. "},{"Title":"It is Like You are Really There--And How Sad it Is!","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the Bedroom is an awesome film. I use the word awesome in the most literal sense--as you watch it, in inspires awe. The reason is that some films try to be realistic, but this one really manages to do so. The consequences of this for the viewer are devastating, because the events, which just as well could be real, are very disturbing. As a result, you are traumatized just like the characters in the film in a very genuine way.The setting is Camden, Maine, where you are introduced to an average family including a middle aged doctor, his music teacher wife, and their son on the verge of going to college. The son, however, has fallen for an older woman who has two children and a very angry ex- boyfriend, and we are quickly introduced to the notion that things are not quite right. The boyfriend and the son encounter each other on several occasions, and so as not to trigger the spoiler alert, I will say only that one of these meetings ends in tragedy. The family then has to cope with what happened.Most movies cultivate a drama; rarer are the movies that actually take you to a community and drop you right in the middle of it. In the Bedroom is one of these--the doctor, Frank, played by Tom Wilkinson, might as well be someone you know. Wilkinson plays him so well that it seems like he is absolutely real. Sissy Spacek, who plays his wife, gives a performance in the same category. Marisa Tomei offers up a portrait of domestic violence that brings you into the room with a very terrified young woman--it is distressing. William Mapother, as the ex-boyfriend, is scary in a way that seems true to life.The conflict in the film ultimately is how to deal with the tragedy. It is a tough movie to watch--there is no way that you would want to be in the situation that these characters are in. Usually, as an audience member, you are insulated somewhat from the drama by the unreality of watching a movie. Here, however, since you might as well be watching the real thing, you begin to feel uncomfortable. The movie is magic. "},{"Title":"In the Cross Roads!","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the Bedroom (2001) Dir Todd Field / Cast Tom Wilkinson, Sissy Spacek, Marisa Tomei, Nick Stahl, William Mapother Tense drama thriller about secrets behind closed doors. In this case, in the bedroom. That is where sex is often associated as a student and older woman engage in sexual passion. Her ex-husband isn't too keen on giving her up. Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek play parents who warn their son of the potential danger but tragedy strikes when the ex-husband commits murder. He is released on bail due too nobody actually witnessing the murder leaving the victim's parents demanding justice and no other options than to justify their actions. Far better than the overrated A Time to Kill because it isn't about murder but about grief. Excellent work by director Todd Field with tremendous performances by Wilkinson and Spacek as a broken couple trying to sort through their loss and dealing with feelings of hatred. Their last scene can be interpreted differently in terms of what is said and not said. Marisa Tomei plays the woman their son was dating and whose image to the parents differs. Nick Stahl played their son caught in an immoral relationship and suffers fatal consequences despite warnings. William Mapother plays the violent ex-boyfriend caught within the law and streaming hatred. Observant portrayal of the affects of grief and secrets that dwell in the bedroom. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"A Character-Driven Movie!","Date":"14 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the Bedroom is a movie that will instantly connect with lovers of film. To those who can only appreciate special effects and movies with lack of plots, stay away from this film. The movie is undoubtedly hard to watch, but it's a powerful, character-driven movie about unforeseen consequences of a tragedy. The film is powerfully acted by underrated actors like Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek. It is movies like these that make me appreciate the art of cinema and storytelling. Todd Field's film is about a college freshman home for the summer who is dating a soon-to-be-divorced mother many years his senior. This relationship causes a rift between his mother and father, especially after a serious tragedy occurs affecting their lives forever. The film has a good cast of underrated and underused actors and I feel like they all did a good job in particular Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek. Spacek shows an emotional side to herself, which is perfectly normal as any mother would show. Wilkinson however keeps a calm reserve state of mind, but the end of the movie is his show. Nick Stahl also did a decent job, and likewise for Marisa Tomei. Overall, In the Bedroom is a slow-moving, but very effective movie that relies upon its characters more than anything else. The film is emotional, but sometimes the film shows different takes on getting to that state of mind. An incredibly strong script as well as fantastic acting makes this film a worthy watch. But beware of the tepid pace, as only serious film-goers may appreciate this kind of pace. My Grade A "},{"Title":"Subtle and understated, but haunting and powerful","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the Bedroom is a subtle and understated film, but it's also haunting and powerful. Though it's difficult to summarize without giving too much away, it takes place in a small town in New England and is about two murders, and central to the heart of those murders is an idealized concept of the traditional family unit. The first occurs because a jealous man can't stand the idea of someone else becoming involved with his ex-lover and mother of his children. The idea of a non-traditional family taking the place of a traditional one, as well as the perceived loss of property, meaning his ex and children, was too much for the murderer to bear. The second murder is revenge for the first, but it's not quite that simple. It happens because of a need for the second murderer to prove the legitimacy of their grief to a spouse after their family had been shattered. In the Bedroom is an examination of the concept of family in America, a meditation on how the garden from which fascism grows can be hidden just beneath the surface of a picturesque neighborhood. Evil can lie at the heart of everything we've been conditioned to see as normal and good and the film warns against the way the traditional family teaches people to see each other as property under the current system that governs the society we live in. "},{"Title":"Not what I expected...","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I guess a film like this, with the subject matter (I knew of the event that happens about 40 minutes into the film) and so in that respect I expected the film to be different than what it ended up being. The performances are very good, if disappointing given maybe what I expected, which was showier material. Maybe that's my fault, and sort of hypocritical too considering I always say I prefer performances that are subdued and more internal, they are the ones that usually stay with me longest. In that respect, perhaps this will be sort of like that. The film's narrative is certainly unpredictable, and where it goes is really surprising. Spacek is the best in the cast, but she's almost matched by Tom Wilkinson. "},{"Title":"Superb acting in a slow burning and powerful movie","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Greetings from Lithuania.In the Bedroom (2002) is a powerfully acted drama with some thriller elements. It tells a simple yet powerful story. The settings, characters, locations, motives and consequences in this movie are as true as they are in real life. Although the story isn't really gripping or a one which will keep you glued to a screen, it's a compelling, realistic and very honest story. At running time ~2 hours i wasn't bored and i was into the whole story.Overall, In the Bedroom is a wonderfully acted (and not over acted) slow burning picture, that follows simple yet interesting story. It's plausible and realistic at the same time. Filled with top notch performances (no wonder it received 3 Oscars nomination in acting department) it's a must see movie for a people who looking for a true, simple yet powerful stories. "},{"Title":"Best Performance I Have Ever Seen","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There are many things to be said about this film. It's twelve years later. So I'll just say this Tom Wilkinson's acting performance is the best I have ever seen. I am a die-hard Daniel Day-Lewis fan so that's hard for me to say, in a way. I saw this movie when it came out in 2001 and just watched it again for the first time since. When I first saw it, Tom Wilkinson blew me away, and his performance was just as amazing tonight. How does one capture the subtlety of being a normal human being confronted with the murder of a son? Much consideration is given to actors who portray extreme characters, showing their range. But the most difficult and amazing thing to do as an actor, in my opinion, is play someone who is not so. Not to be average or boring, but to be so real and so believable that it opens up a world of empathetic truth due to the foundation of reality it creates. Watch it. He masterfully embodies the character, in this circumstance, to a level beyond believable. He is so good in it that it speaks volumes beyond the themes of the film. Sissy Spacek is also deserving of high praise. Somehow they both capture, to me, what a marriage really would look like in that situation. High praise of course to Todd Field for his superb direction. If anyone cares about acting, or telling a great story, I recommend this film with all of my being. "},{"Title":"Profound and memorable character piece...","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" American screenwriter, actor and director Todd Field's feature film debut which he co-wrote with screenwriter Rob Feistinger, is based on a short story called Killings from 1979 by American novelist Andre Dubas (1936-1999). It premiered at the 17th Sundance International Film Festival in 2001, was screened in the Special Presentations section at the 26th Toronto International Film Festival in 2001 and is an American production which was shot on location in the town of Knox and Lincoln County in the state of Maine in the New England region of north-eastern USA and produced by producer Graham Leader, Jewish-American screenwriter, producer and director Ross Katz and Todd Field. It tells the story about Matt Fowler, a doctor who lives in a quiet neighbourhood in the town of Camden in Maine with his wife Ruth who is a music teacher. Matt and Ruth's only son Frank has just come home for the summer after graduating and is in a relationship with an older woman named Natalie who recently separated from her husband Richard Strout who is the father of her two young sons Duncan and Jason. All though Frank's father encourages him to go to the architecture school in Boston which he has applied for, Frank has taken a part-time job on a lobster boat so he can be with Natalie and her children. Frank and Natalie's relationship grows stronger, but this upsets Richard who begins to bother them. Distinctly and finely directed by American filmmaker Todd Field, this quietly paced fictional tale which is narrated from multiple viewpoints, draws an intimate and gripping portrayal of a recent graduate's relationship with his caring parents who worries about his future and his evolving romance with a struggling mother who has just gotten out of a bad marriage. While notable for it's naturalistic and atmospheric milieu depictions, sterling art direction by director, screenwriter and art director Shannon Hart, cinematography by Spanish cinematographer Antonio Calvache, set decoration by set decorator Josh Outerbridge, fine editing by film editor Frank Reynolds and use of sound, this dialog-driven and narrative-driven psychological drama depicts several dense studies of character and contains a good score by American composer Thomas Newman. This instantly involving and poignantly atmospheric independent film from the early 21st century about a married couple's battle for justice after being struck by a terrible crime, is impelled and reinforced by it's subtle character development, cogent narrative structure, mindful dialog, interrelating stories, essential themes and the restrained and remarkable acting performances by British actor Tom Wilkinson, American actress Sissy Spacek, American actor Nick Stahl and American actress Marisa Tomei. A profound and memorable character piece which gained, among numerous other awards, the Special Jury Prize for Acting at the 17th Sundance International Film Festival in 2001 and Acadamy Award nominations for Best Picture, Best Actor, Best Actress, Best Supporting Actress and Best Adapted Screenplay at the 74th Academy Awards in 2001. "},{"Title":"Booooooooooooooooring!","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There are two main events in the 2 hours that this movie lasts. Or maybe should I say thera are BUT 2 events? Two killings, that's it. One around 40 minutes from the start, one about 15 minutes to the ending.Before, in between and after, there is utter, complete boredom. And no, sorry, the actually wonderful acting alone is not enough to save this yawn of a movie. The first almost 40 minutes are preparatory for what is (rather predictably) going to happen, but there is so little going on that one just wonders why it has to take that long to get to the point. Then it finally happens. In the beginning you start to feel for the characters, for their loss, but after a while it gets so unbearably slow-paced, so redundant, that all tension is released and gives way to what seems to be a never ending humdrum. The film has a sudden flick of emotion when the revenge takes place, but then again, the tension only lasts 10 minutes, and then dead calm again, up to the end. The makers of this movie succeeded in the not easy task of turning a life's tragedy into a slumbery, somnolent confrontation between a few characters, that gets your eyelids heavy sooner than you might like.I see this movie got mostly high grades, I'll rather go upstream and recommend to avoid it. Then again, it's your choice. "}{"Title":"An emotional drama filled with pain and sorrow.","Date":"10 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Every film you watch can't be all happy filled and all smiles. Just as in life bad things like tragic deaths of loved ones happen, and as shown in this film it tears people's world apart. True life is full of love, and enjoyment and conflict and on the down part pain and suffering. Aside from it's sad tragic theme this film is well supported from it's plot and the long slow direction as common from director Todd Field draws you in.Set in a sleepy New England town a young man Frank Fowler(Nick Stahl)is involved romantically with an older single woman(Marisa Tomei) a mom of two who's split from her abuse prone first husband. Frank's parents the well to do educated Fowlers(brilliant performances from Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek) mother a music teacher and dad a doctor don't happen to approve of this relationship of Frank's. Only when least expected the apparent nightmare comes true the relationship results in tragic means. And this has a lasting impact on the Fowlers. Causing the need for matters to be taken into their own hands.Really In the Bedroom is one powerful film that's painful, it's filled with sorrow and guilt and the performances from the cast is top notch, one film that if you can deal with the sadness it's not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Todd Field's film is a triumph of character study and narrative; a blending of several good things to create something which resonates.","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the Bedroom twists and turns delightfully, pulling the proverbial carpet from out under the viewer on at least two occasions and leaving us rather shaken at what plays out on screen a good few times other than this. To say it's about love and coming of age as hormonal rushes vie with a parent's want for their youngster to branch out into greater, more grandeur things in the form of studies would be true. To say it's about the grieving process would additionally be true, to say why would be a gross spoiler of an item that only hits us about a half of the way through, and to say it was about normal, everyday people whom are placed in extraordinary circumstances before opting to elevate their position into an even more extraordinarily circumstantial situation, as clashes with deeply routed morals come-about, would also be true. Todd Field takes delight in manoeuvring his characters down shady alleys of internal conflict and desire, equally so with the narrative which is wonderfully pitched and thoroughly engaging.Field's gear changes are near effortless, shifting tones and impressively taking the story down different paths; successfully dragging the story along with it as things brood. His film revolves around the Fowler family of Maine in America, their existence seeing them contribute to society in an upstanding and generally sociable manner; the father and husband of whom is Matt (Wilkinson), a local doctor, his and his sons' fondness of baseball so strong that listening to repeat broadcasts on the radio of games of old is the norm as they spend their spare time fishing for lobsters out at sea. The wife and mother is Ruth (Spacek), a key component to the film is their eldest son Frank (Stahl) whom hovers around the meaning to go off to study architecture but is distracted by his love for local girl Natalie (Tomei) who's ex-husband Richard (Mapother) remains as much a pest as he does a volatile threat.Frank lovingly spends his days with Natalie full of all things good; the ex-husband Richard looming ominously in the background as he seemingly refuses to let Natalie go. Frank's attitudes to life at this stage in his life clash with mother Ruth's ideas, his want to stay where he is and perhaps work on one of the many aforementioned lobster boats the local community run, just so as to be closer to Natalie, is winning the battle over going away to study. Frank sits alone at night in the family's house debating over the scenario he finds himself in and struggling over some architectural work linked to his education, his mother coming downstairs offering the binary opposition to what Frank is apparently leaning towards and they clash in a profile shot.After a jolting twist in the tale happens, and the resulting frustrations born out of the aftermath of this do not tie up the loose ends of pain that still flail, things shift and we head down a different direction. Field hits us effectively enough with this U-turn reveal but the true wonder of his direction is his keeping of the impact of the event seemingly fresh well into the rest of the film. Where character and decisions and the relationships numerous characters had with one another drove the film, for In the Bedroom to take on such a minimalist tone thereafter following all this activity helps resonate the impact of the event. The edits between takes are longer for the second third; we don't seem to revolve around much else except for the aftermath of the event; whatever dialogue from a flurry of characters before, has gone replaced only by two people speaking or arguing in grim tones about what to do and there's less an emphasis on narrative, as if the proverbial spanner has been wedged into the cogs that turn the action-reaction formula resulting in the machine being stuck on 'reaction'. When tensions and emotions reach a boiling point, the film will peel off down another road and lead us onto an agonising conclusion.Sliced up into three distinct thirds, In the Bedroom delivers an intriguing love story between two young and attractive people as a son bids to move away from his parents; a somewhat harrowingly progressive and deliberately trudging segment in which the director slows everything right down to compliment the material before concluding on a pulpy revenge infused thriller tone, all the while with a constant eye on studious and refreshing attention to character. The film opens with a series of machines going through a predisposed process of canning seafood at a local plant; the film will later go onto revolve around the process of number of things all linked to human nature, jealousy; guilt; rage; grief and how they affect individual people and those around them whom they hold dear or otherwise.In what is a decidedly bleak ending, the grim reality of the new existence these people inhabit is metaphorically observed in the removing of a plaster which covered a thumb wound for most of the film; said injury now apparently healed over thus pointing out grazes, be they physical or otherwise, do heal. The new order a particular set of characters find themselves in after agreeing to do what they did suggests a newfound sense of solace with their living, an ending which suggests more-so a temporal healing of certain psychological wounds than it does an entire healing; but the use of violence and death as a means for an answer challenges the viewer in where they stand in desiring two central character winding up, not happy, but as happy as humanely possible following the tragic events that happened. The film is bold, rather daring and quite the intrinsic drama. "},{"Title":"Absorbing Drama","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A middle-aged New England couple disapproves of its son's romance with an older and then must deal with unspeakable tragedy. Director Field, who also wrote the absorbing screenplay, creates a somber mood and elicits excellent performances from his entire cast. Spacek is the mother who responds to the tragedy with anger that is wholly understandable. The film, however, belongs to Wilkinson, and he turns in a finely nuanced performance as a man who internalizes his pain and carries on with quiet dignity. Although the subject matter is quite emotional, it is handled with admirable restraint, keeping the sentimentality and melodrama at bay. "},{"Title":"Weighty but cold","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Forget about the deceptively raunchy title, which comes from an allegory about lobsters; Todd Field's 'In the Bedroom' is a serious and weighty study of grief in the aftermath of tragedy, and also a story about how death begets death (the latter theme labelled by the original story's title, which was simply 'Killings'). It's not bad, but the way the story develops fails to make the most of the potential in the opening premise of (semi-) intergenerational romance (interesting because the gap in age and experience is enough to be significant without being freakish. And on the theme of linked killings, I much preferred Kiesolowski's brilliant 'A Short Film About Killing' Field's movie doesn't exactly endorse the notion of revenge, but it asks its questions in an abstract and deliberate manner, whereas Kieslowski found more power in the simple demonstration of what the taking of life involves. Ultimately this story didn't move me; perhaps because the director seems so completely morally ambivalent about his own tale's conclusions. "},{"Title":"Interesting but lacking...","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've heard all the good things about In the Bedroom when it came out and only recently had a chance to see it.  I have to admit the first half of the movie was quite interesting but after the incident, it dragged on a bit. It could have been shortened and still be as effective.The scene with Matt and his wife in the house was one of the best I've seen in any film and to me was the highlight.  You can just feel the anguish and frustrations of both characters and the helplessness they felt.The ending was to me a let down.  It was not believable and to me out of character for Matt.  I don't really buy it that he did it so that he could go on living with his wife and that it's her will.  He's too strong a character to do that for her.  The ending spoiled the movie and I thought it could have been better if there was a resolution between the parents and Natalie.Overall, still recommended. "},{"Title":"Dr. Fowler, heal thyself.","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In The Bedroom is a character study of a family in crisis in modern day Maine. The title is misleading to most because it suggests that it is about what couples do in bedrooms. Quite the contrary, it refers to lobster fishing, when an adult is fully in the trap, it is called in the bedroom. Lobstering is a thread throughout, and young Frank, a promising architecture student carrying on with a much older woman, Natalie (Marisa Tomei), sometimes just thinks that he should become a lobster man like his grandfather instead of going off to college when summer is over.CAUTION - SPOILERS FOLLOW --The story turns tragic when Natalie's estranged and jealous husband (Bill Mapother, cousin of Tom Cruise) shoots and kills young Frank. Mom (Sissy Spacek) and Dad (Tom Wilkinson), Dr Fowler, handle it quite differently, this causes some resentment between them, and finally cooperation. The killer is out on bail, and they begin to suspect that at eventual trial, maybe 12 to 18 months away, he will get off easy. So they take things in their own hands with the help of a good friend who owns 350 acres of very secluded land. Amtrak ticket, suitcases and summer clothes gone, the killer is snuffed and buried. Dr Fowler gets home right before dawn, washes up, goes into his bedroom, mom asks, Did you do it?The film puts the viewer into a moral dilema. While we see that the killer is without a doubt guilty of murder, our legal system still says innocent until proven guilty in a proper trial. If we believe that, then we believe that Dr Fowler is guilty also of murder, and mom is an accomplice. Can we condone what they did? Probably not. Can we understand why? Probably.A well-done and thought-provoking film. Thomas Newman is credited for the musical score, but it must have been one of his easier jobs. There is virtually no background score per se. There is a very little at the beginning, and about 1 hour and 43 minutes into it, where the final act is beginning, there is some foreboding music. But the whole film is primarily without music and this actually makes it play out more realistically. Sissy Spacek was a nominee for best actress, but lost to Halle Berry in Monster's Ball. "},{"Title":"An exceptional drama","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Where do I start?Well, everything that you've heard is true IN THE BEDROOM is one of the best films of 2001. It is raw, touching, engaging, and always real.This film also features outstanding performances by Sissy Spacek, Tom Wilkinson, and Maria Tomei (who should have won the Oscar for her effective performance). The remaining cast (including Nick Stahl) do wonderful jobs, as well.Todd Field is certainly a natural film maker. He knows how to use the camera in order to capture the mood and essence of each scene.IN THE BEDROOM is, quite simply, a brilliant film.  "},{"Title":"Waiting for something to happen.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I just read some of the other reviews and I can't believe why so many people enjoyed this movie. It was too long and it had a very simple plot. The description of the movie was misleading, I was expecting more. When something finally did happen, the story moved very slowly and it was also pretty predictable.           "},{"Title":"Thought provoking and moving.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A fascinating drama that eschews the typical structure that revenge dramas usually embrace. A leisurely (some might say slow) pace that allows the locale and characters establish themselves. This is not a story that concentrates so much on plot as it does on character. And that is what makes this film so riveting. Fine performances from the entire cast, a thoughtful script by Rod Festinger and Todd Field and absolutely beautiful cinematography by Antonio Calvache make this a marvelous viewing experience. Definitely not for those who suffer from ADD, this is a story about cause and effect. The end result of the film leaves one questioning the worth and repercussions of vengeance. A marvelous film.  "},{"Title":"(a little spoiler) Didn't know it was a Revenge drama!!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very riveting all the way- also very dark, gloom and slow-paced throughout though.(while this 'slow-paced' is just right for this film so plz don't whine about it,folks.)I would imagine it was just about tragic family story and wanted to see this film for the sake of the excellent actors-glad to see Marisa Tomei's comeback, by the way.However, it was much more than I thought. Simply tragic, sad..yeah,it cuts your heart like a knife! I personally go for light-hearted movies thus don't want to see this film again since it's too painful and sometimes frightening to watch this family's or the couple's struggle. Which means-this movies is THAT realistic. The rural setting is perfect for this story- the chosen actors' performance is by far the best I've seen; most kudos (of course) to Sissy Spacek & Tom Wilkinson.*spoiler* *Plz don't read the paranthesis if you're planning to see the film.* At the end, I was deeply surprised that this quiet father got turned into some sort of hitman himself for -I would say- more his wife not his son. Never imagined he's really going to get it done! One of the greatest but also the saddest revenge scene ever.At any rate, I cannot say I would recommend this movie to anybody I know or anyone who likes movies. But if you are in serious movies & want to see well-directed, well-acted movie; plus if you have enough guts to swallow all the gritty aspects of this catastrophic story...well, then it'd be not a bad idea if you try this. "}{"Title":"A great piece of film","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is one of my favourites, it's such a great film, the acting is good; the way the actors portray their characters it's hard to see that they are only acting.This film will keep you glued to the screen whether it's the tension between Marisa Tomei(Natalie) and Will Mapother(Richard), or the tension between Sissy Spacek(Ruth) and Tom Wilkinson(Matt)it's all there.Simply if you haven't seen it, go see it! It truly is a great film, one of the best of 2001. "},{"Title":"A haunting, mesmerizing drama","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom has all of the qualities of a sophisticated drama with a mixture of enormous tension and suspense. It is littered with many remarkable performances from talented actors like Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek. In the Bedroom is about an average New England family who has a son that is having an affair with a married woman. Both of the parents have different opinions on the qualities of this relationship and question whether or not their son should keep seeing her. Wilkinson's character encourages his son to keep seeing her while Spacek's character is not so sure whether it should continue. However, when that affair leads to a painful tragedy, the family must cope with the emotion of that tragedy and must live with the fact that the culprit will not be brought to legitimate justice. Throughout the film, we see the extreme appearance of emotion from both family members and examples of how their lives dramatically change due to the incident. For instance, their refusal to talk about the event leaves an empty space in their marriage. Both Wilkinson and Spacek give performances needed to capture the emotion of the topic and respond to their roles with such vigorous emotion and pitch-perfect attitude and allows the audience to feel truly sorry for them in the beginning. However, near the end of the movie, the story shifts from emotional sadness to mental anger. Spacek cannot stand the fact that the culprit is still on the street and is able to roam free from justice. She finally loses it and blames Wilkinson for the incident. This eventually leads to Wilkinson taking serious and drastic action against the culprit and illustrates the tension and the mesmerizing anger that the characters had buried deep in their hearts. The woman whom the son has an affair with is played by Marisa Tomei, who gives her best performance since My Cousin Vinny and does it with such epic magnitude and fantastic emotion. As for Wilkinson and Spacek, they finally feel satisfaction and truly believe that the culprit has been brought to justice. It is like they wanted him to die and in the end, we realize that Spacek is happy that Wilkinson did what he did. In the Bedroom is one of the best dramas of the year and leaves the audience feeling sorry for the culprit rather than the family at the end of the film.Lenny's Grade ***1/2 "},{"Title":"Human drama par excellence","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Once again an independent film shows that a good story, insightful directing and inspired acting can outperform the Hollywood giants with their $50 Million budgets.  This film was produced for a scant $1.7 million and garnered five Oscar nominations including best picture.  Writer/Director/Producer Todd Field, who has spent most of his career almost invisibly as an actor, explodes onto the scene on the other side of the camera and serves notice that he is a force to be reckoned with.The story is powerful and poignant.  It is the story of a family that is shattered by a horrible tragedy and it examines their ordeal as they come to terms with it.  Field's workup is wonderfully done, giving care to assure that we understand and involve ourselves with these characters.  It is a very likeable family, with down to earth people that come across like our closest friends.  This makes their tragedy into our tragedy, so we easily identify with the shearing forces that shred their lives.Field shows an extreme talent for bringing a stark realism to the screen.  The characters are consistent with their development and exceedingly believable.  The way he frames the shots and his choice of close-ups of inanimate objects is superb, heightening the feeling of being there.  Having spent a good bit of time in New England myself, I noticed that the locations capture much of the feeling of the place.  Even the sounds are more realistic than most films.After the tragedy occurs, Field casts a suffocating pall over the film as he allows the humanness of his characters to dominate.  Shock and denial are followed by seething resentment and blame.  The characters are seen going robotically through the motions of their daily lives as they attempt to cope with the reality of the heartbreak that has befallen them.  If there is one area where Field errs slightly, it may be here.  He purposely dwells on these scenes to bring the audience to the same level of frustration and anguish as the characters, in an attempt to make us see that the final resolution is inevitable.  However, his pace is overly torturous.  The film bogs down and becomes repetitive during the second act, making the entire film seem much too long.  However, this is more than compensated by the tense and evocative final act.The acting is riveting.  Tom Wilkinson, Sissy Spacek and Marisa Tomei were all nominated for Oscars.  December seems to be a lucky month for birthdays in this film, since all four of the leads were born in that month (Wilkinson, 12/12, Spacek, 12/25, Tomei, 12/4 and Stahl, 12/5).Wilkinson (`The Full Monty', `Shakespeare in Love', `The Patriot') emerges from the shadow of supporting roles with a compelling performance in the lead.  His sincerity and believability endow his character with an amiable nature.  His anger and grief is contained, yet while he appears impassive, it is clear that the emotional vortex runs deep.  This is a breakout performance for Wilkinson and hopefully will portend larger roles in the future.For Sissy Spacek, this is her sixth Oscar nomination.  Throughout her career, Spacek has dependably belted out one commanding dramatic performance after another and this is no exception.  This is a somewhat more emotionally repressed character than she usually plays, but she does it beautifully.  When the dam finally breaks and she goes to pieces, it is one of the most intense scenes in the film.Marisa Tomei may be one of the most underappreciated actors in film today.  After her best supporting Oscar for `My Cousin Vinny', one would have expected more leading roles.  They never came and she continued to deliver a parade of terrific supporting roles.  Tomei is a very visceral actor, with great emotional range and the ability to make any character seem lovable.  Here, as Natalie, she pours herself into a confused and broken girl trying desperately to put her life together after her breakup with an abusive husband.  Her romantic scenes are touching and she has numerous heartrending scenes that punctuate the feelings that the other characters are suppressing.  This is a richly textured performance that helps give the film its soul.  Perhaps now, after 20 years in the business Tomei will finally be discovered.Nick Stahl rounds out the main cast as son Frank Fowler.  Stahl effectively captures the struggle of young adulthood, trying to manage complex adult situations with the inexperience and naiveté of youth.  William Mapother does a fine job as Natalie's abusive husband.  Mapother's resume is mostly comprised of bit parts in the films of his famous cousin Thomas Mapother (aka Tom Cruise) having appeared in five of them.  However Mapother shows talent of his own in some intense scenes with Tomei and Stahl.  I was impressed how he was able to switch from arrogant intimidation to meek pusillanimity in the final scene with Wilkinson.  It is the perfect portrayal of the bully who is only strong in the face of those weaker than he.This is a disturbing and powerful film that cuts your heart out and serves it up cold.  There is a thunderhead of new and unheralded talent that converges to create an extraordinary independent film.  Though Field is a bit heavy handed in the second act, everything else is near perfect.  I rated it a 9/10.  For lovers of drama and great acting this film is a must see.  "},{"Title":"A series of acting workshop scenes","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The cast are all accomplished in this film, but it just seemed like a series of acting workshop scenes tied together. Many are as boring as you can get. Many do not advance the movie, in my opinion. I never saw this film in the theater simply because I think the title is one of the worst ever (yes, I got the two lobsters in the bedroom metaphor at the beginning) but am I really glad I didn't now because the movie is pretty boring. I'm sure anyone who says this critically praised film is boring is going to be labeled a typical, mindless action film fan, but that is not the case with me, if you see the other films I've commented on in the IMDB.  Whereas a great film like Glengarry Glen Ross has acting that leaves you gasping for air, this film left me gasping for the fast forward button. It's just plain boring. It just reminds me of an old SCTV episode where they're clammoring we are actors and actors love to act. Doesn't matter how great of an actor you are, the script still has to be good.And to make things more annoying, the foley artists had a field day with the clinking of the forks and salt shakers and stuff like that in every scene where there is no music and little dialog. Just annoying. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but...","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" ...I hate endings that leave you hanging, wondering whathappened after The End. That device may be artisticallydefensible, but unless a sequel is in the offing, it's not verysatisfying for the viewer. Without giving away the details, let me say that I felt cheated by theshocker ending, although I sympathized with the grieving parents. "},{"Title":"A Compelling tale about unforgiving nature of parental love.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  **SPOILERS**There are two things that goes completely beyond my assumption about this film,by the time i was watching this on DVD , i have no idea whatsoever what's the film all about. Upon hearing rave reviews, i assumed that this is a drama romance of aging couples, i guess i was tricked by the Title and poster,initially the only intimidation for me to watch ITB was upon finding that my Teenage hood dream girl Marisa Tomei stars in this film, oh yes also , after feeling damn satisfied with this film i went to IMDB to check who's this Todd Field dude(the director), then i realize he was the person i only known priorly from appearing in that mess The Haunting(1999) for less than 7 minutes, but more familiarly in Eyes Wide Shut(1999), playing That Pr*ck Piano player as uttered by a hedonistic Sydney Pollack. Well i've never seen his previous off screen work, but this Pr*ck piano player sure leave me in awe,from the opening scene two couples of different age groups running about in a field, then made a pact that their love will be intact. now up about this point i still led to believe that this is a romance movie, although im wondering why the heck is this post-teener lad from Disturbing behaviour(1998) oggling about with late 30-ish Tomei, something's fishy......*(MIGHT SPOIL)* Okay i won't really go over with the story details,twists or whatnots,i do tell that something bad is happening close to the middle of the film though, and from then on , the film takes an entirely depressing view of coping with the loss of a family member which leads to an act of planned revenge, in short a realistic take on what if, a picture perfect parents lost their only child? *(END)*What makes this piece a stand out,can be divided into several aspects, all neatly balanced, the acting for one is a no contest situation, Marisa Tomei who surprisingly given the most limited screen time still shakes my heart, ok thats obviously a sick biased view, Nick Stahl's also great potraying a college aged boy falling for a Mother of two, he'll go far. However it is Tom Wilkinson that really becomes the central navigator of the story, he embodied his role as a gentle and intelligent understanding family man who's later on shattered yet still trying hard to keep himself in control, alas, all for naught. Sissy spacek deserve her own credit as well, then again she never did a bad performance, all and all, the supporting characters helps to uplift this film for what it is, and yeah.. that goes for Tom Cruise's Cousin too(before this i've only seen him as an extra,if not a non-speaking villain thug in major action films ha!)The direction is credible, the change of mood after the tragedy occur are downright obvious, not that its a bad thing, from a peaceful small town where neighbours greet each other and garden gnomes run about in the garden, to a glass walled grainy isolated scape, where locals are doing an awkward job in comforting the family on the wake.I could go on about this film, but like i always said, have to be seen to be truly enjoyed, then you probably will go ohhh yes i see... exactly what he (me!) said, if not..God forbid.despite receiving several nominations, and probably winning some awards, which i'm not to sure of, this film still goes in the hidden gem category,Naturally it takes those actors with a 20 million price tag to make this film a box office success(in Sydney this was shown for less than 2 weeks in theaters).One could learn alot about serious film making , where every characters on the script are played to the bone and every scenario that occurs are presented in honest if not creative approach, well done piano player! looking forward his next directorial works....3.8 outta 5.+3.8 for superb acting, a simple and pleasant approach of directing, finely crafted script.-1.2 for mild yet unavoidable thought that this film might just be a little too slow paced and slightly draggy and also for not showing enough of Marisa Tomei. "},{"Title":"A movie that has one yawning from the very first frame ought not, by rights, conclude as well as this one does.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers follow...Until the surprisingly electric scene in which Matt tells Ruth exactly what he thinks of her - which is exactly what we'd been thinking of her, too - it's all as ordinary as it is possible for the director to make it; intended perhaps as a study in the banality of evil, it comes across instead as a tedious expression of the banality of absolutely everything.  The characters are all as frustratingly inarticulate as the director.  It's not just that Field is understated, as some claim.  Watch Nanni Moretti's The Son's Room, an Italian film released in the same year, and you'll see an even more understated director working with even muter characters who nonetheless manages to keep his film alive and in good health from beginning to end - without resorting to gunplay, either.The ending worries me.  I have no doubt that most people will fail to realise what it's really saying.  On the surface, it's saying this Matt and Ruth, after futilely blaming each other, realise that they really need to get justice by concentrating their fire on their son's murderer - which means, since the law seems to be refusing to do its duty, shooting him.But this is a strained interpretation of events.  The event that sparks off the shooting is just this Ruth encounters her son's murderer in a convenience store, and says afterwards to her husband He smiled at me.  Suggestible people will probably believe her.  But he hadn't smiled at her.  Wearing the same inscrutable expression he always wears, he had caught her eye, hurried out of the store as quickly as possible, and (in an attempt to save some face) nodded as imperceptibly as possible not to Ruth but to the store's proprietor.The parents are angry that Richard Strout is being charged with manslaughter rather than murder, as if manslaughter is so much less serious than murder as to constitute an insult.  But manslaughter is a serious crime and the details of the shooting ARE murky (we never find out ourselves exactly what happened).  Of course, it ought not to matter if the shooting WAS an accident, since an accidental killing committed in the course of a bank robbery or a kidnapping is deemed murder under common law, and this case should be no different; but the law is the law, and if such a shooting as this COULD be manslaughter under Maine or US law, then we don't know that this particular shooting isn't.  What difference does it make?  Strout is still absolutely certain to go to prison, for five to twenty years - he thinks twenty, the prosecutor thinks ten to fifteen, the parents, on the basis of very little evidence, think five, but even five years in prison is hardly a slap on the wrist.  What do these people want, blood?  Alas, they DO want blood, and so, before the law has a chance to punish Strout itself, they shoot him.Ironically, as Strout is being held at gunpoint, he justifies himself in exactly the same way that the parents are presumably justifying themselves he says that Frank had wronged him terribly, that he simply couldn't bear to see Frank's smiling face while he, Richard Strout, was suffering, that he only wanted just revenge and no more - all the usual tripe.  The irony may be lost on everyone in the movie but it isn't lost on us.  Moreover, we know that Richard is himself someone else's son.Here's what really happened after months of evasion and grief, Matt and Ruth have a chance to be honest with themselves and begin to move on, and after their first open confrontation we think that they'll take that chance - right up until we see the second shooting, when we realise that they instead chose to retreat even further into blindness and bloodlust.  The film's concluding third (the only part with anything going for it) speaks eloquently AGAINST revenge.  It's a message that English-speaking audiences badly need to hear.  Few will hear it. "},{"Title":"True feelings, bad end.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERTI have lost a child myself, and I could recognize many of the thoughts and feelings they had.I didn't like the end. Killing him is no solution!!!The film is really good handwork, and the actors played very well. I rated this film 9 not 10 because I didn't like the end/solution.  "},{"Title":"Pleasant Surprise","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  While I thought Sissy Spacek was great as usual, I think the really BEST performance in this film was put in by Tom Wilkinson (who played the bad-guy in Rush Hour and the English General Cornwallis in The Patriot).Rarely, does an actor's performance come across as this genuine. "},{"Title":"Solid, well acted drama that never quite grips","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went to `In the Bedroom' knowing that it had received a number of coveted Oscar nominations in some of the biggest fields, including Best Picture. This tends to skew your expectations &#150; you look for a higher level of quality (though, in light of the winner of this year's award for Best Picture, and for previous years, this is probably a worthless endeavour). So is this movie deserving of the high level of praise it's garnered? Yes, and no.Plot wise the movie is very unoriginal. Dr. Matt Fowler (Tom Wilkinson) and his wife, Ruth (Sissy Spacek), look on in disapproval as their son, Frank (Nick Stahl), dates an older woman, Natalie Strout (Marisa Tomei), who comes complete with kids and an ex-husband, Richard (William Mapother), with a criminal past and an inability to let go of his wife and their time together. This sets for emotional drama for one third of the movie, when a sudden event &#150; no prizes for guessing what &#150; tears the characters apart into new emotional state. The rest of the movie deals with people's reaction to their grief &#150; there's no surprise at any point, and so the movie must get by on the actual script, acting and direction.Fortunately the Oscar nominated acting is well up to the challenge of carrying the movie, helped along by some sharply scripted dialogue and competent direction from Todd Field. The characters feel real &#150; they act in a realistic manner, they talk in a realistic manner. Arguments sound like two people in conflict, rather than typical Hollywood melodrama. The event that rips Matt and Ruth apart is handled astutely &#150; the actors give strong performances carried in their stance as much as their words. Todd Field shows the wedge between them in picturesque solid shots of them apart, and when there's a moment of strong emotion the camera successfully conveys this by breaking into movement of greater fluidity. The final climax of the movie is fairly obvious but the performances are such that it lends credence, and emotion, to what may, in other hands, be just plain derivative.`In the Bedroom' will not be to a lot of people's tastes. It's slow moving and its plot may leave something to be desired. It's a character drama, much like `Iris' or `A Simple Plan' is, using solid landscapes and set pieces, with astute directing to convey the story. The performances lift it above drudgery, but there's something lacking in it all that makes it not quite gripping, and ultimately not memorable enough. Which equates with a 6.5/10 for me.  "}{"Title":"The little indie film that could","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom begins innocently enough and although we can see the road it's headed on, there is a certain joy in getting there.  This joy comes in the form of Marisa Tomei who acts her heart out (My Cousin Vinny was not a fluke after all) and truly makes the audience love her and the sweet relationship she enjoys with Nick Stahl.  When the twists and turns do arrive, Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson are very believable as the jilted parents and Spacek in particular fully embodies her role as an angry housewife and mother (Halle Berry was a bit overrated).  Spacek is content to leave unsaid what could be said and her subtle take on the role is both very difficult and rewarding for viewers.  Perhaps Oscar was not as fruitful because of a little something called The Coal Miner's Daughter and because she already won, the voters determined it was time for a new member to grace the podium.  The one problem that I found with In the Bedroom was the unwillingness by Field to leave the characters the way they'd been explored so far once the third act of the film arrived.  Without giving anything away, it seemed awfully outlandish to believe that Tom Wilkinson's character would act in that matter.  Sissy Spacek's character appeared to be more likely to head in that direction and when the end came, it was almost as if Todd Field did some revising so the third act would come as more of a shock to us.  That said, In the Bedroom is a nice little indie film that proves that you don't always need a huge budget and a well-known director to have big stars in your movie and to deserve big awards.       "},{"Title":"Superb cinematography, but slow, simple plot","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved the way it was filmed, almost all the shots are masterfully composed. However, the plot was a little too simplistic for my tastes, and the characters, with the exception of the boy's mother, lack depth. Sissy Spacek is great, Marisa Tomei is very good, the male actors are only so-so. "},{"Title":"Good movie, good drama but overrated","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'd like to start by saying that I liked this movie a lot. The actors are all great (specially Marisa Tomei and Tom Wilkinson), the photography is beautiful and I think that the film transmits very well the anguish that the mother and father feel.However, I also think that the movie lacks rhythm and is somewhat overrated by all the oscar hype. It's a good drama with great acting for people who don't mind a slower pace in a movie.I went to see it with 5 friends and I must say that I was the only one that liked the movie. Everybody else thought it was to slow and boring.One other think is the nomination for best screenplay.I just don't understand it. It's an ordinary story that becomes great because of the actors and the direction. "},{"Title":"Not Great? Greater than 99.99% of the Hollywood fodder.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Way too many people didn't like it. I understand. Most people object to the ending of this film, saying that from character exploration it switches to a revenge flick. Yes, the ending did feel unsatisfactory, yet to me it didn't turn this film into `a movie about revenge'. In fact the topic of this whole exploration as I understand it is `how much a relatively decent and normal human being can change when pushed in the corner (locked in the bedroom)'. The film suggests an answer. Do I agree with this answer? Do I believe it's realistic? To tell you the truth, I don't want to believe it. Yet, the question itself is quite capable of sending the chills down my spine. I don't want to find out what good people are capable of when subjected to incessant mental pain, with any hope of recovery taken away *** SPOILER *** by the constant presence of their son's killer, free and even happy.Good people are just that people. Is a mother who punishes her little son severely for dropping his glove in the mud a good person? Don't know, but good people &#150; good parents, mind you &#150; sometimes manage to do things like that. Are good people capable of alienating their teenage children to the point when every attempt to have a conversation meets a brick wall? Easily, meaning it's very easy to get to this point, and very hard not to. Do good people let their only child do things that are wrong (very clearly wrong to me, may be less clearly wrong to them) because they are afraid to alienate him even more? Yes, I can imagine that, especially when the child has reached legal age, and it's not much you can do to force him to straighten his act anyway. Do husbands and wives in good solid families rely upon each other in difficult situations more than they should? Don't know about your family, but to me `call the police!' &#150; `if you want to do it &#150; do it yourself' kind of dialog is not something I totally can't relate to.But this is about where the familiar land ends. Would the entire world stop making sense to me if a tragedy like theirs struck? I don't want to know. Would I become capable of blaming my husband for being not more than a human, only to hear the same kind of accusations from him, even more hurtful, because they are true? I hope I'll never find out. Would I be able to become a cold-blooded murderer in their circumstances? My heart screams `NO', but in some corner of my brain there is a fear that in fact I don't know. Now, the next question on my mind is where did Andre Dubus got this story from? If he's got it from first-or-second-or-third hand experience, it's something he had to reveal to people, even if he didn't know what conclusions to draw out of it; I understand that need. If he made it up, it's cruel and I refuse to believe in the statement it makes. Yet the movie makes the transformation more believable than I would ever think possible. The torture of the minds and souls is portrayed with relentless, drilling persistence. You are forced to watch the torture until you feel tortured yourself. This is clearly the director's goal, and while you can debate its merit, it's hard to deny the director's and the actors' mastery over their art in achieving this goal. You don't like to be tortured when you come to movies? Tell me about it! And this was supposed to be a date movie with my husband. Yet, all things considered, it's not such a bad choice for a date WITH A HUSBAND. We got to talk about raising our preteen kids - a long and good conversation. I writhed in pain for the first 2/3 of the film. Yet I'm glad that my heart still denied Dr.Fowler's and his wife's deed. And God help us all to never find out what are we capable of `in the bedroom'.  "},{"Title":"A dark and depressing movie","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was one of the most dark, mainstream movies that I have seen in a while.  The audience felt miserable the whole movie, aside from maybe the opening 30 minutes. It was an average plot, that has been portrayed on film many times in the past.  The thing that made the movie good was the acting.  Each character in the movie was fantastic.  Marisa Tomei was the whole movie in the first hour.  Then for some reason, she only showed up for like 10 minutes in the last part of the film.    The directing was average, with too many scenes that presented nothing for the movie.  We also could have done without all of the dark fades.  All in all though it was a pretty interesting movie.  However, if your looking to get away from the depressing world, then In the bedroom is definitely not for you.  "},{"Title":"Big Spoiler!  Don't Read Till You've Seen!","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  You better only be reading this after you've seen In The Bedroom.For the naysayers, let's get it out of the way How else was the flick supposed to end?  Even if you're not parents, how otherwise would you want to deal with Richard, especially when he walks free in your town and reminds you that what he gets from the law is nowhere near what your son got from the muzzle of his gun?  If you don't feel the anger and frustration of that, were you making out during the movie?To be fair to all the pacifists out there, it's not like Tom Wilkinson's character actually felt triumphant for killing his son's murderer. Director Field was genius to let you see how unsatisfied and paranoia-inducing it was for him to take revenge.  And for the right-wingers, I agree he should have shot Richard once more through the face.  It would have only been fair.Now as for In The Bedroom being slow, well...I believe that made Wilkinson's actions more meaningful.  I seriously thought this guy would whimper through without doing anything.  It shocked me when he pulled a gun on Richard.  I actually believed for a moment that he would let him go.  And it was jarring when he fired that first shot.Would the film have been more acceptable had Richard popped himself right after doing Nick Stahl?  Or perhaps taken out Marisa Tomei and the kids, too?  Sure, Wilkinson would have no one to lay vengeance upon, (since that's the biggest complaint, it seems), but what then?  I can see how the breeziness of its first act makes one expect In The Bedroom to be about fate, and karma, and shaking your fist at the gods, but I believe Todd Field was looking for something more.  He wants you to feel vengeful.  He wants to take you through it.  Then, in a brief, extraordinary way, he let you know that it didn't make things feel any better.  Or did it?This does not make me an advocate for vigilante justice, taking the law into your own hands, or anything remotely Schwarzenegger-ian.  I am simply pointing out strengths in In The Bedroom that many believe are weaknesses. It's supposed to elicit outrage and loss; look how I'm reacting to it. But more cleverly, it takes violence and allows us to see its consequences from the victims' and perpetrators' points-of-view.  Yes, you didn't expect it to be about that.  Yes, that eye-sagging, pulpy Nick Stahl face-shot is pretty brutal.  But look at the bright side at least the blood wasn't spraying. "},{"Title":"Too long, too dull, too depressing","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A beautifully made movie, set in New England.  Lovely scenery which is about the only good thing I can say about this movie.  The acting was good but the story definitely lacked something.  Tedious and overlong.  Depressing rather than moving. "},{"Title":"An Astonishing Look at Real Life","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"       Sometimes films are telescopes that focus on the distance.  They show us someplace far away that one never imagined.  However, often they are more like microscopes, focusing on the small things that make up a life.  In the Bedroom is the latter, scrutinizing the pain of loss and the anger that cripples the soul.  This film, by first time director and actor (Nick Nightingale in Eyes Wide Shut) is beautifully done, with the lightest of touches, and an eye for the poetic.  It centers on a Maine family whose young son Frank, (Nick Stahl) falls for a lovely and decidedly older woman Natalie, (Marisa Tomei).  His parents Dr. Matt Fowler (Tom Wilkinson) and Ruth Fowler (Sissy Spacek) are not entirely happy about the union.  Natalie has two, young sons and is not divorced from her violent husband Richard, (William Mapother).  The plot, not so much predictable as inevitable shows Richard as menacing and his presence besets much tension and the expectation of violence.  Once the inevitable and horrific event occurs, the family must then cope with the anger and unrelenting despair of continuing to live a life of loss.  	Tom Wilkinson is superb as the gentle father who keeps his grief in check.  The scene where he surveys his son's bedroom is heartbreaking but there is a simpler scene, where he is eating eggs with a friend, that cuts deeply into the black void of loss.  As the friend makes idle small talk, Matt Fowler can barely keep up the pretense, finally asking for Tabasco sauce to smother his tasteless breakfast.  Wilkinson is such a marvelous and steady actor that it doesn't feel like acting.   	Sissy Spacek's Ruth is silent in her grief as well, but with her silence is an accusation that her husband is somehow to blame for their son's death.  Spacek is a shoe-in for the Academy Award, for this performance.  She is not as sympathetic a character as a grieving mother would be, and that is what makes this performance so intriguing.  She is cold and judgmental, and she holds herself above her husband, implying that her grief is so much more painful.  The argument that erupts between them is merciless and unflinching as Matt and Ruth blame each other for what happened.  Matt finally saying is it a grieving contest that you are after?   Spacek works wonders in a small scene where she is looking at the family photographs of a friend.  The pain of looking at the photos, filled with smiling faces of children, is reflected in her weary eyes as she tries to smile and carry on with the inanities of life without her only child.  	Todd Field has a wonderful eye.  Perhaps as an actor, he seems able to hold back just enough.  It was nice to see Marisa Tomei, after a long absence and an Academy Award for My Cousin Vinnie, return to the screen in a nicely underplayed performance.  Nick Stahl looked a bit too young, (he's supposed to be 21, but looks 15) but his performance was sweet and moving. 	Matt's final act is something he does for Ruth.  When he returns home, Matt crawls exhaustedly into bed but he will get no sleep.  His eyes are open.  His soul will find no rest.  The film ends in the bedroom, where Matt must now live, not only with loss but guilt as well.   	 	  "},{"Title":"Good performances enliven film","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"   In my continued effort to catch up with the other Oscar nominated films, I caught this one on tape last week... and it is actually a fairly good tale of a family meltdown that features good acting from Tom Wilkinson and Marisa Tomei, whom were both nominated for Oscars. On the other hand, I felt that Sissy Spacek, who was nominated for best actress, was more of a supporting player in the film and that her performance wasn't really all that impressive.. the other cast members were better and more interesting. Still, it's a good story and has some nice twists and turns. GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"Everything boils over'In The Bedroom'.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was keen to see this film as it has been so well reviewed and Cissy Spacek in the leading female role has received an Academy Award nomination. I wasn't to be disappointed. The scenario is one where no something is going to give. It's set in the sleepy American town of Maine. Parents, Matt and Ruth are a conservative, middle-class couple. Matt is a Doctor and his wife teaches the local school choir. Their problem is their son, Frank, who has just completed his first year of college. Frank is having a passionate affair with a married woman, Natalie, the mother of two young kids, who hasn't yet received her divorce from her violent husband Richard.  The moment that we, the audience, first catch sight of Richard we know that he is going to create more than trouble for Frank and his family. How to describe 'In The Bedroom'?! I guess the best description would be a powerful revenge drama.  There are some great merits to it. The direction by debut director Todd Field is strong, and the performances are strong, especially the leads Cissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson- what a great actor!- as husband and wife, Matt and Ruth.  I view the strength of any film is in how many strong scenes it has, and 'In The Bedroom' has some genuinely touching, wrenching scenes. The other big strength of 'In The Bedroom' is its building up of atmosphere. The cinematography is just outstanding. So much mood is conveyed by the lighting and feel of the movie. Highly recommended. 'In The Bedroom' was a film worth seeing anywhere. "}{"Title":"Deep and Disturbing","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  No, this is NOT a porno movie. Despite the somewhat misleading title, In the Bedroom is a disturbing little film that keeps you guessing until the unconventional end. Sissy Spacek and Marisa Tomei (even though she wasn't in the film as much as you might think) are both excellent, though the real star of the film is Tom Wilkinson. If anyone beats out Oscar favorite Russell Crowe, it will be Wilkinson. His portrayal of the gentle father and husband pushed to the edge is mesmerizing. Even though the film drags in several places, I thought In the Bedroom was very effective. "},{"Title":"An excellent piece","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Possible Spoilers I must say that when i went into this movie, I had no idea as to what it was about, other that it was a psychological drama. Not having any idea of what to expect is always a good thing with a movie, then the surprises can really hit home.In this movie, Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson play a pair of parents (Ruth and Matt Fowler) who strongly disapprove of their son Frank's (Nick Stahl) relationship with an older, married (but separated) woman (played magnificently by Marisa Tomei). This all goes on for the first part of the film, with Tomei's husband coming on the scene to try and take her back. It is here that the trouble starts, when the vengeful husband kills Frank.This is where the main part of the film begins, you might say, with Frank's parents and girlfriend dealing with his murder. I actually think that this movie can be compared to You Can Count On Me with regards to the general theme of the movie - as in, people dealing with the loss of a loved one, and how it affects their lives. In You Can Count On Me, Laura Linney was orderly and stable, whereas Mark Ruffalo's character was a drifter; In In The Bedroom, Ruth (Spacek)sinks into a deep depression, blaming everyone else for his death, whereas Matt(Wilkinson) tries to carry on as if nothing had ever happened.The characterisation in this movie is just brilliant. You can feel the love between Stahl's and Tomei's characters; you can see how it absolutely rips apart Spacek and Wilkinson... The scene where Ruth and Matt finally talk about Frank's death is amazing, you really can believe that it was true, and not just two actors reciting a script.The only part of this movie I didn't like was the ending. Don't get me wrong, it was good, but i felt that it was too Hollywood. I understand that parents would want to get revenge on their childs murderer, but it was sort of like unexpected, as if they pasted it on to the end of the film to tie things up. That's one area where it would have done better to follow other films like You Can Count On Me and K-Pax, which leaves it over to the viewer to decide how you think things are going to turn out, instead of wrapping it all in a nice tidy bow.All in all, an absolutely brilliant movie, with impeccable acting on all fronts. A must-see. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliantly acted drama","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom is a dark drama filled with great performances and a terrific directing debut by actor Todd Field (Eyes Wide Shut, Twister). It's about a college kid who falls in love with an older woman much to the disapproval of the kid's parents and to the jealousy of the woman's brutal ex-husband. Then tragedy occurs, and the lives of all of these people are changed forever. In the Bedroom received 5 well deserved Oscar nominations Best Picture, Best Actor (Tom Wilkinson), Best Actress (Sissy Spacek), Best Supporting Actress (Marisa Tomei), and Best Adapted Screenplay (co-written by Field). The performances are the key to why In the Bedroom works so well, and Wilkinson, Spacek, and Tomei are all brilliant. There was only one thing that I didn't like about this film and that was the ending which seemed kind of awkward to me. The movie feels like it ends too soon.***1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Superbly written, directed and acted tale about the trauma that can lurk beneath the surface of normality. 4 And A Half Flys Out Of Five","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A quiet, well ordered town in Maine. The lawns are well kept, the houses are quaint, neat, multi storied, white, with  shuttered windows. The people we meet are polite and lawful. The town is dominated by a cannery. This is a town built on the fishing industry.                But a young girl has a black eye. `Duck next time' jokingly advises her music teacher. The doctor sees an elderly man who's failing physically and mentally. And the teenage son of a local doctor has taken up with a yet to be divorced thirty year old mother during the summer before the son is due to go away to college. She has two children and her estranged husband is hanging about.In The Bedroom introduces these factors and thousands more with a subtlety and glibness that is often augmented by the shortness of the scenes used. A glimpse of a turned head, the flutter of a curtain, the sweep of a motor mower can become astoundingly descriptive. I've never seen a better example of the adage `a picture is worth a thousand words.'Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson play Ruth and Matt Fowler. Ruth is a music teacher and her husband the doctor. Frank their son is endearing. He's smart, nice, good looking and in love with Natalie (Marissa Tomei) who's getting the mothering thing done like Mums do. Mum and Dad aren't entirely happy with this situation of course and would seem to be hoping that Frank will see the advantages of heading off to college to pursue his love of architecture. But just maybe Frank will stay and take up fishing as a profession. Everything is in the balance but these are intelligent people and in this sort of town well things should work out well.I'm not going to take you further into the plot of what is an exceptionally well directed and acted film but I will warn you that you might shed a few tears. In The Bedroom is a superbly measured investigation of just what might lie behind calm interiors. It sheds a bright light on the differences between men and women. An emotionally complex movie like In The Bedroom holds unique discoveries for all that will see it. 4 And A Half Flys Out Of Five  "},{"Title":"good, but very long and depressing","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  i'm a great fan of depressing movies that just make you feel like your life is heaven.  But this movie is just too depressing, and it drags on for two hours with everyone crying and being sad.  It gets really boring and then something happens.  Then it drags on for another 45 minutes and then something else interesting happens.  The director probably felt it was important to keep these long parts in for you to get the feel for the movie.  Some of it is unnecessary.  But all of the actors do an outstanding job.  They are so believable that they seem like real people.  The story also seems like something that could happen in real life.  That is what probably makes it seem so long. "},{"Title":"Am I alone here?","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Warning Spoilers.I walked into this film beaming with excitement. I had heard the best things about this particular picture, along with Sissy's performance. How couldn't you? This movie is one of the most talked about films of the year. When I walked out, I wasn't beaming. I was heart broken to find this movie was only okay, and that Mary Tyler Moore played a MUCH better ice-queen-who-just-lost-her-son in the 1980 best picture Ordinary PeopleOkay, first some positive comments. I love the small, dialogue scarce scenes, that immediately follow the sons brutal murder. These scenes give an audience a new and fresh look about how much the camera alone can portray in a film. It shows the couple grieving separately, and growing apart in a way that is heartbreaking and subtle. Isn't the grieving process what this film is supposed to be about???That's where I start to lose hope in the film. The moment the nice, everyday, doctor, family man, card playing, could be your uncle, Tom Wilkinson chases after the murderer with a gun. Ridiculous. It turns a poignant film into a revenge movie! The second half is weak, and makes the wonderful scenes in the first half lose some ( SOME ) of its beauty. The director should have stuck to what he did so well, and left the revenge stuff to AH-nold movies like Collateral Damage.Am I alone here? Why is this film getting such praise? I admit the performances are strong, and there is some nice camera work, but please-best picture?...I guess it must be a bad year for films.  "},{"Title":"Very good, not Great though.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very well made film examining loss of a child amongst other things. However, the film gets a little too slow at times during the middle section, but it does pick up. Tom Wilkinson was excellent, as was Marisa Tomei. Yet, Sissy Spacek was dissappointing; looking as if she was bored or just disinterested by the subject matter. She explodes in one scene, and I think that scene is why everybody says she deserves an Oscar, but she wasn't great throughout the whole film. Give it to Nicole Kidman, who had to sing, dance, fall in love and die amongst other things. Anyway, that said, its still way above average. "},{"Title":"Technically great but emotionally cold","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  'In the Bedroom' is a very well done film, but i wouldn't go as far as classifying it as a 'great' film. The performances were excellent from almost everybody, and I feel that Fields deserves an oscar for best director for this piece, unfortunately I felt that while their performances were realistic, the script did not have as much emotion written into it as I felt some of the scenes deserved. While the cinematography was not overly dynamic, it was very solid, and with one exception (in my mind) captured the atmosphere and emotion that was being portrayed. The script had very realistic dialogue, but i felt the movie was longer than it needed to be. The movie finishes quite strong but I'd still recommend Sam Saimi's 'A Simple Plan' over this movie for a similar atmosphere with a much more intense climax. I meant to give this movie 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not quite oscar-caliber, but up to par..","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yeah, it's true I did go out and see this after I heard that it recieved the nomination of all nominations Best Picture of the Year 2001 but then as I saw this movie and watched and became intrigued, I realized that it is a simple story of murder and revenge but covered in briliant performances and a top-notch script. Sure I would agree that this film would deserve Screenplay nominations and acting nominations as well, but I'm not quite sure about the best picture nod. But then again, I believe that the whole Best Picture idea is a joke, how could you get some old people to decide what the best movie in 1 year of thousands of movies is?  "},{"Title":"Cathartic is not too strong","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Once again I am forced to re-evaluate my reasons for going to see a particular movie.  Lately, after seeing movies which depict scenes of pain and grief, all I have been able to do is feel the grief along with the characters.  I've started to wonder whether it's worthwhile, or whether my real motivation is simply to be entertained.With In the Bedroom, that dilemma did not exist.  I did feel the pain of the characters-- keenly-- but I was also caught up in it.  Fascinated.  The pauses in the movie of silence and reflection are very deliberate-- pay attention to them.  Feel them.  They are for you to identify with the parents-- both of them make questionable decisions, but we are not required to condone them.  We are only requested to watch, and try to understand. This movie is a portrait of grief, and it is possible to be profoundly moved by it and appreciate it at the same time.  I have to admire a director and actors who can illicit this kind of depth of feeling.  In the Bedroom gets my vote for the Oscar, and Tom Wilkinson definitely needs to be recognized for his performance as Best Actor. "}{"Title":"It is like traveling to a place you have never been...","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  First, don't listen to all of the people who totally hated the movie. Sure, they may have not liked it, I take that back, they may have hated it, but that isn't a good reason for you not to see it!Sure, it may seem slow, but that is because most of us are used to movies that move at a rapid pace visually, whereas this film allows shots to linger, and the (amazing) acting to show through.And sure, it amy seem long, but that is not a reason to swear to God it is the worst movie ever made. If anything that is good, consider yourself getting more movie for the buck. More of a chance to delve into the mysterious lives of the characters on the screen.Now that is out of the way, let me tell you, this is one good movie, definately worth seeing in the theater for it's cinematography alone! Amazing shots that not only capture the images, but tell another side of their emotions. The shot of the couple through the pane of glass, the seperation of light and dark, the fore shadowing in the smallest places really make this film worth seeing not only once, but (maybe) even twice.The acting of the film is amazing. Better than I have seen in a very long time (and I see a lot of movies). I have to warn you, there isn't much dialouge, you have to be an active participant in the film to pik up on the characters thoughts and emotions, they are not delivered on the silver platter of dialogue. And that is what makes this film really great. The long looks, and small movements really take more on the actors part than just delivering the line, I am sad.The story line is very original, from what I can tell. A new situation that is sometimes missed on the screen, in fact the only one I can remember that seems to come close to capturing the same feelings and ideas would be The Cider House Rules. In any case, this really dives into a new situations most film makers might fear to go. The place where families and people fall apart in real life. Situations where, well, I couldn't even imagine myself in.But I have to warn you, this is a very intellectual film. It isn't for those who suffer from depression, or those who go to movies to be taken along for the ride. Rather, it forces you to go into place in your soul you might never see, places that you might be better for going but never want to travel. It is hard to describe, but I assure you, if you try to understand the characters, and their situations, you will not leave the theater the same as when you arrived.OVERALL Go see it. If not to learn something about yourself, go and check out the amazing acting or the great cinematography. But don't go alone, this one needs to be discussed with a friend after it ends!  "},{"Title":"Liked it with low expectations.","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went into this movie with very low expectations.  I mean how many films and made for tv movies have there been about a bitter mother who's son dies and she can't get over it?  But this was much better than I had expected.  I disagree that the parents  are monsters, I just think they are normal people in an abnormal situation that make very bad decisions and then have to live with the consequences.**spoiler alert** In fact the whole film is about the choices people have to make go to college or not, call the police or not, forgive or don't, kill or let live... Near the end of the film I was getting upset about what seemed to be an immoral ending that was out of character for the father. However, I believe that his inactivity at the end of the movie reflects the internal conflict created by the act he had just committed.  His decision to take revenge was not a relief (as it was for the mother) but yet another burden on his soul. (ps-I don't think that movies need to be moral, ... I just thought that the father's character had been the moral thread of the film.)  "},{"Title":"Absolutely horrible","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm glad I'm not alone in my dislike for this awful movie. This movie being nominated for best picture is the exact reason why the Oscars are a joke. Every retold account of viewing this movie tells of people walking out half-way through the movie due to extreme boredom. I understand that not everyone is going to like every movie, not even great movies. But when a movie can only keep 2/3 of the audience from walking out, something is wrong.Yeah the acting is pretty good, but it doesn't matter. If I've said it once, I've said it a thousand times GOOD ACTING DOES NOT MAKE A GOOD MOVIE! End of story.For two solid hours we get the displeasure of witnessing two grieving parents. Scenes with no dialogue and no music make up most of the movie. We just sit and watch two people look unhappy. There's no art here. There is only boredem.The end is not satisfying, nor is it realistic. This is an artsy fartsy piece of crap that tries to implement a hollywood ending. Bad combination. Worst movie of the year so far. "},{"Title":"Miramax Schmoozes the Academy Again","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Several reviewers have commented they don't know how this movie received any Academy Award nominations.  Miramax has a long history of picking one film each year to hype to the Academy voters.    Miramax will lavish expensive gifts upon Academy voters and trips to the Golden Globes, the Cannes Film Festival, etc. with the hope they will result in nominations and ultimately with Academy Awards for its films and actors.  As mediocre as this film is (when compared with the other Best Picture nominations) don't be surprised if it wins an Oscar or two.  If it does, then it will be an indication of how good the gifts and trips were this past movie year.  The film was O.K., however, I agree with a number of you this is not worthy of Academy nominations (I was generous and gave it a 7). "},{"Title":"I'm going to need therapy after this film","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Why, you ask am I going  to need therapy?  I'll tell you why...the lobster scene.  I cannot get out of my head that female lobster with all the eggs. It has literally traumatized me for life. I can never eat seafood again after seeing that creature.  I think it was nearly as big as i was.  "},{"Title":"What's the Hub-bub About?","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I viewed the film In the Bedroom tonight. Wilkinson was far & away the best actor, and I thought both the editing and directing were superb. I actually liked the short scenes which others thought added nothing to the movie. They showed me real people talking about and/or doing real things. Women talk about vacations. Men mow lawns. These side street trips made perfect sense to me and did not detract from the movie's purpose in any way.On the other hand, at times the script wasn't very tight, perhaps the film's biggest downfall (next to the lack of decent acting by supporting characters). It certainly wasn't as depressing and shocking as others describe it. Contrary to some comments out here, as far as I'm concerned, we did NOT get to see a lot of the grief that these two (Spacek & Wilkinson) were, or should have been, experiencing.One thing I particularly took great pleasure in was the quietness of the movie. It was so nice to have most every scene VOID of not only background music but sound in general. I liked being able to hear the actors speak and to connect with them one-to-one.All in all, I liked the film - the direction best. I'm not certain this should earn Spacek an Academy, however. I sort of held my breath, waiting for the power of her acting to kick in, but for me it never did. And don't even get me started about Marisa Tomei. Those of you commenting on her great acting are simply responding to her looks. Sorry!! She didn't act worth a darn in this film, and Nick Stahl fell painfully short for me as well.P.S. Anyone notice the year 01 on a license plate? Wasn't the movie based in the 80s? Small overlooked detail, I guess . . . "},{"Title":"Class Warfare?","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The acting by Wilkinson, Tomei, and Spacek is superb, as most comments have noted. The movie is slow to begin with, but that is why TV can never replace moviehouses knowing that the audience cannot leave, a director can afford to take time to develop a story. Truly most real stories do not gein with some big incident, but creep and creep until they suddenly seem fill our world. The greatest problem with the film, however, is in its class politics. Everybody in the movie is middle class to upper middle class the central family is that of the town doctor; The lobster fishing community is quite well off; and, most importantly, the murderer comes from a very wealthy family. Let me repeat this -- the murderer's family owns a local factory, is able to post substantial bail, and pays good alimony to his estranged wife.And yet the murderer is presented a working class white trash. His body is ungainly, his clothes are slovenly, he drives a pick-up, and he has cheap overdone highlights in his hair. In other words, this Maine-born son of the towns main employers is made to come across like a New Yorker or Los Angeleno's worst fantasy of violent white trash.Why -- that is a problem. "},{"Title":"Moral debates abound!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The haunting drama seen in this film is unmatched by anything we've seen on the big screen in a very long time.  This film is the most heartbreaking one of 2001.  Not just because of the life it destroys halfway through but because of the many lives it destroys by the end.  Director Todd Field has gotten inside the mind of grief victims with an enduring sense of understanding.  Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson should both receive Oscar nominations and this should be considered as a best picture candidate because it IS one of the top five films of 2001.  This film works without a music score, without computerized special effects and rests instead on the fundamentals of cinema.  That markets itself. "},{"Title":"Very Overrated","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was an ok movie but could have been very good with some editing.  The movie drug on forever.  I went into this not knowing what it was about other than it was powerful,well acting,breathtaking...  Well, it was well acted.  It was also very predictable.  As soon as the abusive husband came into the picture, there were no surprises.  I liked the film and the performances were excellent but it was not worth paying $7.25 on a Friday night. Rent it on a night you have nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"See it in the proper surroundings","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I caught this on a rainy New York night at a magnificent, almost empty art-house cinema on West 23rd Street.  It was the perfect way to see this scenic and dramatic, yet understated, film.  The wide screen and beautiful surroundings were essential for fully appreciating the subtle acting and fine New England vistas.Tom Wilkinson owns this film.  He is one of the best unknown actors in Hollywood.  He plays a repressed, passive-aggressive New Englander to perfection.  One constantly feels his interior argument with himself over how to cope with the awful situation that descends upon him.  He may twist and turn, but his ultimate actions are as inevitable as the long wait at the drawbridge every day as the fishing boats sail out.Sissy Spacek is fine as the equally restrained wife, but it mystifies me why she is receiving acclaim for this film (and it disturbs me that Wilkinson is not).  Is it simply because people feel nostalgic and sentimental for the aging star of Carrie?  Certainly, she is the only one who has the name to sell this film, and thus, in a sense, takes credit for it.  However, other than provide a counterpoint to Wilkinson's tormented father, she really has little to do other than look perpetually anguished.  Which, I grant you, she does fairly well.Marisa Tomei?  She plays the girl.  It is a nothing role.  She plays it adequately, and not particularly convincingly.  She is okay at looking over-wraught, which I grant you is completely different from her award-winning role in My Cousin Vinny.  For her to be nominated for any awards over this suggests only that Hollywood either rewards the wrong things at awards time, or that there was a tremendous lack of good female acting this year.  More likely the former.The most unusual aspect of the film, and much more interesting than the standard vigilante plot, lies in the sharp contrast drawn between the exteriors and interiors of the characters. The quiet New Englanders played by Wilkinson and Spacek may not say a lot, but they certainly are thinking and feeling as much as more loquacious folks.  The characters are constantly assessing and evaluating, as exemplified by Wilkinson character's mournful focus on the DA's clanging pocket coins as it dawns on him that institutional retribution is inadequate.  The climax of the film once again proves the truism that it's always the quiet ones to watch out for.The characters' unexpressed inner turmoil is nicely defined in a brilliant scene that blows in and out of the movie like a summer storm.  Wilkinson's character pleads with Spacek's to (finally) talk about what happened to their son, leading to what (for them) is a violent verbal outburst.  The uniqueness (again, for them) in their repressed lives of even this sadly inadequate emotional release is subtly but brilliantly summed up in the Wilkinson character's comment, upon hearing a knock on the door, That must be the police (presumably investigating their tremendous disturbance of the peace).  Instead, it is just a girl scout, selling her candy bars.  She is standing within yards of, but completely oblivious to, what may have been the couple's only outward emotional confrontation of their lives.Let me caution that the film is extremely subtle and, well, slow.  If you don't have the patience to spend time watching lobster being canned, or Spacek silently chopping vegetables thinking it all over, this is not the film for you.  But, if you enjoy fine character portrayals, reading emotions and thoughts in actors' facial expressions and gestures, and provocative examinations of the grey side of justice, this is the perfect film for a rainy night. "}{"Title":"Well Quilted","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well QuiltedHow can the story of a family be told by keeping the curiosity on peak, flowing in continuity with detailed twists, double sewing the events with symbols and recalling real life events from a typical family member?  Best known as his acting on `Eyes Wide Shut' (The Pianist Nick Nightingale), writer and director Todd Field did it.  The main story is neither complicated nor unusual but the plots and confrontation keeps you inside the movie and does not let you out until the resolution. Academy Award Winner (Best Actress In a Leading Role Coal Miner's Daughter ,1980) Sissy Spacek and BAFTA Film Award Winner(Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role The Full Monty, 1997) Tom Wilkinson, build the characters so genuine in a way that the audience would not doubt about their true feelings. "},{"Title":"STUDENT DRIVER -- Pray4US","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The best part of this movie is midstream.  We are at an intersection, sitting in a car. We got there slowly, and sit there slowly.  And, as viewers along with the actors, are in a slight ennui moment as our eyes wander, just like anybody trapped in a car at an intersection that is dominated by a red light.  We glance at the car in front and read  should the eye make contact --- its narrative content  STUDENT DRIVER and then notice the license plate PRAY4US.  Now back to the movie.The success of this movie is in the telling of the story that is one inch above Hollywood formula -- perhaps a yard above it.  All the actors are great supporting actors in the telling and do not interfere with the story -- and to their credit, for sure.My intrigue was in the matching of the opening moments of the film when a parable is stated about this Maine cape where the lobsters are taken. This scene was a passage of fishing tradition from grandfather to son to grandson (in general) -- which I suppose is part of the story in general when habits or views in life are handed down and even genetic. In that early Maine seacoast scene aboard a harvesting lobster boat, the grandfather teaches the grandson the rules of harvesting lobster.  When he hauls out a female lobster rich with 'seeds' of baby lobsters he has to toss it back into the ocean because it is the law.  However, it is said that one female in the trap can devour two males (the ones that have value in the marketplace).Hence....the engrossing storytelling.   "},{"Title":"Sissy's great, but Tom will blow you away","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ahh, January.   Is there a better time of the year for us film-geeks?    Everywhere you look, Oscar contenders, star-studded movies and stellar performances.   The latest foray to the theatres was In the Bedroom, a drama about a family in rural Maine.Relative newcomer Nick Stahl plays Frank Fowler, a young college-bound man who spends his last summer at home fishing and dating an older woman, Natalie Strout (a surprisingly good Marisa Tomei).   The problem?    Well, it turns out Natalie has two kids and an ex-husband who isn't too happy about this new relationship, which leads to increasingly violent confrontations between the two men.  In itself, an interesting story with solid performances that probably could have carried the movie by itself.The real strength of this film, however, is Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkenson who play Frank's concerned parents, and how the events in their son's life affect them.   You will hear lots of talk in the next few months about Spacek's performance and likely an Oscar is in her near future, but to me, it's just the choice of a sentimental favourite.   Don't get me wrong; she does a wonderful job, but her screen time is quite limited in comparison to Tom Wilkinson and he, to be honest, steals the show.In the first half hour of this film, I thought In the Bedroom was a decent movie, but nothing special, until Wilkinson took over, and from that point on dominated scene after scene in what I consider one of the strongest performances of the year.    Without saying too much more about the plot of the movie, suffice it to say that Wilkinson takes you through the full range of emotions, and you can't help but be focused on the presence he exudes throughout. "},{"Title":"4 out of 5 stars","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"     Much of life is about coping, yet most of the movies we are fed by Hollywood avoid the issue altogether.  `In the Bedroom' is so powerful because it deals with coping head-on, no holds bar, with a perfect sensitivity to relationships and the tensions that pull us together and tear us apart. 	Filmed on location in a small Maine fishing village, this film, directed by Todd Fields (better known for his small-time acting roles), gives us a quick glimpse of the happy life we are all so drawn to.  We see two parents (Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek), so proud of their son (Nick Stahl) with golden hair, a college degree, and a perfect demeanor to boot.  We see a young man drawn to an older woman (Marisa Tomei) with three young kids.  We feel warm, so warm that we initially overlook the potential problems lying below the surface.  Suddenly things change.  A freak incident brings simmering passions, resentments, and fragilities to the surface.  The once-laminated life is now exposed to the elements. 	To go much deeper into the plot of this wonderfully detailed and attentive thriller/drama would potentially spoil it and weaken its certain impact.  For now, it is safe to say that this low-key film makes all the right moves.  The acting is beautiful; instead of wondering which one of these actors deserves the seasonal film awards, I am wondering which one does NOT.  Spacek and Wilkinson bring us a marriage that leaves so much unsaid, it is almost unsettling to see how things really are when the talking begins.  Tomei effortlessly serves up her career best as both a delicate lover and a troubled and tarnished mother and ex-wife. 	The success of the actors is almost certainly due in part to the wonderful feel director Fields seems to have for dialogue.  Adapting the film from a short story by the now deceased Andre Dubus, Fields barely misses a beat in portraying delicate conversations between people who really do not want to face important and vital issues in their lives.  They hurt and they will tell each other that much, but the real talking does not come easy.  We are confronted with conversations that wiggle and dance around the pain, hoping it will go away, wishing it were swept into the past.  Rarely does a film convey its emotions so beautifully through simple, honest dialogue. 	But the dialogue is not enough.  Fields rejects the increasingly common theory in Hollywood that the audience must be told everything verbally.  Instead, he allows the actors to act and lets their bodies do the talking.  We see the lines darting from the mother's suspicious and angry eyes, the pain and weeping in the father's grieving mouth, the guilt and remorse in the wilting body of a pained lover.  Field gives us long silences where all we can do is watch and feel what his characters are feeling.  The dialogue does its job, gets out of the way, and lets actions speak louder than words quite a refreshing concept. 	The film concludes in such a discomforting, alienating pose that the audience is left chilled and betrayed as they leave the theater.  It is, in a word, remarkable.  There are both sweet and bitter things that life presents to us, especially in the bedroom of husband and wife.  We are left uncomfortable because life is uncomfortable.  We are left afraid because the unforeseen challenges of life can be a terrifying thing to face. 	 	       "},{"Title":"Striking, Beautifully Acted Character Study of Parents Under Stress","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In the Bedroom could be on a double bill with The Deep End, or maybe even a triple with Ordinary People, and that's traveling in good company, even while putting unique twists on the similarities.The opening is Hitchockian -- a summer idyll of a romantic couple, but the younger guy/older woman is vaguely unsettling. This then becomes more a long, gradually revealing character study than story, as the guy's parents unravel individually and together under stress -- the kind of intellectual couple who never watch Women in Jeopardy movies on Lifetime TV so haven't learned how to overcome these situations.Both Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek are economically breathtaking, though it's too bad that Spacek is getting more end-of-year award notice than Wilkinson as their pairing is part of the tension.Young Nick Stahl and Marisa Tomei make an intriguing couple whose very differences effectively set off the plot tensions.It's inspiring that this was a first-time writer/director, Todd Field, a character actor recently seen as the partner on Once and Again, who devoted five years of his (and his family's) life and finances to make this from an Andre Dubos short story and the personal commitment shows in every scene.The mise en scene of a Stephen King-ish small seacoast Maine town is evoked beautifully, and the actors mostly even get the Down East accent down.It's the kind of movie for grown-ups that attract older folks who don't go to the movies much, so talk all through it. Such as the couple in back of me who when seeing the opening Welcome to Camden sign have to say I didn't know this takes place in Camden NJ. I don't think it's NJ; I think it's Maine. and on and on, errr.But be sure to avoid all ads and reviews of the film as spoilers are slipping out!(originally written 12/31/2001) "},{"Title":"Incomprensible. Oscars? Ha-ha-ha (spoilers)","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  You have got to be kidding me. This thing should have been re-written. Because as it is, it's a good movie for 40mins, then a total bore, then almost incomprehensible. Yeah, right, hangdog doc turns into smooth professional killer. What the hell kind of lesson is this? That it's ok to go out and off people if the law doesn't give you the justice you want? Or maybe that placing the high point of the movie 1/3 of the way in makes for great art.There's a great slow buildup, foreshadowing, all that good stuff. Then, at minute 40, pow! The kid gets shot, the jealous ex did it, and the woman...just kinda disappears out of the movie. In about 30 seconds, the only three people worth caring about in this movie are gone.Leaving us with Dr. Boring, his wife, Mrs. Boring, and nothing else. Lots of those clever artsy 30 second scenes, but by this time the movie is a flat tire and I wanted to switch to something else.And man, I wish I had. Right out of the blue, the doc discovers his inner mafia hitman, and goes after the ex-husband, sets it up to make it look like he jumped bail, takes him out to Dr. Boring's friend's cabin, and shoots him down like a dog with a weird accent. They then bury the body in the woods and go home to their wives.The End.WTF?RstJ  "},{"Title":"Lobsters And People In The Bedroom","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a fantastic film with a great cast.........Sissy Spacek, Tom Wilkinson, Marisa Tomei et al..........all uniquely combined in this incredible story of an ill-fated love triangle......and the unique parallel of the lobster once it gets in the bedroom and encounters other rival lobsters....not sure if many picked up on that but being from northern NE it came through for me.  I do think the story of the love triangle is an important piece to the film, but the dynamics between Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson after their son's death speaks volumes.......if any parent has experienced the death of a child, they understand the silence, anger and lashing out at each other that occurs.  A good thought-provoking film with a somewhat strange and empty ending (not one of those where everyone in the theatre cheers when the bad guy gets it)  And its mainly because you can see that the pain and loss will continue but somehow there is a sense of closure and moving on in an unsettling way. Great acting all the same. "},{"Title":"Good but slow","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed the first half of this movie a lot more than the 2nd half. From what starts off as a compelling story that keeps you guessing about where the story is taking you, it devolves into a predictable conclusion that takes way too long to get to. "},{"Title":"Tragedy without solace","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The laws of drama encourage as strong effects as possible, to make the audience react emotionally and have what Aristotle called catharsis. This film sure follows the doctrine, and then some.It takes its time in making us care about the characters, and then hits them with disaster. Oh, we feel it. Darkness. And not a single spark of light.It gets to be too much. The story is so sad, and no comfort within sight. This makes every additional minute of the film increasingly unbearable. It guarantees respect for the film, since no one can brush it off like a minor or flawed piece of art - but it's a very simple way of accomplishing grandeur.This story really has very little to tell grief hurts, big grief hurts a lot. Yes. And?Although the actors are brilliant, it doesn't help much when they are given neither words nor deeds to carry them on a profound process of overcoming grief. So, they go nowhere. Nothing happens.Overwhelming grief, its psychology and development, has been explored frequently through the long history of drama, and a lot has been said along the way - well, most of it was said already by the Greeks. In the light of that, how can a drama made in 2001 refrain from at least making a contemplative comment, when handling the same subject?I believe that the main problem with this film, is that at the end of the first Act, it created such gloom, such sorrow, it could neither rise from it nor go beneath it. That makes no catharsis. "},{"Title":"Another highly hyped and mediocre film.","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'd like to state that I am considered by many to be an above-average movie critic. I begin each film with no premise of disappointment,but rather an open mind that says, Show me what you're worth. I did that with this film as well, and was sadly disappointed. To begin with, it takes FOREVER to even establish any suspense, and despite the fact that I am a Sissy Spacek fan, even she couldn't carry this corpse. When something finally happens ( and it's clearly predictable), it is a combination of scenes that rattle around endlessly, and leave you with an are they kidding?? overview. As with many movies of late, people in charge of these things have difficulty in ending films.This one is no exception. The ending mystified me. You'll probably watch it because of the multiple (5) nominations, one oddly for Best Picture, and you can make up your own mind, but if you have time constraints, and have to choose between I.T.B. and Coal Miner's Daughter, select C.M.D. "}{"Title":"Disturbing, depressing, perfect cure if you're having a great day.","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Todd Field won a lot of acclaim for the 2001 film he adapted from a short story and directed. Performances by Sissy Spacek, Tom Wilkinson, Marisa Tomei, and an excellent supporting cast are flawless, but you should know that already. The story is of a couple (Spacek and Wilkinson) who see their only son get involved with an older single mother (Tomei), only to be murdered by her jealous separated husband. This is just the beginning. As the parents grieve the loss of their son, they learn from the prosecuting attorney that due to an inconsistency in the wife's testimony, he will only get five years for manslaughter. The rest of the film is seeing how traumatized and shaken the couple is. The payoff at the end can't save the emotional lethargy the viewer feels throughout the film. Hey, if this is your cup of tea, knock yourself out. But after this I had to watch Fargo, Local Hero and Uncle Buck, just to loosen up before I went to bed. Very down movie. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just rented this serious drama and certain scenes are still resonating, days later.  This is a heavy piece and bears more than one watching.  After immediately finishing it, my boyfriend and I watched the opening scenes again before having a lively discussion about the movie.  Dig around a little and you'll find more than just the surface plot.As said before the performances are all outstanding.  Tommy Wilkinson as the father was incredible.  His quiet grief broke my heart.  The relationship between the parents is complex and all too real.Excellent film, beautifully photographed, paced, acted. "},{"Title":"Not at all compelling","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I failed to see why this movie received so much praise.  The pacing was quite slow, and I found nothing noteworthy in the performances of Spacek and Tomei.The one saving grace - and the only reason I would recommend that someone see the film - was Tom Wilkinson's performance.  He was the only character with whom I could sympathize, in spite of his actions towards his son's killer.     "},{"Title":"Ho-hum","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am beginning to not understand how critics decide which films they will overhype.  For all the tasteful prestige trappings of this small scale film, it really isn't any more than an art house take on Death Wish.  Placid parents Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson basically look on while college-age son Nick Stahl dallies with older woman Marisa Tomei.  When her violence-prone estranged husband (William Mapother) enters the mix, the next step is pretty much a foregone conclusion.  It is not ruining anything to state that Stahl becomes the tragic victim of one of Mapother's rampages and the majority of the film focuses on how the shattered parents cope in the aftermath.  In fairness, there is some very good acting here.  Spacek was a front-runner for Best Actress for a long time last year, but I find her adequate if a bit unremarkable.  Raising your voice once and breaking a dish hardly demonstrates great work.  Tomei is more appealing than she has been in some time, although her accent is weak.  Stahl is likeable enough to make us understand the parents grief over their loss.  Mapother is basically a stock heavy.  Wilkinson is outstanding in one of the greatest examples of superior underacting that I have ever seen.  Everything is conveyed through his eyes and very minute movements, and he enlists our sympathy straight through the film.  Director Todd Field is obviously an actor himself because he affords his cast opportunities to shine that others director may not have, but sometimes he does this at the expense of pacing and story. There are far too many scenes of people staring blankly at TV screens, smoking while looking into the distance and just sitting in stony silence.  This only serves to draw attention to the fact that the film is laboriously traveling in a straight line from point A to B with a minimum of surprise or suspense.  The final 30 minutes, in fact, are so devoid of tension that one may nod off during what should be the pivotal moments of the film.  Fans of acting will find something of worth here, particularly thanks to Wilkinson, but others may want to pass it by. "},{"Title":"Better Left on the Movie Rental Shelf","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is absolutely beyond my comprehension how this movie was nominated for any kind of award; it is slow to the point of being PAINFUL to watch, and actually prompted me to fast forward through the latter half of the film (which I have never done for any other movie, I should add). It is so incredibly slow and filled with more pointless scenes than I can recall in recent memory... it started off with a decent opening 30 or so minutes, but then began to drift so badly I just wanted to turn it off. Hoping it would get better, I fast forwarded through the majority of the latter half (with no interaction between characters and a camera trained in place for 30 seconds or more at a time, there was plenty to skip) in the hopes that something might be salvaged even though the movie had ventured off track. There were some brief moments of hope, but then the film drifted back towards being nothing more than mind-numbing. The more bland side of parents dealing with the loss of a child was portrayed in this movie, and nothing more - the acting wasn't what I would call great, the storyline and dialogue was terrible, and the wandering second half made me cringe. Leave this movie where it belongs... on the shelf at the local movie store, gathering dust. "},{"Title":"in the BADroom...","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I usually get why critics love the films I hate.  Like Pulp Fiction. Bored the hell outta me, but was different, had eccentric characters and camera angles.  Unforgiven, sets, costumes, characters.  Lord of the Rings, plot, effects, performances.  But how in the living frig could they overpraise this sack of yawns???  All this hype about performances...turn out to be some of the most underplayed scenes I've ever watched.  The height of the noise made in this film comes when Spacek slams a plate. Otherwise, she, Wilkinson, and everyone else argue in low octaves and just roam about the set.  Spacek isn't even sympathetic, her character coming off very cold and accusatory.  Wilkinson is blase, non-descript.  Say this, though, the one thing, or person that kept me watching, Marisa Tomei.  Ten years after My Cousin Vinny she manages to be even more beautiful.  Such a shame, the first thirty minutes are razor sharp, then the film falls into Where do we go now territory.  Following a shocking scene of tragedy (not to mention a grisly visual) we get a little legal stuff, a little comatose parents staring at the wall, and a LOT of some of the most inane dialogue found in any movie.  All the praise for showing grieving parents?  Maybe if they shed actual tears, screamed to the heavens, fell on each other in despair. Nope, we get a half hour of people staring at walls.  Then all this crap about a surprise ending.  COME ON!  You didn't see that coming a mile away??  As soon as the bad guy is let out on the streets you know an eye for an eye will happen sooner or later.  And how bout we close things out with a character staring at the ceiling followed by several shots of houses and finally the credits.  Sheesh, it's come to the point where any small movie with a half-assed script can be nominated for Oscars. "},{"Title":"Instant Classic","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In The Bedroom (2001) D Todd Field. Sissy Spacek, Tom Wilkinson, Nick Stahl, Marisa Tomei, William Mapother, William Wise, Celia Weston, Karen Allen. Instant classic with incredible performances by everyone involved, especially Spacek, Wilkinson, and Stahl. A teenager falls in love with an older woman (with a jealous ex-husband), much to the dismay of the teenager's mother. Then, something completely unexpected happens and the characters have to cope with the events that follow. The sorrow and guilt that the characters in this slow-moving tale feel also can be felt by the audience, which is a rarity in today's sub-par cinema. Little action, little soundtrack, just great filmmaking at work here. RATING 9 out of 10. Rated R for graphic violence, sexual situations, and strong language.  "},{"Title":"My Best Picture (I don't think I give too much away here)","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After finally seeing all five 2001 Best Picture nominations, I definitely prefer this one over all the others.  The problem will picking recent Best Picture is that it needs to appeal to all kinds of people, and this means that the actors and certain special effects need to be combined.  Thirty years ago, this film would have definitely won Best Picture, or at least had been a serious contender.  However, A Beautiful Mind with its star power and Lord of the Rings with the tremendous scenic views and effects drowned out this terrific movie that has some of the best acting I have seen recently.  Who knew Marisa Tomei could be so good?  And Spacek and Wilkinson must have been married for decades; their chemistry is too good otherwise.  Even the somewhat younger Nick Stahl (the current movie-going audience demands so little from twenty-something stars) pulls in a blockbuster performance as the stubborn son.  I was not bored at all with this movie; it held me captivated even when my suspicions became reality (you may experience this as well).  I definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"Recommended for open-ended narrative depth","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The director has appropriately credited the mastermind behind this film, Andre Dubus; his short story Killings is characteristic of this late American fiction master.  The film is authentic as far as I know small town America; the pain of families has been plumbed before in a major studio release -- ORDINARY PEOPLE (1980).  The ensemble nature of this project adds to the realism and the camera brings us close at moments we'd rather look away.  An excellent film -- I wish the DVD had included some background material and a film maker's commentary instead of just some Miramax coming attractions. "},{"Title":"Good Idea, Bad Idea, Boring","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ok, firstly, how and why on earth did Marisa Tomei get nominated. She did not do anything except stand around and smile, talk, flirt, look irritated, then cried. Her husband played a good creep and the parents did not seem all there. The movie was plain and dull to me. The storyline was consistent and characters well thought with great direction .... but something was lacking in the movie. I just felt that something more was needed to reel me in to even consider the movie a must see or worth buying. It is like every other movie you see, a single mother w/ a boyfriend on the side, a crazy ex-lover or in this case crazy ex-husband, parents who are not all there who beome bitter over their sons death, then a murder followed by a revenge. <sigh> I can't write that they don't make movies like the use to because this is like every movie or has some relation to others. I would not recommend this movie. FYI the man who plays Sissy Spaceks husband was terrible with his acting. In his previous films his acting wasn't too bad, I guess he can't take on a serious/dramatic role. "}{"Title":"Murder is curative and okay?","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoiler here Is no one bothered by the ending of this movie?  That you can work out your murder and carry out your revenge murder in cold calculation, down to knowing to remove all your clothes afterwards, and this is fine,done, the end?  Let alone the theme that you  need revenge and to take revenge, the presentation of being the saving climax (and one he'll be getting away with without question) just bothered me immensely.  Better movie if the murder had torn them up even more than the death.  If they are the people they are supposed to be, it would have. "},{"Title":"First movie to be shot entirely in slow motion","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm shocked at the 7+ rating, the highest, I think ever awarded a contemporary motion picture on this venue. I could not rate it that high because of the shocking conclusion that ends this drama. Now I know that life is unscripted, and that anything can happen to us, and a man can be motivated to do what the father did at the end of the movie. It's not unknown. But to me it was a Hollywood surprise ending that didn't work. I felt it was inconsistant with the character presented to us by Andre Dubus the author of the short story on which the film is based. Another inconsistancy, was the behavior of the separated husband, beautifully played by William Mapother. In the beginng of the film he's an out of control, ignorant lout. When he's barginning for his life with Tom Wilkinsin, he's almost charming with insight and rationality. Now people will do anything to stay alive, but his gentility seemed wrong for the creep we were presented with at the start of the movie.I would have to blame the very capable director, Todd Field for not catching this misstep. The cast of course was wonderful. Tom Wilkinson is a top English pro. The only reason he isn't a major star, is he's not adorable and sexy like Tom Cruise or Robert Redford, AND he didn't make one lapse in his American accent. Usually these guys will say cahn't for can't, it's in their blood, but he didn't fluff once. And didn't you keep thinking he was going to have an affair with his nurse? What better time to have an affair, than when you're having World War 3, with your wife. Sissy Spacek, who quit movies for a few years, to raise her family, reaches a level of maturity that can only be called amazing and truly mesmerizing. Along with Marisa Tomei, and Nick Stahl this was ensemble acting on the highest level. I still feel the tempo of the movie was a bit too slow. I was tempted to tune out a few times, and I know people who also found this disturbing.           "},{"Title":"A new (though, maybe wrong) opinion","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  First, I want to make my review real short since I have a lot to say on the plot.  Please don't read after spoilers comment if you don't want to have the plot ruined before you see it.  After seeing, though, you might want to return here to compare notes... I'd be real interested to see if anyone has the same feelings as me.  If not, that's good too, I still want to read other opinions.I thought the movie was really quite good.  As many others have said before me, the acting was great (check) the director was edgy and well-done (check) and the photography was beautiful (check).  I agree, the movie was well-done/acted/directed yada-yada-yada.  However, that's not as important (if not overstated) as the plot and story; which doesn't hit right after watching.  AND since everyone's opinion on how 'good' or 'bad' a movie varies so vastly, what my opinion is, really doesn't matter.  NOW!***SPOILERS***SPOILERS***SPOILERS***SPOILERS***SPOILERS***SPOILERS***I will now attempt to explain my plot theory (for what its worth).  Tomei's character was the REAL maestro in this entire film, pushing all and everyone's buttons.  This movie, really, is about how women push men's buttons.  Therefore, never needing to do the 'dirty' work, themselves.  Furthermore, how we will do it for those women that we love or lust.  (Both are very powerful manipulative tools).I believe Tomei's character (Natalie) wanted her EX dead.  Enter  Frank.  However, Tomei is young and inexperienced as a 'conductor' (she even told Spacek (the mom/Ruth) that she almost became a teacher like her and it was never answered why.  When Natalie's plan goes horribly wrong, she's upset and sorry; rightfully so.Enter Spacek; the older, more experienced maestro.  Hell, she's even a conductor (major control).  AND, she's patient... waiting... waiting for her husband to come around.  She uses guilt and witholding sex (I imagine) and all the tools of her trade, till finally DR. Matt Fowler accomplishes the task.  Even the part where Spacek slaps Tomei, its like saying 'you really screwed up... NOW I'll do it for you' (or something like that).  In the end, the task is accomplished with Spacek waiting up to make sure it was done RIGHT!!!  The maestro in all her power... then she goes to make food for him (his reward... she hasn't done that for him in a while, you can just tell).There's a part where you even see Dr. Matt is starting to figure things out when he says (in reference to the picture at Strout's house of Natalie and he together), It was the way she was smiling...  Like he felt she had the last laugh.  Laughing at him from the frame of the picture... there was never any need for the Natalie character to show up again in the film once Ruth took over.  Natalie had won in the end, and I think that line says it all.I give it 8/10... only because 9 and 10 are for one's I enjoy more, not so much that this film didn't deserve it.  My own prejudice, I guess. "},{"Title":"A Better Movie than Title","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom is notable for several reasons, (none of which, however, include anything to do with its somewhat misleading and rather bizarre title).  In brief, it is the story of a prosperous middle aged couple (a doctor and music teacher in their early to mid-fifties) as they react to the sudden loss of their only son, who is shot by the estranged ex-husband of the woman with whom he is involved.  In comparison with the assembly-line drivel foisted upon the movie-going audiences, the subtlety and real storytelling exhibited here is a refreshing change.  It is a bit slow-moving, and the use of many brief, wordless vignettes to advance the storyline does become a bit art house tedious, but for a quiet, thought-provoking evening's passtime, In the Bedroom reasonably fits the bill.The couple's son is apparently 17 or 18, and on his way to his first year of college with the end of the summer, a month or so away.  When we are introduced to the story he has already become involved with the Marisa Tomei character, who is separated from her husband, and is the mother of two little boys (which would put her in her mid-to-late twenties).  The husband is still very much a part of her life, despite being shown to be a bully and general lout, and the audience (most of whom know the general storyline) knows that the boy's life will end violently and tragically at the husband's hands early on in the film.The couple are concerned about the seriousness of the relationship of their son with the separated-but-still-married woman.  The boy comments that such concern was never demonstrated over any of my other girlfriends.  In the early part of the movie, the young man also talks about how great and wonderful his girlfriend is.  I myself was wondering what he would see in such a relationship; he has had success with girls previously, presumably of his own age, and she, although attractive, is no great beauty, and has two small children in  tow.  That the story takes place in a small Maine town makes it even less likely that such a relationship would flourish.  He seems like an happy, intelligent, well adjusted young man.  She appears to be uneducated trailer trash who married the son of a local wealthy family.  Never is there any scene which demonstrates what they have in common, or what he would see in her, let alone what might make him postpone departure for college, or embrace life as a fisherman in order to remain with her.  Certainly many 17 year-olds become infatuated and entertain dopey ideas, but this important factor of the tale is oddly unaddressed.That said, the true story here is that of the parents, and their reactions and their relationship, and how they go about their lives after this sudden tragedy changes everything in their world. Along the way we learn more about them, as they learn about eachother.  (It's not as boring as it may sound).  The stress comes to a head in the household, and a decision and plan of action is undertaken by the father.The ending was quite a surprise to me, and really separates this movie from the overly talkative angst-ridden dramas replete with histrionics, but no real resolution. with which it may be associated.  It's not quite Clint Eastwood, but much closer than you might suspect...It's not particularly breathtaking or brilliant, but it is a troubling tale very well portrayed, and worth a look. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie; go see it","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS***A fine movie.Curious to see all the disappointment in the other user comments; especially the claims that the movie was slow or boring!  After seeing it last night at a friend's house, I said I just got done seeing two bad movies, so this was a very welcome breath of fresh air.  I was referring to Signs and The Bourne Identity.  Come to think of it, I'd also seen that yawning stinkerino Collateral Damage (which I'll mention, by way of contrast, below).  So I'd had a lot of bad cinematic joojoo in the last month or so before seeing this film.  In some deference to the naysayers, I guess I could sum up some of my (minor) disappointments, then get on with the adulation.*** SPOILERS ***Odd, but my only disappointments are provisional in nature.  One has to do with my own ignorance about the place of the search for justice against a perpetrator in one's search for peace after the loss of a murdered loved one.  One sees this all the time in the media, and they always seem like unwelcome human interest bits injected into the stream of professional journalistic narrative.  Why is it news what the survivors of a crime victim think and feel in response to a verdict?  Is it news because it's a natural, understandable, perfectly functional urge?  Of course, I'm the first to admit my ignorance; I'm just not sure that this movie came close enough to making me less ignorant.  It's possible that that wasn't the goal of the movie; which is cool with me.  But I did feel as though, by the movie's end, the image of the retribution expanding like ripples into the community was powerful and thought-provoking.Well, that's all I can say that's negative.  Now on to the positive. Views of the naysayers notwithstanding, I thought the pacing of this movie was perfect.  When I think of Halle Berry being flashed as an exemplar of Hollywood catharsis for her hospital grief scene, I just shake my head. In In the Bedroom, after the funeral service, there is a short series of 10-second (or so) vignettes, separated by fades-to-black.  In one of these, Matt is mowing the lawn, then we see Ruth, walking down the stairs, stopping on the landing to watch him mow.  At that point I had one of the most powerful emotional experiences I have ever felt in any movie.  Now  Would that play as a showcase soundbite in an awards ceremony?  Of course not. Does that make it less significant?  Of course not.In terms of the acting, there was not one false note in this movie.  All the acting was perfect.  There's really nothing more to say.  But I'll be going on to extol the writing, and you should keep in mind there was nothing about the acting to suggest that I had to squeeze this interpretation out of a cardboard acting job.  Before that, though, I'll mention a couple of examples of how there were no small parts in this movie.  The poker table poet (sorry, didn't catch his name) was a marvel.  The guy telling the funny story to Tim(?) in the bar--the story of the baseball bats--was acting professionalism incarnate, and should be shown to acting students.  Not to say it *looked* like acting professionalism; and that's the whole point. I'm sure that scene is quite the feather in that fellow's cap, and he should be getting some more jobs.  Was that...Kevin Chapman?The writing was excellent.  There might have been a few places where one might think something off, but it could just as easily be attributed to verite writing.  At any rate, the writing served the narrative perfectly.Finally, the narrative.  The character development was superb.  Frank Fowler (the son) has a tentative feel to his character that's perfect and believable for his age and time; heroic, but humanly so.  He's trying to negotiate the tricky shoals of his emotional environment; his new girlfriend, her kids, his parents, his goals, dreams, wishes, himself. And the picture is a balance of confusion and youthful hope; of control and being swept away by events; things not gelled, not yet complete; he's figuring on being away for a year for school, then thinking of just settling down to be a fisherman, then the phone rings with an offer from a school (his acting on the phone in the scene is very everyman).  This is all essential to helping us truly grieve with the Fowlers.  The lesson we learned before seeing this movie is that when you kill a human being, you kill history.  Because Frank wasn't fully developed as a person yet, his death was truly the death of history; many chapters that will never be written.  The development of Frank's character latches on to this understanding and won't let go.  The development of Richard Strout's (the murderer's) character is essential.  We come to see what's wrong with Richard; why his wife had to turn him out.  And we see the passion play play out yet again; the death of the beautiful at the hand of the ugly.Geez!  I don't know how to taper off to a quiet conclusion!  When I go to a movie, I expect to see drama, theatre, the great questioning, the great quest for the grail of understanding.  I don't know what others expect, but I suspect people who didn't like ITB were looking for something else.  I remember one commenter saying the movie felt like a series of short theatrical bits.  I can see where they were coming from, but disagree. The movie was of a piece.  A whole story that nonetheless leaves us with a very big question, and one that deserves an answer.Which brings me around to mentioning Collateral Damage, the latest Schwartzenneger leviathon piece-of-trash.  Think about the commonality between CD and ITB; the revenge subtheme.  Now think about the differences between how CD and ITB handle that theme.  Do you see what I see?  "},{"Title":"Major Disappointment","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Certainly well acted, and directed, with unique cinematography that worked.BUTThe storyline simply was horrible for the 'best picture'.  Anyone could see what was going to happen W A Y before it happened.  Too bad. "},{"Title":"very much overrated","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nothing to do with movies like FARGO. This movie is very much overrated, boring and as slow as a train you can take in Pakistan... I suggest you'd better watch LA STANZA DEL FIGLIO by Nanni Moretti, more dramatic.... "},{"Title":"Not for everybody","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It´s the story that you could see on any TV movie, but without the overacting scenes, and the tears. The dialogues are important, but the silences are more, maybe there is too much silence, and i´m not so much agree with the end  "},{"Title":"An America copy of Son's room","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is an American copy of the Moretti's Son's Room. It's the history of a couple who lose his (only) child and ask for revenge. This revenge is finally carried out by the father in the texan style... Moreover, the actors play very badly. "},{"Title":"long and hard to sit through","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie that is so bad that I sat there watching the people who were walking out during the movie and wondered where they were going.....and I envied them their escape.  Don't get me wrong, the movie is well acted and beautifully photographed.  But what happened to the editing? This movie would be just about right if it were about 30 minutes shorter.  They did a great job of letting us wallow around in the emotions of the characters, but enough already.  Watch this at home when it's on video and you can fast forward through the slow parts. "}{"Title":"Should Be Renamed 'In The BOREDOM'","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film should be renamed 'In The BOREDOM.' All we get is 2 hours of unrelenting doom & gloom, an insipid 'Ordinary People' re-hash. On paper the plot is just your average family drama-cum-revenge thriller that we've seen countless times on TV movies and soap operas. On screen the film lacks any emotional depth, filled with un-involving characters wrapped up in a snail-paced narrative. Though the film refuses to succumb to sentiment and slide into melodrama, any connection with the characters is lost, we feel no sympathy whatsoever. The films' undertone of emptiness, anxiety, frustration, isolation, failure as portrayed by the actors in their coping with death and tragedy, mirrors the feelings we get while watching it. Symbolism we get it already. The only symbol I was looking was the 'EXIT' sign.  "},{"Title":"definately worth it","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow, what a great movie.  The cinematography was simply beautiful, the actors were fantastic and believable, and the story was great.  For me it's like the 'American Beauty' for this year.  The shots were fantastic in this movie, there was definately a theme of windows and mirrors which was really neat.  The actions the characters displayed meant so much more than words a lot of the time.  I recommend this movie to everyone! "},{"Title":"I Snored.....","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Boring, so terribly boring... Ok, Sissy is an awesome actress, otherwise... Boring, so dreadfully boring... Bring a laptop, hand-held electronic game, etc. You'll need something to pass time. Or just leave. "},{"Title":"Pretty awful","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie was interesting and very well acted, but the ending was unsatisfying and out of character with the rest of the movie. And what the heck does the title of the movie have to do with anything? Very disappointing! "},{"Title":"Not bad, not good but definitely boooorrring","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"    This movie did not have to be nearly as long as it was. And I happen to like really long movies!! Magnolia is my favorite movie for crying out loud!   This is another in a long string of slow, boring movies that get raves from the critics. Others are The Pledge, The Apostle and Affliction. Wake me up when its over or when something finally happens.   And, no, I am not a big budget action movie fan. I hate Jerry Bruckheimer and John Woo, etc. So all you lovers of this movie please don't stick me with that tag. I just need SOMETHING to happen in a movie.   On  the positive side, Marisa Tomei is great as usual. She has chemistry with anyone she works with, unlike ice queen Nicolle Kidman.  I can see a certain type of moviegoer loving this movie. Just not me. "},{"Title":"Awful, predictable, dragged out.","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  God, I've never walked out on a movie but I really wanted to leave on this one. This same story is on A&E every other day! Oscars for Sissy Spacek and Marisa Tomei?! Stop! Sissy Spacek played a one dimensional bitch and Marisa Tomei did nothing but whine through every scene. I am not bashing this because it was a chick flick, Prince of Tides was a chick flick, but that was great. This was just a couple hours of my life I'll never get back! I was so happy when my girlfriend confirmed what I already thought of the flick. "},{"Title":"Mental Garbage","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really didn't like this movie. The story started out great in the begining but after about an hour it just drug on and on...Marissa Tomei was incredible. She sould have had more screen time. The movie just drags on and on for two and a half hours and by the end accomplishes NOTHIG! I seriouisly wanted to leave by the end of the film...In the end it was nonsense...pure and utter nonsense. "},{"Title":"Sucks, sucks, sucks!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Joel and the bots should see this movie. This movie could have been done in five minutes leaving the rest on the cutting room floor. Older woman, younger guy, psycho ex, concerned parents... Doesn't take a rocket scientist nor even a sub orbital-space engineer to figure out this boring piece of tripe. "},{"Title":"Overrated, deceptively promoted","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having heard a lot of great buzz about this thriller (trust me, almost all the thrilling scenes are in the trailer), I saw this with high expectations. By the end of the film, I was very disappointed. Yes, the acting is excellent, and deserves the Oscar buzz, and the cinematography is beautiful, but I felt the pacing was painfully slow, and found myself wanting the story to hurry up and end. I know the slow pacing is intended to build the tension between characters, but I just got bored. Some may say that I just didn't get it, but I understood everything that was attempted in the making of the film, I just didn't enjoy it. This goes on my list of Movies that are well made, but I still didn't like.   "},{"Title":"In the....toilet?","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Why  title this one In the bedroom? Perhaps it's the best place to view this as a way to drift off to sleep. Or it's a long dreamy sequence with a nightmare jolting you awake. Or maybe we really don't know where else to put it. Perhaps if I really cared about Frank (Nick Stahl) and Natalie (Marisa Tomei), I might have been engaged earlier. The direction gave no real good reason to care until the estranged dad (WARNING! Spoiler!) dumped on the couple and by this time, I was in the bathroom. Sissy Spacek never really seemed comfortable in her role, or am I mistaking that for acting?  Tom Wilkenson gave a strong performance but couldn't resurrect the script from an early grave.   At the end of a painful stage run, some plays closing is eagerly anticipated, and the crew might suggest before striking the set, `Well let's put this &#133;  to bed. If there were a stronger market for short films, this one would qualify with some serious editing. Otherwise, don't you have something better to do with your time and money? "}{"Title":"Stick to acting, Todd","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ah, Domestic Turmoil, woe is me!  Papers told me this was emotionally devastating, devestating for sure.  Critics loved it, even Ebert who I most consistantly agree with it.  And friends of mine liked it too.  Well, I warn't to impressed to tell ya mahself.  I sincerely hope the Academy would leave this one alone but I seriously doubt that.  They have a pension for this sort of thing, the Artsy Tearjerker.Let's get down to the nitty gritty, so to speak.  First of all, THIS SCRIPT SUCKED!  The dialogue was the worst part-e.g. the pointless conversation about Disneyworld and that amazing pass you can buy that lets you on all the rides without having to wait in line!  Brilliant!  Does that have some deep intellectual meaning relating to the characters emotional crises.  No! But if you throw in empty dialogue in a pretentious film, people will be confused, doubt their intelligence and understanding, and then jump to the conclusion that it might just be too deep and insightful for them to comprehend.And then there's the speech about the lobsters at the beginning.  Right when he started in on it, I could tell it apart from the rest of the film like a huge signpost that read, Remember this speech, because it is indespensable to the overall message!I know a movie is bad when I get up and go the bathroom, not because I have to relieve myself, but because the movie is just too painful to watch and I need an excuse to escape.  I never leave the theatre, even at a film I am mildly enjoying, but the bad ones...Let me just say this, the last two movies I went to the bathroom at are 13 Ghosts(only bareable for the fact that I was on a date) and Say It Isn't So-remember that one?  I didn't think so.  If you do, all you should recall is the agony. !!!!!!!!!!SPOILERS!!!!!!!!! Right after the tragedy occurs the rest of the film is focused on little events that remind the couple of their loss.  A slip of the tongue by a well-meaning friend, a remembrance of little one enjoying his daddy-built tree fort, and so on and so on.  It becomes utterly monotonous and you sit there waiting for the next unnecessary helping of grief salad.The acting is good, though.  I won't deny that.  But it can hardly redeem this movie.  The ex-husband was best.Some people might say that I'm extremely cold and heartless for not being moved by such an honest and heartfelt picture, but I really feel that's not the case.  There are films which can make me cry every time I see them, because these are beautifully sincere and well-crafted and unique.  This is none of those.One more thing.  If you were a grieving couple coping with the loss of your young son, would you place the newspaper article of his murder on your refrigerator door? What, is it a keepsake item or something?  Hey honey, remember when this happened?  Those were the days. "},{"Title":"other than that, it's very good","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER !!!!!!!!The plot fails. It took me three days to figure out why. There was a substantial amount of misdirection involved. The issue Richard RETURNS to the house to kill FRANK. That makes it premeditated, for which bail might have been allowed, but it would be substantially higher, and the possibility of getting off virtually nil. The prosecutor clearly failed to sufficiently interview the witnesses to have missed this.To hang the plot on the factual assertion of Frank's wife becomes irrelevant, once this is realized.END SPOILER !!!Sissy was wonderful. Tom Wilkinson was very good, given some of the issues. Nick Stahl is quite believable as a malleable youth. "},{"Title":"Most overrated film of the year???","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Good performances, very good in the case of Tom Wilkinson.  I didn't find Marisa Tomei or Sissy Spacek (who was INFINETLY better in The Straight Story) to be anything more than adequate.  And somebody really should find these filmmakers an editor--silence and slow-pacing are wonderful instruments to convey emotion and profundity, but not a full hour of them! A decent film but certainly not a best picture of the year. "},{"Title":"No redeeming value","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie does not live up to the critics' hype.  The movie is 20% plot and 80% character development, which would be fine if the movie had any interesting characters.  But it doesn't.  None of the characters are eccentric enough to make them interesting at all.  Maybe the director wanted the characters to be so ordinary we could identify with them.  That would be fine too if the ordinary characters went through some life experiences in such a way that we, the viewer, could draw something from the characters' experiences.  But that element is notably missing from this movie as well. All we learn is that ordinary people sometimes grieve.  Did I pay $7 to learn that?  Did this movie teach us anything about the process of grieving that we didn't already know?  No way.For a full hour in the middle of this movie, absolutely nothing happens at all.  Nothing.  This movie is trite, slow, uninteresting and without any redeeming qualities. The execution of the revenge sequence is so fake that it is just stupid. Save your money and your time. "},{"Title":"What's not to get?","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Possible SPOILER for IN THE BEDROOMYes, this film is slow, but are people totally without patience?  The audience I was with was enthralled from start to finish.  Even the noisiest Beethoven symphony has a slow movement.  Indeed, Todd Field wants to linger and make us feel the sense of community and specific place that this story occurs in.  Bravo for him.  There are 5 t.v. shows on right now that take place in Boston, not one of which evokes any sense of that city's uniqueness.  IN THE BEDROOM reeks of rural, coastal Maine, a sparse yet enveloping place indeed.The story has positively Greek repercussions in its drama.  Someone was puzzled by the title metaphor in which we are told that a female lobster won't tolerate being confined (in the bedroom) with two males.  What's not to get?  The mother, confined to her tiny community cannot abide constantly bumping into the man who has destroyed her family.  She expects her husband to fix things.A brilliant movie, superbly written, acted and directed.  The best thing about small town American life since last year's YOU CAN COUNT ON ME. "},{"Title":"Plodding direction","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Could have been a good movie, but the plodding direction held each scene 5-15 seconds too long, removing tension and making the film 30 minutes longer than necessary.  For example, shot of closed door, shot of door opening, shot of person coming through the door, shot of door closing, shot of closed door.  You wanted to grab the editor and say moving it along. "},{"Title":"Realism at a time of need...","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. I thought that the screenplay was well-written in the aspect that the conversations between the people were portrayed as real. The characters never lost their spunk even as the movie got more serious. I think that the movie did a good job of taking a commonplace situation and twisting it into a movie worth spending two hours watching. I also liked the analogy of the title. The lobster reference was brilliant and in a time of meaningless titles, In The Bedroom created a title that spoke volumes about the relationships between the characters. I also think that it is a shame that this movie didn't win more Academy Awards. I think that during it's election year, it was one of the best movies made. I feel that this movie might have been looked upon as too deep, but I think that it contained just enough lightheartedness to keep it interesting. I think that the movie allows the viewer to lose themselves in the movie which I think is something that all movies should strive for. Luckily, I got to view this movie, and I think you should too. "},{"Title":"Completely Forgettable","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hollywood has a nasty habit of wasting good talent on crappy movies. The talent wasted in this case, that of Sissy Spacek and Marisa Tomei, wouldn't be wasted if great actresses like these two would adopt the Nancy Reagan response JUST SAY NO!! This is another one of those films that has no purpose and meanders so far for so long that you just end up turning it off before it's finished. It drags along like a dog with no legs and never gets moving. The story COULD have been a good one if the screenplay had been given some life. The ladies mentioned above are two of my favorite actresses, yet even they can't put life into a corpse that's D O A from the beginning. Do yourself a favor and pass on this one. Forget about it and don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Devastating and sickeningly tense","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know exactly what this movies is. It's too heavy to be considered an entertainment, although it is transfixing throughout. It's not self-consciously artistic, so it can't be an art house drama. Some people criticized it as something that would play as well as a TV movie. Well, the made-for-TV criticism (if it is one) is lousy. I don't know what that's supposed to mean, really. Does it mean that all TV movies are crappy, and this is too, so it should have played on Lifetime? If that's what it means, then it's wrong. If it means that the movie isn't very focused on images, and isn't terribly cinematic, I might see the point. But this is far too emotional and lacking in sentimentality to be written off. Maybe any movie that deals honestly with people and their lives is bound to be attacked.The set-up here isn't much Frank Fowler (Nick Stahl), the college-age son, is seeing Natalie (Marisa Tomei), the older and formerly married mother of two, to the quiet delight of his father Matt (Tom Wilkinson) and the equally hushed scorn of his mother Ruth (Sissy Spacek). Natalie's ex, Richard (William Mapother) still feels attached to Natalie and causes some trouble (his mullet-like bleached hair making him seem even more evil).The performances are all very fine. Stahl, an increasingly interesting actor (the bully in Larry Clark's Bully), is a successful choice as the son. He's set apart, predominantly, from the plethora of young actors because he doesn't look like Josh Hartnett or Heath Ledger. Tomei gives a wonderful supporting performance, and I loved her affected accent. The main criticism Spacek got was that she was in a role any woman over 40 could play. What an offensively incorrect statement. Spacek has a fractured voice and a vulnerability that suits Ruth, and moment to moment she makes her completely authentic. But ultimately it's Wilkinson who owns the movie. (It's also amusing that the lone foreigner has the most convincing American accent.)The tension is built up to an almost sickening level after, and just before, a monumental tragedy occurs about 45 minutes in. The next 45 minutes or so is devoted to the altered lives of the characters. In between the slice-of-life straightforwardness, we see segues of Spacek, a school music teacher, directing a choir singing dirge-like chant-hymns (a nice touch, like Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's poem My Lost Youth that's recited by one of Matt's friends A boy's will is the wind's will/And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts). In the middle segment, the film has a lot of slice-of-life scenes, like Wilkinson and Spacek watching Craig Kilborn, and it's nice whenever a movie has those. They allow us to soak up the atmosphere and story, and it's a pleasant treat to have scenes and dialogues that don't exist simply to propel the plot.After the tragedy (I'm tiptoeing here), we see how generous and forgiving Matt and Ruth are to their friends, co-workers and students, and how destructive they are to each other, at home (Like a rest in music -- no sound but so loud). Beneath the surface, Matt's a nervous wreck; when he goes to see his lawyer he can only focus on his hand annoyingly shuffling change in his pocket. Ruth becomes the type of woman you'd hate to be around, twisting rational questions and biting back with bitterly sarcastic snaps.I expect the subject, the emotions, and the pain in the movie will strike a note with many middleclass suburbanites, and may be unbearably painful for any family who's gone through a similar tragedy, or who's had to deal with the ineptitude of the law system. It racks up the tension to an excruciating degree -- the best kind of sombre drama that fills your stomach with nervousness and anxiety until you can't take any more. In the closing 45 minutes, there's a sort of vigilante message that's imparted, and someone could write a series of essays on the subject of that message (well, not exactly message, but you know what I mean), but in the context of the film, I wouldn't argue that something had to be done, and that no one should be cursed because of it.I found myself asking, Why are movies like these important? Because they make us feel, and isn't that what makes us human? (That and opposable thumbs, I guess.) They awaken the senses and keep them fresh, and on a larger scale, specifically, because they show us people's concealed private lives that go unseen (but experienced) by many.The film is much less heavy-handed than its 2001 counterpart Monster's Ball; more realistic, but also less graphic; tenser, but less arty. Unlike that film, In the Bedroom is simple; it's impact comes from its simplicity. Monster's Ball starts with impact and then tries to work in the simple realism and character.The film's final image is humbling, and Andrew O'Hehir described it rather eloquently as Matt lying stone-faced in bed, half naked, with cigarette smoke rising from his chest, looking as if his heart were on fire.**** "},{"Title":"In the Bored Room","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am not one to pass over the subtleties of a fine performance, and certainly there was some good acting in this film, but this has to be one of the most absolutely boring films I have seen in years.  Sure, it's getting a lot of Oscar buzz, but let's face it, folks the emporer is naked.    I have a hard time believing this script even got made. "}{"Title":"An Inaction Flick","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm having trouble seeing why this movie has gotten so much praise.The movie seemed determined to show scene after scene of nothing in particular happening. Even when there was something going on, the movie tried to deaden it and bury it with non-reaction and inactivity.I grant one plot twist (with the young guy), but otherwise the movie was terribly simplistic and predictable. It didn't do a very good job of conveying how much time passed during the myriad fades. It had a number of plot holes.And we're supposed to be sympathetic toward those people at the end of the movie?It was a challenge to watch this movie all the way to the end.  "},{"Title":"Extraordinarily Disappointing","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I bought the movie the day it came out on DVD as I hadn't had the chance to see it in theaters but heard such wondrous reviews and comments on it. Boy, was I surprised when I sat down and watched it.  First off, the movie is way too slow - I love character studies but there were so many little scenes in the film where I was like Where's the producer?  Why didn't somebody tell them this does nothing and says nothing?  Nick Stahl and Marisa Tomei are great together and they are the heart of the movie, but unfortunately once Stahl leaves the film, the heart of it is gone and Tomei seems to be thrown to the wayside.  I kept waiting for some sort of real resolution, some sort of real catharsis or change and I really didn't see any whatsoever.  So the good doctor goes and takes certain matters into his own hands - it's not a character change that the director hit in the right way.  He had Tom Wilkinson right there in his hands and he obviously did not use him to his full potential.  As for Spacek, what an unsympathetic character.  And talk about change - she doesn't change from the beginning to the very last frame. I'm amazed that this movie got all the hoopla that it did and amazed that it was nominated for so many awards.  There was so much potential for this subject matter and the director did not live up to it.  I love Todd Field's work as an actor, but perhaps this shows why actors should do just that and not decide to get behind the camera.A way overrated movie - and a wasted of two hours.   "},{"Title":"Excellent performances, mediocre story","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom is yet another victim of hypekill, suffering from too many accolades for too little value. On the upside, the film offers a solid cast, some excellent performances, and good art and technicals. On the downside, it is tedious, has a meager plot, and doesn't show us anything new. I rented the DVD because of kudos and hype and was disappointed to find the only suspense in the film is the nagging question When is this flick going to get moving? An excellent drama if expectations are kept within reason. (B) "},{"Title":"Unparalleled hype","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom applies high standards, but nowhere does it live up to them. The director tried his hand at a slow, emphatic direction style. He failed magnificently. To his credit, many viewers, including an appalling majority of the press, seem to have mistaken good intentions for the accomplished result. Thus the ensuing hype, which is totally unjustified.The film falls short in every domain. It is tedious, unexpressive and maladroit. The story itself is clichematic, and all through the film I kept fighting the urge to follow the better half of the visitors that had already walked out. Again and again you ask yourself why this story was ever made into a motion picture. The material isn't even enough for a television adaptation, because there is no slant, no special interest in the story. This was just an excerpt from a reality tv program, period.The direction tries to turn this little splinter of a story into a film by adding long, quasi-significant pauses instead of offering insight into the characters and their motives. This makes the viewer focus on the actors and their individual skills at positioning a character (with zip to go on). Admittedly, Sissy Spacek does a great job, but she only succeeds in proving she is an actress capable of keeping the attention of the audience. Her character remains a 2-d cardboard cliché. As for the other actors... What can I say? Tom Wilkinson is solid but arthritic, Marisa Tomei is completely out of depth on drama. Nick Stahl follows the directors example and fumbles along. Finally, what really turned this film into a trying experience was the editing. It was simply horrendous, with cuts that were both blunt and meaningless. You are trying to understand why it is you have to watch two old people drinking coffee (e.g.) when suddenly you get a totally different scene thrown in your face. The film is screaming and has nothing to say. There is no clear message, no coherence between scenes.Anyway, the film didn't win an Oscar, which is no surprise. Go see it if you want a manual of how not to make a nice film. Then again, you might check out A Simple Plan for an example of how a small bit of news can be turned into a good film. "},{"Title":"A Great Film Overall!","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Perhaps, a movie about two mature parents played by Oscar Winner Sissy Spacek and Oscar nominee Tom Wilkinson, losing their adult child is not for everybody. Nick Stahl is very believable in playing their young adult son who falls in love with a separated mother of two sons. The boys' father is an abusive and jealous husband who just won't let go of a bad marriage. The son, Frank Fowler, falls in love with Marisa Tomei's character Natalie. Another Oscar Winner in the cast and she is perfect as the grief-stricken girlfriend left behind. The on screen chemistry between Stahl and Tomei is believable. Frank has a chance to go to college and become an architect or engineer but it's too late. He is too busy spending the summer months being a working man in Maine as a lobster man and playing daddy to Natalie's sons who love him in the end. Anyway, Frank's death is a horrible one. He was shot in the head by Richard, the angry boyfriend, who could get away with doing 5-15 years in prison. Of course, the parents are outraged that there is great injustice. Sissy and Tom are truly great together as a couple. You can see their years of acting experience behind them. They both earned Oscar nominations for leading roles. Even Tomei deserves her nomination in the supporting character, especially after watching her in this one. You can rest assured that her Academy Award earlier in her career was well worth it. Even though, I think she should have gotten for a role like this. "},{"Title":"A fairly obvious narrative is made better by virtue of well written characters and dialogue delivered by a couple of standout performances from Wilkinson & Spacek (spoilers)","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Frank Fowler is the son of Matt and Ruth, studying to become an architect and working on a lobster trapping boat in their peacefully New England home.Frank is involved in a relationship with the older Natalie Stout, who is in the process of ending her marriage to the abusive Richard, even if Ruth doesn't approve of her son being involved in such a relationship. When Frank gets beaten up by Richard, Ruth worries further while Matt tries to take a balanced view of the relationship the best he can. However the road ahead seems difficult and it becomes evident than none of the Fowlers were prepared for how difficult their lives would become as a result of the relationship.The title refers to the middle section of a lobster trap called the 'bedroom'; apparently when more than two lobsters are in the same trap they end hurting one another. So it is with this film then, where the crowded relationship leads to violence and pain. As a plot it pretty much goes where you expect it to and I was a little disappointed by it being so formulaic at the end of the day; with so much praise for it around Oscar time a few years back I was surprised that it merely went through the motions of other similar films. This is not to say that it is not interesting because it is still worth seeing. It is a bit slow and I imagine that many viewers will find it painfully slow, looking for fireworks and courtroom drama rather than the internal anguish that is much of this film. It never really gets up to more than walking speed but then this is not a film that is really about a satisfying or exciting plot, rather it is about the characters.Fortunate then that they are well written and are pretty realistic for the most part. If anything the main reason I felt let down by the 'retribution' ending was because it wasn't true to life &#150; most people have to suffer massive loss without anyone to blame or anyone to take vengeance on and that is harder, to have nobody to be angry with except yourself (no matter how illogical that is). With such good writing the actors rise to the challenge and understandably garnered quite a few awards and nominations in its time. Wilkinson and Spacek steal the film with such a convincing marriage and characters that they drive the film and keep it interesting. Watching them suffer in silence, blame themselves, blame each other etc is hard but engaging simply because it is so very natural and real. Tomei is good but her character is sidelined too quickly for my taste &#150; she was doing well and I cared about her as much as I did the Fowlers. Stahl is good in his brief performance but he is the patsy needed for the film's plot; likewise Mapother doesn't have much time to do anything.Overall this is a good film that manages to rise above the rather ordinary and predictable narrative by virtue of well written characters and a couple of great performances. The dialogue is natural and (95%) of the main characters' reactions are convincing and real thanks in a big part to the great delivery from the talented cast, in particular great turns from Wilkinson and Spacek. "},{"Title":"Somewhat Slow But Still Worth While","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The premise for IN THE BEDROOM is absolutely no different from umpteen bland TVMs I`ve seen . The producers are almost certainly aware of this so they`ve decided to make a slow , moody haunting film . There`s a great deal to admire in this descion but unfortunately this doesn`t lend itself to an engrossing entertaining film , but seeing as this movie wasn`t produced for mass entertainment in mind it shouldn`t be taken as a criticismOne very valid criticism that can be fired at IN THE BEDROOM is the editing which has a very jarring quality Cut to fishing boat , cut to barbacue , cut to interior of house , cut to etc which I found very irritating while there`s a scene with Matt Fowler talking to his wife Ruth in the kitchen which cuts from Matt walking out of kitchen to bedroom where Ruth now lies in bed reading a book ! There`s basically nothing to indicate this is an entirely different scene . I also have a minor problem about the way Matt Fowler is written , he`s Doctor Matt Fowler but never comes across as being a white collar professional as he`s seen fishing out at sea , chopping wood and playing cards with blue collar types . I know America prides itself on being a classless society but Doctor Fowler comes across as too egaliterianDespite this minor flaw in characterisation Tom Wilkinson gives an outstanding performance as Matt Fowler . If you don`t know this already let me point out Wilkinson is a Brit best known for his supporting role in the totally overrated THE FULL MONTY but he`s totally convincing as an American in this film and it`s great to see an actor play their role in such an understated way . The rest of the cast are equally good and everyone manages to communicate the grief their characters are going through.I did criticise a point in the script earlier but - Despite being somewhat slow - the script is a good one devoid of melodramatic nonsense that could have so easily have infected it and contains nice little touches like when Matt sees the name  Strout  and gives a haunted look after being reminded of his grief . It`s something I can relate to when a simple word reminds me of loss . I guess everyone can relate to this too .So IN THE BEDROOM is a good film , but it should be pointed out you`ll be disappointed if you watch it expecting a feel good movie  "},{"Title":"Original and intriguing drama","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsITB is a fine example of how the academy awards do not solely award films with huge budgets and mass marketing campaigns.The subject matter to begin with is a very compelling one,dealing with the modern phenomena of a younger man (Nick Stahl) dating an older woman (Marisa Tomei).But from here on in,the movie simply grinds on to something even more pressing,with various twists and turns in the story that serves to give it focus and light.There are great performances from all involved,from Stahl/Tomei to Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek.There is no defineable soundtrack to the film,just an eerily quiet score that plays over each of the scenes,giving it a sinister and welcomely intriguing feel.And the plot grips you from beginning to end.One to catch.Odd title though,come to think of it.**** "},{"Title":"With so many other choices out there, skip this STINKER!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like a movie rich in character study, so I carefully chose to see this film.  I have NEVER been so bored in all my life.   I did not even remotely care  A THING about ANY character in this film.   I've been more entertained watching paint dry.  Thank God the seats in this theater were comfortable!  "},{"Title":"Didn't move me.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked the scenery, and some of the acting, but overall I was left with a feeling that I'd been conned into seeing this film. (there's a first!) It's sold as a thriller, but it's anything but. It's a slow moving character study, and as much as I liked Todd Field as an actor on Once and Again (he played Billy Campbells business partner on the first two seasons!), I could barely keep my eyes open for this, his first film. Tom Wilkinson has a few accent problems, and they all make a valiant attempt at sounding as if they were from Camden, but they're not. And it's obvious. Choices like that make George Clooneys choice NOT to use an accent in Perfect Storm seem like a good idea. The plot meanders so that you end up speaking the lines minutes before the actors get around to it. A good effort, but I just didn't care. .. "}{"Title":"BORINGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG!!!","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't believe the hype! In the bedroom is by far the worst movie I have seen. I don't understand what the critics mean. Sissy Spacek and Marissa Tomei are wasted in these roles. Even the murder scene is a bore.If you need a cure for insomnia, go see In the Bedroom. My husband slept through the whole thing.A complete disappointment "},{"Title":"GRIEF REALIZED IN ALL ITS HARROWING TRUTH","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  IN THE BEDROOM (2001) ****  Tom Wilkinson, Sissy Spacek, Nick Stahl, Marisa Tomei, William Mapother, William Wise, Celia Weston, Karen Allen, Terry A. Burgess.   Actor Todd Field's freshman effort as a filmmaker is an unparalleled excellent first effort depicting a New England family in a time of crises when their son is murdered and the aftermath is not what is expected.  Heart rending work by Wilkinson and a steely Spacek are the stuff of Oscars as is Tomei as the girlfriend of their doomed son (also expertly portrayed by Stahl).  Mapother (Tom Cruise's cousin by the way) is top-notch scary and intense while Weston and Wise give able support as the couple's long-time friends.  Although the acting is exceptionally brilliant the storyline in its eventual time passing way works well too with Field allowing the acting to be coaxed out effectively.  One of the year's best films.  Heartbreaking. "},{"Title":"Disgusting","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Critics who sing praises to In The Bedroom could have been exactly the same people who gave Oscar to How Green Was My Valley, instead of Citizen Kane in 1942. It's shameful, how ready they are to praise this mediocrity that doesn't take any risks, doesn't try to tackle any issues, and plays it safe all the way through the end. Hollywood executives aren't the biggest evil in the industry. Much worse are the critics who promote films like these over really daring and unuslual films, like this year's Mulholland Drive and Man Who Wasn't There. I always felt that a good film should make you walk out of the theatre not really understanding everything, making your own conclusions. In the Bedroom is the film that I understood everything about before walking in. Everything in it, starting with plot and direction and ending with acting, is a calculated, boring, ridiculous trash. All this film tries to be is a mediocrity, and it doesn't even succeed there. Acting? Sissy Spacek is all right, but it's not a performance of a wide emotional rage and enormous difficulty. Marisa Tomei is all right, but, once again, there is nothing there. The only thing in this film deserving praise, is Tom Wilkinson, who was the best thing about Full Monty. He carries this film on his shoulders. Director Todd Fields tries stretching the film with the long, boring, meaningless sequences, that are supposed to channel to us the emotional agony the characters go through, but it just makes the film long, boring, and meaningless. At one point, he gives su a hint, that this picture perfect family might have some underlying issues, lurking from beneath, when Spacek and Wilkinson start to accuse each other in the tragedy. But then, he cowardly withdraws. So is the whole film. It's a cowardice. "},{"Title":"Disjointed overhyped melodrama SOME SPOILERS!!!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Despite the reviews highly recommending this film, it is an ensemble piece where no main character emerges. It lacks a believable beginning as Frank, the son, appears as neither sexy nor smart enough to appeal to a much older, sexy, world-weary woman with two children. Why should she be involved with a non-entity, a nice guy to boot? No tension emerges from the lovers due to the above mentioned lack of chemistry and that makes it difficult for the audience. It becomes a chore to watch a film where a lot of people come and go and it takes at least half an hour to figure out who's who and what is really going on. Moreover, there are some serious lapses of credibility Frank gets seriously beat up and the parents do not fret or call the police, the mother obviously does not know how to direct a chorus although she is suppose to be a music teacher, etc. In many ways there are two movies in one here and none succeeds in bringing up credible drama, as many scenes have no purpose, the plot is disjointed and the characters are flat. No amount of shouting and tears can save this one. Wait for the video if you must see it. "},{"Title":"Painfully Long and Tedious","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I, unfortunately, saw this at the Chicago Film Festival.There are no surprises in this movie that drags on over two hours at the pace of a funeral procession. Every plot twist is more predictable than the next.  However, there were two funny moments in the movie, for the actors, the audience was never let in on their jokes.  The audience is left feeling as though we are observing people from a hole in the wall, as we are never given the opportunity to relate to the characters.Stellar performances from Spacek and Tomei, as always, but even that can't save this film.A weak script with overly sentimental direction, don't waste your money.  "},{"Title":"Boring.","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this at the Toronto festival, and it's clear that this director LOVES Stanley Kubrick. Unfortunately, it's not the Stanley Kubrick that made great films, it's the Stanley Kubrick that made Eyes Wide Sh*t, and this movie is almost as long and tedious. People got a little restless in the audience, and I got flat out bored. The performances are pretty good, although I've never been much of a Sissy Spacek fan, she's good here, but Marisa Tomei didn't do it for me. The whole movie could have been a half an hour shorter. I give it a 5 out of 10.         "},{"Title":"A really really really bad joke","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The whole thing played out like a badly-made Mexican soap opera set in Anytown, USA. It takes its sweet time to get nice and trite, presents us with every cliche in the book, chucks in a little climax in the middle and then makes sure to drag on some more just for the heck of it, sort of like going in after a battle and bayoneting the wounded. At least 30 minutes of watching old people eating, talking, sitting around and looking unhappy is enough to drive any human being that is still in full control of their bodily functions up the wall and out the freaking door.I can imagine some questions being asked as I sat there in total stunned silence watching this garbage with my fellow movie-goers, like what have I done? what am I doing here?  what did I do to deserve this? How can people spend money...MONEY to make films like this? HOW can this type of turkey receive any sort of nominations or awards WHATSOEVER?I've personally have never seen so many people walk out and/or demand their money back after a movie, until this thing came along. I'm not kidding, when something sucks in this magnitude, you usually find that somewhere a civilization has fallen or an entire species has gone extinct because of it. "},{"Title":"A Cruel Prank from the Academy!!","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This has to be the slowest movie I have ever seen, and although I really tried to see, where the nominations for  Best Actor, Best Actress, Best Supporting Actress and Best Movie Came from, I just can't seem to find them.Todd Field,  the director, has the God given gift, of creating the illusion that a barely two hour film, seems longer than all of Kevin Costner movies put Together!!!!!!I think that this movie deserved the Razzie Award more than Tom Green's Freddy got Fingered, at least Green's movie made laugh once or twice.The only way I can Understand there were certain people who liked this movie, where the one's who were desperately seeking for a sleeping aid, that caused no addiction, because I'm sure they won't see it again.So I can conclude that the Academy Members disliked it so much, they wanted to play a joke on the audience and they nominated it.  "},{"Title":"Dull & Slow Moving","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand what all the hype was about.  I had really expected the movie to pick up the pace after the 1st hour.  Boy, was I mistaken.  The movie was dull, slow moving and predictable.  I don't remember seeing any award winning performances. "},{"Title":"Waste of time.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Todd Field, formerly of Once and Again, makes his alleged directing debut with this lugubrious attempt at telling a story.  Billed by the Mirimax flackies as a film about redemption, this is merely a film about revenge. There's no redemption to be found anywhere in this piece, unfortunately. Decent acting, no music to speak of, and about 45 minutes of extra footage that didn't wait for the DVD, this film will have you scratching your head in wonder- was 2001 really that bad of a year for films that this drek was nominated for any awards at all?.  I normally love long long films. I'm a big fan of them, if they're good. I have an attention span. I read. I just don't like films that aren't very good, such as this one. Don't get fooled again, my friends.  "}{"Title":"Art through tedium - worst film of 2001","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  As an epileptic, I have spent weeks at a time in the hospital.  I have had surgeries that I have had to spend months recovering from.  I've stared for hours at dimly lit hospital hallways when I was unable to sleep after a day of seizures, but none of this could compare me for the boredom that is, In the Bedroom.  This is the worst film of the year, and possibly the worst film ever made.  I am a big fan of arthouse movies, but In the Bedroom seemed to be art through tedium.  To endure this movie is like a small, nagging torture.  I am thoroughly fed up with the Academy kissing up to Miramax, and vice-versa, and always nominating their unworthy drivel for best picture when there were so many superior films that deserved to be nominated such as Mulholland Dr., Black Hawk Down, Iris, The Shipping News, Hannibal, A.I. or, to a lesser extent, but still far more worthy than In the Bedroom, The Man Who Wasn't There or Amelie. How can one not think the entire Academy is rigged when a film like In the Bedroom receives all these nominations, rather than the handful of superior films, and other films of 2001 that I'm sure I'm forgetting about, above?  "},{"Title":"Never Underestimate the Power of the Miramax Propaganda Machine","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Miramax has somehow convinced a lot of people that this is a good movie.  Well, it's not!  I can't believe all of the nominations that this movie has garnered.  I can't imagine anyone would think that this is a  `Best Picture' contender.  This movie is boring and frustrating.First of all, this movie will put you to sleep.  You had better stop off at Starbucks before you go see this one.  It is a very slowly paced movie.  It felt like it was the longest movie I had ever seen.  It takes so long for anything to happen.  The whole movie is like one big dramatic pause. Secondly, does Todd Field have any clue on how to direct?  It is not interesting to watch actors just sitting around watching T.V., or listening to the radio!  As a director, one must ask, `what does this scene add?'  Showing people watching T.V., listening to the radio, and mowing the lawn added nothing.  I think he was trying to show how these people never talked and grew apart.  I sorry, but that is not interesting.  Too many times I think Field was way off-base with some of the scenes.  Field also interupts some potentially good scenes with insignificant characters that add nothing to the story.  It was just boring.  I kept hoping that something interesting was going to happen next, and it never did.  The dramatic climaxes were too few and cut short.  For instance the eventual confrontation between Spacek and Tomei was almost no dialogue and only about 30 seconds.Field did not present his characters well enough to have me care about them at all.  The character I liked the most, Frank Fowler, played well by Nick Stahl, was robbed of his climactic scene and gone too soon.Marissa Tomei, as Natalie Strout (Fowler's girlfriend), somehow was nominated as `Best Supporting Actress.'  Tomei is a good actress that did not have enough good scenes.  She disappears for much of the movie.  Fowler and Strout's relationship was not explained enough.  How did they meet?  Is she a slut?  Why is she getting divorced?  If she was abused by her husband, why didn't she call the police sooner?  Too many questions that Field left unanswered.  I honestly cannot believe that this movie was so critically acclaimed, and I think it just makes me hate it more.  Sissy Spacek, Tom Wilkinson, and Marissa Tomei were all fine in their roles, however Field and his script failed.  In my eyes, none of them deserved nominations.  Miramax must have sold their soles to the devil to get so many nominations.And for some strange reason, Tom Wilkinson's character, Dr. Matt Fowler, has poker buddies that recite poetry.  Guys do not get together to drink beer, play poker, and recite poetry!  Maine must be the `Twilight Zone!'3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The most over rated movie of the decade.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The most over rated movie of the decade. Their publicist deserves a raise. First, all characters are lacking credibility except Sissy Spacek.  The father is acting more like a fisherman than a doctor. Todd Field, being an actor himself, do not know how to direct other actors. Ex. Marisa Tomei seems  totally lost in this story. She never knows if she should laugh,cry, explode or shut up. The story is so predictible including the ending. There is no real emotion in this film. All the characters are cold without any dimension just like the photography. How can you miss the spectacular Maine seaside in a movie. The light is dull as well as the story itself. In the Bedroom could have been  a TV movie but again who would have watch it to the end. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, it's about grief and rage. How original for American films.  Unfortunately, it's a terrible movie, boring and slow to the point of torture. The acting is okay, the script decent, the photography pretty, the direction not worth mentioning. Save your money and fast forward through the video.  2 out of 10 st "},{"Title":"Am I the only one who hated it?","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After hearing all of the rave reviews I ventured to the theater to check it out. And I still can't figure out why I went. I found nothing new or exciting about it. I was not once surprised, enthralled or moved or anything. I was just bored. It kept me just interested enough to not leave. There were some good moments and the acting was very believable, but that alone doesn't make a movie good, it clearly doesn't make it exciting, basically because NOTHING REALLY HAPPENS. In the end I guess I'm glad I saw it for myself, but I can't help but thinking I wasted my time.  "},{"Title":"Big disappointment","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Should have known that if the critics liked it that much, it would be  a phony, manipulative, boring exercise in fake art.  The film makers do not care about  involving the audience -- just showing how artistic they are.   If this were just New England photography, it would be fine.  But I  didn't believe the story in spite of good acting. It was more like scene work in an acting class than  real human experience.  Insulting ending signifying nothing.   "},{"Title":"grossly overrated..what a disappointment","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  i came to this film eagerly anticipating the masterpiece that so many film critics have described. what i saw was an overlong soap opera - mawkish, obvious, deliberately paced,  unbearably self-important. while there are strong actors involved, they are at the mercy of heavy handed direction, and a lame script..none of the 'surprising' plot or character turns are earned, all of it manipulated for effect..the audience that i saw the film with, also expecting a great piece of work, was actually groaning in disappointment by film's end.unbearable. for the real thing, try LANTANA. it explores similar terrain with far more subtlety, conviction, and power. it's unpretentious and devastating, in contrast to this one. shame on the press for supporting such second rate work! "},{"Title":"Horrible Movie","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Why do people think that you need to touch on a horribly tragic topic to make a wonderful movie? There is enough sadness in the world without seeing a story of a vengeful father looking to try and right a wrong. This movie is depressing from the word go. A typical case of one person thinking they can solve another person's problem, only to be killed by the problem's source. And a parent trying to fix the tragedy by creating another one. It is painful to watch the parents suffer through the loss of their son. It offers no positive solution, or any thoughtful guidance for someone who has experienced such sad events in their own lives. Forget this movie. There are too many wonderful things in the world! "},{"Title":"VERY VERY VERY VERY BAD","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I rent movies, I have to look for a movie that will entertain my husband. I got screamed at for an hour about how stupid and drawn out this movie was. The ending was great but my husband missed it because the middle of the movie was SO BORING. It would have been an excellent film if they would have made it maybe a half hour long. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone that doesn't have much time on their hands to waste.  "},{"Title":"I would have rather been in MY bedroom sleeping..  What a Loser!!","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was SO slow..  The whole action lasted the first 15 minutes. The rest of the movie was a long drawn out waste of my time.  I kept waiting for something dramatic to happen and it Never did.  And to name it In the bedroom??  What is that have to do with the movie?? "}{"Title":"Slow, Dull,  run of the mill.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that make me wonder from what planet my fellow citizens come. This movie starts slow and stays slow.During the movie I kept  I hoping it would go somewhere, and soon. I wanted to leave, but like the irresistable urge to look at a car accident, I kept looking. I wanted to see what others saw,  that would possibly make Sissy Spacek Oscar worthy. Alas, the King er Queen has no new clothes.  If we are going to hand out Oscars for brooding, smoking and throwing the standard Men Don't Care tantrums, half the actresses in Hollywood would get one.If this is what passes for great drama ... then I have passed some great drama myself!  The difference is,  I had the wisdom to flush it and send it where it belongs. Not stare at it for two hours. "},{"Title":"This movie was a disappointment","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was very excited to see this film because of Sissy Spacek and all the hype it received at the Oscar's this year.  Unfortunately, I found the movie slow and pointless in many ways.  Where I was waiting for some climax or event to happen it never did.  I had high expectations of Sissy and kept waiting for some scenes that really showed her acting talent but found none.  In many shots, she didn't say a word but instead you see her staring off somewhere. I couldn't understand then all the hype about her wonderful performance.I found Marisa Tomei's performance lousy but Tom Wilkinson's fantastic.  He was best of all.The only thing I found interesting about this film were some of the screen shots but other than that, the movie was just plain boring.  I wouldn't recommend spending money on it! "},{"Title":"Honestly this is definitely the worst movie out there","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I m sorry for the blunt title but really DON T GO SEE THAT MOVIE PLEASE ! It s the longest most boring movie I have ever seen, and don t forget I m french and boring movies are supposed to be our specialty, but this one really beats the lot ! usually boring movies are clever movies, they re hard to get, there s a deep meaning, there s real on screen emotion but this movie is different, every scene is just as obvious as any mainstream hollywood movie, so we get the point after about 2 seconds, but the scene lasts 10 minutes i m not kidding even the murder scene is boring ! take my advice and stay away from this ! and if you wonder how come the academy thought it was good is cos they all fell asleep and felt bad about it "},{"Title":"boring!","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was one of the slowest, most boring movies I've ever seen.  I have no idea why people rate this so high.  I think they called this movie In the Bedroom because thats the best place to watch it because you are bound to fall asleep. "},{"Title":"It is fascninating how so little content can be stretched to 2 hours of film.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  See Dr. Fowler mow his lawn, make bbq with his family and deny to order food when asked.Scenes as the described ones dominate the film, they seem to have no use. I didn't manage to find a storyline or a certain plot in the film.As far as the film tries to show the complications in relationships between humans,I can only say that I've seen films doing that in a better way, such as Sweet November, which I also didn't like very much, but it was still better than this film. "},{"Title":"Just couldn't like it.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand how this movie got nominated for Oscars. It was long and drawn out. The scenes could have been shortened much more to make the movie bearable. I kept wondering when it was going to end, and looking at my friends contemplating asking them if they wanted to leave. One of them nearly fell asleep on me. The acting was good, but it was wasted. I don't think it was the type of movie you should put in the theater. There are just some movies you HAVE to watch in the theater. LotR, QotD, Jurassic Park, Brotherhood of the Wolf, Count of Monte Cristo. Pretty much movies with a little action. This was the type of movie that comes on HBO and when it gets boring you change the channel then back again to see if something interesting is happening ten minutes later.I don't know about anyone else, but I have my own real life, and I go to the movies to escape that and see something that either inspires me or provides a diversion from reality. This movie was too concerned with showing you the ins and outs of a normal family that could very well be like your own......and who thinks their family is that interesting? "},{"Title":"As boring as it gets","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I happened to get a glimpse at In the Bedroom at a sneak preview in Vienna. Being there every week, I get to see some movies and I have to say - this was the most boring experience in the last couple of years. Although I understand, there have to be other opinions as well, I cannot understand that In the Bedroom got an average 7.8 at the moment. This is the first time (and hopefully the last one as well) that I had to rate a 1 "},{"Title":"A tragedy with no tragedy","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" To start with a comparison this movie was like if Albert Einstein had a lobotomy. It was supposed to be about love, loss, grief, forgiveness, but nothing of it was in there. The director did his best to castrate what could have been a beautiful movie. I mean, the plot was good, but it was treated in the most superficial way. The shooting was banal and the acting simply pathetic. Every moment was turned into an insipid nonsense. I don't know if the director is aware of the fact that Hollywood is playing him for a fool, which means that the producers have found someone able to transform the most compelling stories in one of those main stream baloney. Someone says in a review that this is a soap-opera and a bad one I must add. I found it most accurate. What really astonishes me is the fact that such good actors like Sissy Spacek, Marisa Tomei and Nick Stal dared to appear in this Hollywood saccharine. I could never ever forget Stal's performance in  Bully by Larry Clarck. In that feature he was able to catch the meaning of his character in such perfect way... And now this... Of course, when directors make movies which depict life like it really is, they are usually called nihilistic, pervert or, why not, communist... Now how shall we call the ones who strive to make fun of the most tragic things that can happen in human life? I'm not saying that making fun was the director's purpose, but he did, or to be more precise, you couldn't even laugh at it, because of its total lack of meaning "},{"Title":"Beautiful Shame","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this beautiful film eight years ago and I wouldn't' recognize it's poster on IMDb due to ridiculously low rating. Funny thing, everything that suppose to move your feelings by making your gray cell gears work seems not to attract the great attention of the Hollywood fans. I can remember the competition between this film and the multiple Oscar rival Beautiful Mind, back in 2001. Although far better film, In the bedroom didn't get any Oscar except nominations for what reason? Well, I won't blame you if you think that this is simply bad taste and long time ago lost sense for art in the US. But if you watch this film carefully you will see that it brings on the plate problematic social structure of the small coastal city in the US which can be reflected completely differently on the world wide audience regarding their picture about US than in the regular sweet and shiny way served by the standard Hollywood feature film machine. Note that due to bad Oscar rating interest for this film in Europe was very low and I saw it in completely empty cinema. Instead of that we all saw Beautiful Mind that at least slightly implants the idea through the character of math genius and the road he had taken that no matter how crazy it looks, American hero is always positive and right - as recognized by the highest world awards as Nobel. And we talk about the very critical year of the US political campaigns. Everything else you can judge yourself after watching this beautiful film. "},{"Title":"an enigmatic film - but satisfying  -partially","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I found the movie slow at first - but not boring. I couldn't get a handle on the son who died - when the estranged wife said 'I love you' his retort I know was ambiguous to me - did I see cynicism there - was the girl being honest - was she in love with the idea of love and flattered to be desired by an younger boy - despite having two children and a creep for a husband.I was shocked/puzzled by the denouement - Fowler was such a straight arrow and a professional dedicated to saving lives - how could he kill Strout OK a creep in cold blood. How did he cope with the aftermath - we never got to know this and that was not a satisfying conclusion.However overall I enjoyed the pace and intensity - although Wilkinson was not really firing on all cylinders. Any comments anyone.Rigsby "}{"Title":"Great beginning, terrible ending","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The whole first hour and a half or so of this movie was incredible.  It touched me how well the characters and actors conveyed real mourning in real situations.  The problem is that at one point the film veers in a completely different direction and becomes as insensitive to real human suffering as your run of the mill Hollywood thriller.  I was reminded of Adaptation, when the stupid brother takes over the script and everything gets ridiculous. It's like Field's (or maybe Dubus's) retarded twin brother wrote the second half of this movie.The extreme quality of the beginning, however, counts for a lot, and makes this movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"What happens in the bedroom should stay IN THE BEDROOM","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In The Bedroom is one of the best films I have ever seen. It is an amazing character study of what happens when young love blinds all those involved and takes one family on a wild ride where life is not fair. For the Fowler family life is pretty simple, but when Frank a younger teenager falls for an older woman, their lives turn upside down and will forever change. The performances in this film are amazing; I think that's what made me like it so much. I don't think I ever seen a film that has had such an impact on me, meaning this is a close and intimate look at how one family deals with such a tragedy. Sissy Spacek delivers the best performance I have ever seen her in, she is truly amazing as Ruth Fowler. But the best performance in the film is that by Marisa Tomei. For a long time she was dubbed as one of the worst actresses, already an Oscar winner for one of my personal favorite movies My Cousin Vinny, Marisa proved to me at least that she could act. I have to admit that before this film I never heard of Tom Wilkinson, but after this film I became a big fan. He is a great actor, I was happy to see that he received an Oscar nomination for his performance as Matt. As great as these performances are, I also really enjoyed the tone of the film. So often as a frequent movie watcher I see big films with lost of action, but In The Bedroom is a quiet film that is very gripping. I think that this film turns off people because there is little to know action; it has more talk in it then anything else. But I liked this film and that's all that matters to me, I would recommend this film to anyone who likes films that have a good story line and not a lot of action. This is a true film that we need to see a lot more of. I give In the Bedroom 3.7 stars on my scale and an A-.  "},{"Title":"Plodding....","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  While this movie was wonderfully acted (and I appreciated the central theme), the direction fell far short. The pace was excruciatingly slow - to the point I nearly turned it off after about 20 minutes. I was glad I didn't later - but the whole experience was distressingly diminished by the pacing. "},{"Title":"Simple and spare","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In The Bedroom is a simple and spare study of the far reaching impact that one meaningless act of violence can have on a family and their community. First time filmmaker Todd Field displays a remarkably strong directorial hand, relying on silence and ultra-realistic performances to create the film's tension. It is a tearjerker without being maudlin, a low-wattage thriller that entices you and delivers some unexpected turns along the way. There is Oscar buzz around Sissy Spacek's performance as Ruth, but to my mind it is Tom Wilkinson who really shines as Matt Fowler, a father struggling to come to grips with the loss of his son. "},{"Title":"Sterile, interesting, flawed.","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie last night, somewhat begrudgingly as I'd heard the hype, and this always tends to put me off.I thought the opening half-hour was solid and interesting, and on the whole it seemed to possess a sort of Ang Lee Ice Storm feel.After the son's death though the film begins to falter.  The father's character begins to lose its depth, not so much the fault of the actor (who is fairly good), but more of the script.  His argument with the mother in the kitchen is a bit unconvincing for me.  He didn't seem to fire on all cylinders.Sissy Spacek was good - her character demanded a fairly insular, controlling performance, and she pulled it off.  Marisa Tomei though was miscast - she applied all the standard Hollywood affectations - gulping and blinking.  She came across like a person playing grief, rather than living the grief.Overall, a good watch, but beware the deliberate (and effective) sterility and emotionally repressive feel!  It's not a cheerful movie! "},{"Title":"One The Funniest Movies","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  MAJOR SPOILERS if thats possible this has got to be one of the funniest movies I have ever seen I know it did not mean to be but the whole thing was just laughable a weathly couple in new england finds their son is going with a older woman who has a very angry husband anyway the husband kills the son and then the parents of the slain boy take matters in their own hands husband (with a good friend) take him out in the woods and shoot him movie all done see it if you want a good comedy even sissy spacek delivers some bad acting like always one of the worst of 2001 oh and No idea why this movie was rated R slight profanity and brief violence 2\10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful and breathtaking","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the bedroom is the most pleasant surprise of the year.It's wonderfully filmed and the characters are really well developed. Tom Wilkinson gives an oscar-worthy performance as a tolerant father that's trying to cope with his son's death and with his wife's nervous breakdown, Sissy Spacek is stunning as always and Marisa Tomei manages to make such a controversial character to steal audiences hearts. It's a character movie beautifully filmed and brilliantly acted.One of the year's best. "},{"Title":"Whoever cut together the trailer for this film should be fired...","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I recently caught this film on late night TV.  I was totally unprepared for it.  It was completely believable, realistic, and very emotional.I almost didn't watch this film.  I remembered the trailer that I saw about a year ago, and it was a terrible trailer.  It looked like some kind of schmaltzy-emotional drama crap that would put me to sleep.  Nothing could be further from reality.The story concerns a young man (Nick Stahl) in love with an older woman (although Marisa Tomei isn't that old).  The older woman's ex-husband (William Mapother) acts out violently, and the rest of the film is the attempt of the young man's family to accept what happened.  How the family reaches a level of acceptance is not what I expected, but it was very believable.One final note  this film has a great ending sequence.  Unlike other films that might have been played up or broken into a bunch of wacky twists and turns, the final scenes here have a slow, methodical, and inexorable feel. Bravo to writer/director Todd Field and writer Robert Festinger on keeping things solemn and realistic (this film is based on a short story by Andre Dubus titled Killings.  I have not read it and I don't know how closely the film resembles it).Don't be put off by that criminal trailer that was put out a year ago, this film is not a disappointment.  It's an honest portrayal of family, love and violence. "},{"Title":"Powerful Family Drama falls short in the end","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is a powerful family drama with a realistic screenplay and superb acting by all.  It is very very touching and lets you care about the characters on the screen.Why then at the end of the film did I feel dissapointed??  The answer is small character develpment holes and the ending.Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek play the main older couple in this film and they are introduced as warm intelligent talanted and good people.  They adore their son and are good parents, even though as real people they make mistakes with their handeling of their son.  Why then do they only have one son.  A medical problem would have solved this neatly, but Spacek tells us that they wanted more then one child except they wanted to establish a business (doctors practice), and a good life first, and after that one thing led to the other.   This would have been fine for more selfish egotistical people.  But not for these two.Finally there is the ending, which I will not devulge except to say that it is to cut and dry to make sense based on what we saw earlier.Saying all this, I shall tell you that the acting is wonderful and heartfelt and some of the scenes have very real interactions that make you feel you are looking at real life.The movie also shows an in depth look at pain and mourning.Great reasons to watch this interesting movie.Than there is the ending. "},{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought sure I would find this movie tedious and difficult to watch as I have never been enthralled by the work of Sissy Spacek or Marissa Tomei (Never has a performance been as mistakenly lauded as her turn in My Cousin Vinny).  After viewing the film, however, I found that the  performances of Nick Stahl, Tom Wilkinson and, yes, Marissa Tomei showed subtlety, grace and depth.  Their characterizations made the film.  The script was on tenuous ground as it was a true slice of life type of drama take ordinary people and put them in extraordinary situations and explore what happens.  In the Bedroom falls apart if the performers strive to be larger than life.  Only Sissy Spacek was guilty of that.  This was a tremendous character study and a film that will be watched for years to come by anyone wanting to share in others insights into the human condition.  A "}{"Title":"The ending and actions of those involved is so unrealistic as to blunt any impact..I ended up laughing","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie is well staged, acted and presented but very dry.  Unfortunately that is not the least of the problems.  The actions of the participants in the final act is so unbelievable as to render it laughable.  Think of putting yourself in the same situations as the protagonists and then ask yourself if you would behave the same way unless you had undergone a lobotomy prior ?.It ruined the movie which was supposed to be a realistic portrayal of grief and consequences.  What a missed opportunity.  "},{"Title":"Great acting that leads to a tense decision that 2 parents make","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Contains SpoilerThis movie is very good, but could have been edited better to make it a little shorter.  The acting was great, esp. between Spacek and Wilkerson.  The scene in the kitchen when the 2 get in an arguement concerning the death of their son was so tense and real.  It was painful to watch.  The parents finally decide they can't live with the fact that their son's murderer will not have to serve much jail time. They decide to carry out their own justice.  The husband with the help of a friend takes care of Strout in a very tense scene.  I'm still not sure if what the parents did was totally wrong.  In one way Strout was smug, a thug, and probably did other mean things.  But, what they did was wrong, even though it allowed them to get along with their lives.FINAL VERDICT  Really good acting.  Sissy Spacek was awesome.  Definitley deserved the Oscar nomination.  Definitely see this, just remember it may seem a little slow during the middle.  "},{"Title":"Good Drama","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the bedroom puts together some very good performances by Tom Wilkonson and Sissy Spacek.  Marisa Tomei captures the screen as always.  The movie moves along slowly but ends with a dramatic and pulse pounding climax, definely worth watching. "},{"Title":"This would not be my choice for best picture, but I still thought it was good.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this was a good movie. It was not the movie I would have chosen if I had a say in nominating Best Picture, but I still thought this movie was quite enjoyable. The acting is great and the story is pitch perfect. Sissy Spacek gives a fine performance, but I still don't think she was anything to brag about, although she did have some good moments. The best performance in this movie is by far Tom Wilkinson, who gives the performance of a lifetime. This is his best performance and I doubt he will ever be able to top it. If it had not been for Denzel Washington, he probably would have won Best Actor.The story is the thing that every parent dreads to think about. Marisa Tomei does a decent job here, but I did not like how her scenes were automatically stopped. She was in the movie one minute, the next she was not in the movie again. Nick Stahl also did a decent job for the short time that he was actually in the movie. Director Todd Field (he was one of the guys who starred in TWISTER) wanted to make a movie that would astonish people. This movie was it. he took the most elaborate of situations and showed us how people would react. The acting is great and it is very realistic. This is Todd Field's finest moment as he creates a great tale of sorrow, sadness and revenge. Many questions unearth themselves during the course of watching this film, and in the end, they are all answered. The end of the movie is not the greatest ending ever, but it is still appropriate in this case. I still feel it could've been better, but there isn't much we can do. All of the questions are answered, so that should be enough to satisfy most people. The only question that remains unanswered in my mind is why Todd Field decided to name his movie IN THE BEDROOM...IN THE BEDROOM gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"A major snoozefest!","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie made me feel like the Emperor's New Clothes.  All reviews pointed to a winner and I went to the theatre all excited that I was going to be seeing this wonderful film.  What I would like to know is this since when do brilliant perfomances make for a great film? Yes, this was great acting but the film was so incredibly boring (except for maybe the last 15 minutes).   I walked out of the theatre and into the ladies room when to my relief, everyone on the line had the same   quizzical and disgusted looks on their faces depicting exactly what I felt.  When I asked a couple of women what they thought, it seemed like I opened up a floodgate of emotion when everyone agreed that this was an incredibly boring film and they couldn't understand why it was being hailed as great.  I can honestly say, it wasn't even as good as a movie of the week on TV. "},{"Title":"Too disjointed and leaning towards boring.","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sissy Spacek and Marisa did a good jobs though I thought Tom Wilkerson was better. However, the movie suffered from bad direction.   The first three quarters of the movie are too long, too dull and often pointless to the plot. The ending is okay but it is too rushed with quite a few holes and leaves too many unanswered questions. I really expected a lot from this movie after all the critical acclaims but alas I was disappointed.  "},{"Title":"An unlikely tale of parents taking justice into their own hands","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a slow and shallow movie. It essentially deals with the tug-of-war between the rights of the victims of crime and those of the accused. When the victim's parents decide that they can't live with the likely outcome of the trial they take matters into their own hands and in cold-blood kill the murderer of their son. The couple's feelings of grief and sorrow become poisoned with those of guilt, clearly suggesting to the audience that their actions were in vane. Not exactly earth shattering stuff.Performances throughout the movie are solid and believable, which is more than can be said about the actions of the father. We are meant to believe that after tearful exchange with his wife that he changes from being a thoughtful, fair minded, measured and restrained man to a calculating killing machine. This is totally farcical.  "},{"Title":"Good start,but loses its plot(possible spoilers).","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw in the bedroom a month ago and after seeing it I realised I had been trhrough a similar situation.It starts off with an old couple whose son comes back from college and starts an affair with an older woman.When the husband loses his grip,kills the young man,the family are left to cope with it,but it is more challenging than they think.In the bedroom starts off brilliantly but gradually loses its plot half way through the film.I was impressed by Nick Stahls performance (only in fifteen minutes of the film),he puts alot of effort into Franks character and plays Frank with a powerful and strong performance.I would say In the bedroom was worth renting,but I am not going to recomend it to you. I would rate 4/5. "},{"Title":"I just seen this film today..","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am perplexed as to the length to the blank out spaces to the film..it seems to parallel with the lengthy extent that is to go though to get to the last 1/2 hour of the film that is truly rewarding.  It questionably seems to drawn out, to get to the true identity of the film? "},{"Title":"One of the Most Disappointing Films of 2001","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film wouldn't have been as disappointing as it was if it hadn't been hyped so much.  I was expecting to come away powerfully moved, and instead I came away thinking--That's it?The film has an interesting enough conceit, and while it bears similarities to Ordinary People---an affluent married couple ill-equipped to help each other deal with the death of a child---it takes the story in a unique direction.  In this case, the death is not an accident, and the couple's feelings of helpless rage and desire for revenge become directed at each other, since the killer is out of their reach.However, the emotional showdown the film builds to is anti-climactic, and the screenplay makes a big mistake in dumping the Sissy Spacek character three quarters of the way through the film to deliver a clunky plot-driven finale that feels jarringly out of place with the rest of the film. This film isn't satisfying in any respect; even the performances leave much to be desired, not because the actors aren't all uniformly fine, but because they're hampered by underwritten characters.  Marisa Tomei suffers especially in this regard.Note I just saw the new Mike Leigh film All or Nothing, and while obviously very different from In the Bedroom it delivers the kind of bare-bones emotional showdown I felt that In the Bedroom wanted to give us. Check it out when you get a chance. "}{"Title":"A very good movie about grieving and revenge","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was definately good.  There were a few scenes which I didn't feel belonged in the movie, such as the gray haired poker player who cites poetry.  However, the acting was superb.  I was very impressed with Sissy S.  Sometimes the emotional outpourings were a bit much, but she did have to suffer the misery of knowing that her son's killer could very well get MANSLAUGHTER instead of MURDER ONE.  Sure, this movie was slow for the most part.  It's a movie that is best viewed if you are in a mellow, if not SERIOUS mood.  You may get the URGE to get up a few times to stretch (yes, the movie is 2 hours and 15 minutes long).  I rate this a 7 out of 10 stars.  By the way, the man who played RICHARD (the killer) is Tom Cruise's cousin.  He definately plays the part of a SCUM BAG well!! "},{"Title":"Previous comments lack experience of life lessons. . .","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After reading the previous comments I felt I should take the time to share with others the direction the movie took for me. For me, someone that experienced this in life, it should be noted that you do in fact have a lull in the personally in your second act.The grief is much like what you would experience between life partners, you do often look at each other to blame. When in fact there is someone responsible and in jail. The grief many times overtakes your life and though you try to go back to work but you're never really there. The law does not serve justice sometimes by those who serve and protect, though at times it's not really their fault.Watch the movie and remember when the District Attorney say's I know what you're going through and Sissy Spacek says `NO YOU DON'T'. She's right, and those of you that have commented that the film lost itself in the middle I pray something like this never happens to you. Because that is exactly what will happen to you, while you wander through life consumed with grief, hatred and demanding justice.Watch the film for the feeling it offers you and open your humanity to those who have actually gone through something like this. It not action packed or full of heart pounding excitement. But it is still full of real life lessons. "},{"Title":"A brilliant attack on the basic american view of 'death equals justice'","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  ***WARNING - SPOILERS*** 'In the bedroom' is a startling peice of cinema from director Todd Field.  It presents to the audience a brutal visual attack on the basic American view that death is a good form of justice. Firstly, we are presented with a typical heat of the moment killing. Field has presented the main character as extremely innocent and noble.  He is protecting his love's family and her, and dies for her. Showing him as such a nice young man, and showing his intellectual ability, stimulates a stronger response from the audience when enevitably, and tragically he is killed.  His family too are presented as decent people.  His death has a large impact on this family, and on the viewer as it should.As the film progresses, we empathise and sympathise, cringing when Sissy Spaceck's character sees her son's killer in the local store, and we feel her fear, her anger, her sadness.  All signs of fantasic direction.The natural reaction of humans is to get justice when one has been done wrong.  Perhaps there is no better example of being done wrong than having your son with the world at his hands, being murdered by a jealous and bitter man.  The basic American view is that the best justice is death.  Its sad but it's true.  There is a mentality that death is the best justice.  Yet Field shows this to not be, with the characterisation of the father character.He knows when he kills his son's killer he hasn't done the right thing.  His movement, his saddened exterior show he is dead inside.  He is now on the level of the sick man that killed his son. Field shows this brilliantly.  Through the father character we see death is not the answer.  His son is still dead.  He is still sad.  And now he has to cope with the fact that he has ended the life (something no human has the right to do) of another man.  He has commited the ultimate sin.He knows that death wasn't the answer.  And his life will be more shallow for it.Field's brilliant depiction and attack on this ideology, should be praised on all levels.  It is a topic, few dare to challenge.  And it must be a nightmare of a challenge to take on.  Perhaps it hit the academy to close to home.  After all it'd be easy to give the awards to a film about a man who overcomes adversity, rather than a film that attacks a basic societal value in the world today. Rating ***** "},{"Title":"Easy to watch and intriguing.","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  For such an emotional story, it is subtly acted. The photography is also subtle, yet effective. The end product is quite refreshing.  Very well acted and emotionally moving, yet easy on the melodrama. The director and cast deftly avoid overpowering the story. "},{"Title":"Twists and turns make In the Bedroom seem like three spectacular films instead of one.","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Truly, this is a sensational film.  The story is amazing. the setting is both beautiful and realistic.  The acting is phenomenal.  Not just because the stars all have incredible performances, but because every character n the movie, no matter how minor or insignificant, is believable.  Even the extras in this film can act. Don't be put off by the title, this is not a sex film.  In fact there is relatively little or no on screen sex and the language isn't even that bad.  However, the emotional depth of the film is way too intense for most young viewers.In the Bedroom begins as what seems a simple yet well acted and interesting Romeo and Juliette type story.  Guy loves girl.  Girl loves guy.  Her ex-husband doesn't love guy.  His mother doesn't love girl.  Not all that original, but it is so easy to identify with the characters that it's easy to forgive the seemingly simple plot.  Then, just as you're beginning to be drawn into the story,  BLAM  , everything changes.  The entire point of the film switches instantaneously.  Major characters fade into the background and the story switches focus.  Some of the most realistic writing and directing I've ever seen take place in the middle section of this film.  Then, just as you think resolution is about to be achieved, the focus swings again and everything changes.   Instead of being confusing or irritating, the focus changes are surprising and thought provoking.  The film shows life as it really happens, not one problem being resolved at a time and then periods of happily ever after, but as one struggle leading to another and in the end, resolution is hoped for rather than attained.    "},{"Title":"Great until the ending!","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film started out maginificiently and remained so until a stupid plot twist at the end, which I will get to later. I loved the unique decisions the filmaker made on portraying the aftermath of violence and emotional situations instead of portraying them as they happen. Somehow that made it all the more powerful. The camera work was amazing and excellent use was made of cinematography and colors. I am sorry to say that towards the end, the movie lost it's uniqueness, depth, and 'handle' and went the way of some stupid movie that didn't resemble anything beforehand. The decision the father made on how to ultimately handle his son's death was totally stupid and didn't fit the flow of the movie. What a disappointing end to an otherwise great movie!! Because of that, I have to give this movie a 6/10.  "},{"Title":"suspenseful","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was suspenseful, but not a must see film.  The acting is good quality and the story line is one which holds the attention throughout. However, overall, it left one feeling that there was little reason to see it again or to give it any awards. "},{"Title":"The limits of reason and decency","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I usually hate movies that ask you to sympathize with characters who do stupid things with predictably tragic consequences.  And this film does just that  a young man falls in love with an older woman who's going through a messy divorce, as the jealous ex-husband seeks revenge.  So when the ex-husband beats up his wife's young lover, and nobody does anything about it, it's no surprise when the violence gets out of control.  Duh.Fortunately, this is a deliberate setup.  When the violence starts mushrooming out of control, the young man and his parents fail to act because they are trying to be nice, reasonable, sensible, and caring.  They are the respectable, `decent' people Dostoevsky described in `Notes from the Underground,' who, to be `decent,' are cowards.   They'll do most anything to smooth things over, to protect their reputations against the socially devastating effect of small town gossip.  So, when they are presented with the novelty of reality, shattering their storybook images of life, they fail to act.  It's as common and plentiful as dirt.  But this is where `In the Bedroom' really takes off, as it explores the grieving process of the bereft parents, especially the father, who looks for justice, and answers, and finds neither.  Suffering the disjointed feel of untapped grief, the feeling of being present to himself only as a bystander, while a parade of untapped emotion pounds and rocks and beats its way through his subconscious mind, he comports himself with the bedazzled look of a prizefighter who's been knocked against the ropes by a hard charging, unrelenting opponent.  His `reason' and `decency' dissolve, as his will to act spontaneously solidifies and awakens.  His anger quietly mounts as both the press, and the informal channels of communication, lazily and thoughtlessly construct the homicide as either an accident, or poetic justice.   Many of the scenes are wordless, suspended in silence, letting us feel the father's silent metamorphosis.  It's not a great movie;  but, it's worth your time.  "},{"Title":"Good But Flawed","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  ***VERY MILD SPOILER***Director Todd Field approaches his material (based on a story by Andre Dubus) with so much quiet reverence that it's almost hard to believe it's a film about a murder and its unfortunate aftermath. Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson play parents who must come to terms with the death of their child and their efforts bring to mind `Ordinary People' in that their grief is misunderstood or misdirected. But, unfortunately, it also shares a lot of the ugly undercurrents of `Ordinary People' with an inordinate share of hostility directed at a controlling mother. This comes as a result of Field not spending enough time in the first section developing Spacek's character; when it comes time later for her to be confronted by her husband, there isn't enough background on her to know if her husband's allegations have merit; but given that Field and his co-scenarist Robert Festinger have given the majority point of view to Wilkinson, it's hard not to feel that her motivations are self-absorbed and calculating. (She also turns out to be a dirty fighter.) When, at the film's rather surprising denouement, Spacek is called upon to make a peace offering, rather than being touching, it comes across as selfish and cold-blooded--and probably the opposite of the director's intentions. Still, Field has a promising career ahead of him as an American filmmaker with an ear for dialect, a flair for unusual framing and an ability with actors. (He's one himself.) He's aided tremendously by Antonio Calvache's studied, still life cinematography and Frank Reynolds' graceful editing. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Effective if slightly overlong film about a couple's young son who gets involved with an older married woman who is in the middle of divorce proceedings. However, as a result of this relationship a series of tragic events are set up into motion that could end up destroying everyone. Sissy Spacek turns in an solid haunting turn, Tom Wilkenson's quiet performance says a mountain of words, and Marsia Tomei is flawless in a brief performance.Rated R; Violence and Profanity. "}{"Title":"**Spoiler**","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just rented In The Bedroom a couple of days ago and have not been able to get it out of my mind. This movie is a pure drama! It is slow moving but could not have been made any other way. Sometimes real life is slow moving! The movie was exceptional to say the least. It had beautiful scenery and fantastic acting by Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson. I did not expect anything tragic in this movie so when the murder happened I was taken totally by surprise. The camera shot made my heart pound. I couldn't even imagine something like that! Overall, this was a good movie to curl up on the couch with. I recommend! "},{"Title":"Well Made and Acted, but Depressing","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although this film received much critical acclaim, I have to say that I found it very depressing.  I am not necessarily a fan of tidy Hollywood endings, but I failed to see the point or redeeming value of this film. Perhaps it was merely to display the complex motivations that lead to violent behavior.  In any event, I'll acknowledge the quality of the film making, but watching this was painful for me...with no discernible redeeming value.   "},{"Title":"Interesting story, but very disappointing and weak ending!","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers Even though this film was acclaimed by the critics from all around the world, its ending leaves too much to be desired. In The Bedroom is the first movie that the talented Todd Field has directed. He gave a good performance in 1999's Eyes Wide Shut. His inspiration to carry out this movie was the American writer Andre Dubus who died in 1999. Dubus draws a compassionate and a somewhat sentimental portrait of the American soul. For instance we see a happy aged couple Ruth and Matt with their only son Frank, however all becomes tough after frank's murder! Everything in this family changes in a so simple and complex way showing us how hard life is! In The Bedroom is an interesting film that is revealed in front of something conventional, which lacks the easy crying. In The Bedroom is showed as a deliberate film, disregarding haste, with a constant rhythm, but slow that tells one of the most tragic stories that a human being might suffer, which is the loss of a loved one. The plot is unpretentious, argumentative and lineal. Matt Flower is a doctor married for 25 years to a choir teacher Ruth Flower. Their only son Frank is spending his vacation in their house, he works as a lobster fisherman to get some money for his studies. Frank is in love with Natalie, a single mother of two children. This deed will cause Frank's murder by Natalie's evil ex-husband. As of this moment, the relationship between Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek's characters is spoiled to unexpected boundaries!Tom Wilkinson amazes the viewers with his expressions' strength and his capacity of showing us his feeling through a long and a countless silence. A silence helped by the cinematography, which makes an unusual movie for people used to Hollywood quick movies. On the other hand Sissy Spacek is the shadow's harassing, she's the one who moves the threads and gets what precisely she was looking for.My only complaint about this movie was the weak ending it had. It was shockingly disappointing. After a great beginning and climax, In the Bedroom falls apart because of an incomplete and ridiculous ending. The whole story ends making Matt a killer who took justice in his hands, he didn't wait for God's justice. We don't know what will happen to Matt, we don't know whether he's going to jail or not. Neither do we know what'll happen to Natalie or Ruth. This film should have showed us a complete ending, For instance this story could have gone on telling us about Matt and Ruth's life after Matt became a murderer, but it didn't, which should have been the most important issue in this movie. 6/10   "},{"Title":"Powerful acting.  Your patience will be rewarded.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Both Sissey Spacek and Tom Wilkinson performances were outstanding with an A+ for the entire cast.  Not knowing the plot-line before watching, I got somewhat impatient with it's slow progression.  But, my diligence was rewarded when the climax was unveiled.  Being in Florida, I thoroughly enjoyed the Maine setting, allowing me even more of an escape.  I must mention that William Mapother did an excellent job portraying the utimate creep.  I almost cheered his final fate at the hands of the deserving father.  Irony is abound as well in the movie, especially in the areas of controlling individuals and those who are very unforgiving.  Bottom line, excellent talent providing of sense of reality which makes you think at various levels.  If your only interest is in high impact action, not a movie for you.  If you can appreciate the artist side of film-making and all the sweat and hard work that must have been expended, this movie is a must see. "},{"Title":"Beautifully subtle","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the best films to be released in Australia during 2002, In The Bedroom beautifully portrays the sadness associated with the loss of any family member.  A stunning performance from British veteran Tom Wilkinson and strong performances from Sissy Spacek, Marisa Tomei and Nick Stahl creep up on you and live long in the memory.  Subtle, evocative and beautiful. "},{"Title":"Simmering masterpiece with truly heartwrenching scenes...","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In The Bedroom features two scenes which are, by Hollywood standards, pretty tame. However, they are so utterly sudden and unexpected here that they pierce through to the bone. Indeed, one of the scenes is all the more startling because you don't see it, just hear it. Tom Wilkinson is excellent as the quiet doctor, married for 25 years to Spacek, his edgy, somewhat disapproving wife. Their marriage is happy to begin with - mostly because of their idyllic lifestyle and bright, loving, successful son. The events which unfold suddenly and alarmingly in the first act, and the turmoil which follows is frighteningly realistic not overstated, not understated, just real.There are two beautiful scenes in the film. The first takes place on a fishing boat, with three generations of males discussing lobster. The lobster trap and the lobsters pulled out of it are clear, but elegant metaphors for the characters in the film, with the lobster trap itself giving its nickname to the title.The other scene is a card game between the men at the end, a clear echo of the earlier card game. In it, male support is offered to Wilkinson's character with such heartbreaking delicacy that I defy anyone who doesn't cry. One of the finest played scenes in cinema history.The final act is quite interesting. A cynic would say the director is trying to sell-out. This is not the case, however, and the action is completely necessary to the film. Ultimately, we realise, everyone is human in the movie, and they're all capable of cruelty. The only things which separate us are motives and emotions.In The Bedroom is beautiful to watch. Slow, but never dull. Pretty, but never sanitized. One to watch over and over, and one to discuss with your friends. A remarkable film. "},{"Title":"Dark and Powerful.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sissy Spacek gave a  great performance's but Tom Wilkinson's was show stoping. Wilkinson's character was a decent lovable husband, then he became a killer. Todd Field is a superb director, but I have seen this kind of material before. Stanley Kubrick's Lolita is very similar to In The Bedroom. Lolita is dark, has great acting, and a great plot twist.THE PLOTThe Fowler's are a normal family living in Maine. Matt(Tom Wilkinson) is the town doctor and loves to fish. His wife, Ruth(Sissy Spacek), is the school's choir leader, and their son, Frank (Nick Stahl), is home from his first year of college. Frank is in love with Natalie(Marisa Tomei), a young mother who isn't divorced yet from her ex-husband, Richard Stout(William Mapother). Stout's family is wealthy and they own the local cannery.  It makes Richard's blood run cold to see his wife with another man. And soon an unthinkable tragedy happens that will tear the Fowler's apart.I think Tom Wilkinson deserved an Oscar for his break-through performance, but I'm glad Denzel Washington received it for Training Day. I'm pleased the Academy nominated In The Bedroom for five Academy Awards and didn't underate this masterpiece. This is one of the best films of 2001.I recommend this film to everybody. I give this film a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Best Acting of the Year; great movie overall","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom would definitely be in my top 5 movies of 2001.  Everything is done really well, but the acting, screenplay and direction really stand out.  Tom Wilkinson gave the 2nd best acting performance of the year behind Naomi Watts of Mulholland Drive and should have won an Oscar.  But Oscar likes Julia Roberts' style over-the-top melodrama; subtlety and pure acting skill are rarely appreciated in American movies.  Tomei should have also taken home an Oscar for this movie, and like many, I also would have liked to have seen more screen time for her.  She was excellent.  Sissy Spacek has been on a role lately, with Affliction, The Straight Story, and now the best of the three, her performance in this movie.  I'd say she gave the 2nd best female lead performance of the year behind Naomi Watts.  The screenplay was very clever and did an excellent job developing the main characters.  It contained some neat symbolism, too.  In the Bedroom was definitely the best movie of this genre this year.  It puts A Beautiful Mind to shame, especially in the screenplay and acting departments.  The camerawork is perfect for each emotion and mood of the movie.  The Fowler's seemed like real people from a real family.  This movie might be a bit to dark for some, but I thought it was extremely realistic and well done.  I've heard a lot of ultra-liberal nonsense bashing the movie about the ending, but personally, I couldn't imagine this movie ending any other way, and thought it had a perfect ending.  I didn't have any sympathy for that Strout maniac and thought he got what he deserved.  The final sequence is also a bit open-ended, which drives the intellectually-challenged crazy because they have to think a bit about what the future holds for Matt and Ruth, but great for anyone with more than a mouse running around in an exercise wheel inside their skulls.  It's pretty amazing that this movie was made for only $2 million dollars, especially with the superb cast and direction.  I'd strongly recommend this one, and I'm usually not even into the family drama genre of movies.9/10 "},{"Title":"A good return on an emotional investment","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chalk up another movie I will be buying on DVD ....I really enjoyed this movie .... or maybe the better word is appreciated. It's a tough movie to watch, depending on your mood, but the performances turned in by this cast are phenomenal. I only wish Tom Wilkinson had shocked the world and brought home Oscar for his role.The story is not wholly original, but on the other hand, it isn't outrageous in any way that might be annoying. Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek portray the hollow feeling of loss with brilliance. Nick Stahl was great as the son who pays the ultimate price for a desirable relationship. It's the little things that work for me. Wilkinson being uncomfortable around people in the days and weeks after suffering through tragedy. Spacek's introverted behavior. The quick scenes that show what they need to with efficiency. The anguish over the perceived injustice of our legal system (death vs. a lenient manslaughter sentence).I am glad the movie ended the way it did -- all aspects of the ending, from the father's resolution to the last scene. Nothing exaggerated; believable reactions.Some of the scene transitions reminded me of Kubrick, which makes me wonder if he picked up things while working on Eyes Wide Shut. Didn't bother or impress me, just thought I'd mention that.Much like I enjoyed the quiet touches of Tom Hanks' work in Cast Away, I enjoyed the tone of this movie. I hope Wilkinson and Stahl continue to make these kinds of choices when looking over scripts. "},{"Title":"Great first act, great third act, but the middle is so weak that the film buckles under its own weight","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  And it collapses. While there is plenty of good material, and even some moments of greatness in In the Bedroom, ultimately it is a failure. Because of the vast amounts of SPOILERS in the remainder of this review - yes, even more than was spoiled by the Academy Awards - I'll say right now that I give this film a 6/10.SPOILERSIn the Bedroom takes its structure from The Bicycle Thieves (immediate SPOILERS for those who haven't seen that film yet, too; skip onto the next paragraph). Based on a story called Killings, that plural marker is as important as the plural in The Bicycle Thieves, which is more often translated incorrectly into English as The Bicycle Thief. There are two bicycle thieves. The protagonist of that film is transformed into the antagonist in the film's climactic sequence. Likewise, Tom Wilkinson's character in In the Bedroom becomes exactly what he is so vexed at a killer. Todd Fields should have kept that original title actually. The present title, In the Bedroom, refers to the lobster traps at the beginning of the film, and presents us with some very pedestrian symbolism. Moreover, it is symbolism which does nothing for the film but make those in the know giggle over its worthlessness.Like I said above, the film has an excellent beginning, with great performances from all sectors. Although the Oscar telecast probably ruined the climactic sequence of the beginning of the film, it still manages to be very powerful. I liked the first act so much that I really wished that the film was only about the relationship between the son and the single mother. The actor who plays Richard Stout, the killer, gives perhaps the film's best and most complex performance, especially when he is brought back near the end. There is one big problem with the end of the first act, though. Hank, the son who gets killed, dies very heroically. This isn't a problem at this point, but when the parents begin blaming each other, and when the Marissa Tomei character is so poorly treated, the audience is wondering how she could possibly be to blame. Well, it's believable on the mother's part. She's such a royal bitch it's impossible to really sympathize with her ever in the film. Well, we'll get to that a bit later. Anyhow, if Hank weren't there, Richard may well have killed her. We're obviously meant to believe that he was in love with her, and his death is tragically romantic.After Hank's death, the film moves onto a funeral scene followed by the first few days afterwards. This is still good, especially the short, wordless scenes that end with a heavy fade. But after these few scenes, the film lapses into endless repitition. Every single scene in the first act is brought back in maddeningly shallow ways. We saw the father and son play poker with friends one night. After his death, we see the same group, sans son, play poker with an uneasy air about them. The father and son listen to rerun Red Sox games on the radio. We see later the father listen to the same program. The father and son went lobster fishing. The father later goes lobster fishing alone. The father loved to visit his son at the dock during his lunch break. Later there is a scene where the father is at a loss for what to do during his lunch break. I'm sitting there screaming in my mind, OKAY, WE GET IT ALREADY! With Spacek, it isn't so much the reminders as it is the smoking. This is the second Best Actress nominee who is forced to smoke to show emotion, Halle Berry being the second. And then we have the obligatory argument scenes and dish smashing scenes (only three among the five Best Picture nominees this year; that's not bad!). First off, I would be surprised if anyone in the audience didn't hate Sissy Spacek's character. In fact, I was thinking that her performance was way overblown during a lot of her most passionate scenes, but now I realize that there are people a lot like her. She was realistic, but I despise that kind of person. For instance, who wouldn't cringe and want to smack her when she shouts at her husband that he only allowed their son to date Tomei because he himself wanted some of that action? I was hoping that the film would end with Wilkinson booting Spacek out of the house, divorcing her flat. The thought also ran across my mind several times that Todd Field might hate his own mother. I've read interviews where he mentioned his mother as a part of the inspiration for that role. Tom Wilkinson's performance I could get more into. He's great all through the movie, except for that second poker scene, where he kind of fumbles. And I'm not entirely sure I believe the murder sequence at the end. Perhaps, but it's a stretch.It's unfortunate that so little works in the film's middle. What I'm most shocked at is how many people didn't notice how little meat it had in the second act. Film critics are getting much sloppier, knowing less and less about their own subject. Todd Field definitely has talent, both as a director and as a screenwriter. I hope next time someone either collaborates with him on the screenplay or at least he allow it to go through a couple of rewrites. The beginning and end of In the Bedroom are so strong that it really is a pity.  "}{"Title":"This is one that sneaks up on you  **BEWARE SPOILERS**","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In The Bedroom is one of those films that seems so unassuming that you don't really believe it when the hype starts to grow.  I certainly didn't. Even after Todd Field's directorial debut received critical raves and Sissy Spacek started racking up critics' awards, I couldn't quite buy that what seemed like such an ORDINARY film could be as remarkable as people were claiming.  On the one hand, there were the five Oscar nominations; on the other, my roommate, whose opinion I generally respect and who described the film as sleep-inducing.  Finally, realizing that this was the only Best Picture Oscar-nominated film that I had not seen, I decided to go see what the fuss was about.I'm happy to report that in this case, the hype was right.  In The Bedroom starts out slowly, then builds with remarkable intensity into a magnificent meditation on the fine line that separates justice from revenge, as well as the festering scars family members unconsciously inflict on one another, scars that remain invisible until tragedy brings them, raw and festering, to light.The film takes place in small-town Maine, where Frank Fowler (Nick Stahl), an ambitious but impulsive young man, has embarked on an affair with an older woman (Marisa Tomei) with two children and a dangerous ex-husband, local son of privilege Richard Strout (William Mapother, who is, incidentally, Tom Cruise's brother).  Frank's mother Ruth (Spacek) subtly disapproves of the relationship, but that's nothing new; the perfectionist music teacher has subtly disapproved of almost everything her only son has ever done.  Frank's father Matt (Tom Wilkinson) is more tolerant of the affair.  In some ways, he seems to get some vicarious pleasure out of seeing his son scoring the hottest catch in the neighborhood.  Of course, this all remains unspoken, buried beneath a facade of family barbecues and fishing-boat excursions...until one day, Richard shoots and kills Frank in a scuffle.  Ruth and Matt's grief, unarticulated, intense, soon builds to nearly paralyzing levels until they lash out at each other in nasty recrimination...which only makes them realize that the real source of their anger is not each other.  It's Richard, who's still walking around. Unjustly alive.But is it unjust?  Field, working from a skillfully structured screenplay he co-wrote with Rob Festinger (based on Andre Dubus' short story Killings), turns this tale of domestic violence and tragedy into a pointed inquiry into the lengths to which people will sometimes go to satisfy their ideas of justice.  It's not that Matt and Ruth want their son back; they're not helpless fantasists.  They just want retribution, closure.  It's biblical all the way, an eye for an eye.  But is it up to them to decide?  Field and Festinger, thankfully, never provide us with easy answers to that.The film is very carefully put together, Field seldom making a directorial misstep.  His opening sequences are slow and seemingly rambling, making the Fowlers almost deliberately bland and ordinary.  Any tension between the characters remains largely unspoken, and even Richard, the disruptive force, seems really like just another confused person.  Then, when Frank is killed, the film digs in, and tightens the vise with unbelievable intensity.  The grief strangling Matt and Ruth becomes a nearly tangible presence, manifested in the heavy silences that hang between them like Ruth's cigarette smoke (Field cleverly utilizes several mid-scene fades to black to symbolize the darkness enveloping the Fowlers' souls).  The only scene that rung a bit false for me is the big confrontation, in which Ruth and Matt finally get their feelings toward one another and their son's death out in the open.  It seemed as if their accusations were often coming out of noplace, as if the scene was designed primarily to provide Oscar clips for the actors.  Still, something tells me that if I see the film again (and I will), the crimes they are accused of in the argument will be more visible in their earlier behavior.The film's acting has been justly praised.  Spacek is pitch-perfect as an intellectually inclined woman blindsided by her feelings, and Wilkinson has several electric moments, particularly a scene in which he breaks down while examining his dead son's possessions.  Tomei makes the most of her limited screen time, though her New England accent is pretty hit-and-miss, and the largely unpraised Stahl does a fine job, making us like Frank despite his errors in judgment and ensuring that we truly feel for the Fowlers when he dies.  These are not big, grandstanding, histrionic performances; they are built on careful pieces of observed detail and nuance of speech, eventually adding up to the anatomy of personalities in crisis.And in the end, when Matt and Ruth finally receive their justice, a hush hangs over the theatre.  We find ourselves asking the question that many of the best dramas provoke  What would I do?  Faced with similar circumstances, would I roll over and die, or lash out and get satisfaction by whatever means were at my disposal...even bloody ones?  In The Bedroom is not contrived, predictable, or patronizing.  It's messy, unresolved, often more frustrating than fulfilling.  In other words, it's really a lot like life itself. "},{"Title":"Not for all, but should be seen by all","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie may not be one for everyone, but should be seen by everyone. It is a chilling, frustrating, and touching film about a family dealing with tragedy. The performance of Tom Wilkinson was nothing short of Oscar worthy, followed in suit by Sissy Spacek and Marisa Tomei. A very heart wrenching piece of cinema that you watch with sympathy and fear. The movie itself is made brilliantly. Use of fade outs throughout the middle portion is very powerful in driving home emotional points. This movie is haunting and gets expressed through a chilling soundtrack. A very powerful film that needs more recognition. (William Mapother, look for more from this great actor.) "},{"Title":"Perfect 10!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Excellent movie! Tom Wilkinson delivers a performance that should make him an Oscar winner. But he's not alone, Marisa Tomei excels in her role. Excellent way to develop the story, right up to the climax. Strong themes well explored.Out of 100, I gave it 90. That's good for **** stars on a **** stars rating system.Seen at the Varsity Odeon Cinemas, in Toronto, on February 13th, 2002. "},{"Title":"9/10","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film fully deserves its Oscar-nominations and let's hope the academy will reward it. Because it doesn't happen that often that you go see a drama in a movie-theatre, without having any second thoughts. This is just a brilliant piece of cinema with a great plot and wonderful acting. Spacek and Wilkinson stand out as the parents coping with a great loss and trying to handle their emotions. 'In the Bedroom' never gets overly sentimental. It just plainly registers the situation without taking sides. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Realistic movie, but boring. Trying to make something intelligent the director gets a boring movie, where almost nothing happens. The story could be told in only half an hour. "},{"Title":"Could have been good...but way too slow","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had set my expectations somewhat low going into this movie because I knew it would be tailored more toward my wife's preferences for movies.  But even she was disappointed.Overall, the cinematography was outstanding and many of the scenes were very powerful, but it seemed like there were way too many scenes with absolutely no impact except to give the impression of a 'painful and dragging experience.  And yes, that was likely the goal of the scenes, but they took it too far, to the point that it was distracting.  Some scenes truly affected me and I was emotionally pulled into the movie, but then 15 minutes would go by with nothing at all happening, and my interest waned.  If they had cut out 1/2 of those scenes I think it might have been a good movie.My wife and the other couple with us agreed that it dragged and thought it could have been much much better. We were all very surprised at the high rating it had received. "},{"Title":"A thought-provoking MASTERWORK","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A twist, a turn, a curve. In every way, this movie will live up to yourexpectations-if that is, you come in without any. The film is a dark and earthy look at how certain people cope with the events of their lives, how the decisions we make, whether intentional or not, can have dire consequences-if it be now, or thirty years in the future. It's about blame, it's about guilt, acceptance, denial-all the things we humans struggle with in our every day lives. The early scenes, of a family connected, yet hesitant, and the contrast with how it changes, is breathtaking. Sissy Spacek may get all the publicity-she really is only average here-look instead to Tom Wilkinson, Nick Stahl & Marisa Tomei. They carry the weight of the film, in the manner each of us carries the burdens of our lives. I was astonished to hear so many people brush this off as no more than a TYPICAL INDEPENDANT FILM. It is not, far, far from it. The direction, the writing, the acting, is too assured for it to be grouped in with TYPICAL anything. You will find yourself caught up, at least to some degree, with these individuals, so, when the film reaches its conclusion, take a moment, and ponder the results. Think about your response, and what the film has made you examine about yourself. It should be quite a revelation. "},{"Title":"funniest movie i've seen in a while","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Too bad it's not a comedy. It's been said that movies are about extraordinary people in ordinary circumstances, or ordinary people in extraordinary circumstances. This movie follows that latter. However, in its attempt to show how ordinary the characters are it loses any sense of the extraordinary. The movie is like watching a web cam placed in a very dull location. You get to watch band-aids being put on cuts, lots of people eating, and household chores. And sometimes, for artistic effect, this web cam is jiggled. This movie is coming to an MST3K near you. "},{"Title":"Perhaps A Classic, Further Down the Road","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think In the Bedroom was perhaps the truest movie I've seen this, something you can't say about A Beautiful Mind, the likeliest of the Best Picture nominees to end up with the top trophy.True in the sense that, given who the Fowlers were and what happens to them, how they react to their tragedy and play it out, and what and how they reveal to each other (and, in turn, to us) was no melodrama, no contrivance, nothing more over the top than the situation required. Just painfully, admiringly, believably true. And, for the nay-sayers among you, so is how the film turns out. There's not a chance the film will win much of anything next Sunday -- the oddsmakers are shifting over to Halle Berry's camp from Sissy Spacek's by the hour. But I certainly hope the film becomes a classic aside from some heavy-handedness (the cannery company truck driving SLOWLY past the restaurant window where Matt is lunching) and a glaring gaffe (the clock on the kitchen wall during a major scene), there's a timelessness to it that I think will stand up for quite a while to come. Considering what Hollywood spews forth week in and week out, they just don't make movies like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Two of the year's best performances....","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hats off to Spacek and Wilkinson, in this movie you literally forget they are acting. There is no easy solution at the end but it leaves a lot to ponder on.  The previews let too much out of the bag. I wish I had not seen them as the shock value of what happens would be much deeper.  As it was, I had an element of preparedness, unfortunately. Nothing is easy to take in this.  Small scenes become tragic.  There is a scene of Natalie's son looking down a gangplank at Matt who is on a boat, that is haunting in its simplicity and unspoken sadness.  Nothing is said, the scene simply stands by its silent self, unspeakable grief on the face of the child and on the face of the father.  Spacek's performance is reminiscent of Mary Tyler Moore's in Ordinary People. A barely controlled fury masked by the rituals and duties of the day. To watch the marriage fall apart under the strain is a credit to the brilliant acting of the two principles.  Not much dialogue, but the looks and the tight, polite words speak volumes. I loved the locations, I have been to all of them and loved Camden which shines. I gave it an 8 out of 10 for overall excellence. "}{"Title":"compelling, a must see","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  My wife and I were completely spellbound by the gravity of this film and judging by the awesome quiet in the theatre as people moved out at the end,we were not alone in this reaction. This movie is a must see for all young men, young women, parents, policemen and policewomen, law makers and politicians. It is a comment on the sorry state of the judicial system of most developed countries. I am afraid that it may be prophetic in as much as  normally responsible citizens may be required to take the law into the own hands in the future to protect those who they love or to take revenge on behalf of those who they have lost. This was a very powerful film. I shall never forget the trace of steam rising off the body of the normally gentle father as he lay in bed and fretted with the guilt and the impact of the fact that he has just murdered a man. Very convincing!  "},{"Title":"Real life","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  I saw this one and Monster's Ball within a 5 day span.  Yeah, I am ready for a comedy.  In the Bedroom is truly exceptional filmmaking.  The dark, insightful script is complemented by a tremendous group of actors lead by veterans Spacek and Wilkinson.  Spacek has not acted as much the past 3-4 years, but she definitely belongs in the upper echelon of actresses.  Wilkinson, on the other hand, works all the time and may be the most underrated actor around.  The two capture the difficulties of maintaining a life long relationship and then the almost unsurmountable odds presented by the ultimate tragic loss.  Somehow, Marissa Tomei manages to look almost unappealing in the film.  Her struggles with her ex (played convincingly by William Mapother) seem very real and very dangerous.  Spacek's and Williamson's son is well played by Nick Stahl (the boy who befriends Mel Gibson in The Man with no Face.  Director Todd Field does a remarkable job in the pacing of the film, forcing us to FEEL the pain of each character.  This is a wonderful film, but not a feel good film! "},{"Title":"Far and away the best film","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The real tragedy of this film is that it demonstrates to its own detriment that you should know nothing about it before you see it. But this rarely occurs as we can see from viewer perceptions.That said, this is the most realistic movie that I've seen in a very long time. I remember it having very little music and it lets itself develop at an honest pace, like life. The characters demontrate that justice is really very personal, but that personal justice isn't always sufficient. The final realization that all criminals have their own motive was brilliant. What a movie! "},{"Title":"In the bedroom is mesmerizing.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In this short story poignant wisdom trumps all.Director Todd Field is patient and perceptive enough to let his actors inhabit their roles; his gentle eye focusses each nuance of a cast's skillful work.Enveloped by the closeness of rural Maine, actors Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek portray a detached middle aged couple with more than they realize invested in hopes for their only son. They are supported by Marisa Tomei, in a strong secondary role as their university-bound son's older lover.Field often pauses and allows the tableaux of this doleful fiction to adsorb with an intensity many audiences might find too emphatic. I was captivated by the simple story, and fully immersed in its protagonists' raw unveilings.This is unreservedly among the finest films I have seen. It is based on a short story by the late André Dubus. "},{"Title":"You can't be bored with a movie you become a part of.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have now seen the five movies nominated for the Best Picture Oscar this year and this was the best. Yes, it moves slowly. And yes, the ending comes at an odd point. But the plot is not what matters here. It's the characters. Todd Field doesn't just want to tell a story. He wants us to have a seat and be in the same room with these people, walk down the street with them, to talk to them in our minds. I don't think he quite wants us to identify with them. He wants us along for the ride. When we are in the car, we don't look out the front or even the side window. We look out the back window, to see the sun beginning to rise, look at the houses as they become discernible in the dawn light and wonder what secrets lie in those houses and what is to become of us. This is a movie that stays with you for days.Many reviewers have made comparisons to other films, especially those involving the death of a child. The real companion piece to this one is the much underrated Before and After from 1996, with Liam Neeson and Meryl Streep as the parent of a boy who may have committed a murder. That one also takes place in a small New England town but sees this sort of situation from the opposite point of view. It's another movie where you'll drive home with the characters. Neither has a neat resolution because one is not possible. But you've gotten to know these people so well that you can imagine the rest yourself.      "},{"Title":"Competent actors weighed down by plodding script.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I heard so much about this film and went with high expectations.  I admire Sissy Spacek and her work and she brings a first class performance to a role that is the dominant character in the film.  BUT...what is all the buzz about?  This film is too long...the script is a minimalistic approach to human emotions in the depth of a tragedy and frankly the actors tried but just couldn't overcome such a plodding script. And finally...there were no surprises!  The plot was far too predictable.   "},{"Title":"Do not watch this movie if you are intelligent!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  People of average intelligence may or may not enjoy this movie, but they will appreciate it's artistic merit because they believe that it is important. But for those of you who are smart, you will see through this pretentious piece of crap! My god, useless, boring and a directorial mess! This movie has no signficant messages and the symbolism is over the top and ultimately meaningless. The acting is fine, but merely that, not award deserving. Just because you kept a crap movie from being god damn atrocious doesn't mean you should have an award. Todd Field, you can tell he sucks, there are so many useless scenes and so many stupid shots that his inexperience really starts to show, another fade to black without the movie ending and I would have gone violent! This movie is hardly interesting nor emotional, it wasn't even one of those slow movies that you can take something from even though you didn't enjoy it, it was just plain uselessly boring.  Miramax is evil for forcing this movie into the Academy Awards. "},{"Title":"The Emperor Has No Clothes","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After reading about all the awards and nominations for this movie,I was ready to be blown away, especially by a low-budget indie thatwas supposed to have a surprise ending. This movie was asleep-walk, a disappointing bore. The characters were so thinlydrawn, none of their actions were credible, logical or interesting inany way. If there was an award-winning performance in there, itwas well-hidden. For the life of me, I can't understand all thepraise. In fact, it seemed that an excellent cast was squanderedon minimalist writing and inept directing. When I learned themovie was based on a short story, I understood the director'smistake. He probably did an excellent job of bringing a short storyto the screen, but without converting it to a compelling movie.Reading all those moods and silences is one thing. Trying to readcharacters' minds on screen with no context or past behavior toguide us is just an imposition. When a story about parents losingtheir son to a violent death fails to produce a single grabbingemotional scene, you know something is wrong. The one  memorable moment was during the second card game. The  poem was truly moving. Of course, I might be missing something, but I don't think so. I amreminded of Chance in Being There. Could it be that a single criticor festival director turned this dull effort into a hit because nobodywill speak the truth? This movie was just one long yawn. "},{"Title":"Loved the Slow Moving Ride","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In The Bedroom is like a slow moving train, a ride where you can notice all that surrounds you and enjoy the observations. This film is deceptively calm and a true stunning success.  If you appreciate the complexity of filmmaking and a story that enjoys something of significance and profundity then `In the Bedroom' should not be missed.Without giving away essential story points, it is challenging to give you enough information to explain the former paragraph.  I can say that the velocity of this movie is very premeditated.  Todd Field deserves all the accolades being provided for his responsibility as the director of this exceptional cast.The screenplay is so well written and woven; it is a work of genius. Much is said but equally as much goes unsaid.  I felt emotionally moved by this script.  It challenges your values and stretches your emotions.Academy nominee, Tom Wilkinson provides the acting performance of his lifetime; his quiet demeanor and unassuming presence only secure and convince you of his role.  Fellow nominee, Sissy Spacek is even more compelling as his wife in this complicated dramatic tale.  Marisa Tomei steals the early screen time in her Oscar nominated role as their son's older girlfriend.Mere grammatical superlatives are not enough to explain how your vision and emotions are challenged in this cinematic gem.If you are looking for a fast paced action film or to be handed all the meaning in a few opening lines, then ask the conductor to let you off this ride.  It is only for those who wish to patiently await the ride to see the entire trip.  I hope you have the courage to stay for this twisting and meaningful journey.  "},{"Title":"An honest, gripping *******","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  RATING  ***1/2 out of ****If you are reading this and have not seen In the Bedroom, I advise you to stop reading now. For In the Bedroom is the kind of film where it is best to go into without any previous knowledge just let the film take you where it will. What I will tell you is that In the Bedroom has a lyrical quality that rings true with any audience, and feels real without any of the small-town stereotypes. As the film opens we are introduced to the relationship between Frank Fowler (Nick Stahl) and Natalie Strout (Marsia Tomei). Natalie is married to Richard Strout (William Mapother), who she is in the process of divorcing while Frank is still in college. Richard is, for obvious reasons, not happy about Natalie leaving him, even with a troubled past like theirs. Frank's parents, Ruth and Matt Fowler (Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson, respectively) are divided on the issue. Ruth doesn't think highly of her son with a married woman, Matt thinks they are fine together; young and in love.Then, the film takes a startling turn. I will not say what it is, but it takes the film in haunting new directions. The film switches to the parent's perspective, and how that event is slowly tearing them apart. All of a sudden silences become unquestionably tense, glances are worth a thousand words and trust becomes questionable. Matt and Ruth start to become columns of solidarity, but we know that they must confront each other. In that moment the film reaches a heartbreaking climax, although bringing little conclusion. The two are now at peace with their fears of each other, but the weight of grief is still weighing them down. In the final act, the film's steam fizzles. In the Bedroom finds conclusion, in an incomprehensible and unbelievable way. I found the end to be too easy an answer to the Fowler's problems. Up until then, In the Bedroom felt poetic and human, but the last twenty minutes are unremarkable and uninteresting. Too many films take the easy way out and I was praying that In the Bedroom wouldn't, but alas, it feels the need to shake the audience one more time before it is through. I felt it was unnecessary, and I didn't feel any of the impact the ending intended. Even though the whole idea of the conclusion being what it is didn't work for me, it was still executed incredibly well on the part of the actors. Good acting can grip us, but great acting makes us forget that anyone is acting at all. The cast knows their characters inside out, and they create real people. We really feel for them, we want to reach out to them, pat them on the back and say There there, everything's going to be all right. Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek are getting a lot of award buzz, and rightfully so; their honest, heartfelt performances are among the very best of the year. In the Bedroom is the kind of debut that everyone wishes they could make. It's a haunting, humane film that's part thriller, part crime drama, and it all feels like it happened next door. It may trip a little in the end, but it is so masterfully done that this complaint can almost be overlooked. In the Bedroom is a moving, incredibly well acted achievement; I look forward to more from director Todd Field, a masterful new filmmaker. "}{"Title":"Comparatively Successful but Slightly Mislaid","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  However imperfect the final product may be, the writer and director must be given some credit for achieving relative success while dealing with very a delicate genre.  In other words, it would be very easy to fail miserably with such a storyline.  I also give the actors credit for generally portraying their characters without being overly sentimental or melodramatic.  While the general mood and sensibility of the story are captured well, the film has some unfortunate characteristics.  For instance, it didn't always seem like each scene progressed logically from the previous one.  The lack of smooth transitions as the focus switches from one character to the next reveals the absence of a definite cohesive structure and inhibits continuous development of the story.  Also, the shot composition (with an excess of close-ups) was awkward at times, almost to the point of disorientation.  I don't know, maybe I shouldn't sit so close to the screen.*SPOILER* Anyway, I was sort of dreading the eventuality that the father would go after the ex-husband with a gun, and I found that part to be a little over the top, but at least it added an element of moral ambiguity and a little punch to the ending.  Anyway, I may be dwelling on the negatives, but I actually did enjoy this movie and I recommend it to others if for nothing more than conversation material. "},{"Title":"Experience and exploration over story","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yet another case of misleading information. It seems many people were disappointed in Bedroom's lack of a real plot, a good story that kept things going. What they didn't understand is that Bedroom's strength and purpose is in its exploration, not how and when it gets from point A to B but rather why. This is independent film art at its finest. I myself applaud director/writer Todd Field's efforts in not giving into commercialism and turning Bedroom into a standard thriller (which could of easily been done). Instead its a multi-layered character study of two people who share the same loss and grief yet deal with it differently in ways which eventually clash. Field dares the audience to digest each scene slowly and individually, not just scarf them down one after the other connecting the dots like a standard thriller would have us do. Like the best of films it makes us examine not only the film itself but ourselves! "},{"Title":"Disappointing at best........","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie being nominated for any Oscar, other than Most over-rated movie of the year, is a disappointment.There was absolutely no ground breaking work here, and a very weak story line at best.  A movie that was vastly better than this tripe was A Simple Plan and I would even say that Grisham's A Time to Kill was also a better movie, and had much better acting.*Minor Spoiler* **The movie had potential until is boiled down into a simple revenge story.**As for Sissy Spacek receiving critical acclaim, I didn't see it in this film, unless smoking cigarettes is all it takes these days.The saving grace (if any) of this film was the performance of Tom Wilkinson, who always seems to deliver.Don't waste your time or money on this movie, go see A Beautiful Mind a few more times, that was actually a good movie, and had the best performance this year by Mr. Russell Crowe.5/10 and in that I'm being generous for some decent cinematography. "},{"Title":"Marvelous film, excellent acting","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just wanted to say I rate this film 9 of 10. The story and writing are excellent. The acting is superb. The photography and editing are top-notch. "},{"Title":"Thriller that makes other thrillers look silly","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nothing much happens, but there is a dark threat hanging over this lovely little Maine town from the first minute. And then things happen and one knows things inevitably get worse, as in a classic Greek drama, an utterly realistic drama that could happen to anyone, anywhere. Pitch-perfect performance by Spacek and Wilkinson. Watching this film is like looking in a mirror (and not liking what you see).   "},{"Title":"Does real life tie everything up in a bow?","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The ending is unsatisfactory? I didn't know it was supposed to be satisfying, I thought it was supposed to be unsettling. By the way, nice to see a deliberately paced film, not boring as some would say. It felt like a noose tightening. The presence of the children's drawings on the wall near the end was brilliant. Not everything is black and white or good and evil. Save that kind of film making for Bruce Willis. I had no idea what this film was about going in and I got to say that it was all the better for it. I would have to hand pick the people I would recommend this film to, but to that group all I can say is WOW! There are no easy answers in this film and that is what makes it seem so real. All characters are multi faceted, not 2 dimensional like most of the Hollywood films around. You have an idea if this film is for you before you go...draw your own conclusions. A Master work and a hand wringer. 10 of 10 of its kind.  "},{"Title":"An emotionally stirring film dealing with loss","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It must be extremely empowering to be a filmmaker; to be able to play God and manipulate the audience's emotions like a puppeteer.  This is one of those films that takes you through a vast array of emotions and absorbs you in with the characters.  The film deals with a family trying to deal with the loss of a loved one and how it affects them in ways that are hard for others to even begin to comprehend.  This is a very well made film, but unfortunately it is one of those that is difficult to market.  A trailer can't show any big action or anything that will draw the audience in a matter of matter of about a minute.  Luckily, it can begin to gain the attention that it deserves from it's Academy Award nominations.  This is definitely an emotionally draining film that plays with your emotions like no other movie that immediately comes to mind.  I recommend this, but be prepared to experience a great deal of depression and sympathy for the characters.  This is without a doubt a very powerful film.      "},{"Title":"I was disappointed","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie holds your interest but was a bit elongated. Cissy Spacek's acting was superb. I resented this movie because it keeps you in suspense, omits parts, disconnects parts, and eventually, leaves you hung up with no conclusion and ends abruptly. I think it is a waste of time and would not recommend it. "},{"Title":"Terrible, anticlimactic and flaccid","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Do not be fooled by the amount of buzz surrounding this movie; it is quite simply not worth it.  It moves about at a slug's pace, the surprise ending is forseeable from the first half hour of the movie, and the only interesting plot segments are over with in the first twenty minutes.Sissy Spacek does a good job, but saying that her performance is anything more than good ignores the fact that her character is basically scripted to be melodramatic and moody.This movie is a terrible example of art house cinema gone terribly bad in a mainstream fashion.  How Marisa Tomei got an Oscar nomination when she only had about five minutes of very blase screen time is beyond me; she was much better in Happy Accidents.Do NOT see this movie; it will only disappoint you. "},{"Title":"Interesting to say the least.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very interesting and gripping film.The two major twists that happen during the story are hard to predict and really take you back and shock you somewhat.There is a lot of symbolism in this film and some of it is hard to decipher, although it does make you think for a while afterwards.Some aspects of the film are unusual such as short scenes (approx 5 seconds) which have no dialogue and just vision and sound. I don't think what the director was trying to achieve with these unusual scenes was completely achieved.The film is somewhat amateurish, but not in a bad sense at all. I quite enjoyed the silence while credits were rolling etc. It gave the film a very raw feel, which made me feel like I was watching a first edit or something, which I liked.The acting is very good, as is the lighting and scenery. I felt Tom Wilkinson's performance was quite exceptional.All in all a good movie which builds up to a final climax which is slightly expected, but also unexpected to an extent.Very good viewing, I recommend it. "}{"Title":"The Dramatic Cream of 2001's Crop","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Set and filmed in Maine, this family drama is adapted from a short story by the late Massachusetts writer Andre Dubus. His tales are peopled by characters whose conflicted lives are beset by thoughts, emotions, and acts of deception, self-delusion, and desperation.For instance, one man in this film is highly regarded in his public life as a healer of the community; yet in his private life he tacitly encourages a relationship that jeopardizes the very life of his son. Here, too, is a woman of gentle manner, who is a school choral director. But even as she coaxes sublime music from her students' throats, the sweetest sound her mind can imagine is that of a gunshot taking her neighbors' life. And we meet a young man whose Ivy League intellect may not be enough to save him from the smoldering powder keg that he has chosen as his lifestyle.Nuanced performances are compellingly delivered here by Sissy Spacek, Tom Wilkinson, and Marisa Tomei. (Wilkinson, a British actor unfamiliar to most American filmgoers, has also distinguished himself is such period peaces and comedies as Sense and Sensibility, Wilde, The Patriot, Shakespeare in Love, and The Full Monty.)The set design and lens work overseen by fledgling director Todd Field are also first-rate. He does not clutter scenes with superfluous objects, movements, music, or dialogue. Moreover, he pays close attention to camera angles and allows our eyes and ears to linger on simple details that tell us much a woman's careworn mouth, a rough architectural sketch pinned to a wall, town banter at a midsummer afternoon's barbecue.Later in this movie, the screen is lit by two or three scenes that are devoid of dialogue, and that begin and fade away so quickly that their passage can be measured in scant seconds, not minutes. Metaphorically, these brief, fade-to-black sequences suggest the slowing-down beats of a tired or expiring heart. The film closes with visuals that stand in stark and haunting contrast to those that opened the production. These powerful images seem etched into the screen, and likely will remain etched in your mind long after you've left the theater. This was my favorite motion picture of 2001. "},{"Title":"Outstanding first film for Todd Field","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  While this is a very slow movie, it is never boring.There are some psychology in the movie and the characters are well characterized and beleivable.The performances are top-notch. The direction is well done and the scenario is near perfect.A must see. It makes you think.PS It is an intellectual movie, so if you like action and brainless movies BEWARE !Vince "},{"Title":"Taut drama 100% delivered by director Todd Field and a strong cast","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I finally get to see the long awaited, much acclaimed Todd Field's directorial debut In the Bedroom. It was everything as expected a taut drama full of emotional levels, tension-filled. Well done, indeed. Yes, such nuanced performances from a strong cast Nick Stahl - I remember him in his debut film as young Nordstadt opposite Mel Gibson in Man Without A Face, The 1993. He was very good in Tim Blake Nelson's hard medicine of a movie Eye of God 1997 opposite Martha Plimpton and Mary Kay Place. He gave a steady performance as the 'bully' Bobby Kent in Larry Clark's Bully 2001 opposite Brad Renfro and a young ensemble cast. Here, though his role seemed brief, it's a critical one.Tom Wilkinson - truly a versatile actor, equal to fellow British actor, Jim Broadbent (who bursts into song and dance in Moulin Rouge 2001). Wilkinson was the villain in Jackie Chan's premiere Rush Hour 1998, the same year played Charles Cavendish who explored photography with Minnie Driver in costume drama The Governess, and was part of the lively ensemble cast in Shakespeare In Love. Recently in comedic tempo as medieval knight Knolte opposite Martin Lawrence in Black Knight 2001. Not forgetting his song and 'strip' dance role as Gerald the business man in Full Monty, The 1997. Here, his was a restrained and sustained role as husband to Spacek and father to Stahl - superbly delivered.Sissy Spacek - she has been in many controversial films and this one is no exception. From Terrence Malick's 1973 Badlands opposite Martin Sheen, Brian de Palma's 1976 Carrie, Robert Altman's 1977 3 Women with Shelley Duvall and Janice Rule, award winning Loretta Lynn role in 1980 Coal Miner's Daughter opposite Tommy Lee Jones, (Z) Costa-Gavras 1982 Missing with Jack Lemmon, to 1990 Long Walk Home, The with Whoopi Goldberg. Her performances are always a pleasure to watch. For a change, she delivered a believably unpleasant role of an endlessly criticizing aunt in Charles Matthau's Grass Harp, The 1995, with Piper Laurie and co. Here, her controlling mother/wife role fueled the story.Marisa Tomei - from her award winning role as smart talking Lise in My Cousin Vinny 1992 opposite Joe Pesci, the tender waitress in Tony Bill's 1993 Untamed Heart opposite Christian Slater, the feisty Dottie in Mira Nair's 1994 The Perez Family with Alfred Molina, Anjelica Huston, Chazz Palminteri, to the recent comeback opposite Vince D'Onofrio in Happy Accidents 2000, and here In the Bedroom, it is good to see her in roles she can stretch again.  William Mapother as the villainous husband to Tomei is thoroughly menacing.I remember Todd Field from his understated performance in w-d Victor Nunez's Ruby in Paradise 1993 opposite Ashley Judd's luminous debut, and another quiet supporting role in w-d Nicole Holofcener's 1996 Walking and Talking with Anne Heche, Catherine Keener, Liev Schreiber, to his supporting role in Stanley Kubrick's 1999 Eyes Wide Shut opposite Tom Cruise. Here, In the Bedroom, besides being the director, he's also the producer, co-writer, and camera operator included. There are conscientious details, clues to the plot progressions, e.g., the license plate close up indicating Wilkinson's Dr. Fowler was a veteran before; the way the camera records the fast moving night ride, capturing the Maine road perspective as we proceeded with Wilkinson; and the clean editing that didn't have to tell it all. A successful 'baby' Field has truly delivered. Applause well deserved!   "},{"Title":"The cast and director make this film!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  When you repackage familiar plotlines and produce from them a riveting film, the success is often assigned to the ensemble cast and extraordinary direction.  I had flashbacks from Ordinary People, A Simple Plan - even some of Stephen King's more mellow productions like Apt Pupil - but this cast made the film worth watching - first frame to last.It is littered with metaphors and symbolism, so watch closely.  The most important is the behavior of lobsters in confinement - and probably the least is the names chosen for the characters (Ruth, e.g., who grows to have little of it).  It opens and closes with the lobster reference (takes place in Maine after all).  And just like a great essay, the story comes full circle.Sissy Spacek and Marisa Tomei were born for independent film.  Though great in any medium, they shine with creative license to develop the role.  Andre Dubus - who brought Oprah The House of Sand and Fog - delivered the storyline.  Unlike A Simple Plan, I had no problem envisioning that 'this could happen.'The next time you're standing on a street corner watching pedestrians pass by, pick out the sweetest, most innocent person you can find in the crowd and remind yourself - if pushed far enough, that person could kill.9 /10.  A point denied for excessive length. "},{"Title":"ONE BRILLIANT MOTION PICTURE!!!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom is nothing like many of the crap films I've seen in 2001. It's artistically brilliant, it's beautifully acted and it's one of the most compelling films I've ever seen!  Todd Field really did an extraordinary job.  I wasn't even aware that he was a director.  I've seen him in movies like Twister and Eyes Wide Shut, but I don't ever recall him directing. Well, now I can applaud him for his talent in front of and behind the camera.The first act sets the tone.  We get a taste of this quiet, peaceful, straitlaced New England family.  We learn about the son's (Nick Stahl) relationship with older woman (Marisa Tomei).  And we learn about her ex-husband who continually returns to the house to see his kids and basically start trouble.  I won't give anything away from this point on.What made this film significant in my mind is the way it used silence as a tool in creating emotion.  There are long scenes that go without a word of dialogue, and I found them to be more effective because of the silence. I'm always been a firm believer that words mean virtually nothing, and you must read between the lines.  When you watch the scenes in which Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek don't say a word to each other, you feel the emotional tension.  Music is another tool that's been overused in contemporary films, and Field tries not to use music too much either to set the tone.  This is the kind of film that really allows the viewer to do some hard thinking, because it's very subtle in its delivery.As far as the acting goes  Oscars should go to the whole cast!  Tom Wilkinson is the best of the lot, and gives the best performance of his career.  He absolutely perfects the American accent.  I'm sure many people who've never seen him in any previous films probably believe he is an American actor.  Sissy Spacek is great in a quiet but intense role that no actress can pull off better.  Marisa Tomei deserves another Oscar statue to add to her collection.  And, I forgot his name, but the guy who played the ex-husband also deserves an Oscar.  He delivers such a creepy performance, and you get terrified at his presence.The film is long, but only occasionally drags.  In simple terms, In the Bedroom is an emotional powerhouse that any compassionate moviegoer should not miss!  Trust me, you will be blown away!My score  9 (out of 10)  "},{"Title":"Good but morally questionable","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  *SPOILERS* *SPOILRES* *SPOILERS*The story of how a family cope with a death of a son has been already told before in the movie(for example Robert Redford's Ordinary People). So it is not only a question of the story but also of how good it is told in order to catch our attention. Here the combination of story and the way it is been told are good. The story of Dr. Matt Fowler and His wife Ruth(excellent Tom Wilkinson & Sissy Spacek) takes its time to unfold. We first learn to know them and like them like a close friends so we can later sympathize with their grief. Director Todd Field has kept a distance from his characters  and is very neutral in his approach which helps the film along 2/3 of the film. However this neutral approach is simply not in place in the 3rd act of the film.(Before I continue I should warn the readers of this review that here come a major spoiler). In the 3rd act Dr. Fowler, with the help of the family friend and the encouragement of his wife, murder the man who killed his son. Through the whole act no question is been raised to the moral side of his action. Not once come the question of how he can murder someone while being a doctor. As a doctor he is bound by the Hippocratic oath which prevent him from harming anyone and yet the character of Dr. Fowler intentionally not only harm someone  but also murder him. Here a screen writer and the director should have raised the moral questions. They didn't. They simply follow the events without judgment. They are actually very sympathetic and understanding to his action. And while they managed to capture how far people will go with their grief, they have failed to show any moral dilemma which might exist in the characters. May I remind everyone that a murder is wrong and have no justification, no matter what.Beside the point above, this is rather a good movie. Just be aware that it's morally questionable. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood Movie","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  *This contains spoilers*First of all, this is a film that should require a designated driver.  By the end of it, it will feel as if you've been put through the wringer emotionally.  I felt as if I was driving home from a funeral.The movie is very well done.  It gives you a very realistic view of grief between two parents who have lost their son.  Not only did they lose their son, the man who murdered him may also get away on a simple manslaughter charge.So not only are we dealing with the grief, but the feeling of revenge these people have for what seems to be one of the creepiest Jerks alive.Unfortunately we have that feeling too, and the movie gives us that revenge. Except it shows you that the result still leaves you with nothing but even more grief.  Knowing what you have done with another human being.  Someone who you learn may have been more human than you thought.The person who said he didn't show any remorse or guilt for what he did must have walked out of theater.  Anyone could see the doctor kept telling him to be quiet to keep his monster from appearing too human.  The picture on the wall of him and his ex-wife showed even more humanity as at one point, she loved and laughed with him.  Why do you think he had to shoot him when he did, rather than waiting as they had planned?  He had to kill him before he learned too much about him.The look on the doctors face at the end let us know he would replay the scenario over and over again for the rest of his life.Another excellent downward spiral film to be put up next to other movies like Ordinary People.   "},{"Title":"A near masterpiece that misses greatness only with a misfire on the ending","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  `In the Bedroom' is the first film about loss that seems to have been made by someone who has experienced it firsthand. Director Todd Field's debut feature is an intensely observant portrait of a marriage deteriorating in the wake of tragedy, one that narrowly misses greatness with an ending that abruptly changes the tone of an otherwise relentless emotional vise.Matt and Ruth Fowler live in comfortable pre-retirement in the bucolic Maine town of Camden. They are the type of couple that everyone wants eventually to end up a part of. Life for the Fowlers seems ripped from one of those catalogues featuring models staring wistfully into the distance, lightly drooling golden retriever by their side. Financially comfortable, still working only because they love their jobs, and decked out in earthy Eddie Bauer and J. Crew threads, they are enjoying a lazy Maine summer with their son Frank, home on break from college. Their only trouble, in fact, is Frank's relationship with his new girlfriend, Natalie (Marisa Tomei) and her two boys from a previous marriage. Natalie is quite a bit older than Frank, is not yet divorced from her seedy husband Richard Strout, and seems to be looking for a committed relationship. Frank insists they're not serious, but Ruth (Sissy Spacek) is a worrier, and needs to involve herself to satisfy her dominant personality trait. After all, Frank shouldn't need to suffer anything like the black eye he gets when Strout shows up unannounced one evening.Ruth's worries prove justified. Strout appears again, and kills Frank in the ensuing struggle. The justice system seems cruelly misaligned. Strout goes free on bail, and the Fowlers are left with a high-priced lawyer reassuring them that `we're doing everything we can.' He's not lying; they really are doing everything they can. So are Matt and Ruth's friends, who try furiously to console them. Here in particular Field exhibits patience unique for a first-time filmmaker. His scenes linger on the little details that make each day a test of willpower for Matt and Ruth. Ruth's friend makes an innocent reference to watching her children grow up, and immediately realizes with horror to what she's accidentally referred. Junk mail keeps arriving for Frank. The Strout family's cannery trucks all of a sudden seem to be everywhere. Worse still, Ruth keeps catching glimpses of Strout himself around town.`In the Bedroom' sharply illustrates the painful inadequacy of anyone's attempts to soothe after such a loss. Everyone desperately wants to say or do the right thing, but there IS no right thing that can be said, or done. Going about daily business, as Matt tries to do, seems harsh and transparent. Yet no level of expressed sensitivity can compensate for the hole that Frank's murder leaves in their lives.Matt and Ruth finally turn on each other, trying to make sense of their pain by blaming Frank's death on one another. Spacek in particular is masterful in failing miserably to hide her true feelings. She can't help nagging Frank early in the film about his relationship with Natalie, and seems to have been waiting to unleash her anger upon Matt by the time they begin taking things out on one another. She affects a chilling blankness that makes us fear another telekinetic onslaught of rage.`In the Bedroom' begins to lose its way right about here. It veers into a revenge plot that changes its focus from an intense portrait of grief to getting the bad guy. It's as if Field has lost patience with his own detailed style of storytelling. After following Matt and Ruth to the depths of their emotional loss, we're not primed to expect any resolution, much less the one the film suddenly forces upon us. It's an unfortunate choice in an otherwise remarkable film.Despite this misfire, Field's accomplishment must be acknowledged. He presents people and places with a level of observant detail that is rarely realized. His Camden is a place populated by both pretty and not so pretty people, some successful, others just struggling to get by. His characters talk as real people do, stumbling over their words, losing trains of thought, and speaking entirely ineloquently when the right words are needed more than ever. Losses like the Fowlers' are ragged experiences, not scripted as they so often appear onscreen. They are a swirl of contradiction, confusion, and frustration. `In the Bedroom' reminds us of how the world seems to conspire against us, mocking us with its callous reminders of our loved ones who once inhabited it by our side. "},{"Title":"Definitely affecting","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all, I hadn't read much about the movie, which is the reason why the plot did not lay out the way I was expecting.  I was expecting the tragedy at the end of the movie, and instead it was in the middle. Frankly, at that moment, my mood fell flat and never recovered.  And considering the movie, I suspect that was exactly what they were aiming for.  So in that respect, it is extremely well done.  I have an affection for stories that end happily-- this is not one of those stories, though it does end satisfactorily.  I really found every line and portrayal to be extremely affecting.   My husband (who, granted, has a degree in acting) felt the plot moved a little too slowly-- I felt it was perfect considering the feelings that were being conveyed.  Grief, frankly, moves too slowly, with silences that ring in your ears.  If my  experiences this year hadn't shown that already, this movie did. "},{"Title":"I liked it...","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After seeing this movie, and seeing the recent reviews, a lot of you are saying this movie is boring.Well, I'll admit that while I was watching it I thought that it seemed like a TV movie, but you don't get that kind of acting from a TV movie.  Sissy Spacek is great, but she was hardly in it.  Not as much as you would think anyway.  Niether is Marisa Tomei, even though she is the supporting actress, she should have gotten more screen time.Don't believe the others saying this movie is boring, it's great for what it is.  See it if you get the chance. "}{"Title":"Forget Sissy, this is Tom's movie","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was weird seeing Tom Wilkinson without an English accent.  But (unlike Ewan McGregor in Black Hawk Down) you get used to it pretty quickly.  He was amazing.  Sissy Spacek was very good too, but the role wasn't that big and it didn't leave her room to do much.After seeing this film (just like when I saw Mulholland Dr) I was treated to hearing other people from the audience saying what they felt.  I hate it when you go to a movie where only two things happen.  I almost fell asleep. and my favorite It was a TV movie that I would have changed the channel on.It really does upset me to hear stuff like that.  Not because I have a different opinion, just because I can't stand masochism.  These people know what kind of movies they like, and they should have known better before going to a film that critics have been raving about.  If you hate art-house films, you will hate this movie.  You will be bored.  You will write user comments that demand your money back (that's still very original, really).Let me make a deal with all of the people who hated this movieYou stop complaining about how boring movies like this are, and I won't say anything bad about Julia Roberts' movies anymore.  It's a really good deal for all of us.  But then again, I stopped going to see Julia's movies a long time ago.  Maybe I'm just psychic, but somehow I knew that America's Sweethearts was going to be bad.  So I didn't see it.  You too can apply the same logic.  Anytime you see a commercial for a movie where the voice over guy says that a critic called a performance 'ground-breaking', 'brilliant', or 'oscar-worthy', don't see the movie, and don't complain.As for In the Bedroom, it is a truly wonderful film.  And Todd Field should be very proud.  There is room for improvement in the actual photographing of the film, but it's was quite competent.  Tom Wilkinson gave a brilliant, ground-breaking, and oscar-worthy performance.  It's definitely a subtle film that will keep you interested (so long as you don't require Matrix style fights every ten minutes).  And you will feel for these characters.  What more could you want? "},{"Title":"great movie, misleading title","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie's title is very misleading.  i thought there was going to be alot of sex scenes, turns out there were none.  the movie has a great twist and is very realistic.  great story. I only went to see this movie because it was all that was left, and was pleasently surprised.  "},{"Title":"Make Room For This One!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Get out of the closet and go see one of the most humanistic & emotional films of the year- `In The Bedroom'. The movie is about a middle age couple in a suburb of Maine that must deal with the murder of their young son. `In The Bedroom' stars Sissy Spacek, Tom Wilkinson, Nick Stahl, and Marisa Tomei. Spacek is spectacular here and will not surprise me if she has already made room in her cabinet for another Best Actress Oscar. Wilkinson , a London stage actor, should not be blanketed from being considered as a Best Actor Oscar nominee. And let's not forget Marisa! The bedlight will be shining on her when she is most likely announced as a Best Supporting Actress nominee. Actor Todd Field's first time direction is all-star material for this `Field'er. So take advantage of this movie's window theatrical period and open the door to `In The Bedroom'.**** Good   "},{"Title":"Just Misses Being A Masterpiece","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a quietly riveting film, with astounding direction (by newcomer Todd Field), breathtaking performances by all, and a final 30 minutes that seems out of place to the prior events. But all is definitely not lost for I did not want to even budge from my theater seat while being immensely captivated by the intense drama. Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson display real emotions throughout. Marisa Tomei will never be considered a lightweight actress after this in many scenes she says nothing but her anguished face speaks volumes. In the theater, you could hear a pin drop, during the entire picture. A small, independent film that you'll be thinking about long after the final fade-out. "},{"Title":"Excellent, crushing story of tragedy ... Weak ending (spoilers possible)","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  All these people who whine about how Nothing happens or too slow are clueless! This film is not about action, but about how tragedy affects a family and love. This tragic events of this film are extremely powerful and shocking. At the film's most shocking scene, the entire audience gasped in horror.   Technically, this film is impeccably crafted. The acting is absolutely amazing. Sissy Spacek is great, yet pales in comparison to the husband Tom Wilkinson, who exhibits bitterness and despair. THis film is very depressing yet excellent. The cinematography is beautifully filmed, comprised of long scenic shots. The acting and writing is all around superb. Field does a marvelous job.      However, the ending was weak and turned away from emotions in favor of crowd-pleasing action/suspense. While satisfying, these events are out of place and Field commits an error including them.  9/10, great film "},{"Title":"Speechless.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a work of art.  From the very innocent, happy, tranquil beginning to the tranquil ending, it held my attention, especially with all the action, conflict and drama on the way.  Nick Stahl portrayed a very nice, likeable, gentle High School graduate having an affair with a married - soon to be divorced woman, Marisa Tomei.  Stahl was incredible, and as usual so was Tomei.  Spacek and Wilkinson played his parents, they were both INCREDIBLE.  Spacek deserved the Golden Globe that she won - and that was pretty tough rivaling Nicole Kidman for The Others, Wilkinson? -- Why was he neglected at the Globes??  He was truly amazing.  The use of silence in this movie was suspenseful, a great director, with great acting, and a great storyline.  It was an experience. **** / ***** "},{"Title":"a moment makes a movie","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoiler!!!!The second Frank's life is snuffed out, I felt my heart being similarly wrenched.  Never in all the cinema I have seen has one scene made me FEEL so much.  The rest of the film is top notch, especially the abundance of charachter development.  ***** "},{"Title":"Terrific performances by everyone involved.  This film screams Oscar!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a film that will be made more powerful the less you know about it.  Therefore I won't reveal any of the plot points or anything that will tip you off on what you should expect.  Just know that this is NOT a date movie.  It will make you think and it will make you depressed but that is in no way saying that the film isn't entertaining or well crafted.  This is film making at its best.  No special effects, no bankable superstars (Spacek and Tomei are probably the only names you'll know) but a terrific script and terrific performances make for a film that will no doubt get a lot of Oscar buzz once people start to see it.  For anyone who is interested in the craft of film this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Beautiful beyond words","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though I had a hunch that this would be a pretty dramatic movie, I didn't know what it was about, and therefore couldn't have prepared myself for just how moving it is.  In The Bedroom is by far the most realistic and heartfelt movie I have ever seen.  Todd Field's direction is the perfect combination of grace and simplicity.  The story really forces the audience to examine their feelings about violence and other very serious issues, and the ending dumps everything in your lap for you to sort through.  I really appreciate that, though.  The beauty about this film is the honest way it goes about stirring emotion.  It is not decorated with an overly poignant score to trick you into feeling for the characters.  If you cry, it is for the amazing believability of the actors and the raw and realistic emotion conflicts they suffer from.  Field also does an amazing job of avoiding cliches in regard to the suspense that sometimes builds in the story.  It is not overdramatized or forshadowed by the score.  I actually found the film so emotionally shocking and raw that I couldn't feel all of it as I watched, but half an hour after the movie was over, I just burst into tears.  The most beautifully tragic film I have ever seen.  I highly recommend it to anyone who appreciates films as more than light entertainment. "},{"Title":"Bad things happen to good people.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's a lot of violence in movies these days.  What they do is set up someone who is so evil that when the hero shoots him, or blows him up, or karate chops him it's immensely satisfying, and a lot of fun because the bad guy is getting what he deserves and you feel good about it.  This movie is a more accurate depiction of reality.  It shows the psychological devastation brought about by a single violent act, and the ambiguity inherent in any violent solution. "}{"Title":"This is Tom Wilkinson's film!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sissy Spacek is very fine in this film, but it is really Tom Wilkinson's movie the film's POV is primarily through him and he delivers an excellent, nuanced performance.Todd Field also excels in nailing down the details--lobstering, significance of canning in Rockland, even a Girl Scout selling cookies.  Some of these details are not essential to advancing the story, but they really help the viewer to know the locale. "},{"Title":"amazing movie with powerful perfomances","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Possible spoilerMe and my boyfriend saw this movie and left the theatre amazed at what we just saw. Its not that the movie had such an unusual or different plot, but that it executed so well what all of us experience at least once in a lifetime-heartbreak and grief. I know that Sissy Spacek-the mother is getting Oscar nods but it was the performance of Tom Wilkonson-the distraugt father that caught my eye. He was the perfect choice for the role.It is very sad so bring the box of Kleenex.I am still trying to figure out if there was an affair between the girlfriend Natalie and the father Matt. At first I thought maybe there was something going on when he stopped by the liquor store to see how she was doing, but maybe he was just concerned about her? Not sure on this one.Anyway I highly recommend this movie. 8.5/10.  "},{"Title":"Easier the second time?","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The first act and the climactic third act of In the Bedroom are mesmerizing -- with emotions and subtle gestures overlaid so delicately that the picture becomes a brilliant exercise in understatement. I have rarely, if ever, seen a film that uses images and dialogue so sparely, yet packs such an emotional wallop. Todd Field's film completely envelops the audience and pulls each viewer inside of the characters -- without striking a false note for two hours.  Aesthetically, Bedroom takes the time to meditate on images all too oft overlooked in cinema -- such as the neon-lit, rain-slicked smalltown streets during the father's pre-dawn truck ride (in the haunting final sequence) and the grassy, windswept Maine fields, where Marisa Tomei's character and her lover lie in each others' arms (in the prologue).And yet, I'm wrestling with my reaction to this film. Did I find the pace of the second act difficult? Excruciatingly. But after giving this film some consideration, I began to realize that Bedroom may be inevitably difficult to watch, the first time, because (in terms of dramatic structure) it tries something challenging and unusual. Following a suspenseful, engaging prologue, it shifts focus and abandons suspense temporarily. It turns away from a story about how a central crime will be avenged, and begins to study how two parents deal with life-shattering grief.Is the abandonment of suspense a dramatic flaw? Not during successive viewings -- but the first time around, it complicates the film's tonality by threatening to alienate the audience from the characters. With the outcome of the story uncertain in the first-time viewer's mind, the suspense element and the deliberately slow, meditative pace work against each other. I found myself hanging on the question of outcome so intently that I became impatient and bored by the pace, and thus overlooked the nuances and subtleties of the onscreen action during the second act.Wim Wenders's masterful Paris, Texas (1984) works at about the same speed -- yet, given the storyline, pace never becomes an issue. In writing the screenplay for Bedroom, the aforementioned problem may have been unavoidable.Needless to say, I plan to return to this film again, soon, and anticipate a slightly different reaction. I want to encourage others to do the same. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had heard many things about this film prior to seeing it. Most of the comments were very good, in fact, it came highly recommended and critically acclaimed.Well, unfortunately, I disagree. The acting was good and the story itself was interesting, but the rest was not at all what I expect from a critically acclaimed film.It was excruciatingly slow moving, which I can deal with, if it eventually gives you some real suspense or intense drama, but instead, it moves along in a very melancholy matter, throwing out poignant scenes in a very non chalant way.When I go to the movies, I want to be either moved or entertained. This was like watching a documentary on despair and repeating it over and over through different perspectives. I think it meant to have a very real feeling, which in some ways it did. However, I can think of another indie film, within the same genre, The Sweet Hereafter. That film knew how to tell a story, while pulling off the subtle scenes of drama/suspense and still taking place in this small town. In the Bedroom did not compare to that film. I wish it had.  "},{"Title":"Maybe a definitive portrait of grief--the deliberate pace is a plus","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reading some of the earlier user comments, I find it depressing that a slow pace in a movie is, for some, prima facie evidence that the film is a dud. For me, the pacing works very much to the advantage of the movie's impact. The acting is excellent by virtually all concerned, it is evocatively shot, and presents as wrenching a portrayal of grief as I can recall. I don't see how a snappy pace could have improved the way in which it addressed its central theme. No, it isn't an easy film to watch--and why should it be, given its subject matter? But it is one of the best movies I've seen in some time and I recommend it unreservedly--unless you are allergic to slow-paced films.  "},{"Title":"Wrong ending","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom was an excellent film.  Acting is very good and characters stay true to form until the ending.  The picture is disappointing after the parents have their argument.  These people would not have done what they did at the end. Definitely a must see movie. "},{"Title":"A masterfull character study full of symbolism-a challange","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The plot and characters are masterfully developed.  Rich in symbolism. Gripping. I've never seen a screenplay so like a short story.  The characters are real, and each one has something to identify with for each member of the audience.  It has a not politically correct ending which will keep it out of the Oscars except perhaps for leading actress and actor. "},{"Title":"Slow movement doesn't keep this from being a magnificent movie","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom is an exciting first film for Todd Field and an emotional powerhouse that's extra welcome at the end of a mediocre movie year.  I understand the negative reactions some viewers have felt the wait between premise and  payoff is an excruciatingly slow one, and that slowness only makes real, noirish sense in the final climactic segment of the movie. Some very short scenes &#150; typical of the movie's understated style &#150; may puzzle some, as will the combination of restrained domestic drama with noir elements.  Another quality that's unusual and may throw off viewers is the way the ultra respectable rubs elbows with the sleazy in character and event.  Much is harder to read than usual and perhaps harder to read than it needs to be.  But this is a very authentic piece of work and I loved the way powerful emotions were evoked in subtle ways.  The tears are real.  The anger is real.  The cryptic language of New England life speaks volumes the sense of place is terrific.  The acting is remarkable.  Nick Stahl is so sweet and understated you may think at first he's just a wimp, but you end be finding him a real nice guy, not a Hollywood mockup of one.  Poor Nick he's gotten two movie breaks this year only to get killed, slowly and brutally in Bully, quickly and tragically in Bedroom.  William Mapother as the evil ex husband has an authentic tacky menace. Nothing in this movie is unprepared; everything fits, everything makes sense.  Details are so effective that picking up a piece of glass can make you cry and removing a Band-Aid gives you a sense of recovery and restoration. Sissy Spacek is a panorama of repression and rage and she and Marisa Tomei give terrific performances, but it's Tom Wilkinson as Matt Fowler who's the central and most amazing character  I've rarely seen an actor take his character through so many and revolutionary, slowly nuanced changes within a single movie.  Beware the seeming ordinariness of this story.  It's not ordinary at all.  It hasn't any easy payoff.  It leaves us with doubts.  I wish Field had tightened up the editing in the middle, but I'm damned happy with what he's given us.  This is a terrific, rich, heartfelt movie. "},{"Title":"Intelligent look at grief and anger","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  An intelligent, thought-provoking look at grieving parents wrestling with anger and forgiveness. Everything about the film -- the look, the acting, the pace -- rings true. Others who felt the movie is tortuously flow only shows how difficult it is to connect with audiences weaned on the frenetic pace of television, which sacrifices genuine emotions for quick epiphanies and wrap-ups between commercials. In this film, even though the plot is simple and somewhat predictable, the underlying emotions are not. People are complex beings, and dealing with the loss experienced in this film is one of the most difficult challenges any of us can go through. When Tom Wilkinson removes the bandage from his injured finger at the end of the film, we see that it has healed. Yet he has a much bigger hurt to deal with. Has he begun to heal with the extreme action he has taken, or impeded the process? In The Bedroom, as is true of life, offers no easy answers. "},{"Title":"Not a false note throughout.","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film at a screening in mid-town last week. Most of the film's  effectiveness comes from the director's and cast's trust in the audience's intelligence. The story is impossible to describe without being reductive or misleading. Perhaps this is because our only point of reference in terms of Plot, are other films that are not nearly as refined and effective. Somehow this film transcends its own medium, leaving you with the feeling you've read a fantastic novel as you walk home, rather than a movie dealing with life as it is typically portrayed in movies.  "}{"Title":"Remarkable performances","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Todd Field's directorial debut is a triumph of atmosphere and mood. However, it perhaps works best as a showcase for some phenomenal acting. Tom Wilkinson is brilliant as Matt; his journey goes on an emotional roller coaster throughout this film and you're there with him for each up and down. Sissy Spacek is excellent as his wife, who sinks into an embittered, denial-induced funk after the key plot twist (which I won't give away). Marisa Tomei, an actress hitherto I've never thought much of, gives a honest, at times emotionally naked performance. All three should be remembered come Oscar time.  "},{"Title":"Dark, boy meets girl","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film at a sneak preview at the Maine International Film Festival last night.  This was the second public screening, the first being at Sundance earlier in the year.  The Director, one of the stars (Sissy Spacek), and some of the cast were in attendance.  The film starts out light enough but gets very dark.  It is based on the typical boy sleeps with not quite divorced girl with two kids and all the problems that behavior bring on and the aftermath.  Filmed last year around Rockport, Maine this film will make you mad, make you sad, and make you cry.  The Maine woods and sea shore feature prominently in the film. "},{"Title":"Powerful acting, smooth direction","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had the opportunity to see this movie during the Ebert & Roeper Film Festival at Sea, less than a week after the end of Sundance this year. Miramax has reportedly picked it up for distribution.This movie contains emotional crescendos that are subtle and powerful. Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson are magnificent in their portrayal of a couple who have deep affection for and differences with each other, and their conversations are difficult and enriching to watch.  Director Todd Field's presentation struck some in our audience as too slow, but I found that the pace only increased the emotional impact of each subsequent scene.It may well be that Miramax will withhold release of this masterpiece until later in the year, in order to do better in the various awards races.  So be it.  Fields, Spacek, and Wilkinson all deserve Oscars for this gem, and Marisa Tomei may win her second playing a young mother whose face conveys more in a few seconds than most movies do in their entirety. "},{"Title":"No clear direction","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I had great expectations of this film and was very impressed with the first half. Almost imperceptibly a brooding atmosphere was introduced which leads the viewer into the plot. The acting is first rate and the camera work is good. Yet, once the plot started to become clearer disappointment set in. Not only did the film become somewhat predictable, it also lost its direction. It is almost as if the director could not make up his mind whether to direct a psychological drama or a thriller. The first half suggests the first approach, the second half veers towards the second. The revenge ending does not fit in with what came before and ultimately is a cheap and very unsatisfactory way to achieve closure. This is a missed opportunity both for the director and the actors. For those who want to see how the first approach could have worked, I suggest the Italian film by Nanni Moretti, La stanza del figlio (2001), which deals with a very similar theme (death of a son, this time as a result of an accident). "},{"Title":"An eye for an eye.","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Frank is in college and he is dating a much older woman who has an extremely jealous ex husband. Frank's parents don't approve of this relationship and wish Frank would spend more time on his studies instead of this single mother. Well, then tragic consequences follow and Frank's parents have to make certain decisions regarding Frank, Frank's girlfriend and the jealous ex husband. Life isn't easy at all and Franks parents deal with pain and revenge.I thought that this was an excellent movie based on the fact that it had an excellent storyline. I sort of saw some stuff coming but not as much as I had thought. I thought that this movie was perfectly done and the acting is just so superb. A great movie and even better than I thought it would be. "},{"Title":"Once again, the perennial moral question &#150; does the end always justify the means?","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an actor's movie, meaning it gives full artistic reign to all involved to realistically present a story that could have been taken from a newspaper or pulp magazine. Truth is always stranger (and better) than fiction, and this narrative sets out a scenario that probably happens more often than we think...at least, for the first part.Which, in a nutshell, is young man meets older woman who is estranged from her husband; a romantic attachment ensues between the young man and the woman that ultimately results in the young man's death, by shooting. The estranged husband is arrested for murder, released on bail, and will probably be convicted of manslaughter only...And that leads to the second part a scenario that raises a lot of angst and anger for the parents (Sissy Spacek, Tom Wilkinson) of the young man, Frank (Nick Stahl), as they rail against the apparent injustice. What &#150; only manslaughter for what is obviously cold-blooded murder of their dear son? But, is it murder? And, if it is, who is the guilty party, in reality? Those are the main questions that this story focuses upon, allowing many scenes of acrimony, doubt, moral indignation, anger, sorrow and despair as the parents try to adjust to a world that has now been rendered empty, or almost so, with their son gone. Spacek and Wilkinson both acquit themselves very professionally, giving the viewer value for money, no question. Little wonder that both were nominated for Academy Awards. In a similar vein, the supporting cast, lead by Marisa Tomei as the harassed wife, provide equally satisfying performances. On balance, one cannot fault the cast at all.Not so with the narrative, however.Motivation always plays a big part in any murder scenario; in fact, it's the indispensable condition. In this narrative, the parents are faced with a decision given that the killer of their son is likely to escape true justice (i.e. a murder conviction and life sentence), what can be done to redress the balance? They are professional people she teaches music at a local college; he's a well respected local GP, with a good practice. They have reputations to maintain, but they also have that pressing need &#150; or, want actually &#150; to balance the scales of justice. As the French would say, Que faire?And this is where the narrative fails to convince this viewer of the outcome, given the psychology and professionalism of the parents, as portrayed. People will discard their principles in moments of passion and quick anger, and repent later, for sure; but, it's almost unheard of to deliberately set in motion actions, after many months of soul-searching, that run diametrically opposed to all of your core principles. That takes a different psychology than the one shown by the parents, in my opinion. Quite possibly, Andre Dubus's story had more in it about that aspect? I would hope so...It's still a good film, however, despite my reservations about the ending. Like I said, the actors made this movie, and it's as good as it gets...Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A drama made worth watching thanks to is performances.","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a perfectly good dramatic movie to watch, with some good moments and a great cast. It however just isn't the best movie in its genre around in my opinionThe movie does make some odd choices with its drama. Such as for instance not showing the mothers reaction after the husband tells her their son has been killed. Or what about the reaction of the parents after they've seen their dead son. Or what about the funeral preparations. I know that the movie was trying to be original and different but does original mean leaving out the most potential most powerful and emotional moments? The movie also leaves some loose ends with some of its characters, such as Natalie and the boys. And in the end is the movie really that original and unpredictable? Not entirely. I mean I knew what the father's intentions were right after he had the private talk with the district attorney. From that point on it was clear were the movie was heading to.And if this movie is about the coping of parents with the lose of their only son, than why does it take half of the movie to reach the point when the son dies? It makes the first part when you really start thinking about it overlong, since it merely serves as a build-up to the real emotions of the movie. So yes, I think that In the Bedroom is overrated, not because it's necessarily bad, I don't mean that at all but more because of the reason that it got 5 Oscar nominations, including one for best picture, while it really didn't deserved it.But all criticism aside, this is a solid drama that is well worth watching. Its story is good enough to hold your interest and perhaps even grab you. The movie mainly works thanks because of the professional cast of the movie.I especially liked Tom Wilkinson. Sissy Spacek also played a good role but I just couldn't ever really like her character. Nick Stahl also played a good, vulnerable part and Marisa Tomei's role also was good, though her screen time was a bit too limited. It was also refreshing to see William Mapother in a big role for a change and not in the usual cameo appearance which he often makes in his cousin's Tom Cruise movies. Though he also showed with his performance why he normally doesn't ever really play big parts. He just isn't the most talented actor of his generation and his performance was a bit off and shallow at times, even though he perhaps plays one of the most interesting and unpredictable characters of the movie. Karen Allen also makes a small and short appearance in the movie.The movie is not really big in its emotions, which is a good thing, since it means that its not just another overblown heavy dramatic movie, despite its subject. Its drama is more in the subtle little moments in the movie, such as in the grieving process.This also means that the movie is skillfully directed by Todd Field, who obviously knows how to handle the genre and how to do it with the right required style, without ever going over-the-top with anything and keep the movie as real as possible.A good genre movie but just not really worthy of all that praise.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Revenge is a dish best served cold","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A slow burn is the best way to describe this excellent movie about revenge and the loss of a child due to senseless violence. It's a well told story that takes it time and completely catches you off guard with what happens in the last moments of the movie. It's not a twist or anything like that which will cause you to drop your jaw, but the unexpected revenge that makes the movie a classic for me. For a very long time when watching the movie one would think we were watching some boy meets girl story and the drama that ensues after the ex becomes involved, but the movie really takes a left turn halfway through and just keeps getting better after that point.Todd Field isn't a filmmaker that I'm all too familiar with but if he's capable of making a great movie like this then I need to add him to my favorite filmmakers list. He has an amazing eye for what works within the world of his story and never misses his mark.-The criticism that I usually hear bombarded against this movie is that it's boring which is odd to me because the people claiming it's boring are the same wonderful bunch that accuse anyone that thinks Pirates of the Caribbean is boring has a short attention span. To each their own I guess. I for one love the slow pace of the movie. Sure, the first time you watch it you begin to wonder why things are moving along so slowly, but after what happens at the halfway point, you begin to understand why. Watching repeat viewings of the movie after you know what's about to happen does it make more enjoyable since you get why certain shots are there, and why certain lines are uttered.Nick Sthal is one of the great actors in Hollywood that has incredible range and he shows it in this movie. Unlike some of the big stars, he doesn't play the same role over and over again, but actually tries something new every time. One movie he's a sympathetic chump, then the next a hateful bully, and this movie he's a man involved in a summer fling. Sissy Spacek and Marissa Tomei are really great in this movie, so is Tom Wilkinson. The acting in this movie feels natural and grounded. Almost like it's a documentary in which the characters are not aware of the cameras around them. I Recommend it to anyone that is in the mood for movie that takes its time and gets it right. It's a really great one. "},{"Title":"When the Legal System Cannot Help Us...","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This manner of film-making stimulates the mind and the emotions in very much the same way as classical music. It's mysterious, it's moody, it's temperate, it's highly developed and delicately composed. The elusive music, beautiful cinematography, quiet editing, and obscurely peaceful atmosphere surround the convincing cast.Standing out is Tom Wilkinson, whose stunning and riveting performance is what keeps us going when the film's pace seems to lag. It only seems to lag because of the long stretch of time from one punctuating outburst of violence to another. The story involves great patience. Being a tremendous fan of Marisa Tomei, I was expecting much more of her, but as always, her part is nothing more than a supporting role. As magnificent as she is, she's once again underused.The film is so subtle that there isn't much drastic praise or negativity to really focus on. There are things that are great about it and things not all viewers tend to like. I happened to like it, but in such a generic way. It doesn't fulfill in any particular area. It just fulfills. It perhaps is the epitome of cinematic subtlety. I think that all leads back to Todd Field's intimately articulate expression, which is entirely realized in this quiet but weighty melodrama. "},{"Title":"A very, very slow movie","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Having heard much about In the Bedroom, my expectations were too high. All in all this is a disappointing movie. The pace is very, very slow, and the first half of the movie is sketchy to the extreme. Sometimes there seems to be no relation between various scenes, which makes it difficult to see where the movie is heading. The second half, after the murder has taken place, is used to picture the frustration and depression of the parents. But in no way it tells a story that can explain the action the father is taking at the end of the movie. There is absolutely no evolution in his and her state of mind. The quarrels between the husband and wife are sometimes far-fetched, and in several other moments the effort to make the scenes look natural overshoots, and the drama gets to be a caricature of itself. To bad. "}{"Title":"Overrated, but interesting.","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I guess it's so rare to see a mature movie now that critics go crazy over them when they do show up. This is an actor's movie, and as such is very mannered and has very actorly performances. Not big Oscar moments, but this-is-my-scene-dammit ones. That said, the actors are all very good, especially Tom Wilkinson, who's character never seems sure how to express what he is feeling.Personally, I liked William Mapother's performance the most. It was the one performance that seemed lived in, and Mapother was able, in only a couple of scenes, to suggest, by simple physicality, the history of his character. He's a loser who peaked in High School, has a goofy young man's hair cut and dye job, walks with his chest stuck out, and is angry at a world that he feels owes him something. At the same time, he loves his family, but is pushed over the edge when his wife takes up with the sort of thing that will always get to a guy like him a young college kid from a good family. The scene after he kills Frank and sits down at the table, absolutely stunned at what he did, was, to me, the most striking shot in the film here's a guy who has taken life as it comes to him, and the awful crime he commits is no different, he doesn't plan on killing anybody, he just does it, and tries to weasel out of it, the same way he tried to weasel his way back into his ex-wife's life, and succeeded, if briefly.After watching the movie I thought the end was strange, in the way that Mapother's character seems so disinterested in making his case. He seems passive, feeble. But it was excellent-a guy like that won't try to run away, or fight, he's basically a coward in the end. When he's shot, he just falls down, as if he knew it was coming, but had convinced himself it wouldn't. I see that Mapother is Tom Cruise's cousin, and has only been really seriously acting for a few years now, he certainly has more charisma that his cousin, and I hope that he can land himself some good meaty roles in the future, since he has the perfect face to be a sort of twisted, everyman character actor. "},{"Title":"More than just your average drama.","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed this film. Despite the fact that it is quite slow-going in places it really gripped me. The story is compelling and the best thing about the film are the performances of the actors who play Frank's parents.The storyline is pretty straight-forward but it does has some eventful twists, and these were really well scripted and they took me by surprise totally. I won't say anymore about the story, except, when you watch this film try and understand the emotions of the parents.I would recommend this film to anyone who likes dramas where there is in-depth characterisation. You have to be patient with this film, but i really feel its worth the effort.8/10 "},{"Title":"a heavy movie that takes a good look at things","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Every generation sees some movies that they remember their whole lives. My parents' generation had The Graduate and 2001 A Space Odyssey, among others. In the Bedroom will likely be one of those movies for my generation. In a small town in Maine, Matt Fowler (Tom Wilkinson) is a family practice physician, and his wife Ruth (Sissy Spacek) is a music teacher. Their son Frank (Nick Stahl) has been dating the slightly older Natalie Strout (Marisa Tomei). Then, when Natalie's ex-husband comes back for her, tragedy strikes the family. From that point on, the movie focuses on how the tragedy exposes the flaws in Matt and Ruth's marriage; not only do Matt and Ruth blame each other, but Ruth blames Natalie.I saw this movie with my parents, and it sort of disturbed them; I'm their only son, and what happens in this movie would disturb any parents. In the Bedroom is a very heavy movie, but it ends on a good note. Aside from that, it shows that Sissy Spacek is still a great actress after all these years, and that Tom Wilkinson can do a serious role (I best remember him from The Full Monty).In the Bedroom got some Oscar nominations. When it ended up being the only Best Picture nominee that won nothing, I was kind of bummed that the movie directed by a Portlander (Todd Field, who played Nick Nightengale in Eyes Wide Shut, is from Portland, Oregon) won nothing. "},{"Title":"Great adult character portrayal","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" How far would you go to protect a child of yours that's in trouble?I found this movie slightly disturbing but I liked it. It twists your guts, if your a parent, and leaves you wondering if you would have done same. I found it a little slow but powerfully real. The actors feel real and you never think of them as actors. They are just like normal people next door going through a crisis in their lives.If you are over 40 and have kids watch it. You won't be sorry. And even if your not, watch it anyway. Its not a feel good movie but it is starkly realistic feeling and powerful.'Nuff Said MacArchonOSX "},{"Title":"A beautiful, beautiful film.","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a beautiful film.  From the scenery, to the direction, to the nearly flawless acting, this film may seem too slow for some, but achingly real to others.  You can just feel the intensity of the characters' emotions even when they are not speaking.  When a loved one is taken from a family in such a swift and violent manner, we cannot expect that healing and justice will be just as swift.  Matt and Ruth sleepwalk through their lives for months after Frank's death until a breaking point is reached.  This is life and the film moves slowly to underline the fact that life just doesn't go on when a horrible tragedy occurs.  It may seem to go on, but it is not like it once was and never will be again.  I don't know if I agree with an eye for an eye but I also have never had my son's life taken away. Sissy Spacek, Tom Wilkinson, and Marisa Tomei were wonderful in their roles.  William Mapother was OK as the one dimensional villain. The story is heartbreaking and the rawness of the emotion in this film is underlined by the fact that there is no music soundtrack other than Ruth's choir.  So why all the fuss about the film?  It is beautiful and painstakingly real.  It is no action thriller, but it stays with you. "},{"Title":"An overrated waste of my time","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS!Putting aside the moral dilemma of killing the killer - should Richard Strout's parents now come after the Fowlers?  (An eye for an eye makes the whole world blind)...since a very similar situation is approached in a much better way in MYSTIC RIVER...I had no knowledge of the film's plot beforehand, and I was immediately drawn to the relationship between Frank (Nick Stahl) and Natalie (Marisa Tomei).  I enjoyed the first twenty minutes or so.  After that, it just plopped.  Indeed, the most intriguing character was Natalie (Marisa Tomei). After the murder she (I believe) had to deal with the biggest blows (after already surviving a horrible divorce, single motherhood, a new relationship, etc.)  But no one seemed to care about her feelings (including the filmmakers) and we seldom see her again.  The rudeness of the Fowlers to Natalie (when they should all be trying to get through it together) makes me despise them.  I cared no more for them than I did for the villain Richard Strout (William Mapothor), particularly after the bitchy slap by Ruth (Sissy Spacek).Other reviewers have agreed that the beginning was good and the middle was boring.  I am going to disagree with them on the ending, however, which they said was good as well.  Sitting through the middle of the film, I hoped it would redeem itself with an amazing ending.  It didn't happen for me.  I walked out with more dissatisfaction than I have ever had walking out of a movie. "},{"Title":"Not in MY bedroom!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Far too personal and invasive.  After watching this very strange and European flavored bit of cinema, I went to Home Depot and bought some two by fours and some nails and barricaded myself in MY bedroom.  Is it just me or did anyone else feel like the characters were always on the verge of jumping through the screen and attacking you?  This was just way too real, it took me four weeks to find the courage to take down the barricades and let myself out of the bedroom.  Kevin Kline was just okay in an overhyped performance. His face lift was too distracting. "},{"Title":"Thank Heavens for IMDB","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Last week, my husband and I went to see Cold Mountain.  I sat through it and thought  Geez.  Not as good as it was hyped to be.  I got on this site as soon as we came home and found that many others made similar comments.  I felt like I was in good company here.Tonight, I rented In The Bedroom.  Hearing that it was one of the best movies of 2001, I settled in for what I hoped was an interesting, off-beat drama, not too chick flick-ish.  The users comments on this site showed me that my assessment of this film wasn't too far off base.Normally, I like films that are character driven, gorgeous to look at, fairly unusual, generally foreign.  In other words, I am greatly forgiving, and a huge fan of movies that fall outside of the typical Hollywood fare. Fifteen minutes into this film had me looking at the clock.  One hour had me twirling my hair.  Two hours, I started to question my motives for sitting through this (Big fan of Thomas Newman's music scores, but that's another story).  Finally, 5 minutes or so after the second hour, it ends. sighWell acted. Beautifully photographed. Great cast.  So what's wrong?  The plot moves at a snails pace.  Huge amounts of time are used to show scenes-sans music-of the Maine countryside, and to try and develop as much of the characters emotions as possible.  If 45-60 minutes were edited out, it would make for an interesting vignette on Bravo, or even PBS. Otherwise, there's just too much of nothing to see on the big screen-if that makes sense. "},{"Title":"Film that runs out of time before the story begins...","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I recently rented this film, halfway expecting some sort of drama, or perhaps even a chick-flick romance.  I was more disappointed than relieved.  This film, while beautifully set and wonderfully acted, left far too much to the imagination.  The entire film felt like a prologue, and I spent the entire film wondering when it would actually begin.  At the very end, when the film finally hooks us, it ends rather abruptly, leaving the viewer to wonder, Is that it??  What hapens then?While I understand the need to convey certain emotions the characters are experiencing, this film seemed fraught with scenes which were completely unnecessary to the advancement of the plot.In my opinion, this film is a perfect example of why some movies don't get picked up by the major companies.  A diamond in the rough this is not. "},{"Title":"Yawn....","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is just a big yawn...from the start to the beginning. 5 Acadamy Awards Nominations...my girlfriend and I just couldn't believe it....the story is so ordinary and the movie really never starts...it's just nonsense talk and dialogous.....we just sat there....waiting for something to happen.....it didn't........just wonder what the guy at the New York Observer got out of this movie....saying I've Seen It Twice And It Still Haunts Me.... "}{"Title":"boring beyond belief","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I kept watching it and not believing that a film which received that much acclaim from all the right sources could be so dull. Kept telling my wife let's watch another 10 minutes, something must happen... but to no avail... she left, took the shower, came back after 20  minutes - what did I miss? well, nothing really.... You get my drift... The only message I got from it if you marriage is stained, try doing something fun together, like ... murder. Might help. "},{"Title":"Too slow, too much hype.","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was quite eager to see this film.  I like Wilkinson, Tomei and Spacek. I still do.  They play their parts well but that doesn't make a film good. I am now amazed that the film received so many nominations for different awards.  The story was similar to a made for tv movie, shown on a Sunday night at 7pm.  You could guess what was going to happen, you didn't particularly care what happened.  The murderer had not been seen to be that evil.  He had not beaten his wife or children.  You didn't even see him kill Frank.  After the killing, he didn't pester the family and gloat.  Had he done any of these things, we might of disliked him so much that we were willing Wilkinson's character to do the deed.  Instead, I was looking for a twist or something a little different to happen.  It didn't.  The film was an overwhelming disappointment.  Credit to the players and the photography but as I said earlier, that doesn't make a film good. "},{"Title":"I liked it. (spoiler within)","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  To be honest I avoided this film because the title suggested to me that it dealt only with sex.  Wrong.  It was a story of life and how a family deals with death.  Gripping story and Well acted by all.  The scenery selection was excellent.  I just loved the hand cranked bridge, something I would not believe existed if I hadn't seen it in this movie.Spoiler begins.  The only problem I had with the film (beside the Title of the film, not the book) is trying to figure that if Matt is so concerned with leaving evidence, why didn't they use his shrimp boat to dump the body in the ocean where it they couldn't find it again if they wanted to.  I'm sure he watched Tony Soprano do it (twice for that matter).  I mean he is so concerned with leaving evidence that he carefully removes all his clothes after the murder, yet doesn't worry that the body will eventually be found in a shallow grave near a frequently used cabin.  Sure his buddy had lots of land but just how far are you going to lug a dead body.  Okay perhaps I'm being too critical.  But the film made such a sympathetic  character out of Matt, I want to be sure he got away with murder.  Then again, maybe the hasty grave was to be a prequel to a follow up book, revisiting Matt and Ruth. Other scene I would have like to have seen is for Ruth, instead of going down and fixing Matt something to eat, she goes downstairs to wash the clothes, which would confirm that she plotted the details along with Matt.In any event It was a 9.8 out of a possible 10 for me. "},{"Title":"Slow and somewhat dull...but the acting!","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A young college boy (Nick Stahl) is at home in Maine for the summer with his parents (Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson). He starts seeing a divorced woman (Marisa Tomei) with a violent ex-husband (William Mapother). He kills Stahl and the parents must learn how to deal with their sons death.It's a somber movie--very quiet--too quiet! You do get to know the characters but so slowly! Also the climax is very predictable. Still, this is worth seeing just for the acting. Stahl is just OK as the victim--however he does a flawless Maine accent. Mapother isn't much better as the killer. But everybody else is just perfect. Tomei is surprisingly great as the girlfriend. Too bad she disappears halfway through the film. Spacek and Wilkinson are superb. They manage to convey all their emotions through body language and subtle gestures--it works beautifully. When they finally erupt it's very shocking.So--it's too quiet but still worth seeing.One big complaint--At one point a character buys a bunch of huge Hersheys and Kitt Katt bars. They have no bearing in the story at all but are displayed prominently. It's really sad when an art film has to resort to product placement. "},{"Title":"Severely Flawed","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"         *****SPOILERS *********SPOILERS ***********SPOILERSWho is at fault?  The critics, the audiences or the director of this film, Todd Field?  Someone, somewhere, has made a grotesque error in repeatedly characterizing this movie as a moving portrayal of parents' grief, when instead it is a study of vengeance at its most repellant.  Simply put, Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson play monsters, and audience empathy with their characters is sorely misplaced.     The film lays out the facts  a young man is killed in a fracas with his lover's husband, and the husband in turn is killed by the young man's grieving father.  The issue at the heart of the movie, then, is vigilantism.  These days, film conventionally portrays vigilantism either as a necessary response to inutterable evil, or as the anguished response of an individual faced with a government or system that can provide no redress for a grievous wrong.  Indeed, the observance of one of those conventions is usually critical if the audience is intended to empathize with the vigilante. But this film lays out facts that defy those conventions.  We learn that the husband will probably to go to jail for five years, at least, but then he is murdered before he is even tried.  More starkly, the nature of the crime is not clear.  Did the husband and the young man struggle for the gun, and it went off accidentally?  Was the gun wrested away from the husband, who then merely struggled to defend himself?  Or did the husband shoot the young man deliberately?  Might five years' imprisonment not have been fully appropriate or perhaps even excessive, depending on what actually happened?  We, as the audience, do not see the crime committed, and vigilante justice is meted out before the the evidence is ever brought out.  Finally, the mother's statement that her son's killer smiled at her when she encountered him in a store is false; the audience sees the scene, and the killer looks startled or scared, not gleeful.  Yet it is this statement that finally brings the grieving parents together and hardens the father's resolve to kill his son's killer.  If Field intended this film as a commentary on how readily our thin layers of civilized conduct can be stripped away to reveal the ugliest, basest impulses lurking beneath, he has done a creditable job  the seemingly-upright parents have not allowed the law to take its course; the seemingly-educated parents do not know or learn the truth of what happened, or seem to care; and the seemingly-moralistic parents alter the facts conveniently to fit their grief and sense of injustice. But if that is the message of the film, then why has anyone shed a tear for the vigilante parents, who perverted the course of justice in a singularly disgusting way, and for little discernible reason other than a revolting blood-lust?  Why doesn't their evil deed erase any vestige of concern we may have felt for them?  For me, it did.  For Mr. Field, I'm not so sure.  If he intended the parents to be seen as evil, or at least profoundly ambiguous, then he has, by failing to speak out on this point, opportunistically permitted his film to succeed on the false premise of audiences' and critics' unaccountable and misplaced empathy with the parents.  Or, worse yet, he actually believes the parents to be sympathetic.  Either way, Field's vision is severely flawed.  "},{"Title":"Don't Waste Your Time In The Bedroom (spoilers)","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really wanted to like In The Bedroom.  Fine performances from the whole cast, most notably Sissy Spacek and Marisa Tomei, and the whole thing seemed so believable.  It was difficult to watch the first half hour, 45 minutes because they were doing such a good job making the Poor Dead Boy so likable and you just knew he was going to be killed, so you didn't want to get attached.  And yes, it was uncomfortably slow for almost the entire movie, but I think it was supposed to be that way.  The movie starts out passing like long, slow days of summer, then it seems to lose all momentum and curl up into a fetal position for an hour or so, which does an excellent job of reflecting the desires of the main couple.  It really adds to the experience when you can hear people talking in the halls outside the theater -- they're living their lives while you're not, and you want to be, but not badly enough to actually get up and do something about it.  You are forced to be Sissy Spacek.  It's not a pleasant experience, but I think it is right that it happens the way it does.  The direction is excellent, lots of storytelling through casual details, like a shot with Marisa Tomei talking to her ex-husband, and it's clear in the frame that he still wears his ring while she doesn't even have a tan line anymore.  Subtle and effective.  Also, in the grieving scenes, all the characters do more communicating with facial expressions or simple tasks like mowing lawns or doing other chores, and it makes it painfully clear that they're trying to deny their grief.  You want them to stop piddling around with the stupid lawnmower and talk about any guilt feelings they might have, but they don't, and you can't make them, much like the situation would be in real life.  All of this, while uncomfortable, makes In The Bedroom a marvelous film.The end ruins everything, though.  What could have been a serious and thoughtful piece worthy of viewing as a mandatory component of grief counseling becomes a mind-bogglingly inappropriate revenge crime drama.  Because while we the audience had been thinking we were watching the story of how a couple deals with their son's death, we had instead been watching the story of his murder, which changes the situation significantly.  While the last half hour or so serves to provide the only action in the film (all the violence in the beginning is off-screen, and it works really well that way, forcing the viewer to admit that he is not the heroic elf having the romance with the beautiful and fragile woman, he is instead a helpless bystander, like the parents, and later their friends), it just feels tacky.  Why bother trying to learn to help those who are grieving if revenge is the only thing that works (not that it necessarily does, I think the very end is somewhat ambiguous)?  Why sit through a practically silent movie in a silent movie theater (and I found that the audience around me was respectful enough of the subject matter and the style to sit quietly for almost the entire time) if the end makes you feel like you stepped into the low-budget stepchild of the Arnold Schwarzenegger flick playing down the hall?  I would not recommend this film to anyone who lacks a specific need to properly grieve or assist someone else in the grieving process, and even for those people, I recommend walking out when the movie makes its abrupt change of tone. "},{"Title":"A wrenching, beautiful film","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie had me crying almost from the start. I had already read the Andre Dubus story upon which it is based, so I knew where the story was headed, but that still didn't prepare me for this gut-wrenching drama. The adaptation was beautifully done faithful to the story, fleshing out characters and events with grace and subtlety. Everyone in the theater around us was bawling. If this movie doesn't garner some serious Oscar attention, I'll be very surprised. "},{"Title":"'In the Bedroom' and recent events","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  &#145;In the Bedroom' is a deeply moving and finely crafted film which explores themes of human meaning, class differentiation and emotional healing. Mr. Field's unhurried pace, which at times approaches a molasses-like viscosity, provides an unfettered stage for some of the best acting talent I've ever seen in the theater. In the wake of the recent terrorist attacks, the central themes of this movie seem all the more poignant and important. When the mother and father, after losing their only child, take on a zombie-like pallor- insulated by their despondency against the tawdriness of everyday life- we feel, with them, the melting away of meaning; we see a gaping tear form in the veneer of culture. Who among us, after witnessing the destruction of September 11, didn't in some way have our own foundations of meaning shaken (if not swayed) by the reverberating aftershocks of those impacts? In the wake of tragedy, human meaning can become frayed and fall apart. &#145;In the Bedroom' is the finest depiction that I've seen of why this is so.The subject of vengeance, so carefully explored in this film, also has taken on a renewed poignancy in light of the American military response in the Middle East. Though Frank's father, the reasonable Dr. Fowler, adopts his own vengeful form of justice, we are left wondering at the end of the film whether anything decent can emerge from his act- whether meaning is restored or simply undermined yet again. The concept of an &#145;eye for an eye' may work well as a social deterrent, but whether it can provoke healing is questionable- and this is a central theme around which 'In the Bedroom' revolves. "},{"Title":"Yaaawwwnnnn....OH, the movie.","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is the epitome of why the Academy Awards mean nothing to me and, I'm assuming, the general public. Imagine if the people in the general public picked the nominees and winners of the Academy Awards. It's not a bad idea, really, as the stupid movies would get their votes but would ultimately lose out to the movies that have substance and still entertained. I only bring this up because I cannot understand how the hell this movie got so many nominations at the Academy Awards! Don't get me wrong, Tom Wilkinson did a really good job as the father in this movie about love, tragedy and retribution. But doesn't the best lead acting performer have to be in a decent movie?! And doesn't a Best Picture nominee have to be just that...one of the best pictures of the year? This movie had a decent beginning and a decent last half. However, the hour or so in between was excruciatingly boring. The pace was horribly slow and I found the whole thing extremely predictable. It doesn't take a genius to figure out what's going to happen by movie's end and that, for me, really takes away from the film. Even the climax of the movie was just ho-hum, as if you could hardly tell it had climaxed at all. I finished watching the movie expecting more to happen once the credits started rolling. And Sissy Spacek? Man, she was perfect for the role of Carrie as she looked the perfect part. Innocent and naive looking, yet still a look of devilishness that only she could pull off. But since then, I have hated every role I've seen her in and I don't get why SHE keeps getting all the love from the Academy and critics alike.Bottom line is the acting was above par, but nothing to deserve the attention it got. I understand the point of this movie and I know what it was trying to say in its own subtle way, but it still didn't sit well with me. Far too slow paced and I cannot promote or praise a movie in which I was only impressed by less than half of its running time. "},{"Title":"I keep the right to change my opinion but.....","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Now I just don't know what Todd Field wanted to say with Andre Dubuss story ,but this film was boring ,calculable ,sometimes impertinent,I just don't understand the many Oscar nominations.Yes it was sarcastic ,but it's not enough for a film,The acting was good ,but the weak story and screenplay was horrible,and the executing too.Average American people ,and average American small-town,we know the story,but there is nothing new ,just the film is boring,and your money is wasted.But you have to think it through many times what they wanted to say ,but maybe you won't understand them,exactly.So don't waste your money ,and time ,cause you won't get anything much like good acting.Eye for an eye is a too old concept,for this film. "}{"Title":"Someone Scooped Lifetime TV","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" You want to hear dedication? I was watching this film when the power went out at the theatre. Most didn't even bother to reschedule, but, I wanted to desperately. Why, you ask--I'll tell you...Sissy Spacek, Marisa Tomei, and Tom Wilkinson were crafting In The Bedroom to be, what all the critics had told me, a fantastic film.The premise was there. An older, recently divorced mother (Marisa Tomei) had fallen for a much younger man...who happened to be the son of two people (Wilkinson and Spacek), that were apposed to the relationship on paper, but, loving their son as they did, they were willing to overlook the disadvantages and support their son's decision as much as they could. They are destroyed when their son is killed by Tomei's disgruntled and abusive ex. When Spacek and Wilkinson find themselves in the lawyers office, finding out that the culprit will not be punished severely enough for them, the power went out...needless to say, I was hooked and wanted to see how this film wound up to a critically lauded finish.So, two hours later, I return to the theatre.How do they wrap this film up? By having Spacek and Wilkinson conspire to kill Tomei's ex. The father takes him into the woods and kills him. I suffered through totally short scenes with no dialogue, silent portraits of Spacek moping, and a fade in, fade out still scenes of Wilkinson and Spacek not communicating to have it wind up with an untidy ending that showed not only a lack of creativity, but, a total insult to moviegoers who were expecting more than the writers were able to deliver. It was random. It was inane. It was sloppy.Lifetime Television does this type of plot on a week in, week out basis. I'd hardly call their results noteworthy, and the same could be said for this film.To call it disappointing would be an understatement. "},{"Title":"Just don't watch it!","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Probably the most boring movie I have ever watched, including some pretty horrible French movies (Western). If you really want to see for yourself I would suggest you followed the advice in the title, and lie comfortably on your bed, you'll be grateful! I think the Americans should stick to their way of making movies, and not try the brainy French way only they can pull it off (sometimes)!A pretty basic plot, good actors, but why oh why did the director want to drag it for so long. I don't think I had ever seen a boring murder scene, slow ones yes, but this director is no Sergio Leone (and let's face it, there's no Clint Eastwood in the cast either) and he just drags it past any person's patience!!! "},{"Title":"What the heck?","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought I had a great attention span until I watched this movie. What a bore! It moves at a snail's pace, and that's okay if the movie SOMEHOW manages to connect with the viewer, but connect it did not! I kept checking my watch hoping this movie would end. The most liveliness you see out of the characters is Sissy Spacek throwing a plate. Whoo hoo. If you're looking to fall asleep, this is the movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Mind-numbingly slow","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This could have been a great film, had it lasted around 45 minutes.  The movie makers simply took a screenplay which had minimal plot & dialogue & stretched it into 2 hours +.  I was truly astounded why they felt they needed to stretch each 15-second scene into two or three minutes of sheer NOTHINGNESS.I longed for sleep.  But it wouldn't come.  I was too angry at the editors of this mess. "},{"Title":"In the Bedroom is where I should have been sleeping...","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  instead of watching this lousy tired boring depressing LONG film. My God with all the critical acclaim it received I just kept waiting for it to get better. I read so many reviews afterwards that said the same thing; this is it??!?! Lame script and while Sissy Spacek's acting was good (I guess) I just don't see what the big deal was. I wish someone would have warned me from wasting my time, money and brain power on this two hour BORE. "},{"Title":"What drivel!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Oh, come on!  Long and boring.  How could this piece of trash be nominated for a Best of anything?  Spacek's performance nominated for what?  What did she do?  I can stir a bowl of salad fixings too, but I don't think it's high art.  I thought I was going to like this film  a film with a story--again, as I've said elsewhere, Hollywood doesn't seem to want to write them anymore.  They just want to see things blowing up, and expect the audience to want the same thing.  But this one-note drama got pretty old after the first hour.  I stuck with it, thinking I was going to have some kind of epiphany.  No luck.  Largely forgettable.  Irritating to a fault. "},{"Title":"Guaranteed to put you to sleep","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe this movie got all the great reviews that it did! What a joke! The writing was absolutely terrible! And who cares that it was Sissy Spacek and Marisa Tomei starring in the film???!! Respected actresses can still make bad movies! I still can't believe I sat through the entire movie. I should have followed the other people out of the theatre but was hoping the story would evolve into something, ANYTHING remotely resembling a story worth telling well! Very, very stagnant! What a huge disappointment!  "},{"Title":"Boredom reigned!","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a waste of time, money, and electricity. The only decent part of this movie is when Sissy Spacek slapped Marisa Tomei.  I don't think that Spacek should get any award for slapping a person ... anyone can do that. I really don't like the 'fade to black' transitions in this or any other movie.  It's like the director, producers, etc, don't know how to make a transition smoothly.  "},{"Title":"3/4 Drama, 1/4 Violent which sank the film!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This well reviewed and praised film caught my attention enough to see it tonight.  I enjoy the work of Sissy Spacek but am stunned she associated herself with a film with an ending that is so violent (then again she did make CARRIE once!).  I would put this film in that same category.  I wanted more of the Marisa Tomei character.  Most of the film plays up themes revolving around grief and forgiveness.  Even the parish minister has a few good lines.  Spoiler alert!Sadly the rest of film degenerates into a sickening, repulsive ending that almost had me head for the exit door.  I urge all non-violent viewers to avoid this film or to leave directly after the husband/wife finally confront each other.  What follows next is stomach turning, head grabbing and repulsive.The friend I was with suggested that an eye-for-an-eye mentality is ok. That comment made me think this film was finally in a word - reprehensible.Fine performances in an otherwise revolting film.   "},{"Title":"A sordid little love affair that leaves everybody in misery","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had high expectations because of the rave reviews and was abysmally disappointed.The actors might be great but it doesn't matter in this total non-story that would not be enough for an half hour TV show.There are millions of better half hour shows like Law&Order etc.equally well acted.By drawing out the film with endless close - ups of nothing important the movie did not gain in significance.I have tried to find the smallest positive nuance and I can find nothing.I am a fan of David Lynch and so far nothing comes close to Mulholland Drive. But that is my opinion.I liked Traffic, Magnolia, Blow,A Beautiful Mind, Finding Forester, etc. "}{"Title":"A tediously slow bait and switch","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This one comes on like it's going to be a deep psychological study of grief and turns into a poorly motivated revenge flick.A sterling performance by Marisa Tomei is wasted as she practically disappears after the first 45 minutes and, instead, we have to watch another two hours of Sissy Spacek doing grief as a poker face. Spacek's complete lack of any sort of emotion combined with the director's incessant 30-second silent scenes that all fade to black (ooh! How arty!) will have you checking your watch at every fade to see how much longer this excruciating thing can continue.This one seems to be another of those films where the director thinks if he can be artsy-fartsy enough he can make the audience think it's responsible for providing all the emotion and motivation the director is apparently too lazy to work toward providing.All in all this one was excruciatingly frustrating and the strongest emotion I felt coming out of it was anger at having wasted 2.5 hours of my life on it. "},{"Title":"Once and Again cast regular directs movie.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  With mixed results. Todd Field, who played David Casselli on Once and Again for the first two seasons- a fact that is strangely absent from the IMDB- attempts his first feature film, and unfortunately it's a long and sleepy film that overstays it's welcome.Having the strange good fortune of being the only film to be released after the tragedy of 9/11 that deals with grief and revenge, some of the critics seem to have annointed this film as worthy.Well, to a starving man, even Mcdonalds looks good. I found it empty and plodding and boring.       "},{"Title":"Once and Again actor makes a film.","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked the character Todd Field played on Once and Again (1999), David Casselli. He was on the show for two years. Anyway, now he's directed a film which is very much like Once and Again, only much much much longer. It had the strange good fortune to come out at a time when the nation is grieving and wanting revenge, but it's a cold and unsatisfying film that didn't stay with me at all. There just wasn't much there there, if you know what I mean. I guess it's an okay film at the end of a particularly mediocre year, but if I were you I'd wait till its out on video.  "},{"Title":"75 minutes of silence does not make an artistic, beautiful film. (SPOILERS)","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The best part was when Sissy Spacek slapped Marissa Tomei. That was worth the 2 hours of boring, predictable non-plot. Let me say this--it was predictable, yet out of character. The actions of the characters made no sense. And about half of the movie was silent, still-life shots of the characters doing nothing. I can't believe the academy chose it for best picture. It's even worse than Kramer v. Kramer, and that's saying a lot.---Spoilers ahead, although nothing can spoil this film worse than it already is-- Okay, so here's the deal. Nick Stahl is dating Marissa Tomei. Marissa's ex-husband is all possessive, and out of nowhere, he shoots Nick Stahl. Nick's parents, Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson, grieve for 30 minutes in almost complete silence, Sissy slaps Marissa, the parents grieve in silence for another 45 minutes, then the parents kill Marissa's ex-husband. That's... really it. I would rather watch bread rise, or the blinking lights on my modem, or even Mitchell without MST3K. "},{"Title":"Where It Should Be Seen","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The title offers a valuable suggestion as to where this should be watched. The bedroom is a great idea because you will undoubtedly fall asleep during this absolute dud of a movie.It seems to be an attempt to combine the psychological fear of movies like Sleeping With The Enemy with the emotional angst of a movie like Ordinary People and it fails abysmally to do either. It seems to take literally forever for anything even remotely interesting to happen in this movie. When it finally does it frankly isn't all that interesting anyway and everything just kind of meanders along to a ridiculous and completely unsatisfying conclusion.Combined with a cast (that included the likes of Sissy Spacek) that just seemed to be going through the motions without putting any obvious effort or feeling into it, and what you end up with is a true cinematic disaster.1/10 "},{"Title":"Not for everybody!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although In The Bedroom is insightful and moving, it is one of the slowest paced films I have ever seen.  Eight viewers actually got up and left in the middle, something I've never seen.  I suspect it will be critically acclaimed, but will never sell many tickets. "},{"Title":"Too long, too boring, and given too much credit!!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film tried to hard to be over dramatic.  It became long and boring. I believe it is given way to many great reviews and Oscar nominations.  It could have been better, if they had cut out about a half hour in the middle. "},{"Title":"Worse than expected","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this would be an exiting thriller, but it's just another movie. It has good acting, but it gets boring during some scenes and they are off the topic. The ending was the worst part! If it had a good ending and a well written story it would have been a great movie.   "},{"Title":"should win an oscar for best silent film of the year.","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Simply put this film was not entertaining unless you are looking at the mechanics of direction.  The viewer is expected to somehow fill in all the scenes without dialogue. The movie boils down to the relationship between two married people under stress but needs a lot more than one blow up to be convincing. If this movie is compared to On Golden Pond (which is also about relationships) it would not be worthy of any review. "},{"Title":"The most over rated movie of the decade.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The most over rated movie of the decade. Their publicist deserves a raise. First, all characters are lacking credibility except Sissy Spacek.  The father (Tom Willkinson who was great in The Full Monty) )  is acting more like a fisherman than a doctor. Todd Field, being an actor himself, do not know how to direct other actors. Ex. Marisa Tomei seems totally lost in this story. She never knows if she should laugh,cry, explode or shut up. The story is so predictable including the ending. There is no real emotion in this film. All the characters are cold without any dimension just like the photography. How can you miss the spectacular Maine seaside in a movie. The light is dull as well as the story itself. In the Bedroom could have been  a TV movie but again who would have watch it to the end. "}{"Title":"Slow moving, boring, and depressing","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A 1 is a little high considering how bad this movie was.  Nothing against Sissy Spacek's acting, but the slow pace of this movie made it hard to stay awake.This movie was depressing throughout.  At the end of the movie we got up from a packed theater and listened to the others grumble about what a bad movie this was - we couldn't help but agree.  Not even worth video rental. "},{"Title":"A real snore fest.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I want to state first of that I'm not the kind of guy who only likes action movies.  Either I and my girlfriend were completly asleep and missed it or this movie doesn't really make much sense.Ok, so is it supposed to be about the rational Dr turning to violance to assage his grief over the loss of his son?What are we to make of the foreshadowing with the discription of the lobster trap as the bedroom, and the danger of the female lobster.What was the deal of the asian woman in the pictures in the Military disply?What did the Dr's final comment about the girls smile in the picture on the wall have to do with it.The only tension I felt in the whole thing was, Would Sissy Spacek git cancer from smoking all those ciggaretts?YUCKJRG56 "},{"Title":"two hours of my life I won't get back...","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In addition to be a horrible film, this has to be one of the most  tedious movies I have ever seen. I feel I have been duped by all the professional critics who are raving about this film, saying it's the best of the year. Well if this is the best we are in for a very horrid year.  The acting was mediocre, the plot was nothing I hadn't seen before in some 'movie of the week', the dialogue was simplistic, and the cinematography was down-right embarrassing. I have seen better films that deal with similar subjects (Ordinary People comes to mind) so I'm baffled as to how so many people can give it such glowing praise. Is the state of entertainment these days so bleak that we have to searching for value and meaning in crap such as this? I hope not. I want my $9 dollars back. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  WARNING This review discusses the elements of this movie in great detail. Not that you can spoil a bad movie, but considered yourself warned.So I watched the movie tonight and wanted to answer the dilettantes who loved this stinky movie. To tell you the truth, I rather liked it at first. It is rather subtle and was effective for developing real emotional flavor in the mist of melodrama.despite the fact the plot is a conglomeration of recycled elements. (Note Contrary to the dilettantes' opinion, my attention span is not the length of a TV show. As a matter of fact, I just took a 4.5 hour exam covering very theoretical computer science material and did quite well, thank you.) This is not to say that the actor's performances were even average, let alone ground breaking. What does it take to stare at a TV, chain smoke, and not talk to people so an audience will *THINK* you are depressed? Come-on. Anyone could do that! On the other hand, I bought the emotional act I can see a mother being pushed to severe situational depression after such a murder. Now on the other hand, I can't understand why a *TRAINED, EXPERENCED DOCTOR* (cough, her husband, cough) would totally ignore it. I want to hear the words, `Honey, you need to go on Prozac.' I know you are suffering, but the signs are everywhere.I got excited when we finally got to see some clash (you know, that thing that drives *PLOT*!) when the couple has their argument so we could deal with the movie's issues up on the table and dissect this family's problems. No more beating around the bush. No more marching down the road to disaster. We're going to deal with these problems in an adult manner. After not calling the police, not hiring a PI, keeping the mouths of actors shut, not having needed parent-child communications, etc. UNTIL THE CANDY LADY ARRIVES!!! WHAT THE HELL??? One moment husband and wife are at war; everything is OK the next. THIS WAS THE MOVIE'S TURNING POINT, AND THE DIRECTOR TOOK A PASS!!! Instead of dealing with our emotions in an open manor (or at least trying to open our shells slowly), this couple chooses to close off again. I understand why the director might not want to spill all the beans at one time, but if he could subtly build up emotional tension up to that point, couldn't he use the same method to deflate the tension and give us a *RESOLUTION* and make some *VALID POINT* with the movie? Instead of doing that, the movie takes on a 30 minute car-ride to nowhere that introduces new issues of vigilantism before leaving us to figure it *ALL* out on our own. I understand the value of forcing audiences to figure things out, but here we don't even really know where the director is going. I come into the multiplex tabula rasa, and if you are going to make a point, you at least need to give me direction. Movies should be written to give words and actions to feelings and emotions. We get more than enough feeling, but the director doesn't give us enough for our reason to wrap around and make sense of it. Thus, there is no increase of understanding.Now I will kill the movie. Let's analyze it on its own terms. This movie tries to be a tragedy about being hoodwinked into bad situations, having very bad things happen to us, feeling the pain of that loss, and then acting recklessly in response to all the above. But the problem is that no one is hoodwinked. There isn't a woman who kills two men. Really, the tramp is really kinda sincere. Too foolish to stand-up to her old husband, maybe. However, I can't help thinking that.oh.she's a *BATTERED WIFE* and might feel like she owes something to her husband. And to the state by telling the *TRUTH* about not visually witnessing the murder. The real problem is with the murdered boy's parents. They had *NINE* opportunities to avert the end of the film calling the police after their boy's fight with the ex, offering the poor girl some help instead of deriding her and letting her to fend for herself, approaching the SOB themselves before the murder, laying down the law to their son and `telling him like it is,' hiring a PI once the investigators start going nowhere so they can get some answers for themselves, approaching the poor girl after their son's death to find some reconciliation instead of slapping her, move away to Boston and see the Sox every night, talking to each other and finding some peace instead of buying candy bars, or even sending the SOB to Mexico so we won't have to deal with hem. INSTEAD THEY DO NOTHING BUT ENGAGE IN SELF-DESTRUCTIVE BEHAVIOR. After all of that, I really can't feel sorry for them anymore. I just want the husband to get the death penalty so Maine can put him out of his misery and have his wife put on Zoloft so she won't do something equally dumb. They, to a large extent, brought their trauma on themselves, both the horny husband and the passive-aggressive wife. Then they totally refuse to deal with their pain.until it explodes. It's too bad, but they could have easily changed the outcome. If you want me to feel sorry for them, you need to give me a reason to do so.Because right now I have none.Final grade Failure (0/5) "},{"Title":"In the Bedroom- Not in Any Part of the House **1/2","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Tom Wilkinson gave a stupendous Oscar nominated performance in this 2001 film. He is the father of a young man who is killed by an insanely jealous husband. Trouble is that the young man was having an affair with an older woman.The heartbreak in Wilkinson's face is forever etched as he becomes a complex character desperately seeking revenge for what has happened. As his wife, Sissy Spacek gives another great performance. Her emotional outbursts will be forever endearing to the viewer.Marisa Tomei, who won the supporting actress Oscar for My Cousin Vinny, was again nominated here in the supporting category for her portrayal as the victim's girlfriend.The film does sag as it becomes one of revenge. We have the hunt them down mentality. Wilkinson pulls out all the stops as the enraged father. "},{"Title":"Hey, watch for reflections, there, you dufus....","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoiler in 3, 2, 1...It's a good movie. I liked it. Not often you see someone die that you like. But, there's some seriously awful mistakes as far as the film-making are concerned. Especially in light of what some critics are saying. Joe Morgenstern of the WSJ, for example. I went, after reading some of these effusive reviews, expecting to see the all time masterpiece of film-making. But, Joe, what about the camera in the reflection??? How can the best movie of all time have a camera in the reflection??? Plain as day, Steadicam shot, Tom and Sissy are walking into their living room and they pass a China Hutch with a glass front and we're looking down the barrell of our operator and his trusty first AC. It happens, I know. I see them more than most. But, the best movie in the world doesn't have these flaws. "},{"Title":"A character drama.","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the Academy Award nominees for Best Picture of 2002, In The Bedroom is all in all a very good character drama, though certain parts tended to meander and stretch. Regardless of the somewhat long screenplay (standing at 130 minutes), what really drives this film is the acting - it's spectacular. This includes Sissky Spacek as the grieving mother, Tom Wilkinson as the grieving father, and Marisa Tomei, the older woman who was dating their son - and all three were nominated for an Academy Award - respectively Best Actress, Best Actor, Best Supporting Actress. This is truly what makes this film a stronger film than without them - a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"In The Bedroom, With Black Curtains.. Near the station..","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 'In The Bedtoom' is a pretty powerful drama that explores people's inner relationships, what people think of them versus what people actually are, and how people initially react, and whether that's the right way to go (aka gut feeling). The central story revolves around Ruth (a richly deserved Academy Award nominated Sissy Spacek) and Matt (A richly deserved but not Academy Award nominated Tom Wilkinson) Fowler and their sudden plunge into a world that no one needs to go through when their only son Frank is murdered by the estranged husband of the woman he was dating. This basically sets off a downward spiral which includes self-absorption, denial, cutting everyone off and finally, revenge, So we're really dealing with raw human emotion here, and sometimes the emotions one should have are not exactly rational. More of that later. The performances here are first rate. Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson are always superb, and I really sort of liked William Wise's dorky-yet violent estranged husband role. They portray their emotions quite well (especially Spacek), that when Wilkinson finally confronts her with all the frustrations he has against her character, you're shocked along with Spacek at all the accusations against her that Wilkinson lays on her, because, you know, he's RIGHT. You didn't know this, but if you watch the film again, little things pop out that justify Wilkinson's accusations.**Spoiler ahead!** About the ending, I felt it was a bit too pat and neat. Like it was almost too perfect, ____ didn't put up a fight or anything, just did what he was told, and blam, he was dead. Also, I am wondering if it was the filmmaker's intention to make the murder this obvious, as there are tons of clues abound that even a junior detective could pounce on. This ending makes the movie a great one down from an excellent one. "},{"Title":"Clinical Direction","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Todd Field's In the Bedroom should be fraught with melodramatic emotions. That it's not is to its credit. He makes a very clinical, reserved film out of extremely volatile subjects. Unfortunately, the clinical nature of this film deprives it of emotion all together, from my perspective. I was never moved nor was I horrified at what I saw on screen. Field could have mined this subject matter, which details the harrowing loss of a son, for cheap emotional payoffs. I'm glad he didn't, but I just wish I felt something for the characters. The distance between the audience and characters is, probably, the film's only fault. It's wonderfully shot and acted, but the lack of a visceral connection, for me, made the film a bit tedious. Had it been shorter, I might think otherwise, but spending two-plus hours in the company of characters I want to care about but cannot is trying. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Acting","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The opening scenes of this film were beautiful, seeing a young girl running through the open fields during a wonderful Summer Day with the Sun shining through the trees. Naturally, a young man is running after her and they become engaged in a very warm soft kissing of their lips and the pure passion is felt by the audience. All the actors in this film made you feel like you were a part of the film and they acted just like the normal run of the mill folks from a town in Maine. Tom Wilkinson,(Matt Fowler),Separate Lies,'05, played a doctor in the local town and was married to Sissy Spacek,(Ruth Fowler), who was a musical vocal teacher at the high school. The both parents were very easy going with their son and this particular Summer the son got involved with an older married woman with two children. The son and this older gal made no bones about the fact they were having sex even though she was not divorced from her husband. The husband was the son of the owner of the largest Sardine Canning factory in town and had lots of power. Great film and very worth your time to view. Enjoy "}{"Title":"A novel approach to storytelling","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I really like the way the story is told in this movie. It is not the play-by-play narrative that one usually sees the selection of scenes that are shown is more suggestive of a series of replayed memories. When we look back on dramatic events in our lives, we often remember very clearly little things that seem relatively insignificant later on - while really pivotal events may be recalled only in a blur.The narrative of this movie reflects this the lives of each character are shown to us as a series of moments, connected not so much by plot as by the significance each moment for that character. Events that sometimes seem very important to the story's plot are skipped over entirely, because they do not stand out in the character's memory so much as what happened afterward. The one or two really critical moments in the story feel confused everything happens very fast and much of what happens is off-camera. The viewer does not fully understand what has happened until the camera pans slowly downward to show the whole picture - and suddenly everything sinks in. "},{"Title":"A lifetime of ramifications","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Many previous reviewers have done an excellent job of enumerating this movie's many fine points; the performances, the writing and the overall tone are all universally excellent. However, I believe many have failed to give proper consideration to the one point that is crucial to any discussion of what happened in this film, and that is that no one actually knows what happened. There were no witnesses to the actual incident. Was there a struggle? Was it an accident? Was it really a murder that legally and morally justified the ultimate punishment? That is the real ambiguity of the film.*Possible Spoilers* Revenge was ultimately taken, but was it truly justified? Was the original incident heat-of-the-moment manslaughter, or murder, calculated and cold-blooded as the second incident most certainly was? All the Fowlers knew was that their only child, gifted and so full of promise, was dead. Their pain was visceral and the man who apparently pulled the trigger fit the profile of someone who should be punished; violent, crude, and lower class. One can only wonder if over time as the pain recedes and their own swiftly buried guilts about not having more children or not doing enough to stop Frank's connection to an older woman with baggage come bubbling up to the surface, that these same questions will also start to occur to them. Most certainly they will to the introspective Matt Fowler, and maybe even to the bitter Ruth. The film leaves us to speculate on this and how their answers will color the rest of their days. A truly thoughtful film. "},{"Title":"A film not to be missed...","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Today's theatrical releases often tend to be over-done in many ways. There are too many Brukheimer-esque gas explosions for now good reason, nudity or violence just for the sake of it and too much political correctness to go around.In The Bedroom, however, avoids all this. (SPOILERS TO FOLLOW)The movie is a true slice-of-life film. The characters are believable, as well as are the circumstances. The way Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek (The Fowlers) deal with the grief of the loss of their son is truly realistic and reflects exceptional acting. The circumstances surrounding the relationship between their son, Marissa Tomei's character and the character of her estranged husband are probably exactly what would happen.The deep pain that neither parent feels they can share with the other, leads to a tension that ends in Wilkinson's character ultimately killing Tomei's estranged husband. I've heard some people say this is not what someone would do - WHATEVER! I found this plot twist made the story even that much more realistic. I couldn't believe when he shot him. Amazing piece of cinema.  "},{"Title":"Cold, solemn, bleak...","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Morally unsettling and unrelentingly bleak, IN THE BEDROOM is a film that dares to play against the expected aspects of the formulaic revenge thriller. It is like an extended episode of the old Alfred Hitchcock Presents... series in that it involves seemingly ordinary people who are surprisingly capable of doing very bad things and it plays its dark scenario against the backdrop of a cozy middle-class existence. The difference -- and it is a very important difference -- is that the Hitchcock touch was the ability to instill, if not humor, at least a sobering taste of irony into his tales. IN THE BEDROOM is solemn and cold.To its credit, the film doesn't play it safe. Contrary to convention tragedy doesn't bring people together, the parents of a slain young man are granted little sympathy and the act of revenge is presented as neither exciting nor gratifying. It is a brave stance to take, but somehow that isn't quite enough. Women are the catalyst in the story in the way they indirectly provoke violence. One woman rejects her abusive ex-husband for a teenaged lover and that leads to a killing. That killing compels another woman to pressure he otherwise passive husband to seek revenge. One woman's actions are sane and logical, the other's is cold and calculated. It is this second woman who gives the film it's edge, yet also makes it difficult to either watch or praise. As played by Sissy Spacek, the woman is the mother of a young man who's life is full of promise and yet suddenly wiped out when he places himself in another couple's domestic dispute. The boy's mother can find no peace, accept in placing blame and seeking vengeance, and she is willing to sacrifice others to achieve that revenge. She is, in a very quiet way, a monster; cold-blooded, amoral and cowardly. There is another character in the film who is problematic the ex-husband-turned-killer. For one thing, as played by William Mapother, the character is a pure cliche. He is the smarmy rich kid/ex-husband, who is given everything but a silk top hat, a cloak and a mustache to twirl to underscore his evil intent. Had he been presented as a sympathetic character -- a young father seeing his family slipping away from him -- the whole texture of the film would have changed dramatically. In a film that is full of unpredictably real characters, his is left transparently obvious.There is so much to praise in IN THE BEDROOM a consistent and purposeful directorial tone, fine performances, and a challenging look at a potentially trite narrative. Yet the film just misses the mark, due largely to an ending that neither condemns not condones the actions of the characters. IN THE BEDROOM is a film about people with intense passions told in a dispassionate way.  "},{"Title":"Well made, well directed and superbly acted....","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom, an Oscar nominee for Best Picture in 2001, shows why it was nominated. It was well shot and the setting of coastal Maine makes this film easy to look at. The entire movie works with the setting quiet and subtly to look at how a series of events and decisions affect so many people in so many ways. The viewer must watch and listen carefully to fully grasp all of the ironies and information being distributed in the background. Tom Wilkinson, Marisa Thomei are brilliant with Thomei showing that her Oscar a few years ago was no fluke. Sissy Spacek meanwhile puts in another exceptional performance in her career. The pace of the film is the main problem for mainstream audiences as the film seems to be rather methodical at times. Other wise a really good film for those that enjoy dramas.Grade A- "},{"Title":"THE BEST PICTURE OF 2002!","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  in the bedroom is a slowly developing, deeply moving thriller. this movie and gosford park tie for the best picture of the year! in the bedroom is such a great movie and tom wilkinson deserved best actor for his portrayal of matt fowler. this is such a great movie and once it gets its hooks in you, you cant turn it away "},{"Title":"BEDROOM is an acronym for BOREDOM","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In a race between a snail and this movie, the snail would win and leave less of a mess behind.  There were times when I actually believed the director had fallen asleep with the camera still running.  The only bright spots in this movie were the performances by Sissy Spacek, Tom Wilkinson and Marisa Tomei.  However, their talents were utterly wasted on this vehicle...uh, should I say clunker?  I can only think of three reasons anyone would want to see this film  1. You're a film student and you want to see how an inept director can sabotage a film; 2. You're a big fan of one of the above-mentioned stars; 3. You like to see lots of scenery from Maine.  "},{"Title":"commits all the cardinal sins of film making","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The chief cardinal sin of film making, in my opinion, is for your film to drag.  This movie drags beyond belief-what was the point of that concert Sissy Spacek's character was preparing, anyway?  Way too much time was devoted to that.  The music was beautiful, but it served no real purpose.  Second sin-choppy scenes.  This is what I hate about almost all modern movies-the scenes are very short and don't have any aparant flow.  My friend who watched this with me and I decided that if we had to see either Ruth or Matt Fowler watch boring late-night TV because they couldn't fall asleep just one more time, we'd scream.  Thankfully, after about the 4th showing of that, it stopped.  I wasn't overly impressed with the acting either.  I'd seen The Lion in Winter the weekend before this, and that was good acting-this was not.  All the accusations that the characters fling at each other aren't backed up by actions in the film, or at least very few of them are.  I felt nothing for these characters, which I should have since the two main characters lost their only child to a violent murder by his girlfriend's ex.  This scenario should generate powerful empathy and emotion, but it didn't.  I was so bored by the end of this movie, and the ending was totally predictable, so even that didn't help much.  I have no idea how this was nominated for 5 major Oscars, including Best Picture.  Thank goodness it didn't win, or any faith I still have in the Academy would have been completely lost. "},{"Title":"Lobsters in the Bedroom?","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In a prior comment, someone was dumbfounded as to why the movie was titled In the Bedroom.  This answer was provided at the very beginning, but by the time the movie was over, I completely forgot having seen or heard the explanation, and found myself asking the same question.It's when they're out catching lobsters and Matt educates Natalie's son There's an area in the trapper called a bedroom.  One poor fella (lobster) lost his arm.  That's what can happen when more than two lobsters are in the bedroom.  Two's company, three's a crowd.  Matt then describes the pregnant female lobster.  The older lady, the lobster with babies is very dangerous.  She can take out two males -- no problem.Yes, this movie was slow moving and as many have said downright boring at times.  But isn't that what real life is like?  The average person doesn't have these kinds of tragic things happening.  Movies are watched because they are an escape from our own boring realities.  The difference here is that this movie includes that aspect of our lives in between the rare, horrible things that happen to these people.*********SPOILERS**********SPOILERS**********SPOILERS**************One thing that was very clear was how Matt and his wife didn't communicate AT ALL about the death of their son until it just couldn't be contained any more.  It was like if they didn't talk about it, it didn't happen, or they wouldn't have to deal with their feelings about it.  This was a couple that didn't communicate about anything bad.  I'm familiar with families like that and it's very sad.The thing that I found hard to believe in this movie was that Matt could actually pull off kidnapping and killing his son's murderer.  I kept expecting the other guy to get the upper hand.  Natalie's ex-husband was young, strong and obviously had a wild temper.  In real life, I think Matt's attempt would have failed.  Either Matt would get killed, or he'd get charged and put away for murder himself.  And so there'd be another tragedy for his wife to handle.  Either result is predictable, yes, but, more believable.The movie and acting were very good, but I wouldn't consider this a must see.Mary  "},{"Title":"phillip morris commercial","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What is REALLY distrubing about this movie is how Sissy Spacek and Melissa Tommei shamelessly promote cigarette smoking. For example, Sissy plays the role of a teacher and the wife of a prominent doctor, her character is solid, no way that woman would be a smoker. And on at least two occasions people in a store specifically ask for Marlboro cigarettes. (Isn't that illegal, product placement?) The acting is fine, the cinematography excellent. Too bad Phillip Morris moved in on the film to make it one of their commercials. "}{"Title":"Did I see the same film that was so highly touted last year?","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"     I was waiting all year to see the highly praised film, I SHOULD OF WAITED  5 YEARS.        Aside for some beautiful Maine Scenery & good acting, This film is a badly (atrociously)edited film. Vital scenes cut off & you are left with not knowing what happened. The ending is just not there, it just ends.  A lead character dies mid way through & you never learn how. I could not feel the anguish of the parents, cause they spoke so softly.Rating    **1/2     70 points    IMBb   6 "},{"Title":"A fairly good 45 minute movie is in there somewhere!","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The most over-rated, pretentious, self-absorbed movie I've seen in years! There is a fairly good 45 minute movie in there waiting to be rescued.I'm reminded of the (primarily French) artsy movies of the fifties and sixties that had long silences in the midst of conversation, seemingly endless camera shots of things with no discernible relation to the story and filled with characters whose personalities and actions bore no resemblance to any person I've met who wasn't being sought by people with either badges or butterfly nets!    "},{"Title":"Subtle suspense and heart-wrenching humanism at its finest.","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rarely does a film come along that captures such subtle suspense and heart-wrenching humanism as In the Bedroom has.  Todd Field's direction puts a sort of suspense in each climactic scene that keeps the viewer on the edge of his seat.  Not to mention Tom Wilkinson's quiet but modestly courageous performance, Sissy Spacek's award-deserving portrayal, and Marisa Tomei's brief but captivating role...these elements combined, In the Bedroom is by far one of the stand out films of 2001 and is recommended to own for anyone who wants a complete video library. "},{"Title":"this is a very slow movie","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  they should have cut at least 40 to 50 minutes out of the movie.  there is also like no music throughout the entire movie.  they did a very poor job of adapting this short story into a movie.  i gave it a 2 because it was cool when the guy got shot in the head. "},{"Title":"This movie is without hope.  Total crap.","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers??This movie is totally without hope.  It's the same rehashed crap about oh god he's dead.  But this time they ruin the moral of the story.  Don't become like the bad guys.  Certainly the acting is pretty good, but it's a horrible story.  Avoid this depressing mishivah!!!! (using the ol quote from The Mummy)3/10Quality 7/10 Entertainment 0/10 Replayable 0/10 "},{"Title":"A superbly acted and brutally honest film.","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What happens when an already unhappy marriage is interrupted by an event so tragic that it is almost unimaginable?  That is the premise for Todd Field's compelling, Best Picture nominee, In the Bedroom.  Matt and Ruth Fowler (Oscar nominees Tom Wilkinson and the outstanding Sissy Spacek) already have unspoken issues in their marriage when their teenage son Frank begins an affair with a recently divorced older women (Oscar nominated Marisa Tomei).  Her jealous ex-husband finds this out and is not the none bit happy and (spoiler!!) murders Frank.  To make it worse, he gets off almost without a slap on the wrist because of a technicality.  What entails is a bitter and ruthless blaming game for Ruth and Matt which ends in a stunningly acted, heartbreaking kitchen scene.  After the accusations and hatred is finally spoken, the Fowlers then focus their attention toward justice for their sons death.  The films is very simple and is broken into 3 main acts.  Slow at times, but never dull, this is a deep character study and the attention to detail is great.  The performances are outstanding and is probably one of the best acted films of the last decade.  I have to say that Sissy Spacek was robbed of the Oscar for this.  She gives such a three-dimensional, explosive and heartbreaking performance.  She says more with facial expressions and gestures than Halle Berry could with 2 hours of dialogue.  This performance just validates that Spacek is one of the greatest American actresses in film history.  Highly recommended for those who appreciate excellent filmmaking and honest dialogue and want a relief from the big budget Hollywood flicks.  10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"True life in another America","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This isn't particularly mainstream. It has its own tempo. rhythm and plot. It's nice to see a movie, especially from the United States, where your aren't sure what will happen next.It takes place in Maine. Everybody in this small town isn't successful, if you by that mean that most of them have common jobs as clerks, fishermen, factory workers and so on. A catastrophe occurs in a relationship. But through that catastrophe and the vigilante thing that takes place, people still are believeable. The tempo is slow, but one might guarantee that you probably will be absolutely concentrated all the time. That is, if you don't leave, because there are some quite heavy feelings shown here, but not much of heavy violence. It's not an action movie.Todd Field is a very talented director indeed and so is his cast. Especially Tom Wilkinson, Marisa Tomei and William Maputher. See this one!  "},{"Title":"Best Movie of the Year","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hands down this was the best movie of 2001 and one of the best American films of the last 25 years. I've seen it four times now and I'm looking forward to seeing it again. It's a masterpiece -- brilliantly written, beautifully acted, and skillfully directed. There isn't one false moment in the film. The comments about the movie being slow are utterly ludicrous -- the careful pacing and masterful use of stillness are one of the many reasons why this film is such a masterpiece. Anyone who says this movie is slow is simply slow him or herself. I can't wait to see what Todd Field does next. I've never really thought much of him as an actor but, as a writer/director, he's a genius.  "},{"Title":"I'm in love with this film","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I know that many people have seen these film, and then said that it was boring and too slow, but I couldn't disagree more. I loved many things about this film, and many scenes are really close to my heart. The film starts so small, and then it keeps growing and it haunts you. The way in which Field shootes every scene is so unique, every scene - as Spacek said - means something. And the performances are unforgettable, specially Tom Wilkinson's, he is so amazing and so compelling, so human. I can't believe how A beautiful mind won over this treasure. Tomei - though not so much on screen - is a thousand times better than Connelly.You must see this film, it will remain so close to you for such a long time. . .  "},{"Title":"DRAMA","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Its not a love story as the title suggests.  Its a DRAMA!!! Spazek and Wilkinson did a marvelous jobs as parents. The whole story was well crafted and directed.  I definitely think it deserves to be in the Oscar hunt, I think it will be hard to choose from the potential nominees(Beautiful Mind, Lord of the rings) "}{"Title":"Of the five films nominated, this is the best picture of the year.","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Warning Does contain major spoilers.  If you have not seen the film, go see it first and read this review later.  This is one of the best films you will see this year.In a year when I would have to say that my choices for best pictures and performances have varied enormously from those in charge, I am happy to report that this is one film that deserves all the praise it has received.  This should be the cynosure of the Oscar's this year.2001 has not been a strong year for films.  The summer mostly disappointed and most of the films being lionized as great films in the Oscar hunt are just charlatans, a wolf in sheep's clothing, they are nostrums that have fooled everyone into thinking they are something they are not.  While I don't mean to slander any one particular film, it has to be mentioned that A Beautiful Mind, The Royal Tenenbaums, Ali, The Majestic and especially Gosford Park (and a few others that were supposed to be lavished with Oscar nominations) have all failed to impress.  And although I really believe Ron Howard is a great director, his film and his direction are not the worthy recipients this year.  And if everything goes the way it is all shaping up, this is going to Ron Howard's year to join that fraternity which include members like Robert Redford, Spielberg, Stone, Zemekis, Eastwood and Attenborough, just to name a few.  That's going to be a shame because Todd Field's In The Bedroom, is a much more honest and complete film that blesses us, the audience with perfect performances by every single player involved.  If I had it my way, I would give Tom Wilkinson best actor, Marisa Tomei best supporting actress and Sissy Spacek best actress.  Even the secondary supporting characters are brilliant in this multi-layered film.  It is unfortunate that a terrible film like Gosford Park has garnered so much attention to it's acting because this is the film that has the best performances of the year, hands down.In the Bedroom is a story that takes it's time telling us what it is really about.  It's not that it is misleading but that the characters are given every opportunity to show us who they are and why they feel the way they do.  The first act of the film ( and there are three equally powerful acts) is about an apparent summer fling that Frank Fowler (Nick Stahl) claims he is having with an older, soon to be divorced, mother of two, played by Marisa Tomei.  Whether the relationship is not serious the way Frank tells it or if it is heading to a much more earnest area is something that Frank is not really ready to admit yet.  But as they say, actions speak louder than words. Frank is a bit of a looker and has never had trouble obtaining girlfriends before but his interest in Natalie is never really clear to his mother (Sissy Spacek).  His father, Dr. Fowler (Tom Wilkinson) is a little more understanding.  He is more laid back and decides to let his son either make his own mistakes or at least make his own decisions.  Frank's mom is slightly more rigid.  She doesn't come right out and say it at first but in her eyes, her son is committed to college in the fall, so why not just break off the relationship right now before he ruins his life by falling in love with a girl who is clearly not right for him ( in his mother's eyes).  She is a bit of a controlling person and that has never escaped his son's eyes.  That is why he chooses to talk to his dad more often about issues of the heart.  His mother just wants to impose her will upon him most of the time so what is the point in telling her anything?Making matters worse is the fact that Natalie's ex-husband is still in town and he wants her back.  At first it seems their conversations are not necessarily pleasant, but they are not violent.  He clearly doesn't like the fact that she has shacked up with a younger man, but then again, who would?Soon after things take a turn for the violent worst and this is where the film really surprised me.  After Frank is killed while in a scuffle with Richie Strout (William Mopother), I was wondering where the film could possibly go from here.  The first third of this film had me so galvanized, so intimate with what was happening that I honestly felt that in some strange ways there was a vicariousness to the situation.  You knew the characters so well that when the violence erupts, I was saddened to lose that character in the film.  He didn't seem like a character, it felt as though he was someone that you knew.  Maybe he wasn't your best friend but he could have been a neighbour.  So when the first act ended, I was nervous.  I kept asking myself how the film was going to maintain it's hold on me.The second act of the film is how Dr. and Mrs. Fowler deal with the death of their son.  And again, I was effusive with how the film took me along for the ride.  I think in most instances, many film makers would have the proclivity to take this film down a completely different road.  That is what I was fearing here.  But not only does it not happen, but it gets us deeper and deeper into the understanding of how Dr. and Mrs. Fowler relate to one another and how they deal with this tragic event that has encompassed them.  So powerful is the complete analytical deconstruction of both characters that in a span of perhaps sixty seconds I was laughing hoarsely and then sobbing silently and uncontrollably.  It is an emotional see saw battle and there have been very few films that have been as honest as this one.  I don't want to say much more because this is one of the true ineffable joys of the film.  If you are reading this review and have not seen the film, I strongly urge you to do so.  Ignore all of the nay-sayers that claim this is boring or shallow, they know not what they say.The third and final act is one that you can see coming in the second act.  It is not so much an act of revenge but more of a reckoning.  If the court system would have dealt with this the way they should, then perhaps the Fowler's wouldn't feel compelled to become vigilantes.  But that is what it has come down to.  And another perfect example of how this film is so much better than other films that have similar subject matters is in some of the small details.  For example, Ruth (Mrs. Fowler) has the unfortunate and gut wrenching privilege of seeing Richard around town.  She sees him on the street, she sees him downtown and on one occasion she sees him in a convenience store.  Their eyes meet and he looks ashamed.  He looks embarrassed.  In other films, he would have smiled at her or winked and showed a complete lack of feeling.  This is a perfect scene and shows how much of a grasp Todd Field has on his characters.  Another perfect scene is when the Fowler's are arguing about some very weighty issues and they are then interrupted by a Girl Guide selling candy.  Why wouldn't they be? In the Bedroom is, in my opinion, the second best film to come out of 2001.  I would rate Vanilla Sky slightly better but there is part of me that even questions my logic behind that.  If I had it my way, the best picture nominations would have included Vanilla Sky, In The Bedroom, Lord of the Rings, Memento and Mulholland Drive or maybe Legally Blond ( I have eclectic tastes ).  But since I don't have a vote, I will just say that In The Bedroom is the best character piece I have seen since perhaps Tequila Sunrise.  Tom Wilkinson and every actor involved in this piece is at the top of his/her game.  I highly recommend this film.  It is brilliant from the opening sweeping shot of the Atlantic Ocean to the closing credits.  And the last shot is the epitome of perfection.  There would not be a better way to end this film.10 out of 10---The best picture of the year, in the five that are nominated. "},{"Title":"No explosions, no special effects, but hey, a plot with acting and superb directing,  who would guess it's still possible to find in a movie these days","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was getting to think that there were no movies worth seeing.  I've seen enough explosions, implausible fights scenes where so much battery is laid down that no human body could withstand, dumbed-down dialogue for third graders, cartoon plots, and special effects that lead the viewer moving in an emotionless vacuum.  Who relates to this stuff? I would ask.  I imagined there were really screen writers out there with a talent for dialogue.  I wanted to believe there were directors not controlled by the Hollywood profit model that only produces formula movies made for the 17 to 22 year old testerone hopped up male.  The proliferation of war movies makes me absolutely feel unpatriotic, but thank you, I don't need American ideals served up ad nauseum. Finally, IN THE BEDROOM restored my belief that there is still some poetry, drama and artful direction to feast upon in the neighborhood theatre. Thank you Sissy Spacek, Tom Wilkinson, Maresa Tomei and Todd Field.  Excellent Work.  "},{"Title":"Best of the Year, by far","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie will keep you interested for the entire two hour plus running time. Make sure you have the time. If you like car chases and watching stuff blow up, not your movie. If you like slice of life movies that will grip you and tear at your emotions, see it. Lots of great acting, great photography, a great script and well directed. What more can you ask for. Best actor yup. Best Actress yup two of them and great supporting cast.  "},{"Title":"Extraordinary!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is unfortunate in this season of awards and pre-award buzz, that high praise is bandied about so fancifully - or if you want to get cynical, paid for so handsomely - because it would be an injustice if critics throw their masterpieces and triumphs away on less deserving features than In The Bedroom. Heavy with metaphors but never burdened by them, the film derives its title from local lingo in the Maine village in which it is set, where three lobsters in a trap together in the bedroom- spells trouble for one or all of them. The film is somewhat deceptively titled, for although it is often about the secret hopes, dark thoughts, and strong desires that belong in the bedroom, it is not about love, lust, or betrayal in the way that this awkward title might infer. Rather, it is a deeply personal tale about the lives of very ordinary people touched by a sudden and senseless act of violence.In The Bedroom appears at first to be a celebration. The opening scenes are occupied with  the deepening of a summer romance into something sincere and exhilarating for Frank Fowler (Nick Stahl) and Natalie Strout (Marisa Tomei). A celebration of youth and of  youthful dreams, of familial love and parental care, the fishermanís port town in Maine is alive with sunshine and small children in almost every shot. It is with sublime effortlessness that we are captivated by this place and these people. At an evening card game, the words of poet William Blake are seemlessly invoked and appear later to have cast a prophetic pall on what is to come. A tragic and unnecessary death interrupts the summer reverie and sets the wheels of the manifest plot in motion, where it slips into territory familiar with the audience - grief, violence, suspense, revenge in a way that feels anything but familiar.Sissy Spacek has been lauded for her performance as Ruth Fowler, Nickís mother and a choral director, but her performance seems merely serviceable next to that of her co-star and the film's true protagonist, Tom Wilkinson, who plays her husband (Matt Fowler), the local doctor. Wilkinson gives such an astoundingly realistic performance in this role that it feels like trickery, a visual stunt like Magic Eye pictures, or 3D glasses. In combination with a faultless screenplay, In The Bedroom is consequentially so engrossing that you find yourself literally holding your breath, measuring it out deliberately both from tension and the desire to remain concealed in the darkness, as you intrude into the privacy of what may be the most three dimensional characters brought to life on screen this year.  A good film is one that exploits itís medium, it should never tell where it can show, and this may be the real strength of In The Bedroom. The dialogue is spare and truthful, often making inspired use of ambient sound rather than overbearing cinematic score. When Spacekís Ruth Fowler explains her grief to a priest she says It comes in waves. Like music. No sound, but so loud. The dialogue is like this too.  The silences are so heavily pregnant with ideas, with emotion, with possibility, that far from being bleak or boring, they ascribe a great deal of power to the viewer, whose mind cannot be still for an instant. Every word is lingered on and savoured, not because it is emotionally bare or desolate in the style of Ang Lee's The Ice House, a similarly character driven movie, but because they are almost unbearably human and revealing.The flirtatious innocence, the warmth of the external and internal summer, is established so faultlessly in the beginning that itís severance is tangible. The portrait in grief which follows is almost excruciating, but cousin to the same painful intensity of falling in love. It is difficult to behold, but it also feels like a gift to have such genuine emotion stirred in you by fiction. A radiant Marisa Tomei, warmed by the sun and touched by new love, opens the film with the dreamy declaration I love this place. I can feel my life  and that's what Field is giving his audience with this film. Somehow it creates a place away from its plot points where you too are woken and can feel your life.Because of its intensity, In The Bedroom is not always an easy film to watch, but at the same time it is utterly compelling viewing. The Los Angeles critics choice of 2001, it represents in its original approach the pinnacle of what modern American cinema can aspire to. It is an incredible directorial debut for Todd Field, and a true cinema experience that should not be missed.  "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a really short review.  One thing that I have to say about this movie is that it was amazing.  It has become one of my favorite movies that I've ever seen in my whole life.  I can't wait until the DVD. "},{"Title":"chilling","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film has intensity that I welcome with arms wide open.  It dares to make you feel uneasy in the seat you watch from by delivering powerful performances and a frequent lack of soundtrack that is often used to stir your emotions.  And it chooses not to tie everything up with a nice little bow at the end.  9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A True Literary Achievment","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Some films may just be too good for an audience. That's not meant as an elitist statement, but an expression of despair for staggeringly beautiful work that deserves a better reception than you know it's going to get. It's a fact of American life that the surest way to ensure that only a handful of people will see or read something is to tag it with a label of highest praise to call it literary. The astounding debut of first-time director Todd Field, In the Bedroom, has already won the Sundance Special Jury Prize and the New York Film Critics Circle Awards for its lead actors Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson, the L.A. Film Critics Award for best film, and has been nominated for three Golden Globes and five Academy Awards. A reviewer in the hinterland, where the film receives a late broad release, has never felt more irrelevant. What else can be said, when the major critics have already praised it for its Wyeth-like visuals and emotionally tortured portrayals of a family? Based on a short story by Andre Dubus, Ruth (Spacek) and Matt Fowler (Wilkinson) are an educated-class couple in small-town Maine whose grown son Frank (Nick Stahl) is involved with Natalie (Marisa Tomei), a young, nearly-divorced mother of two. Frank tells his worried mother that it's a summer thing but clearly more serious than he lets on -- the aspiring architect even considers delaying his career a year. He's not fooling anyone, least of all Natalie's estranged and violent husband Richard Strout (a wonderfully creepy William Mapother), the son of the local canning baron. The plaudits for Spacek and Wilkinson are well deserved. As Ruth, Spacek is a world away from the hysterics that earned her initial acclaim in Carrie, playing a New England mother who roils with essays unspoken. No wonder that Natalie is frightened of her; the working-class girl's attempts to make innocent conversation at a picnic are quashed by Ruth's gulf-widening explanation that she did her thesis on Eastern European folk music. Her controlling nature is subtle, as in the late-night sandwich she makes for Frank, insisting you must be hungry. Yet these are small things, human, forgivable and rooted in love, never releasing us from sympathy. Her husband Matt, meanwhile, is a true man of Maine, a family doctor descended from lobster fisherman who loves his son and happily envies his youth. Like a lobsterman, he navigates both the warning buoys between his wife and son, and the shoals of his own recriminations. The story turns when, as we know is inevitable, Frank is killed by the jealous husband Richard, and Field's skill as a director comes fully into bloom. We are given a surprising story, in which grief is not, as it is so often simplistically portrayed, a hovering shadow, but a force that pushes its bearers like a gale-force wind. Field shows us not just a couple trying to cope with loss, but a community that can't quite deal with it either -- or, more specifically, doesn't know how to deal with them. Their struggle to function in everyday ways, like mowing the lawn or having breakfast, which Field shows us in brief, blackout vignettes, takes on the weight of boulders. The couple's frustration at the slow, unwieldy justice system that can't seem to grant them any satisfaction is manifested, for most of the film, without words, such as Spacek's descent into chain smoking or Wilkinson's glassy stare at the corporate truck bearing the name Strout -- the surname of his son's killer. These low-key scenes do little to prepare you for the film's third act, in which revenge is neither sweet nor satisfying. Most astounding is Field's minimal touch. There is very little sound throughout the film, with the only memorable soundtrack the Balkan women's chorus that Ruth conducts for a Labor Day program, which Field uses to haunting effect. Unlike many new directors, he is willing to hold a shot, and to rely on his actors to do their work on his behalf (much like, as has been pointed out by others, Stanley Kubrick, in whose Eyes Wide Shut Field acted). Just as impressive is Field's establishment of place, the village of Camden, Maine, by the repeated use of the same establishing locales such as the white arch announcing Camden, the cannery or the lobster docks. Anyone who has spent time in a small settlement can recognize the importance of regular, recurring landmarks seen every single day. It's Field's simplicity and elegance that makes this film recognizable as literature. It's interesting to note that Bedroom is accompanied on its nationwide release by The Shipping News (also reviewed on this site), based on another literary source, the Pulitzer-winning novel by E. Annie Proulx. The difference between the approach of the two films, with Lasse Hallström's sweeping cinematography versus Field's introspective reliance on character, only underscores the distinction "},{"Title":"Best film of the year","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Last week I went to see Lord of the Rings. A good film, but to me there was something missing. I did not feel involved, but more to the point I was not moved.This film took me by surprise. OK, I was expecting a good'un after seeing the four nominations for this year's Oscars but I wasn't prepared for this.In the Bedroom is a truly outstanding film. What makes it so special is that despite the personal flaws of all the leading characters, one actually cares about them. It somehow manages to be warm, yet bleak at the same time.Death is always a difficult subject to handle and yet Todd Field does it with an assured sensitivity. The film is never sentimental and yet it does pull at the heart strings.The lead characters are played with great reserve by Sissy Spacek, Tom Wilkinson and Marisa Tomei as well as young Nick Stahl. Somehow, the understated characterisations only serve to add to the film's depth.In some ways the film is similar in style to American Beauty, but while Sam Mendes' classic relied on some degree of humour, In the Bedroom does not. Indeed, for some it might be hard going and there were a few glum teenagers trudging out of the cinema I was in some time before the end.Perhaps they should all stock up with popcorn and sweeties and watch Lord of the Rings for the sixth time before they grow up enough to appreciate this astonishing film.  "},{"Title":"SLOW BURNER","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Similarly to last year's excellent The Deep End, this is a small town small gem. It takes middle America, and how everyday people adapt and respond to life-shattering changes. The middle part where Spacek and Wilkinson come to terms with their grief is excellent. The finale has been criticised, but it makes perfect sense to me. I don't believe Wilkinson knew what his intentions were going to be, and his response was all about a natural, emotional response.Well worth catching. "},{"Title":"No special effects, just great acting, script and location.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now that film makers have so much computerized special effects at their disposal, it is rare that one is treated to a movie that simply uses great acting, talented writing and a location shot with a camera not generated with computers.  Tom Wilkinson should have received at least a nomination for Best Actor for his performance. Sissy Spacek and Marisa Tomei were excellent but, Marisa should have worked more with her dialogue coach. Her New York accent was at times distracting. The story is riveting in its simplicity and raw emotion.A small budget gem.  "}{"Title":"Damaging","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In The Bedroom was one of the best films of 2001.  The film reminds me a lot of Affliction.  Like Affliction, In the Bedroom is an emotional roller coaster that backs a punch.  The film is brutally realistic, and may hit a little too close for some.  Sissy Spacek gives a fine performance, but Tom Wilkinson's performance contains an amount of power and pity that is rarely seen in films today.  A truly remarkable film.10/10 "},{"Title":"One of the Best Films of the Year","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Plain and simple few movies display the type of feelings and emotions this film does. The film is driven by the story and performances, especially by Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek. Director Todd Field creates some terrific sequences, especially a haunting car ride near the end and a conversation involving a lawyer and Wilkinson which makes wonderful use of sound. This is a powerful film with Oscar worthy performances and raw human emotion. Plus, the film contains small little touches to drive home the realism of the film. A 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Deserves Best Picture Of The Year","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've read most of the posts on IMDB concerning this film. There is no doubt in my mind that the people who find this film boring are probably the same lovely film critics who believe that movies like The Matrix and Laura Croft deserve best picture nods. I thank god everyday for people in the industry like Todd Field and the Miramax company who overlook typical Hollywood and bring quality films back to the screen. The acting in this film is quite extraordinary. Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek are brilliant in the performances. Both of them deserve Oscars for their outstanding work. "},{"Title":"Simply Classic","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rated an 8I felt after seeing this film that I had just watched one of the great  classical Greek tragedies.  There was such a sense of the inexorable.  Shocking as the ending is, in reflection, there is only path in this story and only one possible conclusion.  From the first bright moments of a family picnic, to the ending which places you in the darkest  moments of a father's soul, everything follows from  necessity.  The necessity, of course, is defined not in the occurances in the storyline, but in the personalities of thepeople involved.  Everything that happens follows from who they are and the choices they make.  This is one of the best films released in 2001, possibly the best. The agony of the parents is the soul of this story, mostexcellently portrayed  by Sissey Spacek and Tom Sizemore. Everyone else is equally good in their roles, and the natural acting styles and casual portrayals are in interesting juxtaposition to the highly formalized and structured storyline. These just felt like real people, real situations.  So real, in fact, that most of the time, the theatre was filled either with dead silence or sobs, as viewers tried to absorb the emotions of the characters. The situations in the story wring your heart, so be forewarned,this film exposes the darkest side of love and family.  You won't leave the theatre singing the theme song, but you won't easilyput this family out of your mind.  I rated it an 8 rather than a 10 because there just wasn't a break in the sorrow and some balance was needed.  Otherwise, highly recommended, but see it on a day when you are feeling strong.    "},{"Title":"Six Stars In A Brilliant Merging Of Technique and Realism","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Director Todd Field brilliantly yet subtly helps us see that tragedy often makes previously insignificant moments momentous.  In real life, people change far too subtly and slowly for the screen. Field avoids the dramatic change by suggesting character that is vulnerable to pressure. With extraordinary skill he makes us think about how fragile OUR lives and relationships are. He makes us realize that coping isn't a skill so much as a force that can shatter and then rebuild us in private, individualized ways.While Sissy Spacek (mother) and Marisa Tomei (girlfriend) are the names used to promote this film, the film belongs to Tom Wilkinson (father). His isn't a performance. He IS the compassionate small-town doctor seemingly content with being nothing more than the best father, husband and doctor he can be.The film points out that momentous events don't so much develop as reveal character, and if we have the strength to face what we learn of ourselves and loved ones, then perhaps our character and relationships will change for the better.In one of the most poignant scenes of the film, Wilkinson and Spacek face off and reveal what they have been fighting to suppress. It sent chills down my spine because thinking it is clearly one thing (Who in the audience didn't have similar thoughts?) but saying it without restraint is quiet another thing.A small yet powerful scene was when the girlfriend (Tomei) finally gets up the courage to go to the mother (Spacek), needing to talk so she can put some things behind her. Is the mother also ready? At this point in the film, I had feelings for each character, both good and bad, and as I sat in that darkened theater, I was saying to myself, Please, please, don't do it . . .  When the scene played itself out, my feelings for and about the characters were even stronger. Films rarely gage me on this level or to this degree.Most filmmakers take the easy way out. They either allow reality to suffer in favor of formula and technique, or they make the mistake of thinking reality on film requires no technique. Unfortunately the first often results in money-making but ultimately forgettable movies. Unfortunately the second often results in critically acclaimed films few can sit through.Films like In The Bedroom rarely come along, and when they do, intelligent film-goers need to go out of their way to spread the word. The manner in which In The Bedroom effectively uses craft to make reality engaging is reason enough to go see it. It's also why the film should garner award after award. But will it?Question For The Day What happens when more than two lobsters get in a bedroom? "},{"Title":"A masterpiece.  Easily the year's best.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After reading some of the negative comments about this film from filmgoers who evidently have the attention span of a day-old baby, I have to weigh in with the following  I feel sorry for anyone who finds this film boring and lifeless, because like a good symphony (which has slow spots also), In the Bedroom is anything but boring.  In fact, it is an American masterpiece and easily the year's best film.Sissy Spacek has long been the actress I have missed most seeing regularly on the big screen.  Supporting roles in Affliction and The Straight Story aside, she has just been invisible the past few years.  That will explain why her extraordinary performance in this film is getting the attention it is and why Tom Wilkinson's isn't people (especially critics) love a good comeback and that certainly is the case here.  As one critic perceptively said in a recent review, it is what is not being said in this movie that is important and what is not being said is written all over Spacek's face.  It is an incredible portrait of controlled grief and rage that takes over the entire film.  When she slaps Marisa Tomei, it's not because she deserved it (she obviously didn't) but because the character is so angry over her loss she just has to strike out at somebody.  My favorite scene of Spacek's is when she is talking to her friend (played wonderfully by Celia Weston) and the friend unthinkingly makes a callous remark and instantly regrets it. The way Spacek takes her hand and smiles, trying to comfort the friend while masking her own extreme pain is almost overwhelming to witness.  These two scenes alone should win her the Oscar this year.As for Tom Wilkinson, ever since The Full Monty I have felt this man deserves greater fame than he has achieved and I feel this is the film to do it.  His prior roles have shown him to be British to the core, but in this film he becomes a New Englander and is completely believable in his role.  My favorite scene of his is the film's last and his final expression of devastation is one I'll never forget.  Unlike most films which fizzle at the end, this film ends on the perfect note.  And his handling of the scenes where he learns of the tragedy that drives this film and then has to tell his wife--well, bring lots of Kleenex because you'll need it.  As for Marisa Tomei, if I have one wish for her, its that her performance here will finally put to rest the cruel rumors about her 1992 Oscar win (especially the one where Jack Palance accidentally read the wrong name and the Academy covered it up) and will prove once and for all that she is a talented actress who deserves the success she has achieved.  And contrast Nick Stahl's performance here with his cruel psychotic victim in Larry Clark's Bully (my pick for runner-up film of the year) and you'll find this is a young actor of considerable promise.  In all, if you are a serious filmgoer who isn't afraid to let a filmmaker take his time telling a good story, one who doesn't feel all films have to be paced like Raiders of the Lost Ark in order to be entertaining and satisfying, give In the Bedroom a try.  It will be worth your while. "},{"Title":"Not just Spaceck, but Wilkinson & Tomei too ! (deserve Oscars)","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is perhaps the best adult themed film Ive seed since Gods and Monsters, the performances by all are outstanding, Sissy Spaceck is brilliant, but Tom Wilkinson's performance sets the tone for the entire movie.. Marissa Tomei is excellent also, her best since My Cousin Vinny, The story, the script, the photography, the entire mood of this film is staged and directed brilliantly by Todd Field...He deserves any award he'll get for In The Bedroom... The scene between Spaceck and Wilkinson ,confronting each other with accusations, deserves bravos and cheers I have not seen anything so rivetingly honest, in quite some time... Some may believe the pace is slow, but remember so is our fouled up legal system.. Go see, see again....and this film should receive many Oscars, or there is no justice !!!! "},{"Title":"A Modern Day Tragedy, In Epic Proportions","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Running against the grain of Hollywood melodrama is an exceptionally difficult task.  Todd Field's immensely extraordinary craftsmanship in the creation of In The Bedroom, not only manages this, but exceeds all expectations.  While I could certainly focus a review sufficiently on the meticulous attention to detail, the absolutely superb casting, and the profoundly believable nature of this film, what I found most exceptional, and what separates it from many other great films, was its profound literary and social value.Throughout this entire movie, I was continually reminded of a Shakespearian tragedy.  All the traditional literary elements are accounted for a flawed protagonist, a human antagonist, and the ingenious and saddening exposition of the nature of humanity.  This picture transcends the boundaries of simple filmography and tells a story much, much greater.  It is not every movie where the audience can so closely identify with the protagonist, and not fault the character for his or her actions, and yet realize that he or she is so completely and utterly wrong in doing them. Field has managed to take a snapshot of human flaw and imperfection and somehow adduce it in a powerful and ultimately irreconcilable manner.  The power of this film lies not in the fact that it is simply a story about loss, grief, and revenge, but that this loss, grief, and tragedy is something that the audience can collectively assimilate.  The Bible once stated Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord, I will repay.  I don't think I ever understood that to the degree that I do now.  While some purists will certainly object to my comparison of a first time filmmaker's work to the established hallowedness of Shakespeare's tragedies, I feel this film is a modern epic of substantial literary and social worth, and should be treated as such.Incidentally, for those literary types, Field gives a plethora of symbolism, foreshadowing, and allegory to whet your appetites.  Without giving anything in the story away, look at the opening of the film as the credits are being run, the signs in the fish-packing plant will most certainly set you down the right path.  The regressive/progressive sequencing of the scenes (look for order to chaos, refinement to simplicity, and superficiality to brutal honesty) also seems to play some importance into the overall story.  Also, the occasional use of off-centered shots have a certain depth and substance to them.  Be sure to look at how the Fowler's lawn and license plates of the vehicles are portrayed throughout the film.  Also, last but not least, the Redsocks Radio portions are also of some importance.It's not often that a film of this caliber comes to at least partial mainstream existence.  Don't miss out on this exceptional film. 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was completely amazing. One of the complaints that this film seems to be receiving is that it is a fairly standard story, but these people seem to be missing the point. This film captures so many amazing subtleties of everyday life that it was overwhelming to me. There is a scene in which a priest and a woman have a conversation with no obvious connection to the film at all, and it is totally brilliant. This film is about details. The plot is, of course, nothing new, but it is told in such an extraordinary way.    I loved everything about this film. I loved Tom Wilkinson's heartbreaking performance. I loved Sissy Spacek's seemingly stereotypical, but completely authentic performance. I love the fact that the characters tell bad jokes, because people aren't so witty in reality. I love the fact that no one in the film is too good looking, or particularly stylish. I love the fact that nearly all of the film's violence is implied, so that when we see its affects it is utterly devastating, the way it should and would be. Most of all, I love the direction by Todd Field, which reminded me of Robert Altman's films. This film is compassionate, heart breaking, and above all, real.  "},{"Title":"Look at the movie. Just look at it. What, you late for an appointment or somethin?","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  To everybody who says, what's the point of showing that? or it dragged on, unrelievedly slow. Well, I don't know, what's the point of showing anything? What do YOU choose to show? This movie makes you ask that questions because it takes a series of events, (and yes, the director knows that you've seen Ordinary People, and you think you know how it should unfold), and takes a slow, careful look at it. This movie is overflowing with great photography.What are you entertainment-bots whining about? Guess what, the audience is responsible for providing all the emotion. You're staring at some light projected on the wall. You're the one warming up the chairs. Your brain either likes the way it looks or not and then you feel emotion. The audience always provides MOST of the story. I think the point of a film with such a heavy subject as this is to only hint at what the audience could feel and let them get them all worked up if they want. Otherwise, you feel manipulated. Some movies are more subtle in their hints than others and thank god this one is. Try the movie Simon Birch if you want to be shouted at with gigantic neon signs exactly what emotion to feel, Ok, now feel SAAAAAD. Mmmmm wasn't that sad?This movie kicks ass. It's gorgeous. I was stunned speechless for an hour after I saw it. The characters are driven by upper-class white puritanical rage and that's the most ho-hum part of this movie for me. But imagine what it must be like to live there. I think that's what this movie is about. It is very similar to The Sweet Hereafter in that respect. You are dragged into the claustrophobic yet beautiful atmosphere of that place. I felt like I had been slapped by Sissy Spacek in that auditorium. Ouch.  "}{"Title":"Acting At Its Best","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's been a while since I haven't seen a movie in which all main characters are SUPERB. The director's work here was brilliant. Spacek and Wilkinsom are for me the Oscars for Best Actors of this year. One of the details I loved the most in this movie is that silence is one of the main characters, there's more said with silent moments than with words. And that's excellent writting and directing. Loved this movie! "},{"Title":"A Frighteningly Realistic Look at Domestic Violence","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  For some, domestic violence is the flavor of the month but its emergence into and continuing impact on public consciousness and law enforcement concern is a major step forward for our society.  As a lawyer with a law enforcement background I felt like I had stepped into the screen and witnessed again patterns of destructive behavior that in no way are exaggerated by the fine cast of this provocative film, In a Bedroom.The characters in this film will seem unreal or shaped for celluloid by those who haven't seen the sequential unleashing of pent up anger that characterizes chronic dysfunctional relationships with a clear potential for violence.  The behavior of young, love and sex besotted, Frank's parents, a blend of caring mixed with that special quality I call need not to know is right on the mark.I'm a very big Marisa Tomei fan and have been disappointed that in the past few years she has too often had minor roles playing the trusted girlfriend and other supportive but non-central characters.  In this film she truly reveals the depth of her acting ability and I hope producers and directors look closely at her for major roles. I wonder how widely this film will be shown.  I saw it at Lincoln Plaza Cinemas on Manhattan's Upper West Side yesterday in a theater that might seat 200 but I doubt it.   It deserves to be on many screens nationally.Moving, thought-provoking, scary - it left indelible impressions on me.By the way, if viewers watch and understand a key scene very carefully, the ultimate resolution becomes even more troubling than at first glance.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful first effort by Field","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film at the DGA yesterday and loved it.  Yes it has it's flaws but it is certainly better than the majority of films out there at the moment.  It amused me to no end to hear the comments of Hollywood types as they exited.  Everyone is a director, casting director, editor, musician etc.  Why cannot people just allow themselves to sit back and experience this directors take on the material.  To me his style, slow as molasses, suited the place and subject matter.  All actors were superb (even Tomei, who I love to hate).  Wilkinson was simply awesome.  Every gesture contained an ocean of genuine feeling.  Spacek also was wonderful, especially in one scene where she facially reacts to her husbands very angry onslaught.  It is very predictable in part but overall a very moving piece of work. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the year.","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In a Fall film season when the public seems to be ignoring the movies of any importance (The Man Who Wasn't There, Waking Life, Mulholland Drive) and instead opting for Hollywood crack (Harry Potter, Life as a House) it is my hope that Todd Field's sublime first feature will break the cycle. It is a haunting, slow-paced melodrama that draws back to the work of Terrence Malick and Robert Redford (his good directorial work anyway), concerning a older couple, their collegiate son, and the town which consumes their lives (and like the great photography showcases, the area which consumes the town--the Maine sea and woods). Freddy, the couples' son played by Nick Stahl, is seeing an older woman who is going through a difficult divorce settlment with an abusive ex-husband. This situation leads to drastic consequences that stun Fred's parents just as much as it stuns the audience. And that's all I'll reveal. All I can say is what happens next is a revelation in delicate acting by Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacey, keenly observed through a looking glass by Field. The film has much going for it. It triumphed at Sundance this year (believe me..it was the best thing I saw there aside from Linklater's Life). It is being released at a time when it is finally safe for distributers like Good Machine (Ang Lee and James Schamus) to release good, uncompromising, complex, and cynical films again, now that the Sept. 11 dust has settled. And at a time when Oscar almost needs to be wakened again. Let In the Bedroom be the cold sudden chilly water that pours over his sleeping head. "},{"Title":"These are people I know","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  My wife and I attend a film extension class at UCLA. Stephen Farber is  the teacher and we get to see movies before they are released. Last night we saw a movie called In the Bedroom. It affected my wife in a very emotional way and called to mind the films I remember from my youth like The best years of our lives. Two of the men in the movie are veterens and their friendship is something that rings true for me, as I too served in Korea. But the story is about a marriage and children in the beautiful moments of life, and also the most ugly. The director was on a panel at the end with Mr. Farber. I was shocked to see how young he is. This is a very mature story and yet he seems to understand truths that I thought a person would have to be much older to understand. The movie deals with time in a way I can relate to.  "},{"Title":"Not great, but not bad.","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Saw this at a 'special screening' last night, and kind of enjoyed it. It's indulgent, that's true, but there's some fine acting in it. The audience for the most part stayed with it, although there were some comments about the length (it's quite long).  All in all a decent attempt. "},{"Title":"Strong stuff - fine picture","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sissy is simply amazing in this somewhat slow-to-start drama. But all the pieces are there and by the time the events get rolling,the result is a riveting experience. This is a movie for adults. The subject matter, pace and the painful interplay between the characters are a part of being grown up. Very worthwhile.  "},{"Title":"So beautiful and true.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film at the Montreal World Film Festival today and I cannot stop thinking about it. The film takes you through every possible emotion you have ever felt in a way that is profound. To analyze the film in any detail would trivialize the beauty of the whole. Yes, the performances and the craft of the film maker are perfect. But this is more than just a movie, it is that rare film that will stay with you for the rest of your life. "},{"Title":"Stunning!","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Todd Field's IN THE BEDROOM is one of the most visceral experiences I have ever had in a movie theater. I felt as if I had just finished an amazing novel. Somehow the film achieves transcendence in a way I never thought possible. It is important to note that the events that take place in the film are not always enjoyable, but they are earned. If you have a chance to see this film I urge you to be prepared for true physical and emotional toil. It's not an easy film. It asks a lot of the viewer. My husband and I saw the film at a preview last month, and we still can't shake it. Sissy Spacek, Tom Wilkinson and Marisa Tomei's  performances are as sophisticated as Field's storytelling. I am looking forward to seeing the film again whenever it is released. "},{"Title":"a film of rare insight and emotional power","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film at a screening in N.Y. and it just astonished me. The story was so powerful and the emotional nuances were so true. Rarely do American directors take the chances Todd Fields takes in this movie and more rarely do they pay off as they do here. A story of a family and a town rended by events that are cataclysmic yet personal.  The cast headed by Sissy Spacek is superb. This is a must see "}{"Title":"Crossroads","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There's an Irish pub in Boston called the Crossroads. It's the type of place that, five years after the ban, still smells of cigarette smoke. Come winter, regulars hibernate on crooked stools; the lights stay low and the door firmly shut. But spring flips the door open and brightens up the place. The incoming wind scatters napkins and resilient smokers rejoice on sidewalks, thanking God for winter's passing.One night my professor, Andre Dubus III, and I visited for a beer. He explained that his father, celebrated short story writer Andre Dubus, and Richard Yates, used to frequent and drink together years ago when Yates was living nearby.We went on to discuss our shared admiration for his father's writing. Then Dubus III told me a secret Killings, his father's short story, was being made into a film.I flipped through my mind's file cabinet. I remembered the story, the characters Matt Fowler, Strout, and Mary Ann. I recalled the line Then Matt went to him and shot him once in the back of the head. I remembered the story's taut revolution, its exposition of eruptive family rage, and how it displayed Dubus's staggering literary powers.The story's writing is crisp, fluid, penetrating; at the end, it's as if somebody sucker punched you in the belly a testament to a short story's success.Dubus III was concerned, though. Much would have to be inflated for the story to become a film script. But he was certain the characters' depth would allow Todd Field to develop enough range and subplots to fill the visual void.The name for the movie would not be Killings, but rather In the Bedroom. The title is a slippery reference to the space where lobsters wait after being caught in a trap. In the movie, Matt Fowler (Tom Wilkinson) explains the business of a lobster trap by quipping, If you get more than two in the bedroom, you're bound for trouble.This line summarizes the circumstances that involve his college-age son Frank (Nick Stahl) and Nick's older girlfriend Natalie (Marisa Tomei) as they frolic and try to raise Natalie's two young boys, all the while avoiding her creepy, aggressive ex-husband.Todd Field, who's also directed Little Children, forged a full-bodied screenplay from Dubus's slim story. Much of Dubus's style and interests find voice in the movie northeastern blue- collar workers and their struggle with alcohol and religion and love are portrayed with intelligence, humor, and sympathy. The result is a resonant, gripping experience, a slow- burning movie with enough quality to savor.Characters are given more attention and space to grow. The plot is spread out, moving much slower than the story. Where Killings delivers a sucker punch, In the Bedroom seduces, abducts, and in the end delivers what you've come to expect vengeance, regret, and duplicity.The direction is understated and calm; many critics have declared it to be some of the best work in recent American cinema. In one affecting scene, the camera zooms on Matt's face as he listens to his lawyer. The lawyer's voice is drained out, and Matt listens to his lawyer's pocket change rather than his advice. The scene represents Matt's gradual disillusion with the law, his progression towards acting on his own, and also captures the details that work to illuminate his state of mind. The director has used one scene to translate pages of psychological prose.Matt's isolation strains his marriage and subsequently lends the movie its drama and urgency. It is easy to relate to grieving parents, easy to understand their anger and sense of helplessness. But it's difficult to understand Matt's decision to act. When he decides to kill, he smashes the illusion of kinship he's forged with the audience and delivers instead the harshness of the situation in stark, what would you really do, terms. Spacek and Wilkinson's performances are genuine and vital, full of rage and sadness. As we follow along, captivated, their characters' survival grows meaningful their tested willpower and fates become our own.In the end, when Matt finds his justice, a dark glow comes over him. The glow expresses his torture while his son's death has changed him forever, his stability and moral code have been threatened by what he's done.In the Bedroom, unlike many attempts at putting literature on the screen, is a triumph of spirit and production. Field fuses so much of Dubus into the movie that it feels natural, at home with the author's horror, sadness, and unique sense of humanity.Andre Dubus died in 1999, before the movie was complete. But as I sat with his son, discussing film and writing, his presence filled the room. Around me, sitting in the Crossroads, were the blue-collar guys he so often wrote about; the door swung open and the wind blew in; it was a perfect place for a Dubus story.Dubus III and I stepped outside and a group of men stood in a circle, smoking. One of the men, barrel-chested and bearded, sharply resembled Dubus. Guy looks a lot like my father, Dubus III said.The man suddenly looked, as if called, and stared hard into my eyes.That night, a literary bull pounded the floors. Todd Field, for his efforts, has proved an adept matador. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the last few years","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'll admit I wasn't enthusiastic about this movie when I first heard of it, perhaps because the title made me think it was some earnest love story. It's not. Yes, there is a love story in the plot, but it's about much, much more than that.The film takes time to get where it's going. It's set in Maine, where people move a bit slower than they do elsewhere, so maybe that's appropriate. If you want a film where the plot leaps from one thing to the next without letting you think, then this probably isn't for you. But if you want a slow - yet deliberate - march to greatness, this is it.There are several very surprising turns during the plot of the film, so I don't want to give away too much. But let me say that when you watch this, you'll think it's about one thing, and then you'll think it's about another thing, and then finally you'll think it's about a third thing. The focus of the film changes drastically form one place to the next.Word of warning This film can be incredibly depressing at times. I wouldn't watch this if you're looking for light comedy or a barrel of fun. "},{"Title":"*yawn*","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Dang, this movie was long and tiresome. I'm sorry, I know that this was a drama, and I am a fan of dramas. But this was just so depressing and long. Over all, I think I have a decent summery of what happened. A college guy falls for a single mom who has a very dangerous ex, of course, his mom disagrees with the relationship and wants him out of it. He doesn't do so, and when the relationship takes a tragic turn of events, I won't say what, the parents must learn how to deal with what happened and wonder if there was a way of preventing or justifying what happened.While the movie is well acted and it is a decent drama. There is just no spark to the movie that could keep me. I think it was a good movie, just not for me. I'm still not so sure on how or why this movie was nominated for Best Picture, but then again, the Oscars have been crazy post 2000. Well, I'm not sure what else to say, but to those who liked the film, I can see why. But just this wasn't a movie for me.5/10 "},{"Title":"Strong leads make us forget the flawed beginning","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The film starts disappointingly and this is mainly because of totally miscast Nick Stahl and William Mapother. Stahl looks ridiculously young and childish, much more than what the movie meant him to be. He can barely pass as an adult. For example where he plays poker with the elders, it's just farcical. Mapother on the other hand cannot create strong feelings against him as he should, his face just doesn't write well on screen. But thankfully the movie does take off after about half an hour and one of the main reasons is that we don't see much of neither of the above guys. It arrives at being a very solid character study with amazing performances by Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek and among them, my vote would go to the fantastic Tom Wilkinson.The strong moments of the movie are the silences, not the words, especially between the couple. The atmosphere becomes heavy, unbearable. You totally feel their pain. And when a movie succeeds at this, it's a good movie. "},{"Title":"Comparing In the Bedroom with Mystic River?","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was dismayed when I read someone comparing the motivation, circumstances, and outcome of both films as being equivalent. I could not disagree more.In the Bedroom is like intervening in Afghanistan. Mystic River is like invading Iraq. One is brought by desire of revenge, because the door to justice is closed. The other is brought by the desire to let the neighbourhood know who is the boss. In one the grief gives way to revenge when confronted with the lack of remorse in the perpetrator. In the other grief fives way to fear of losing your standing in the community if you let the suspect get away. In one the main characters waited for justice to proceed, but the system failed them. In the other, the main character is not interested in waiting for normal procedures.Other than that, both are superb films.Regards, Luis  "},{"Title":"If you have an insomnia problem then get this movie.","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  We saw this movie had great reviews and went to go see it.  I saw the movie CHUD and it was more entertaining than this. Hercules in NY was even better and that was a horrible movie. There were about 5 interesting minutes in the beginning and another 10 at the end. I don't believe there was a single person in the theater who didn't voice their displeasure at the end of this horror.  Terrible. "},{"Title":"Now I know what is to waste 2 hours 6 minutes of my life","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is always this knack of intelectualoids and cinema critics in going into a frenzy over incomprehensible, slow, boring and irrelevant cinematic art such as this waste- of-time of a movie. Ebert, Berardinelli, et al, are ecstatic beyond words ...It's also the best movie of the last several years the most evocative, the most mysterious, the most inconsolably devastating... even writes Edelstein of Slate! I wonder how did he came to that undeserved and ridiculous conclusion a big fat envelope maybe?It took Todd Field more than 2 hours to tell a story that any half-able Director would not need more than one, wasting unbearable minutes in long inconsequential shots. Dialogue is poor, script is insufferable, and --believe me-- this `Ode' to justifiable vengeance WILL quietly fade away into oblivion sooner than we think. I'm sorry but I just don't understand what is all the fuzz about this pitiful movie.Only to be saved out of this mess are Wilkinson's and Spacek's performances. Above- average but not memorable or even outstanding. All in all I do agree with Edelstein on one thing but in reverse It has to be the WORST MOVIE of the last several years! Minus five out of ten if I can be allowed to give it a `minus' grade!  "},{"Title":"One of the most boring movies I've seen in quite some time.","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I could tell you the whole plot in 4 sentences (but don't worry, I won't). During most of the movie, nothing happens.  The story could have been told in 30 minutes, but they drag in on for 2 hours.  Establishing the mood is great, but that's all this movie does.  Through the movie I couldn't bring myself to care about any of the characters. "},{"Title":"In the Boredom","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all, let me say that I LIKE boring movies.  Okay, maybe I don't LIKE them, but I respect them.  Some stories are better told at a snails pace.  Some actors are MUCH better when they don't talk but when you can tell what's going on inside them.  This movie has none of the qualities I look for in a movie.  I found it emotionally barren, with none of the characters interesting or heartbreaking or worth caring about.  Its like listening to a song that has only one note, for over two hours.  I like all actors in it but none of them distinguished themselves in this movie.  I didn't find anything of value here.  3/10.  "},{"Title":"I disowned my mother over this movie.","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  My mother said this movie sucked.  She was wrong.  Other people said this movie sucked.  They were wrong.  This is one of the best movies I've ever had the pleasure of viewing...again and again and again.  Tom Wilkinson's performance alone is worth the price of admission.  Sissy Spacek got most of the praise for her performance, but Wilkinson (and the movie) should have won every award they give.  I really can't put into words how incredible this movie is.  Yes, it is on the slow side, but greatness can't be rushed. The tension builds with each scene and seems to get released, but it's really building the entire time and in the end it just sticks.  It never really goes away.  Some things can't be undone.  Their effects are far-reaching and the solutions aren't simple.  This is quality.  Creating tension and emotion out of minimal stimulus and doing it realistically. The scenes lacking action are as important as the scenes with action.  Sissy Spacek sitting in a chair, Tom Wilkinson laying in bed, Spacek asking him if he wants breakfast, the bridge operator doing his job, Celia Weston talking about her trip to the theme park, Wilkinson listening to change in a pocket, or Wilkinson buying some candy from a girl or stopping at the gas station. I could go on and on, but all the praise in the world can't help some people understand greatness.  If you can't see the greatness in this movie, then you can't see the greatness in life.  Greatness is in the details...the little things.  This movie shows that better than any I've seen.  I'll miss my mom, but I'll still have my In the Bedroom DVD. "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm horribly biased on this one, so this is a clear 10/10 for me.  Not only  am I a Mainer, but I've known the extra Diane Hamlin (the lawyer's secretary) for years.I have great admiration for simplicity in movies, especially those that are more about what the characters are experiencing.  This movie had such a great balance of character and plot.  It's unfortunate to read some of the previous user comments from people are so desensitized they need car chases, explosions, and gunfire to hold their attention.  This was an incredibly well done movie that was uncomplicated, treats people intelligently and ends well.Ok, one gripe...  why can't anyone get a Maine accent right??  It's fairly close to a Boston accent, mostly just slower and more relaxed for lack of a better word.  The closest movie I've found with half-decent Maine accents was Storm of the Century.  C'mon, lets get'n the cah 'n go have a beeyah Maynid... "},{"Title":"The number 2 film of 2001","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Todd Field with his film debut In the Bedroom has proved himself in 130 minutes of superlative filmmaking.  Here is a motion picture that is so straightforward with it's realism that it will make those who seek realism in movies but usually don't get it feel quite rewarded.  I know I was.Frank (Nick Stahl) and Natalie (Marisa Tomei) start out at the beginning of the film as lovers (Stahl says to his mother played by Sissy Spacek it's a summer thing).  This is to the distaste of Natalie's ex Richard (William Mapother who gives the best villain performance I've seen in a while) who still thinks they are married in a sense and this goes into a tragedy- Richard shoots Frank in the head.  The film then follows Franks parents, Spacek and Tom Wilkinson, as they try to cope and move on after the death leading to a striking climax I dare not reveal here.It may be slow for some, but by doing that and showing small yet significant details in the story it brings out as much true emotion as a film can bring, which this film goes a long way to make exceptional.  This is also attributed to the outstanding performances turned in by Tomei (it might just top My Cousin Vinny), Spacek, and especially Wilkinson.  In two words, must see.(One more thing, this is my second favorite film of the year, right behind Mulholland Drive as the best pick and ahead of Amores Perros, Blow, No Man's Land, A Beautiful Mind, The Pledge, The Score, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back and With a Friend Like Harry).  A+ "},{"Title":"bad","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" yes... the worst movie i ever seen in a cinema. was so boring i walked out.the lead man was pathetic as well.i should have known from the title it was going to be bad but i watched it anyway,surely you think the people making the movie would understand how dull this was,,,terrible is a word that doesn't do it justice and the actor Wilkinson IE Mr fowler cannot be regarded as one of England's greats,, i think he was even more at a loss and out off place than most of his other roles,,they were awful acting together and i hope i never see another movie with either of them in it,as i say i never seen the end of it,, just couldn't bear the thought of sitting any longer watching this dribble,did anyone like this,if so i dread to think,,on the bright side they could not make a more pathetic movie than this.did they even read the script before they accepted the roles,, money just i think............. "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is a masterpiece. Not that it's the best movie I've seen, but the simpleness of it all...No big poignant screaming matches, no buses going too fast or meteor about to hit the earth. Just people.Not unlike several other independent movies, it is about how people react to life and to others around them. No Hollywood ending there! This is definitely a must-see movie, if only for the new found respect I now have for Marissa Tomei. She was facing an incredible cast (Tom Wilkinson, Sissy Spacek, William Mapother) and she nailed her part. You really feel for her as much as you feel for the others.Really, a masterpiece... "},{"Title":"Sorry, great actors doing a great job of putting me to sleep","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I've read the comments on this movie and it is either a love it or hate it type of film. I wouldn't say I totally hated it - I did think the actors played their boring parts well. I am a patient movie patron and wanted to like this film - it won awards after all! I do watch cinema to take me away from boredom, that's why Hollywood typically goes over the top - it is a release of our daily grind. Do those critics watch the films at double speed? or are there Condensed versions available? Perhaps they didn't have to watch curtains billowing four separate times. I felt that the script was also missing that unpredictable quality that was so often used by Hitchcock or more recently, the Coen Brothers. The plot matured so slowly that nothing really came as a surprise, I found myself urging the actors to act out via yelling at my screen (it didn't work). "},{"Title":"Reminded me that cinema can do powerful things.","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  When done right, the medium as an art form can take us to places we've all been, bring to the fore emotions that we thought we dwelt upon in the quiet recesses of the night when nobody else is around, and show us both the beauty and fragility within life with such heartbreaking simplicity.  Thank God someone out there still allows movies like this to be made, because it reminded me that film is a canvas of expression capable of heightening life's real moments of conflict, and yet still occasionally be savvy enough to avoid straying into histrionic territory.  Each moral struggle is pitched or conveyed perfectly here; making me wince at times with its accurate rendering of dilemmas we sometimes have to face.  I felt the love, hate and regret keenly, and I don't think you can reasonably ask much more than that from a viewing experience.  All here do sterling work, but Tom Wilkinson should have netted an Oscar for his portrayal.I realise my outpourings might seem needlessly verbose to some, but In the Bedroom is a work that lives up to its title by being best appreciated at close quarters.  As such, my inadequate phrasing is probably of little consequence; for by the time you see it for yourself, you'll understand perfectly anyway if your tastes run to thoughtful, affecting movies.  A modern masterpiece. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Ultimately Disappointing...","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"   I really expected In the Bedroom to be one of the best of 2001. However, lack of any care for the characters, nor a steady plot here helps the film become a bore quite quickly; the performances were very good, especially on Sissy Spaceck's behalf, but the film becomes tiresome after a while and I continued to check my watch to see how long it would be until the film would be over.The direction is decent, but lack of plot progression really starts to get to you.All in all, In the Bedroom is an ultimately disappointing drama.2.5/5 stars - strong performances, nothing more -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Two Different Films Spliced Into One","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I stopped watching this film about mid-way and came back to it later (it just happened that way...had nothing to do with the film itself) but what I discovered is that this movie is really two different genres and narratives in one. And the thing is that in this case, I can't decide if it's a good or a bad thing. The first part is somewhere between a straight up drama/tragedy, an introspective narrative on family, loss, relationships, blah blah. The second part is a essentially a thriller. Both, separately, are done pretty well. Together, they make for an unusual mix. The mix is soured by the fact that the part that should have been given more screen time is the thriller one.There is some really great writing and acting in this, nice shots, interesting pacing and nice editing. As some people have pointed out, the movie does move painfully slowly at certain moments. I'm going to assume the director did that on purpose as a kind of 'slow simmer' for the big explosion that comes at the end.It's worth a look, but I won't call it a masterpiece, as some critics have. "},{"Title":"best movie","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the best movie I have ever seen! Each scene was made in a special way! The acting was also superb! The movie talks about relationship, depression, consideration and, of course, love. I have watched it many times. Each time, I find different things, different perspectives. In the Bedroom is an exhilarating movie. I normally recommend it to my friends, especially if they are fond of drama. Many have asked me What is your favorite movie? Well, there are many wonderful movies I like, but In the Bedroom is my favorite! If you haven't watched it yet, and if you like drama, watch it! It is a deep and impressive movie. You will probably cry! "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great scenes of Maine.  Haunting Balkan folk music background. Wonderfully deep acting performances.  And Marisa Tomei.In the Bedroom captures Yankee tradition better than any other film I've ever seen.  Andre Dubus's genius is only enhanced by Todd Field's exceptional debut. "}{"Title":"Very long, very dry","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not quite sure how In the Bedroom was a Best Picture nominee.  There's nothing technically wrong with the movie (as far as I can tell).  The directing is good, the acting is good, the writing appears to be good as well.  Unfortunately, the movie crawls along at a snail's pace.  There's only two high-points within the entire movie -- near the middle and at the very end.  Other than that, we simply see the characters, for the most part, going about their day to day activities.  There is a lot of white space in this movie (for lack of a better term).  Honestly, I expect a little more actual entertainment from a movie.  I'm also puzzled as to why some people think this movie is disturbing?I gave this movie a 5/10 -- I didn't enjoy it, but I didn't hate it either. "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very disturbing film, In the Bedroom raises more questions than it answers. It is the story of a family in New England and the young son's affair with an older woman. The acting is powerful. It is a superb film, well worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"Like the Great Movies of 30+ Years Ago That Emphasized Story Telling","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This great movie was like the great movies of 30+ years ago that emphasized story tellings rather than special effects. The acting was perfect and the scenery was wonderful and included a great driving scene down a small town main street late at night. People who enjoyed this suspenseful move would also like some of these great 1960's movies (they still look great) Splendor in the Grass, Dark At the Top of the Stairs, Parrish, Back Street, Imitation of Life and Madame X. "},{"Title":"Simply stunning...","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Certainly the best movie from last year that I'VE seen, IN THE BEDROOM combines intellegent direction with outstanding performances in a story that manages to convey the power of loss without resorting to mawkish sentimentality.While Sissy Spacek has won well-deserved acclaim for her performance, my hat's off to Tom Wilkinson.  His portrayal of the grieving father is strong, believable, and very real.  Both Spacek and Wilkinson present characters that I feel like I know.My reservations with the movie are SOOOO slight they wouldn't even merit mention, normally.  An early scene presents an analogy so heavy-handed that it's out of character with the finely crafted tone of the rest of the movie. The hoary old flashback device is only employed once, for perhaps a whole second, in one scene; Field likely needent have bothered.  And I thought a little too much time was spent on the story's climax, though that's an entirely personal judgement.Everyone involved with this gem of a film deserves a hearty round of applause. "},{"Title":"Provides A Significant Emotional Experience","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  An emotionally devastating film that points up just how fragile life really is, and the facility with which one's universe can be turned upside down veritably in the blink of an eye, `In the Bedroom,' directed by Todd Field, is an incisive examination of the irreparable psychological damage left in the wake of a tragic event which, in a perfect world, never would have happened.  And it drives home the fact that this is not a perfect world, but a very flawed world in which crime-- especially a crime of passion-- is more than just an existential concept to be pondered, but a very real part of a very real and imperfect world.  It's a discourse on the unthinkable; a meditation on that single moment you so desperately want back in order to change what otherwise will be forevermore irreversible, and finally on the acceptance of a reality that in the end, is unacceptable.  It's a film that explores the parameters of endurance, and seeks an answer to a question for which there is none; in it's place we find a paradox of the human condition, wherein lies a tenet irrefutably conducive to matters of the heart, and beyond any resolution of the intellect.For Ruth and Matt Fowler (Sissy Spacek, Tom Wilkinson) life is good; they have a comfortable home in a small town in Maine, where she teaches and he has a successful medical practice.  Frank (Nick Stahl), their only child, is working part time as a lobster fisherman, while preparing for college in the fall.  But first, there's a long, hot summer to embrace, and Frank has become involved with an `older' woman, Natalie (Marisa Tomei), the mother of two young boys.  And though they are separated, Natalie is not yet divorced from her estranged husband, Richard (William Mapother), which makes for a rather tentative state of affairs-- especially in light of the fact that Richard wants Natalie and his boys back.  For Ruth, her son's involvement with a married woman has become something of a bone of contention, and rightly so; there's a reason that Natalie is no longer with her husband.  Add to that the fact that Ruth is afraid that Frank's infatuation with Natalie may derail his plans for college, and her concerns seem entirely valid.  Matt, however, though concerned about the situation as well, feels Ruth is being overly cautious on Frank's behalf.  His attitude quickly changes, though, when subsequent events transpire that not only vindicate Ruth's worst fears, but take them all past a point of no return.  And for the Fowlers, life will never again be the same.Todd Field co-wrote this Oscar nominated screenplay with Robert Festinger (adapted from the story by Andre Dubus), and he goes on to deliver a pensive film that is visually poetic and altogether involving.  In the opening frames, Field establishes an idyllic setting against which he proceeds to unleash a story through which, emotionally, he achieves Everest.  Setting a deliberate pace, he subtly explores each phase through which all of those involved must pass following the tragedy, with special focus on Ruth and Matt   And it's a study that goes well beyond the typical rendering of a `seeking justice in an unjust world' drama.  In this one, nothing is in black and white; instead, it is gray areas that prevail.  Field sifts through the emotional wreckage of the those involved, contemplating the effects of the event and the psychological implications manifested in each individual's response to it.  He demonstrates a keen insight into human nature, acutely capturing the confusion and that sense of disorientation, that feeling of `What do I do next?' desperation suffered by Ruth and Matt, and how it affects their relationship with one another.  Again, Field finds pronounced shades of gray in the very different ways in which the couple copes with and attempts to resolve their own inner conflict and rage, and the lack of communion it engenders between the them.  From the very beginning, he taps into and then maintains that kind of disconcerting tension one feels in the face of uncertainty; that fury born of the inability to resolve that which absolutely must be resolved before one can move on.  It's a matter of attaining closure, and Field clearly indicates how elusive that can be, and the depths to which one must descend in order to find it. As Ruth, Sissy Spacek gives a memorable performance for which she was deservedly nominated for an Oscar for Best Actress.  As embodied by Spacek, Ruth is a quietly confident and obviously domineering presence; a mother who, without question, wants only the best for her son.  As the drama unfolds, Spacek delivers a portrayal steeped in ever-deepening introspection, wherein the anger for which she so desperately needs an outlet is contained and controlled.  And you can feel that inner turmoil coming off of her in waves, even as she attempts to mask it by affecting an aloof manner.  It's a convincing performance, extremely honest and real; one to which many in the audience are going to be able to connect and identify.Tom Wilkinson was also nominated for an Oscar for Best Actor-- and deservedly so, as this is arguably the best performance of his career-- for his portrayal of Matt.  There is such a ring of truth in the way he conveys a `non-acceptant' acceptance as he seeks the resolution he so desperately needs, for himself as well as Ruth.  It's a moving performance, and like Spacek's, one to which many are going to be able to relate.Also turning in an exceptional performance (also nominated for an Oscar) is Marisa Tomei.  Even with less screen time, she effectively holds her own with Spacek and Wilkinson.  Personal experience and frame of reference are going to have a lot to do with how `In the Bedroom' is received; but on one level or another, it is going to provide a riveting emotional experience for anyone who sees it.  10/10.                  "},{"Title":"*SPOILERS* *SPOILERS* REBUTTLE at Criticism of In the Bedroom","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all, i can agree with many that this movie was slightly disappointing. I think a lot of critics were so desperate to name one movie a Great achievement of 2001 that they all went along with this. It was slightly overrated, but still an excellent film.On the comparison to Monster's Ball I would rate MB a 6.5/10. This film was an 8.5/10. Halle Berry's perf, though good, does not even remotely compare to Sissy's, which conveyed more emotion in facial expressions than Halle could in dialogue. (I believe the Oscar should have gone to Nicole Kidman for THE OTHERS, but Sissy is a close 2nd). In comparing the movies, Monster's Ball could not even give a fraction of the emotion that In the Bedroom gave. ITB was so painstakingly real and full of emotion that it truly made you feel like you were with the Fowlers. Although the film was extremely slow at times, I believe that it helped the film in the end.*SPOILER* In regards to the ending I don't get why everyone was so angry at it. I think that just because Matt kills Richards does not make it a revenge flick. I think the scene was incredibly powerful. But the end seems to show that Matt is unfulfilled by the murder. He is not happy that he got revenge, he simply did it. I think that, pertaining to Wilkinson's sentence on Natalie's face, it meant to convey that both Fowler's were starting to realize the graveness of what they had done. It was excellent, though you could interpret to say that the Fowlers will both live ultimately meaningless, guilt-stricken lives.The storyline may have been a bit trite (not nearly as much as everyone says), but the performances were incredible. I find myself a little annoyed that everyone said that Spacek outshined Wilkinson. She most certainly did not!!!!! Both were incredible, but Spacek only has a total of about 40 minutes of screen time (mostly spent staring impassively ahead), while Wilkinson has about 1 hour and a half. The best scene of the film comes when the Fowlers erupt on each other, and blame each other for their son's death, and Spacek conveys so much reality in that one scene that it makes up for some of those scenes where she's just there, doing nothing. Tomei also shines, proving her incredible acting skills. Even Stahl manages to give reality to his perf.I don't completely understand the ending (I don't REALLY get the thing about Natalie's picture on the wall), but this was still an excellent movie.  "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think the movie is excellent in every respect that I can think of. Especially the acting, the cinematography and the suspense were at outstanding levels. I found every scene enjoyable and very real and the movie had me hooked until the end. The movie reminds me of The Deep End, Fargo and Happiness. This is a must see masterpiece! It touched me very deeply. "},{"Title":"May be the next big winner at the Oscars","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Todd Field,the star of such movies as Ruby In Paradise and Eyes Wide Shut,does a wonderful job as a director with In The Bedroom.This movie hits hard with one's emotions without seeming like a soap opera.The scene where the parents confront each other about how they feel about what they felt about their son is as gripping as how the family came apart in 1980's Best Picture Oscar winner,Ordinary People. Nick Stahl and Marisa Tomei do very nice work as the couple whose happiness ends all too soon,thanks to her no-good and jealous ex-husband.The movie is nicely photographed and sets the mood of thismovie well.There was a nice use of the opening sequence referring to lobsters being in the bedroom,which also could refer to the place where the plan to take revenge upon the son's killer was planned.Tom Wilkinson does an excellent job playing the father whois fairly mild-mannered until his son's murder leads him to take action against his son's killer when it appears that the courts may not.The scene where the father has his son's killer pack his suitcases as if the guy was going to jumpbail and then sees the picture in the bathroom of his son and his girlfriend is a very hard hitting one.As to Sissy Spacek,anyone who thinks that she is one of the better actresses in the business definitely has a big example with this movie as to why those people may be right.In The Bedroom may be the best movie of 2001.If this movie doesn't hit one hard with the power of its emotions, I don't know what would.This movie has a VERY GOOD chance to win a number of Oscars for 2001.Sissy Spacek may well win her 2nd Best ActressOscar 21 years after her first one;Tom Wilkinson might also win a deserved first one for Best Actor.Time will tell when the nominations and the awards come around.In The Bedroom is an excellent movie that may be TOUGH TO BEAT for the Best Picture Oscar for 2001.The ending of that movie only goes as far as is necessaryand no further.The movie is VERY POWERFUL in a quiet way.I give In The Bedroom a rating of 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Direction And Compelling Performances","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the Bedroom is an extremely well made film that is directed by a first time filmmaker who exibits the skill of a master with his direction. Every aspect of the film has been meticulously crafted and in result we are presented with a movie that stays with you long after you leave the theatre.As the film begins we think it's about a young man in love with an older woman who is in the process of getting a divorce and the disapproval of his parents(Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson), but 30 minutes into the film the mood shifts almost instantaneously and the focus is no longer the young lovers but the parents themeselves.In the Bedroom moves at a deliberately slow pace and when things do finally explode Tod Field does not hold back and niether do the actors. The film is various things and it contains many themes that are handeled beautifully. In the Bedroom is one of the best films of the year. "},{"Title":"Not for emotional lightweights----","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  ---or those with TV bred attention spans.  A superior film. Mr. Fields gets great performances out ofWilkinson and Spacek (an actress who has earned and should begetting roles like this every 6 months.) Marisa Tomei turns in thebest performance of her career. All three should receive Oscarnominations if the academy is inclined to show any heart andclass this year.   If you need constant, fast paced movement from conflict to conflictto end, you might be better served taking your child to see HarryPotter. But if you can handle intelligent drama with underlyingsadness and real human emotions that would rival Ibsen'sGhosts, go and see this one.   You will never see violence handled so expertly and in such abrave fashion. But, because it is well crafted, the violence in thismovie is sad, haunting and unforgettable. "}{"Title":"An amazing film hands down!","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is powerful, and explores a facet of life many will hopefully never have to face. The story, characters, and locations are perfect. Tom Wilkinson is amazing in this film, and he and his wife react in a very believable manner. Those who don't get this film have probably never been involved in a relationship where two people are torn between a decision. Either that, or they have never been involved in a predicament that the legal system is supposed to take care of, but doesn't because of some outside force manipulating it.Having no luck with the pathetic legal system, they are forced to take care of it themselves where money, power, and influence have ZERO effect on the outcome.Definitely not a film for whiny liberals or religious zealots. "},{"Title":"A parent's worst nightmare","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Under the deceitful title of In the Bedroom, we find a well crafted drama that serves everybody linked to this film, from director Todd Field to the raw emotions of the parents played with great conviction and honesty by Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek.This is a film that dares tell its audience a different kind of story and in doing so, it presents us with real people with a tale that can happen anywhere and in doing so, it provides the actors a great vehicle in which to shine under the sure direction of an actor-turned-director who obviously cares about the material and doesn't go overboard with the situation, choosing to tell it in a simple and realistic way.Both Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek radiate the emotions which the characters are experiencing in what life has dealt them. The tears we see are real as well as the feeling of detachment that a wife feels about a husband of so many years who suffers in silence an irreparable loss in their lives. We feel the sure hand of the director all over the film in giving us a slice of real life in this little town in rural Maine where a horrible crime has been committed and where justice, as it's shown here, favors the criminal and not the victim, until a surprising twist at the end of the story takes care of the wrongdoer in an unexpected way. The film is totally believable and engrossing. "},{"Title":"to long a movie for what is contained in it.","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Someone from Taipei really confused me with his input on this film so I had to see it. Now I know his input was worse then the movie. Hey its a kid playing with a married woman. If you go with him being to young to know better (Hes college age), the wife most certainly should have. Now what happens in movies like these is pretty much common knowledge; BUT watch out there are some twists here to the norm. The twists add to the movie but cant save it. The problem is the cast did a good job but the director took way to long to tell the story which could have been done in half the time. At 2 hours I probably would have given this movie 7 maybe 8 stars. "},{"Title":"Not Oscar worthy","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, i did enjoy this movie at some parts, especially aesthetically. What i didn't like, what most people here added as a plus to the movie was its portrayal of reality. This isn't oh so real like all the Americans live, not even the majority. In a grand landhouse style house, no real problems to worry about, mother is teacher daddy is doctor. And this movie seems to try to go for the American beauty look, not only visually but also stylistically, and i don't think that it achieves that. American beauty though was really Oscar worthy! In the bedroom maintains and protects this cliché image or all those little cliché images that make up America's overall image in the world. OK, enough images here. It is, though, relatively entertaining and well shot. thats it, Davey "},{"Title":"Total Boredom","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I am a fan just like anyone else of a good movie that tells a good tale. Many movie watchers look deep into the script and the overall production of the film to find a good story line and well told tale. However, this film is just total boredom from the beginning. While it is a film of natural human nature, dealing with tragedy and the heartache that results from it, instead of surrounding mainly around the plot of the legal system after someone kills someone, instead, it deals with how a couple is coping after losing their son. And even though everyone with a heart can understand and feel for the couple, the story they choose to tell in this film bored me to tears. Halfway through the film, I found myself going online and ensuring that my farm is well taken care of on Farmville on Facebook. It could not keep my interest and by time 3/4 through the film, I had totally given up on it.I recommend this film if it is late at night, you are having trouble sleeping... and you want something to bore you to sleep quickly and soundly. "},{"Title":"Hello Paint, This is Air... Have a Nice Day in Nowhereville, USA","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I think this whole screenplay took 10 minutes to write. This was the most agonizingly slow and pointless, reservedly acted, incredibly boring movies I've seen in a long time. I could tell after about 15 minutes it would be one of those I would be sorry I was forcing myself to watch and that it would have one of those open-ended, unsatisfying climaxes that would leave you wishing the movie had a point. And I was right. (For the other reviewer, Sissy Spacek, an Oscar? For what!? I think the entire film she says a total of 20 lines, and I've seen better character development and better acting on Friends.) There is nothing unique that I can come up with that makes this story worth telling.... If my life ever gets this slow and boring, and I had to put up with such an apathetic lifestyle and passive spousal existence, I'd probably put a gun to my head and just end my own misery. It's no wonder the characters in this story go nowhere. That's what happens when you life devolve into the excess that is American suburbia, until there's nothing left to do except feel sorry for yourself because your life is so boring and mindless that you have to take pills just to fall asleep and have a kid just to find a reason to hold your marriage together and even get up out of bed at all. This movie reminds me why the human mind should never be left to rot! Sometimes violence is the only thing people have to make their pathetic and unchallenging lives have any meaning at all. Yawn. "},{"Title":"Lost on Me","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" With the exception of Moulin Rouge, this may very well be the most overrated film of 2001. The first half moves along convincingly enough. Tragedy is handled well and the acting is superb. But when Tom Wilkinson's character actually begins to carry out his revenge, the film gets boring----this is one of the only movies I can think of that gets more boring as it picks up speed. Watching the boiling anguish and suffering on the faces of Marisa Tomei and Sissy Spacek kept me interested for a while, but both women disappear for large portions of the film. A solid enough movie----but one of the best of the year?.....Grade C+ "},{"Title":"This film made me angry","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Not angry at the villain (too easy), not angry at the parents (too hard), not even angry at society (unearned). No, I was angry at Todd Field for making such middling, boring claptrap. This is the kind of movie that morons heap awards on, that peabrains like to think of as daring and adult. I've seen actual Adult films with truer emotional intensity.The scene where Spacek slaps Tomei had my friend and I laughing out loud in the theater. I could almost hear her saying That's for stealing an Oscar, b*tch! The sad irony, of course, is they *both* almost stole Oscars that same year for such drivel. What a joke. "},{"Title":"A Turning Point In Disappointment","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie proved to me a strange truth in film and maybe all art, how you can get everything right, connect all the dots, and still fail miserably.Grief, jealously, class, revenge, all add up to nothing much. It's emotionally complex and finely performed, but the feeling this left me with was a very cynical and confident so what?. I learned nothing, gained nothing, and felt little. This movie felt like a drama in love with itself, it's realism, and honesty, enough so to short change the audience on any real story. It's as emotionally bombastic as Micheal Bay is visually, and yet still manages to say and show, us nothing new or interesting.The film lightly touches on many themes but resists making any authoritative stamp on any of them, and the metaphor of the bedroom and the lobsters, is simplistic and misanthropic. But even that didn't really bother me, what got to me was the hype to disappointment ratio, which tipped pretty quickly after the son dies, and everything becomes Extremely predictable, like a slow middle class Death Wish.At the time this came out it was swimming in oceans of warm praise, and excited to see it watched it with my mom, the best part was at the end, when we kinda connected in both realizing it sucked. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I love this movie, it is one of my favorite movies. I think it is one of the funniest movies ever. The first time I saw it I was laughing so hard that I couldn't breathe. Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spaceck are so funny together. Tom Wilkinson is also great with his wigger scenes and as a man who has been duped in online dating. Who else could have played such a great role? Nobody! Cinematically speaking, the story is like an extremely well-crafted painting where the smallest, seemingly insignificant details are made noticeable in a device used by Field to allow us to laugh at Wilkinson's crazy antics and Spaceck's goofy faces! This movie may lack a few things but what it lacks is definitely made up for in comedic relief. If you have a dry sense of humor or aren't funny in the least, you won't like this movie. But for those who do know comedy when they see it will definitely laugh. I've a sore throat from laughing so hard after just watching this movie 20 minutes ago. I give this movie 2 thumbs up! "}]