[{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever.","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"117 out of 144 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Not many movies keep on getting better and better as you watch them for the 5th, 6th or 7th time, especially comedies. The first time I saw this movie in the Cinema it didn't blow me away, and most people I know who have seen this movie only once do not rate it very highly. After seeing it a few times I rate this movie as high as Fletch and other classic comedies, probably higher.There is so many worthwhile jokes that I think it must have taken quite a while to write - if you don't have a similar sense of humour you would probably think they had written it all in one night which clearly wasn't the case. There is not a lot to complain about with respect to the acting either - their style suits the movie perfectly.Remember that it is a comedy first and foremost - if you are looking for an clever story you have the wrong genre. Criticism of the movie being a series of sketches or jokes is really irrelevant - one look at the cover or preview tells you exactly what kind of movie it is. Regardless, there is nothing wrong with the plot and if you appreciate/comprehend the jokes the movie flows just fine.If you are going to watch it, watch it 2 or 3 times. "},{"Title":"future classic","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"97 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  One of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time.  I haven't seen a funnier first 10 minutes of a movie since SOUTH PARK -- the gags are puerile and stupid, yes, but they are also refreshingly original.  No fair comparing this to POLICE ACADEMY -- the characters in that dreadful series of movies were all alien morons and hardly recognizable as human beings.  These characters are smart and fully fleshed out -- these are the kind of guys who remind you of your friends.  This movie should be an inspiration to both aspiring film-makers and to the big studios -- you don't need a $20 million actor and twenty-five different writers and a ridiculously contrived concept to make a successful comedy.  If I were running a big studio, I'd sign Broken Lizard up to do 10 more movies at the $5-$10 million range, let them hit their stride and develop a following, and cash in on the DVD sales. And let's face it -- none of these guys are leading men, none of them would ever have had a career in Hollywood on their own, but together, they're funnier than those lames on SNL. "},{"Title":"A rave review for a great comedy","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"87 out of 119 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Super Troopers?  Never heard of it. Then I saw it.  Then I hit play again and watched it twice in a row. Sitting in an Airbase in Turkey, I knew I had found what would be our number one cruise flick.  The movie that all the officers of Fighting VAQ-134, could watch together, then spend the next few weeks quoting.   One guy even got a callsign, Farva.  Perfect.  There is a lot of great material to chew on all through the movie.  The rivalry, pranks, and rookie bashing are things we cherish.  And we can all relate to having that one guy around who drives you crazy.  Many of my peers have already purchased the movie. And we have incorporated many of the quotes into our cinematically based lingo.My recommendation is to grab a bunch of friends, maybe some cold beverages, and have a good time.  You just may want to become a Highway Patrolman.  "},{"Title":"Biting Satire of Cops, Drugs and Highway Mayhem! Awesome!","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"65 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The ensemble cast in this film takes the just above average drug humor and turns it into a laugh festival. I rate this movie as funny as Animal House.The Local Highway Troopers are hapless, hopeless, and not anyone you want on YOUR highway, but man are they funny! You truly find yourself loving this crew as they struggle to keep their station open in the face of budget cuts.The characters are so widely diverse yet so believable from the ethnically questionable leader of the crew Arkot Ramathorne (Thorny) whose girlfriend runs a head shop to the adorable and insane Mack whose wild stunts steal the show on a regular basis.  "},{"Title":"Forget what that other guy says.","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"62 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Super Troopers LOOKS stupid but came through in the clutch with solid laughs from this comedy team.I'm not going to use some lame rating system like the other guy used but I will say this IT IS BETTER THAN THOSE MOVIES HE MENTIONED.Super Troopers combines solid physical comedy with surprisingly solid comedy writing. Its by no means a classic, but it is very worth sitting around with some friends, smacking a few beers and checking out this flick.I was surprised by the hilarity of this movie, hopefully you will too. "},{"Title":"Realistic Comedy Classic","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"38 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie was hysterical! The way they joked around with each other was so true to life! It wasn't unrealistic at all! Anybody who sees this will have to agree that there is at least one character in the film that reminds them of one of their buddies! I know it sure reminded me of the guys that hang around me! We just saw the movie this evening on IFC in widescreen, without commercials, and unedited. I am very happy I waited to see it this way instead of a TNT, TBS, USA, or FOX broadcast version. I am definitely getting this movie on DVD as soon as possible! The outtakes and behind the scenes features are probably fantastic! "},{"Title":"I couldn't stop laughing","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"42 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This was a welcome change of  pace, a film that was a bit independent  and a bit mainstream, yet all in all,  was still hilarious. With an unknown  and unproven cast, this film captured  a certain sense of zeal within a viewer,  certainly making the viewer wish  highway patrolmen were this funny and  irregular all the time. Funny, even though  the comedy was sometimes low brow,  this film certainly earned its accolades  at the Sundance Film Festival. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"30 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen this movie about 25 times and it is absolutely one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. The comedy is fresh and deep at times but if you have any sort of a sense of humor...you'll love it. The characters are built well and the film flows evenly until the end. Farva is the funniest character and works well with the others.Buy it! "},{"Title":"What you'd get if you put any Farelly Brothers movie, and The Naked Gun in a blender.","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" If you try to picture that, you'll understand what kind of movie you're getting when you watch this hilarious movie. This is one, that will actually require a second viewing after wards, either because you're laughing so hard, or you don't get most of the jokes. If you don't understand it the first time around, please watch it again. There are a LOT of jokes and gags here, most of them are fall-on-the-floor funny, and even if you don't get it, the movie will still make you smile. I think this is the perfect movie to watch on a bad day. It will cheer you up instantly.The film follows the ridiculously stupid antics of a team of five Vermont State Troopers, Thorny, Farva, Mac, Foster, and Rabbit, none of whom would really qualify for a bronze medal in the special Olympics (as far as police work goes). These cops' idea of a good time involves playing bizarre, often rude mind games with the speeders they pull over (such as, trying to substitute as many words as possible with the word meow, and repeating each other's lines), and chugging bottles of maple syrup in the nearby diner. The state cops and the local cops are rivals, and if the contest was for sanity, the locals would win in a landslide. The mayor is threatening to shut down the state troopers precinct, and when a murder that somehow involves drugs occurs on the highway, the inept highway patrolmen find this as a last ditch effort to save their jobs. Yep, the plot highly resembles something from The Naked Gun, and while the film isn't as great as that, the laughs are nearly just as consistent. Once you see the movie for the third time, you will need to pause the movie occasionally in order to let out all your laughter from the last hysterical gag, and prepare yourself for the next one, which will of course, come probably as soon as you hit the play button. The actors who play the five troopers are all really talented unknowns (especially the guy who plays Farva), and they should all get more starring roles. These guys really know how to make you laugh your ass off, and the fact that they manage to keep the straightest faces imaginable while doing it is priceless. These guys need more recognition, because as long as these guys aren't acting, lots of talent is going to waste. This film really makes me want to see the other Broken Lizard movie, Club Dread, just so I can see these guys in action again. The scenery in the film is just plain gorgeous, with the beautiful green New England look. It's a happy setting, that totally sets a mood of impending hilarity. From the hysterical opening sequence involving some stoned teenagers and littering, you'll need to duct tape your sides together to avoid splitting. Quoting another review, this film may seriously impair your ability to keep a straight face while speaking to a state trooper. I couldn't agree more. This hilarious film receives an 8/10. Please watch it again if it isn't hilarious to you the first time.Super Troopers is proudly rated R for Language, Sexual Content, and Drug Use. Sex 8/10 Violence 5/10 Swearing 10/10 Drugs 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've ever seen","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A great film, with a good pace, lot's of great physical humor and good dialog. This film features terrific characters with the leads (the members of Broken Lizard) and supporting cast. It even has wonder woman (well, Linda Carter is in it at least. And she's still a babe.) The film is also visually interesting with good cinematography and excellent editing. There are great performances from all of the characters including the stoners, cops, and troopers.The plot centers around the antics of a bored group of state troopers who play around with the people they pull over, despite the fact they are about to be cut from the state budget. Good plot tension is added by there rivalry with the local cops and there fight over the territory. There are a number of great pranks, in addition to the good repartee between various characters.This is one of my favorite all time movies, and one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. It ranks up there with Rat Race, Caddy Shack, and perhaps even Animal House. "}{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Was expecting to see a funny sleeper movie...now I know why I didn't hear more about it.  The first 5 minutes were funny, the rest was nothing short of awful.  Too much of the movie was dedicated to crude, sexual jokes.  It ended up having way too much crude humor.  Turned it off before it was over. Rent something else. "},{"Title":"Unbelieveable that viewers ranked this one so high!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  It is mind-boggling that viewers gave this film an average rating of better than 6 points out of 10.  I went in expecting some zany fun along the lines of Airplane or National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation.  Instead the movie offered a few lame sight gags and a cast of characters that you just didn't grow to care about.  Were I still a 16-year-old male (instead of a 45-year-old male) I might not have viewed this film as such a big waste of time.  But my tastes have changed since I was sixteen. "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I just finished watching Super Troopers, and now I am reading all of your reviews in amazement. Super Troopers was the funniest movie since Caddyshack??  The best film of 2001?? Broken Lizard is right up there with Monty Python??  WHAT????? Has everyone gone mad?No, seriously. Did I miss something? It is a sheer mystery to me how this movie ever got made. If you consider this movie funny, I'm curious as to what you find unfunny.  "},{"Title":"Strangely overhyped, and not funny.","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I'll admit, word of mouth got me to watch this one.  And usually that's good, but this time it didn't work.  I only laughed once and smiled throughout.  Certainly isn't that funny.   The last good funny movie I watched was Rat.  Golfballs is better than this movie.  I didn't fully understand why it's got an R rating either.  So I would suppose that 1.  you have to be in the mood to watch below the belt humor, or 2. watch so few comedy's that this is actually good.I don't know if it would be better to watch the second time round, so I'll leave that as a question.3/10Quality 0/10 Entertainment 5/10 Replayable  ?/10 "},{"Title":"One lousy movie","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  We walked out with another couple, stood in the lobby and laughed out loud...... at ourselves for sitting through this inane, stupid excuse for humor.  Broken Lizard delivers writing directly targeted at 15-year olds, except they can't get in the front door without an adult.Admittedly, part of our disappointment was the letdown after expecting more. You see, I actually researched this thing on IMDb and recommended it based on some viewer comments.  So much for research.Having said that, I will offer that the first 15 minutes is a comical scene. We can all relate to the awkwardness as cops and teenagers meet in adversarial circumstances.  And Kevin Heffernan as Farva is fun. This gets it 2 full stars!! "},{"Title":"Unbearably Bad","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Unfunny. Stupid. Lame. I'm trying to think of more words to describe this movie which I unwittingly forked over good money to see. There's nothing worse than trying to sit through a comedy that's not funny at all. I hope that by writing this I will save someone from the agony that I endured.  "},{"Title":"Super Troopers 2/10","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  If there's ever a movie that people say isn't as bad as it looks or what critics say, don't agree with them. That's what I did with Super Troopers. It's a misguided non tour-de-farce that has no idea where it's going. In fact, to make the obligatory pun, this movie could be called Super Poopers, since that's what this movie basically is and what most of the `jokes' consist of.The slim-to-none plot is about highway patrolmen who like to mess with the people they pull over. However, the `evil' state police men are going to take over their highway (gasp!) so they must save it.The bad guys were all too clear-cut, not leaving any mystery or suspense for us to follow. Of course, my DVD player did go on the fritz twice, but I don't think I missed anything. In fact, I'm glad it did. There's so many things wrong, what should I begin with?First, I'll go with the non-jokes. In the beginning I may have chuckled around twice, but soon fell through a giant hole. There are constant drug and sex jokes that aren't funny. The slapstick wasn't even funny; I usually fall for that. It all seemed a bit too rushed and tried to throw in a meaningless plot instead of making this an `SNL-movie'. Personally, I think an idea like this would work better in variety show cases. The `one-joke' premise got wasted early on. Plus, the movie seemed to run out of steam in the end.I also thought that all of the swearing was added in to try to attract a larger audience; it certainly wasn't necessary and definitely seemed not to fit in. Too many characters were thrown in, just like all of the unoriginal movies like this. How are we supposed to keep them straight if we don't know anything about them?I didn't buy any of the chemistry between the troopers and the police; in fact, it was laughingly bad. Hey, just like the rest of the movie!My rating 2/10Rated R for language, sexual content and drug use. "},{"Title":"Makes Brain Candy look Oscar-worthy","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" After reading so many reviews about what a hilarious film this is, I'm wondering if someone at the video store switched DVD on me as a practical joke. This unknown comedy troupe called Broken Lizard, who has been compared to Kids in the Hall and Monty Python (I can't imagine a bigger insult to those two talented groups) put together a poorly acted & scripted, rather disjointed film without *any* laughs whatsoever that left me wondering how such a film was ever made. Playing a group of unlikable police officers, the jokes were weak and underwhelming, and made me nostalgic for the days of the Police Academy films- even the weakest sequel of those was funnier than this movie was (and don't get me wrong, I did not find the sequels to be funny). The best thing I can say about this one is that it had pleasant moments here and there but it's hard to justify spending $4 and an hour and a half watching this. Score a rather generous 2/10 "},{"Title":"Critics and Uptight People Will Hate This Movie","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I have to say something about some of the reviews I've read here. While most of the review, I think, are pretty much dead on, I need to say something to people who want to analyse this film like they do every other movie. What do you people expect? Do you honestly go into a movie like this thinking that you're going to get classic amazing humor that's innovative and ground-breaking? Please! Come on...of course critics and people that have sticks up places that I can't mention here are going to hate this, but I ask you people, why the heck did you go see it in the first place? Like this screen-writer person that was dragged to the theater by a friend. Please dude, get your self-righteous, over-inflated head out of your you-know-what and stop telling us that it was the worst film you've ever seen. And by the way, what have you ever written if you're such a big screen writer from LA? You're probably just p***ed because people were calling your movies the worst they've ever seen. What are you expecting? Monty Python? It wasn't a good movie in the sense that American Beauty or The Sixth Sense were good movies, but did it fulfill it's advertised goal? It did. It's advertised as stupid guy humor....it delivered stupid guy humor. People can be so self-righteous and offended but these types shouldn't even bother to go see it. Get a grip, have a sense of humor and if you don't have either of these then DON'T GO SEE THESE KINDS OF MOVIES. By the way, I gave this movie a 7/10 because it was funny and delivered on what it promised. "},{"Title":"Come for the handcuffs, leave for the film (this is for the college tour only)","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  As a student at Northwestern University, I was able to catch a sneak preview of this film. As a free gift we were given high-quality steel handcuffs, which is a good thing because they should've used them on some of the audience members. This pathetic excuse for a movie was MILDLY entertaining. That is a generous assessment, if I had paid to see this movie, I would have been very upset. This movie makes Dude, Where's my Car seem like Kubrick. The only spotlight in the entire film was an creative spoof of Tykwer's Run, Lola Run, but I bet most of the people who see this movie won't even get the reference.And it was pretty damn obvious that they added references to the Taliban at the last minute, c'mon guys. Get more creative than that.  "}{"Title":"Unfunny bore","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  About as entertaining as wallpaper, sad to say, since the folks involved seem to be giving their all, for what it's worth. The problem for me was that this was meant to be an outrageous, wild comedy (I think), but the whole thing seemed to be coming from a sort of middle-of-the-road, dull place, never crossing the line into anything surprising or really fresh. I'm no snob, in fact I generally like lowbrow humor when it's FUNNY... which is the bottom line for me with comedy (what else really matters? Did you laugh?). This movie didn't get a single full laugh out of me, and wasted a good chunk of my time, which makes me mad. Don't waste your precious time, is my advice!  "},{"Title":"Has its moments","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This film has its funny moments, hardly comic genius, but by the same token not the least funny comedy ever by any means.The acting is good but without being spectacular, with some gags working & others not (but not as bad as some other films, say like Tomcats).  Mildly entertaining but not brilliant. 4/10 "},{"Title":"This movie was just stupid, almost as bad as Rollerball.","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was just stupid. The group of us watching it have no idea why it was hyped, or even made it to theaters. The movie should not have been produced or marketed. Whoever decided that was a good idea should have been fired. This movie was actually as bad as rollerball. "},{"Title":"Wow, This Movie Sucks!","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Broken Lizard is not a genius. This is proof. This is a very bad movie. I'm not a fan of Reno 911, but Reno looks funny compared to this garbage.The plot is stupid. These out of control Highway patrol cops are scared that regular cops will control the highway. OH NO! The beginning scene with the potheads was the only scene in this movie that had a few laughs. The characters are all unlikeable. Brian Cox is here and looks like he's having a miserable time here.As for the comedy, does not work. Much comedy here is forced. I could not believe how much this sucked. I remained silent for the rest of this movie.This is another over-hyped independent movie like Napolean Dynamite that totally sucks. Everybody seems to like these movies. Is it because you really do or to follow the crowd and say you do. This is a perfect movie to test out your fake laughs, cause there are none here.The Last Word Inane. Ignore the hype. This sucks. Spend your time doing your laundry or go to the gym. Watching this is a waste of your precious time. "},{"Title":"This actually played at Sundance?!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  From the opening ten minutes, I thought this would be truly hilarious, an underground gem.  The scenes of the police messing with the stoners had me and the rest of the audience truly busting a gut.  From that point on dead silence.  I actually heard one person comment, When are they getting back to the jokes?  When they did, I found the jokes had the quality of the bad jokes one might make as small talk around the office--certainly not funny enough to hear in a movie.  I honestly did not laugh again until near the end with the scene in the burger place that is prominently featured in the commercial.  My brother commented, This is like Police Academy 8, except that movie would've been a lot funnier.Still cannot believe this was accepted at the 2001 Sundance Film Festival. "},{"Title":"Police Academy on a Low Budget","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is frat house humor moved to the cop house. A bunch of occasionally funny set pieces strung together by a plot not worth mentioning does not make a movie. The opening scene, in which our comic troupe of troopers stop a car of stoned-out kids, may be a hint on how one needs to view this film to enjoy it.      "},{"Title":"what i liked","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Broken Lizard group is hilarious. The variety in actors is a plus. This is the first time I've watched police and see them as normal people. The first scene with the dopers was priceless. The burger guy, shows everyones normal perspective of cops. Hold the spit yea right.I can't believe how good of a job Farva does in making the audience hate him.Ursula, the doll that is, was a highlight of the movie for me. At the end when they pretend to be beer delivery men, and they run into the dopers from the beginning was awesome, I thought they got shut down, but they were still doing what they do. Having a good time not just trying to bust guys chops.I love this group and have seen other work of theirs and their funny with what ever part they play. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films of 2002","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Oh what could have been. A Police Academy for the 21st Century ...Unfortunately, this movie is so lame and unfunny, it wouldn't even rate as a poor direct-to-video sequel to Police Academy. Yes it IS that painful to sit through this very, very bad film. There are dozens of missed comic opportunities that simply were beyond the alleged comedy troupe called Broken Lizard, whichtakes the blame for the script and direction, and stars in this trash.Many people walked out of the screening I attended. So I'd say that most would agree with me that this is an early odds-on-favorite for worst film of the year. "},{"Title":"Broken Lizard can really traffic some big laughs over the highways.","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Broken Lizard, otherwise known as Jay Chandrasekhar, Kevin Heffernan, Erik Stolhanske, Steve Lemme and Paul Soter are a very, very funny group of guys who scored a small success with fans of their first feature film Puddle Cruiser (a film with a few decent touches but worth viewing more as an intro than a great comedy in it's own right).In this movie they play an assortment of traffic police, getting up to endearing shenanigans and fighting with the local police force. Brian Cox is the captain trying to keep his boys in line while Daniel Von Bargen is the head of the rival police force and a major thorn in everyone's side.Jay Chandrasekhar handles the directing duties and does so very well, the movie is perfectly paced and chock full of laughs from it's opening sequence (one of the best comedic skits ever put on screen) to the great punchline in the last scene. Helped along by a great soundtrack and a very likable cast (Heffernan draws the short straw and has to play a real douchebag but even his character, Farva, gets a few moments when the audience can almost be on his side . . . . . almost).Other than those mentioned we get the cute Marisa Coughlan as officer Ursula, really the only other character given more than the most rudimentary of character sketches, and she also does a great job.In fact, nobody lets the side down. Yes, some may say this is little more than a millennial version of the Police Academy movies. You could also say that it's little more than a series of sketches hung loosely together (with the opening, the miaow and the repeater being definite highlights) but that does not take anything away from the fact that it will constantly make you laugh out loud and that it crams more into it's running time than a dozen other comedies with more money and less actual wit.See this if you like Police Academy, Puddle Cruiser, Club Dread. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" As the review above me states, this movie is hilarious. If you haven't seen it, you need to get point your browser to netflix and queue it up. Pretty much every scene in this movie is funny. The opening scene defines the entire movie. Also, if you're a fan of Reno 911 this movie is definitely for you. As the poster above me explained, the way to see this movie is unedited and commercial-free. The internal conflict with the state troopers in this movie is outright hilarious and well as their external conflict with the local police. There is a Supertroopers 2 in the making, hopefully, they can follow in the footsteps of the original and be just that, original. "}{"Title":"Very funny, easy comedy that's definitely worth it","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I stumbled over this movie on TV some time ago, it just started when I was zapping around. As nothing else was on, I decided to stay, and it was the right decision. I'd need to think hard to find another movie that has given me so many laughs without being absurd or boring at any stage. You just shouldn't take it seriously, which the makers never intended I suppose. Just watch it, and you'll laugh all the time.When I saw the rating of it on IMDb, I wondered why it only has a 6.4, cause all the pages of comments were full of stars. Only the latter pages were drowning in lazy, lame and useless comments. Seriously, what's wrong with you people? There can't be so many worst movies as you describe, sometimes I think you just come here to vote some movies down intentionally. This is an easy one, but still, you should use your brain when talking about it. I've seen those lazy one-sentence-comments all over the IMDb, and you guys should be removed from here, cause you corrupt the whole points system. If you don't want to engage in a movie that's fine, but then don't come on the internet and vote it down.Super Troopers is a hilariously funny movie for those who like comedy, and it easily makes your popcorn-movie-evening one to remember. "},{"Title":"Best light comedy ever","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Oh my god, this movie is so good. Became my favorite right after watching it for the first time. Seen it like 15 times since )If you're looking for some light comedy with good laughs, this is the one for you. The acting is just phenomenal, even though the skits aren't the best i've ever seen. Funny characters, funny situations.It's a light movie, I recommend it to everyone who want's to enjoy a good laugh without a lot of thinking... )Broken Lizard did a good job here, no doubt about that.What I liked the most in this movie, was the acting, the characters, the plots, and everything that made me laugh. Even though, it might not be obvious how good these guys play their role, after a while (or after you see this movie again), you will notice the funny faces they make. It's just hilarious. "},{"Title":"Fantistic! Witty, smart yet immature humor","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I have seen this movie probably more than Star Wars geeks have seen all the Star Wars movies. EXCELLENT comedic value, it has not yet gotten boring. This is one of those movies that some scenes are so well thought out with the details that you have to watch it a couple times to notice them all. The acting is Pretty good. Good enough to give off that real life caught on film feeling. Lots of movies I've seen (at least from my perspective) when they're trying to depict real life, it just seems like the script and acting are so pushed to seem like real life that it gets to the point of being annoying. The Broken Lizard comedy troupe is definitely very good at what they do and the script was very well written. Overall, my all-time favorite movie, hands down! "},{"Title":"Meow that's a good film!!","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Five college guys with extremely weird attitudes towards comedy get together and create a total classic! Witty, and just generally brilliant. When you consider that this entire thing was put together for a measly 1.2 million (according to the DVD, IMDb says 3 mil), you start to wonder what the hell they could of done with a few more? Can you imagine these guys with the sort of budget Harry Potter is used to? It probably wouldn't be the same... The cheesy gags and excellent editing bring this thing home, but the fantastic script and killer performances from the Broken Lizard team set it all up for a great film. Anyone with a few hours to spare and nothing to do, get a few beers and watch this thing, MEOW! "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie Ever!!!","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Doesn't get any funnier! Doesn't get any funnier!...oh sorry got distracted playing the repeater game...that'll happen. Yup, that'll happen. This is a must watch (drunk, high or sober) doesn't matter. Unfortunately Club Dread did not live up to this movie, but I know we're all awaiting the release of the Dukes of Hazzard to see if they can make that into a quality movie. Just read the quote board after watching the movie. Each quote can be used in many situations in life for added hours of stupidity.It stinks like sex in here.10 outta 10...the snozberries taste like snozberries "},{"Title":"Shenanigans!","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film first on DVD and thought it was pretty funny. Since then I have watched it numerous times on Sky Movies.This is one of the funniest films I have ever seen. I love the bit when Farva goes to the burger bar - someone in McD's please ask me if I want to supersize my meal so I can ask them if they want me to punchersize their face, for free This film has so many brilliant lines, the Miaow scene makes me fall off the sofa laughing. You definitely need to see this film at least 3 times to appreciate it properly.  "},{"Title":"One Of My All Time Favorites","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I felt it was a take it or leave it deal. It was okay but not the greatest.  A month or so later I watched it again and it was much funnier so I went out and bought it.  Now it has become a monthly ritual to watch it.  I would recommend at the very least renting it. But honestly, I talked with many people who have seen this flick and an overwhelming majority agree that one viewing just does not do it justice. The story is good, the one-liners are great and the characters are well developed.Heres to the guys of Broken Lizard as I love to laugh and this movie makes me do just that.(MEOW!!!) "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  For some reason, I can't get enough of this movie. I've seen it about 10 times already and I love it.  Every time I see it on cable, I stop and watch it.  I love the cast and the plot and the funny jokes and the way they act. It's a comedy.  Of course Troopers don't really act like this, that is what makes this movie so funny.  I have so many favorite parts...especially when they have the kids pulled over (and then busting them in the end with the Keg.) that is too funny.  I laugh out loud when I watch this movie!!  I love the German couple that they sort of all adopted.  The guys in the film are great.  They are extremely good looking (the Super Troopers of course, not Spurrberry Police).  "},{"Title":"The greatest comedy in years!","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is hilarious from start to finish. Every time I watch it I find something I missed before. And it is a great movie for quoting. A simple alright meow is great in a crowd with those familiar with the film cracking up and everyone else wondering just what is going on. It will be interesting to see if Broken Lizard can maintain this level of excellence throughout their career. "},{"Title":"sure to please those just looking for a laugh","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Zany farce takes place in a small Vermont town where citizens don't mess with the law, but instead the law messes with them. The story centers around a group of mischievous highway patrolmen&#x97;avid pranksters who find enjoyment by goofing-off and poking fun at town residents who break the law. They're good at what they do, but don't have the discipline that their captain (Cox) would like them to. Eventually they have to get serious when a major crime threatens to shut down their department. Starts off strongly then gradually loses its way, but their are plenty of memorable, sidesplitting gags, and a cast that seems to be having lots of fun. **½ "}{"Title":"Brian Cox","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  SUPER TROOPERS had some enjoyable moments.  Especially the beginning.  Unfortunately, I found the three college kids more amusing than the actual cast of characters we stick with for the remainder of the film.  Nevertheless, BRIAN COX delivers magic at the end.  Honestly.  Watch the man in the action.  He is absolute gold.  A true genius.  In fact, I think the picture should have been called, BRIAN COX IS THE FUNNIEST MAN ALIVETed's rating B-  "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  After watching the trailer for this movie i thought i'd be watching the funniest movie of the year but i was very wrong.The only funny parts in this movie are the ones that the trailer showed and the movie would have been best left to run at the 1 minute or however long the trailer was.The movies laughter scale goes up and down like a heart monitor, the laughs go from humerous to ludicrous and there really isn't much originality.If the swearing and nude scene were cut, the movie would probably reach the market for which it would be best intended. On the whole, very disappointing! "},{"Title":"An unfunny, repulsive comedy...","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Comedy is one of the hardest genres to pull off. It's hard to determine what's funny and what's not. It's even harder now because of the public's ever-changing attitude toward what's acceptable, outrageous, funny, blasphemous, or unbearable. Sadly, Super Troopers is just another exercise in immaturity and adolescence. It doesn't know which end is up or which way it's going. And it makes some of the biggest mistakes one can when making a comedy.Thorny (Jay Chandrasekhar), Mac (Steve Lemme), Foster (Paul Soter), Rabbit (Erik Stolhanske) and Farva (Kevin Heffernan) are Vermont State Troopers who patrol the highway near the Canadian border. They pull pranks on people rather than give them tickets or arrest them. They like to have contests on who can say strange words, like `meow', the most times to people they pull over. But, their fun is about to be threatened. The mayor is deciding to make major budget cuts and their station may get shut down. They are in constant competition with the Spurbury Police Department and when a dead body and pounds of cocaine are found, the two stations go at it trying to save their jobs and outdo one another.Super Troopers doesn't have an inkling of what's funny. The humor relates to ten year olds, but there's nothing for the rest of the audience. Many of the jokes are tired and all of the good ones were ruined by being shown on the trailer. The movie was written by the comedy troupe Broken Lizard&#133; I've never heard of them either. But I guess if Super Troopers is a show of how funny they can be, there is a reason no one's ever heard of them.A major problem with Super Troopers is that it thinks it's much funnier than it really is. They pull off their material with a smug grin and a `look how funny we are' attitude. I hate to break it to ya boys, but you're not funny. There are some genuinely funny moments, but they are few and far between. The movie doesn't offer any humor that sticks with you. If you do laugh, you'll forget what was so funny in less than five minutes. I remember laughing about twice, but I can't for the life of me remember what I laughed at. Super Troopers doesn't leave a lasting impression.Another problem is that Super Troopers tries way harder than it needs to. If it just would have remained simple, it may have been funnier. It does just about anything for laughs and when it doesn't get any, it tries harder. Many of the gags are recycled from movies that weren't funny to begin with and they certainly aren't funny now. Super Troopers has no idea where it wants to go. It can't decide if it's a madcap comedy or one that will stick to the plot. The end result is just a series of lunatic antics that sometimes fit the story and at other times are completely unexpected, unwanted, and unnecessary. Super Troopers is a flat-out mess from start to finish. It can only conjure up a laugh every sixty minutes in a seventy-minute movie.----------2/10  "},{"Title":"No modern day Smokey and the Bandit","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Though there were some funny parts, they were often dragged down by the large amount of drug, alcohol, and gross-out related gags.  No Smokey and the Bandit; which is what I think some of the parents in the audience were hoping for.  If you haven't seen Police Academy 7, this movie will seem funny and original. "},{"Title":"5 madcap cops and their shenanigans that get them in strife.","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is one movie you'll want to watch over and over again. Starts off hilariously and keeps the laughs rolling in throughout the whole movie. Thorny, Rabbit, Mac, Farva and Foster - 5 highway cops with senses of hum-our - take the law and change everything anyone has ever thought about it. They are unorthodox and uncouth, rude and disrespectful and need to try and convince the powers that be that they are an essential part of policing in their area in order to keep their station open.....and so it begins. A movie of maple syrup chugging, drugs and busts, littering and ah..... speeding violations. Definitely keep your eye on these guys for future movies. What more can I say except meow. (Watch it and you'll understand) "},{"Title":"Watchable","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The best I can say about Super Troopers is that I never felt the urge to switch channels when I watched it. The movie is an entertaining satire and thankfully the humor isn't as ridiculously stupid as the Police Academy franchise. The cast is pretty great, although there are no big name actors there. Still, something was missing. The movie makes you smile constantly, but laugh out loud-moments are hard to find. Super Troopers could have been a little comedy gem, it definitely had a lot of potential. Although it's still better than the movies Will Ferrell makes these days, it's not much more than a decent way to spend 90 minutes when nothing else is on. "},{"Title":"Something Different","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  You would think that a film about a group of state troopers trying to save their station from closing due to budget cuts would be old hat and cliched, and you probably would be right a small part of the time. In the case of this movie I think you'd be advised to put your expectations of a cliche filled film away and prepare yourself for a very funny, very off beat film that looks at things in a different way.The joy in this film is that everyone is very real and they handle things in ways that are for the most part not very movie like. The film was made by the Broken Lizard comedy troop and on screen they act and behave like they have been together for years and it shows. Their ways of handling situations are not restricted by movie-doms rules so while a good deal of what happens maybe sophomoric, its not stuff you've seen a thousand times, the opening way of handling drugged out speeders for example. Things don't always work perfectly, the pacing is off in places and some of the jokes fall flat, but if you want a good comedy thats not like a thousand others you've seen watch this flick. "},{"Title":"Littering and...","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The first time I saw this I swear I laughed so hard it hurt. Maybe it was just the perfect moment in time cause when I saw it the second time it was still good but not as good as the first. The third time I just liked it a lot and I still do. It reminds me of some 1970s-1980's comedies, most notably Used Cars and some of Bill Murray movies from that era. It has that same casual, we're-insignificant-and-enjoying-it, anti-establishment attitude that seems missing from contemporary comedies. Mix that tone w/drug use, rock music and sex and you get fun that blissfully feels twenty years old. Kudos to all involved, I raise the syrup and chug to thee. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Without a Doubt, the Worst Movie I Have Ever Seen","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Not to give it all away in the subject line, but good Lord, this movie was bad. And, I should have known that it was going to be this terrible because there weren't even enough funny parts to put in the trailer. This movie is beyond dumb. In fact, dumb would seem too endearing for this one. Halfway through the movie, I began to smoke in the theater in hopes that I would be thrown out. But, no. Nothing. Instead I sat there and watched the movie manage - against all odds - to get worse and worse. In fact, it started to seems as though the filmmakers were actually TRYING to make it unfunny. This isn't even one of those so bad that's it's good things. This is a little under two hours of completely aggravating horses***.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  If they took the best parts of this movie, and made a two-minute movie out of it, *that* might have been entertaining. You know you're in trouble when the characters have to keep saying they're wacky and funny, because they're not doing anything, you know, comedic. "}{"Title":"Amusing, but forgettable","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Super Troopers ended up being enjoyable, but forgettable.  Nothing really stood out as exceptionally funny, but there were funny bits throughout and the overall experience was enjoyable.This movie will appeal more to a certain type of moviegoer and others will lament paying the movie to see it.  The humor is more like the comedies that came out in the 80's than more recent gross-out comedies.  Well there are a couple of masturbation jokes, which I don't normally find funny, but basically worked in this movie.Perhaps the movie worked because it didn't try too hard.  It followed a storyline and through in some crazy antics, but never too seriously.  I gave the movie 6/10, enjoyable, but nothing too memorable. "},{"Title":"Woeful, not even funny woeful","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Sometimes I hear the critics and IMDb readers panning a movie and I think, I know in my heart, I will still like it. That so bad it will be good feeling, the conviction that I alone, and a select few weirdos, will actually like a movie that is so crass, so vulgar, so bad taste, that it stands out like a testament of rebellion against accepted values. Sometimes such movies are a massive hit ('There's Something About Mary'), sometimes they will have a lesser known cult following ('Bad Taste', 'Toxic Avenger' etc). Occasionally I have a problem even admitting my own grudging respect ('Ichi the Killer'). Super Troupers, a slapstick comedy about a dimwitted bunch of highway patrol cops playing silly practical jokes with each other and their motorist victims whilst competing with the local regular police force, falls into none of these categories. Really. It is bad - not remarkable bad - not so bad you enjoy it after lots of alcohol or hash - not clever in an illicit sort of way - just bad. It's the sort of film that makes a trip to the toilets half way through seem interesting by comparison. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Hilarious cop comedy in the tradition of the POLICE ACADEMY series follows five nutty state troopers (Steve Lemme, Paul Soter, Kevin Heffernan, Jay Chandrasekhar, and Erik Stolhanske) who must try to save their department from being shut down. The film is juvenile to say the least, but it also very, very funny. Highlights include the meow scene and any time Farva (Kevin Heffernan) is onscreen. A minor hit, SUPER TROOPERS grossed $18 million on a budget of $3 million when it was released in 2002 and went on to become a cult classic when it was released on video. Broken Lizard followed up SUPER TROOPERS with the less successful (and less funny) CLUB DREAD in 2004.  "},{"Title":"The worst","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This was the worst movie I have ever seen!  I went into the movie thinking it would be funny, because the trailer seemed funny!  But after the 1st 5 minutes, I noticed that the only thing funny in the movie were the parts they put in the trailer.  Mid way through the movie, I wanted to pull my hair out.  I wanted to leave, but my family was in another movie, and I couldn't.  EWWWW!  Do not waste your $8 on this crappy movie, whoever made this movie needs to be shot!  "},{"Title":"Incredibly bad","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I truly love slob comedies, but they really need to be funny to be enjoyed. I have never seen a comedy so unintentionally humorless.  Anyone who recommends this movie is simply angry that he wasted $8 and wants you to waste your money too.   "},{"Title":"I will do you a favor if you are considering watching this.........","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I've never written anything on IMDb before, but this movie was so frustrating I had to contribute to save anyone out there 90 minutes of their life. I have always heard random hype about this movie and based on the preview, had no interest in watching. Unlike books, you CAN judge a movie by its cover or preview. I finally said why not give it a chance as I keep hearing about how much of a great comedy it is.All I can say is WTF??? I wanted to laugh, I wanted cult comedy..... I got boredom and bewilderment. No matter what age you are, I can't understand how this is funny. No matter if you are stone cold sober and like dry humor or obvious humor....No matter if you are drunk off your ass, completely ripped, tripping your face off.....THIS IS NOT FUNNY! It's not even entertaining. I guess the only explanation is that the people that enjoyed this live in bumblefuhhk county, huff butane, and sit around tickling their buddies nuts quoting lines from this piece of garbage in their mom's basement. Maybe I just don't get it. Trust me, there is NOTHING to get, that I am sure of. See for yourself if you don't believe me, but you'd be better off say scrubbing a public toilet with your tongue or riding a seat-less unicycle. So glad to see there will be a part 2! Enjoy. "},{"Title":"What? Huh?","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those movies where that you know its supposed to be funny, but its to stupid to be funny(remember Robin HoodMen in Tights had that same effect). This isn't a funny film, its a stupid film. Most of the film revolves around Lame-Sex jokes, Bathroom humor and Drug humor, and even by those standards it wasn't funny. I remember during the fight sceen where the Highway patrol officers get in a fist fight along the interstate with the local city cops, I knew that sceen was supposed to be funny but I didn't even as much as crack a smile, and I looked around me and no one else was realy laughing at it either. At that moment I heard a lady sitting behind whisper over to the man she was sitting with and said this is just dumb- it was at that moment that no one else was laughing at that sceen either.-It was that kind of movie "},{"Title":"I feel like a lower life form after having sat through this","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" There are some movies that are bad.There are some movies that are downright terrible.There are some movies that are so utterly unwatchable that they will undoubtedly etch themselves into the top tier in the history of the worst cinema every conceived.And then, there is Super Troopers.Super Troopers is one of those movies that is so ill-conceived, so dreadfully unfunny, so frustratingly unsatisfying that it seems criminal. It is astounding to me that this movie has a 6.8 rating as I write this, and that so many people find it to be such a hilarious classic. Don't get me wrong, I can appreciate dumb comedies (Dumb & Dumber is one of my favorite comedies) but this is sub-retarded material here. I wouldn't have even found this funny at thirteen years old.The plot involves a bumbling Vermont highway police force who happen upon a drug smuggling ring. They, along with their sworn enemies, a local police squad who seem to have everything going for them, battle it out to try and crack the case first. Terminally unfunny antics ensue.I don't know much about Broken Lizard, the comedy troupe responsible for this celluloid torture, but if this is their best work, as many fans claim it is, then I'd hate to see what they're followers consider to be average. The fact that this has a cult following will forever be a mystery to me. "},{"Title":"This is not a comedy movie, more a cop documentary.","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Let me explain this rating a bit better now. If this movie didn't categorise itself as a comedy it would be a good movie because it would show what half the cops in the United States act like and it would of been interesting. However they made a fatal error and labelled itself as a 'comedy movie' yet the attempts it made to be humorous were dumb, lame and not smart at all, it was very poorly written. The scene where they are in the car and about to ask for their license details etc was just a feeble attempt at creating a smirk. It was just pure stupid and weak. If you have a very low sense of humour and one that isn't very sophisticated or requires any brain you might like it because its simple and still not effective. "},{"Title":"I don't understand","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Only the first scene was funny After that not funny. Not even a little bit. I don't understand why people think this movie is funny. I actually turned to my boyfriend, who wasn't laughing either, and asked, When does it get funny? He basically said after that he remembered it being funny but can't remember why. Apparently there is a plot. I don't know what it is because this movie spent more time with the troopers F@#%ing around than telling a story. And all of the jokes are predicable. For example, Two Troopers are having lunch at a burger place. They get are served by two teen-aged boys who are jerks. They sit down and one of them noticed that a sticker has been placed over the cup. Guess what happens- A.He discovers a hole in the cup and his drinks spills. B. Nothing. If you guessed A. You win! No, seriously they hand the punch line out on a silver platter hopping you aren't smart enough to notice. The acting is so bad. And they don't understand comedic timing. According to them, comedy is yelling, screaming and punching each other in the dick and laughing about it. The writer and Director is also acting in this movie,got his friends write a script. Then some how got some money to produce it. The only good actor in this movie is the only female character. Her career was DESTROYED by this movie. I haven't actually finished this one, I stopped it in at exactly 60 min. It felt so much longer than that. I couldn't believe there was 30 min left, because, Nothing and I mean NOTHING from the plot was present. EVER. So how are they going to wrap it up. Tip If Female nudity is present in a comedy for no reason, Then you can be sure they had no idea what the hell they were doing. It is blowing my mind that this is getting a sequel. Crowd funded because no studio would dare put up money. "}{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies!","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Just watch it , i will write it first so you will not have any second thoughts. Really , this movie has it all in it . Sure it is mostly stupid jokes and moments but these little moments doesn't fail to deliver a very funny experience to the viewer. I don't know how they put together cast like this , but every one of the is funny as hell , every one of them bringing us a character to remember. This movie is a gem and i hope it will be a classic if its not considered classic these days. One thing to remember thats important , its not a comedy for family , it has dirty scenes and jokes. I would describe it as the one of the best comedies to drink beer to. "},{"Title":"It's so wrong, it's right.","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" One of the all-time great politically incorrect, totally irreverent comedies, which just about everyone, except probably your Aunt, is going to think is funny. It's one of those, it's so wrong, it's right, kind of things. Although it's very different, if you like Married with Children, I think that there's a very good chance you'll like this slightly more adult comedy,since the type of humor seems similar to me. It's set in the great state of Vermont featuring Highway patrolmen warring with local cops who are threatening to take over their turf. It's unpredictable, crude, and funny, although watching it with children might be awkward (or not, considering how advanced modern children are). I don't know when it came out in 2001, but, given how grim the world has gotten and how light this movie is, it obviously was in the can prior to 9/11. So, if you aren't feeling particularly mature, this would be a great viewing choice, since it's a bit dirty, but simultaneously quite innocent for our current world. "},{"Title":"Really boring","Date":"20 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I guess this is compared with National Lampoon but it must be crap like Disco Beaver From Outer Space people are comparing it to because it has the same amount of laughs, which is next to none. The beginning scene had promise and I did laugh at the moustache ride joke with the German couple, but the rest...it is boring. A joke where two cops just repeat each other? A pig in a RV joke? Ramrod? Bear in the woods sex? The script is boring and makes no sense. The acting is horrible too and everyone in this just seems to be getting jobs for Broken Lizard projects and nothing else. Are these just privileged white frat boys getting funding for their vanity projects or what? Dull. I am not sure who would like this. "},{"Title":"Funny Forgettable Film (FFF)","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Super Troopers is about four state troopers that do shenanigans and have a rivalry with the police. That's the whole plot.The intro and ending were great, they really tied up the story pretty well. But I'm afraid the rest of the movie wasn't that good.The film wasn't that funny, the jokes were not amusing at all.No wonder this is considered a stoner flick, you'd have to be pretty stone to enjoy it. And honestly, I don't know why it's considered one at all, they smoke weed once in the entire movie.The movie had no character development at all, although it had good dialogue.Farva reminded me of Gomer Pyle from FMJ and the moustaches were a nice touch to the troopers.Overall, the movie was OK. "},{"Title":"Troopers Not Super!","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Super Troopers (2001) Dir Jay Chandrasekhar / Cast Jay Chandrasekhar, Kevin Hefferman, Brian Cox, Marisa Coughlan, Paul Soter Here is a comedy where the funny parts are featured in its trailer. It is about cops that are pushing harder to become better cops. When a major drug bust occurs four cops seize the opportunity to solve the case thus gaining the governor's favour. A murder victim has a tattoo of a cartoon monkey, which is the emblem seen on particular marijuana bags. Concept had potential yet structured as a series of situations that climax with an outright brawl. Director Jay Chandrasekhar handles the film's everyday feel effectively but characters are flat with the exception of officer Fahrber played by Kevin Hefferman. He is the one officer who holds interest as he becomes the bunt of jokes after an incident involving a school bus. This joke is addressed again in the conclusion where Hefferman again demonstrates why he rules this film. Chandrasekhar leads the rest of the ensemble including Brian Cox, Paul Soter and Marisa Coughlan but despite the efforts none of these characters are remotely interesting or funny for that matter. Some may compare it to Police Academy but that film found great comic potential within the various training sessions. This is a satire of cop reality programs that is basically a series of staged moments resulting in a comedy that is far from super. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Unfunny Stoner Cop Humor","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" One hour and forty minutes of comedy, and I only chuckled 4 times. Not exactly what I would call a good movie. This movie is the story of a group of State Troopers who goof off more than doing their actual job. However, when state budget cuts threaten to shut them or the rival local cops, the officers must do actual work. They battle the local cops in a case of marijuana distribution in their town through a series of hijinks and general goofiness. This movie was a mediocre plot put together with mediocre acting and creating a crap movie. Perhaps if I were stoned this movie would be a little more enjoyable.Soundtrack 4- Most of the time the soundtrack made no sense with the movie. However, there were certain moments that worked.Script 3- This script seemed to be haphazardly thrown together to make a movie that made no effort to be coherent. The plot had so many holes, that I'm amazed this movie held together at all.Originality 4- Unorthodox cops who come together to save the day? Seen it hundreds of times. There are some different elements in her, but they have all been seen before. This made the movie very predictable.Cinematography 3- This was a low budget film that made the best of what it had. It wasn't bad cinematography, but it wasn't really good either.Casting 10- The actors in this film fit the parts they were cast in very well, so at least they got that right.Acting 5- The acting in this movie was shoddy. It seemed as though everyone in this film was high the whole time they were shooting.Overall 4.8 "},{"Title":"relentless attempt at humor","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Thorny (Jay Chandrasekhar), Mac (Steve Lemme), Rabbit (Erik Stolhanske), Foster (Paul Soter) and Farva (Kevin Heffernan) are Vermont state troopers stationed near the border under Captain O'Hagan (Brian Cox). They are a bunch of wacky prankster cops in danger of losing their 50 miles of highway to the rival local Spurbury P.D. A dead woman is discovered and they let Chief Grady (Daniel von Bargen) of Spurbury take the case. Foster is infatuated with the lone woman cop Ursula (Marisa Coughlan) at the Spurbury P.D. The guys stumble onto a big shipment of marijuana which could be related to the dead woman.The five guys call themselves Broken Lizard. It's a lot of deadpan wacky humor. The guys have a nice charm about them. The jokes are mostly scattershot hit and miss. They are throwing everything on the screen but the guys' flat delivery takes much of the energy from the wackiness. The jokes don't land that hard but I really appreciate the relentless attempt. "},{"Title":"Just another person adding some comments","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" One of the funniest freakin' movies! Fifth time I've seen this, second time in less than a year. I really should make it an annual watch because movies this funny need to be a regular part of life! It's got a thin plot but who cares! Some people find a lot of this movie not so funny which I simply cannot comprehend. They want a real movie with meaning but that's not this &#x96; this is just for laughs! There's some hilarious stuff here! This is one of those that I have a hard time rating based on how actually good of a film it is. For what it is, it's well done, well acted, coherent, makes sense, and provides plenty of humor. That last one priceless!9.3 / 10 stars--Zoooma, a Kat Pirate Screener "},{"Title":"Made for an Immature Audience","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Comedy is opinionated, that is a fact. But when making a comedy, one must properly deliver the humor through snarky dialogue and comedic actions. This film those have many instances of funny, stupid action and actions. The best jokes come from the film working with its environment, and not the dialogue. This includes the scene when pulling over the pot heads, which was a pretty humorous scene. The problem comes from the dialogue. Most if not all of the lines in this film lack any essence of true comedy. It falls into the category of failed attempts, in both the story and the delivering of lines. I won't blame the actors (except for Kevin Heffernan) for the terrible humor or line deliverers. Instead I blame the terrible script. This is all opinionated, but it holds some truth after the analyzation, even for a small time comedy. All in all this film failed to deliver laughs, and would be better suited for an immature audience due to the crass and immature humor. The target viewing group for a movie like this would be unsupervised Middle Schoolers, but I digress. In any case, humor is unique to each person, some like moronic jokes more then others. The movie is a downer. "},{"Title":"The inspiration is here, but the movie never gets a foothold on it.","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" There is something intrinsically funny about a cop who pulls over a carload of potheads whose vehicle is full of smoke and whose passengers are trying, with all their might, to keep it cool. The officer clearly knows that an herbal substance is involved, yet he arrives at the car's window, asks for the license and registration and calmly asks the driver Do you know how fast you were going? That's funny, but then the nervous driver sputters out Uhhh, sixty-five?! The cop replies with a vicious smile Sixty-three. That, to me, is funny and a scene like that has the potential to build into a grand comic invention, especially in light of the fact that the guy in the backseat of the offending car, out of sheer panic, has just eaten ten pounds of pot in order to dispose of the evidence. The cop lets the potheads go with a warning only to pull the car over again and start the exact same conversation all over again.The scene works, but alas, it is the film's only moment of true inspiration. The rest of the movie, try as it may, just never gets anywhere. Super Troopers is a potentially good idea for a comedy a group of rowdy, uninhibited highway patrolmen, working in a town of very little crime, pull pranks designed to put the fear of God into the unsuspecting motorists. Unfortunately, the movie opens with that idea but never really runs with it. Instead this is one of those frat house-style comedies where the guys insult each other, play pranks, drink beer and try to one-up the stuffy cops in the neighboring district.The hair-thin storyline involves the rivalry between the heroes, a group of Vermont State Troopers led by Captain O'Hagan (Brian Cox), and the local cops led by Chief O'Grady (Daniel Von Bargen). The governor of Vermont (Lynda Carter) is about to shut down the highway patrol due to the city's budget cut-backs, so the troopers are out to save their department. When a dead body and a load of pot are discovered in a Winnebago, the competition is on to discover clues. This is only the outline of the story, much of rest of the movie is made up of silly gross-out scenes and stupid pranks, none of which are very funny.That's my basic problem with Super Troopers, I just didn't laugh very much. Scene after scene involves a series of the cops on-upping themselves and rival cops, but the gags just don't work, and I sat there throughout the movie smiling but never laughing. Maybe that has to do with the fact that I never found the heroes very engaging. They are potentially nice guys but they never seem to have any personality traits that couldn't be transplanted into any other job. You could easily see these guys as firemen, linemen, window washers, fishermen, construction workers or even pastry chefs. There's nothing to discern them as cops.The one element in the movie that did work, briefly, is a nice romance that blossoms between one of the patrolmen and a pretty blond dispatcher (Marisa Coughlan) who works for the cops. They aren't supposed to be together, but their union unlocks some clues to the body in the Winnebago. That subplot exists around the edges of the movie and never really finds its legs.The movie was made by an American comedy troup who call themselves Broken Lizard, who formed at Colgate University in the early 90s. The five members of the group all appear in this film (one of them, Jay Chandrasekhar, directed it). They have a certain amount of charm but there's something halted in their comic invention. They don't set up scenes for comedy, instead their movie feels like a dartboard. They throw out a series of random gags and see what sticks. This is my first exposure to Broken Lizard and I can say that, for me, their freshman effort gets a D+. I can imagine that they will grow as artists. I hope so, because what they invented for the first scene of this movie shows that they have the potential for great comic invention. Best of luck in the future, guys "}{"Title":"This is not a review","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I've seen this excellent comedy several times and still can't explain why even the more crude pranks or, well, moments still have quality humor (be it physical or not). It makes you feel like you're a part of their 'in jokes' and ready to share a significant look or a comeback with the characters.The script, the characters, the actors and their chemistry, the comedic timing, the situations and of course the 'shenanigans' are all excellent. Which I can't say about the other Broken Lizard movies I've seen, a strange enough fact adding to the 'aura' of Super Troopers.Perhaps it has something to do with the fact that here we are not facing another horny & stupid teens movie, but grownups (some of them have mustaches, at least) acting like horny & stupid teens (but just for the fun of it!). I mean the Troopers are free and enjoying it, which would be a blast for most employees today, who are just some poor stuck-ups who need this movie the most but won't watch it for that very reason. "},{"Title":"Instant comedy classic!","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The absurdity and deranged sense of humor of the Broken Lizard guys makes for very original movies and Super Trooper is their crowning achievement. The movie as a whole is somewhat mediocre and, similar to Half Baked and other cult classic comedies, it's more of a compilation of funny scenes thrown together to form a weak plot. In this case, a unit of mediocre highway troopers pulls various stunts while haphazardly attempting to save their jobs. Throw in a rival cop force, German nymphomaniacs, and drug using teenagers and you have some opportunities for laugh-out-loud moments, which is really what these movies are designed to do. Obviously they're not for everyone but if you don't take yourself too seriously and don't mind crude and profane humor, you'll enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Has the continuity of an SNL episode, but is fun, genial, and good-natured","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Broken Lizard comedy team is very hard to hate. They have made several films that I dare call traditional and unique at the same time. Traditional in the sense that their films follow a commonly used formula, yet unique in the sense that they don't take themselves too seriously or act like they are doing something extraordinary. They lack indulgence and cockiness, which I believe has been the reason for their success. Their films are simple, genial humor that usually generate a cult following. This is a cult I can get into.This is Super Troopers, yet, another film in the ever-so-winded buddy cop formula. But this time, the formula comes off as vaguely fresh. We are placed in the town of Spurbury, Vermont, where the Vermont state troopers are more concerned with tomfoolery and pranks rather than actual police-work. The cops are veteran Arcot Thorny Ramathorn (Chandrasekhar, who also directed), collective Jeff Foster (Soter), funny-boy MacIntyre Mac Womack (Lemme), rookie Robert Rabbit Roto (Stolhanske), and obnoxious Rodney Rod Farva (Heffernan). All these men are run by a hilarious Brian Cox, who is easily agitated by the groups' lackluster performances.The vague plot that is strung along centers around a drug-smuggling operation that could potentially sky-rocket the troopers' reputation and respect, but due to further incompetence and laziness, they find themselves in competition with their rivals, the Spurbury Police Department, and are faced with numerous budget cuts.I almost forgot the film had a plot. It plays like a no-rules Saturday Night Live episode with rowdy characters, ridiculous setups, and quotable lines here and there. The film doesn't seem to have much discipline as a comedy, but it has control, and knows when it is going on for too long.It's difficult to recommend, let alone review a film like Super Troopers. Some instances are funny, some are not, but the result is fun, lively, and good-natured. The characters are all likable, the script is nice to listen to, and the direction is smooth. Broken Lizard went on to do a horror-comedy film two years later called Broken Lizard's Club Dread, a film I went on to greatly admire and find devilishly entertaining. I don't believe Super Troopers is as funny or as attentive and witty as that, but I can see why it has developed a loyal fanbase and enthusiastic response from people from all walks of life. It's positive and fun to watch, and sometimes, that's good enough.Starring Jay Chandrasekhar, Kevin Heffernan, Steve Lemme, Paul Soter, Erik Stolhanske, Brian Cox, and Marisa Coughlan. Directed by Jay Chandrasekhar. "},{"Title":"This Cop Loved it","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I have been a cop in L.A. for 35 years and I am a film buff. Those are my film critic qualifications.I can't believe that I just saw this. Absolutely hysterical. Where did these guys from Broken Lizard get their background and insight? Somehow, they really captured the humor that we as cops can appreciate. bring on the hate.Obviously over the top on some of the Shennanigans but definitely in the ballpark. They captured the essence of some of the ways we find to have harmless fun without letting the public in. For the haters, sorry, we have to find some way to let out the steam and go home to our families.Maybe these boys have done whatever they are going to do as far as movies, but I hope not. they have great talent and I hope they rise on my screen again and make me howl like I did at this one. Good luck and GOD bless Lizards! "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest movies you will ever see!","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" All I can say is that if you don't find this movie incredibly humorous then you must have THE most boring life imaginable! The reviewers who said that it wasn't funny must have had their sense of humours removed through their back-ends! Brilliantly funny, incredibly side-splitting and Mac is an absolute legend!!OK the acting, especially Thorny, could have been better however that is a small price to pay for exceedingly good entertainment! If all police officers were actually like these guys the world would be a better place! I absolutely loved all the characters (even Farva due to his chicken-f***ker piece) and it is instantly one of my top 5 comedy films!In fact I'm going to have to watch it again right.....meow! "},{"Title":"Reasonably amusing","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Super Troopers may not be an all-time comedy classic but there are certainly enough laughs sprinkled throughout to make it worth your while. There's not much of a plot but there are definitely plenty of antics. Some of the gags misfire but enough hit their mark to leave you reasonably satisfied.The plot, such as it is, follows a group of Vermont state troopers who face the prospect of having their squad shut down due to state budget cuts. When a drugs-related murder occurs this could be the break they need. Solve the case, save their squad. Unfortunately, much to the chagrin of their squad captain, our heroes are much too consumed with their rivalry with the local town police and with their own never-ending antics to make any serious headway. But that's OK, this movie is much more about antics than plot anyway. Our cast of mostly unknowns careens from one gag to another, doing nothing by the book, doing anything to amuse themselves. At times, especially whenever an attempt is made to be even remotely serious, the movie lags. But eventually something preposterously funny will happen and you'll forgive the filmmakers for their less inspired moments. There are no real standouts in the cast, there is hardly any plot to speak of and too many of the jokes fall flat. But in the end there are enough great comic moments to make it all worth it. A comedy classic? Nope. A comedy worth seeing? Yeah. "},{"Title":"The whole is less than the sum of it's parts","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is not really a great movie; the story is weak at best, and at times the pace doesn't flow well at all.  The concept of the movie was probably developed while the writers were in a car, stoned, and wondering what they would be like if they were highway patrolmen. They exploit that idea for what it was worth, but then the extra time needed to fill the movie got in the way.However, when viewed as a series of related sketches, it is often hilarious, and usually at least very funny.  The opening scene with the troopers is prodigious in it's timing and content, as is the Cat Game.  Then there are the subtle scenes where the setup is not given enough time for the payoff to be hilarious (the extra gas in the trash, the radar gun pointed downwards...), but on second viewing, one recognizes that Broken Lizard understands comedy at it's core, and emphasizes subtlety as well as farce.Each member of Broken Lizard has their forte, but they all are talented comedians that clearly enjoy their work.  Marisa Coughlin is, to use the vernacular, one hot momma!  I wish should could find work that better demonstrates her talent, 'Freddy Got Fingered' just doesn't do her justice.  She is gorgeous, but believe it or not, she also has considerable acting talent.  Comedy is supposed to be the hardest genre of acting, and she was holding her own quite well with some of the best.In the end, when I view a comedy, I ask myself if it made me laugh.  Hell yeah it did, many times.  But there were a few duds, and sometimes the lulls had me checking the watch.  I do recommend it for the hilarity, but don't expect a great story.  "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Super Troopers starts off with the troopers winding up some stoned students. Great, you think, I'm in for a treat here, but the scene just peters out and not much is made of it.Unfulfilled potential is the story of this movie it could have been hilarious, but just ends up full of weird humour. It's as if someone is telling you a story, only for you to find it unfunny and them to say you needed to be there. The jokes should hit home but mostly, well, don't.That said, it will keep you entertained, just don't expect to be gasping for your next breath between laughs. "},{"Title":"Check it out and decide for yourself.","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"   Ignore all the negative reviews here and make up your own mind about Super Troopers. This is a nice little comedy with great humor, decent acting, likeable characters, and a pretty believable storyline. Brian Cox gives a fun performance, and the guys from Broken Lizard are hilarious and seem like guys you'd want to hang out with (except for Farva, of course). There is a romance angle here, but it isn't thrown in for its own sake, it's actually a necessary part of the story, and it doesn't make you want to roll your eyes or gag. It's just a movie about a group of good friends who are just regular guys, except they happen to be cops in a small town where not much happens, and they don't take their jobs too seriously, until they have to work together to try to keep their station from being shut down by the governor. It's got its flaws, but it's all in good fun. You should enjoy it unless you consider Woody Allen movies to be the height of comedy, which I don't. Some people do. There's my two cents. "},{"Title":"Funny Stuff!","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  You would think this movie would be silly.  And guess what?  It is!  Not only is it silly, but it celebrates its silliness!  Is it funny?  Yes, unless you have the sour demeanor of Ebenezer Scrooge!  Go rent it, sit back, relax, and enjoy! "}{"Title":"Bored Cops","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The writers of this must be familiar with bored, small town cops.  Many of my friends followed this career path and this watching this movie was almost like hanging out with them!  I must especially give a nod to the meow scene.  Those that have seen it will know about which I speak.Overall, it is a funny movie, destined for late night viewing and cult status.  Definitely check it out, and please tell me who in the hell Broken Lizard is.   "},{"Title":"Please....","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Please please do not compare these guys to Monty Python!!!! I just watched the movie, it was alright, I laughed at times, I might watch it again but I'm begging everyone, don't say they're like Monty Python. Monty Python was a ground breaking group of comedians whose comedy was always silly, sometimes dirty, and at many times intelligent. Broken Lizards comedy is just the same old cliches that have been showing up in movies for years. "},{"Title":"Super funny","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The best cops ever, they're funny, stupid and yet in some weird way still get the job done. Super Troopers is a raunchy comedy that is pure gold in hilarity. Not once can I remember thinking OK that was just retarded like in the Hangover. This is made by the Cataland Production which help make Beerfest and Slamon Samon.The plot is about these screwball state troopers are getting shut down because of cuts. There goal is to find out where all the weed is coming from so the governor can see them as heroes and they can keep there jobs. These guys screw up so much just trying to keep there jobs you start to wonder how did they become state troopers in the first place. The comedy is consistent in good jokes throughout the film. It never seems like they are trying too hard to be funny yes they have dick jokes and masturbating jokes but if you can laugh at that then you'll like this movie.The characters are all likable and funny and you can see yourself being friends with guys like this. Except one Farva played by Kevin Heffernan he is this annoying guy that thinks he is funny but just comes off being an ass. The funny thing is well can all relate because we have all meet this guy or are even friends with this guy. Just in case anyone was thinking well this is dumb these guys could never be cops how they act. I agree they are no where to believable but in the movie you don't care it is a comedy as long as it works in the movie then that is all that matters.The writers which is the main cast they are geniuses at raunchy comedies. They also make hilarious dialog and that is something that some comedies today really need to work on.Overall I love this movie it is one of my favorite comedies of all time. My rating is Buy this movie because you will want to watch it again and with friends. "},{"Title":"not a 9 in general but one of the best stoner comedies ever","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" What movie had syrup chugging contests, pot smoking state troopers, and lines like it stinks like sex in here, why 2001's super troopers. It is one of those movies that is best enjoyed by stoners. In the pantheon of great stoner movies, I would rank this right up there with up in smoke and the first Harold and Kumar. This movie has so many classic lines and scenes, I simply don't have Time to list them all. a few of my favorite lines are, bear f****r do you need assistance, how's the view from sugar heaven bitch, and the snozberries taste like snozberries. So get out the bong twist a fatty, get a blunt rolled, eat a brownie, get out the vaporizer, well you get the point, and get high and laugh till you pass out. if you like concise reviews of interesting films please read my other reviews at http//raouldukeatthemovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Meow!","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is one of those comedies that I'll never get sick of. I wish I could say the same for the other films I've seen from Broken Lizard but they got off to a great start with their first nationally distributed project. The comedy is off-the-wall without going too mindless and the characters are fun. The story focuses on a small Vermont highway patrol station that is at risk of closure due to budget cuts. Unfortunately, the team are a bunch of pranksters and are more concerned with messing with the citizens they pull over or battling the local cops to do anything about it. The patrolmen are given their chance when a murder occurs on their highway and leads to evidence of a marijuana smuggling ring.SUPER TROOPERS is definitely a dumb comedy, but it's not overly stupid. The jokes are funny and the gags are clever; it's vulgar without relying on the vulgarity to carry the humor. The humor is completely derived from the oddball characters and their shenanigans. It's tough to pinpoint my favorite scene in the movie but one of the top contenders is when Troopers Farva (Kevin Heffernan) and Ramathorn (Jay Chandrasekhar) stop for lunch on Farva's first day back on the road after a lengthy suspension, and Farva erupts on a wise-cracking burger kid. Freakin' hilarious.The majority of the cast are the members of the Broken Lizard troupe. Chandrasekhar pulls double duty as the lead trooper and as the film's director. All of them are hilarious and their existing chemistry (their group's been together since college) plays out well on film. Heffernan as the team's black sheep is great and a good sport for some of the crap they put him through. And I've got to say, Brian Cox was terrific in this movie. It's not a role I would've ever thought he'd play but he is great as the head of the highway patrol station, Captain O'Hagan. This was a surprise hit for me in early 2001 and I never expected I'd love this movie so much but no matter how many times I've watched this and laughed at the gags, I still do. "},{"Title":"Super troopers","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie rocks. I would have to say that this movie is better than beer fest. I like how this guy directs. Jay chandrasekhar is a comical genius. One of the things I like about him is that he uses the same people in his movies. This makes the production easier. Not a lot of fighting to go with this. Jay Chandrasekhar also had a role in jackass 2. He played a taxi driver who was getting pranked. Although he was in on the prank! Needless to say e pulls off the stunt perfectly! This shows his diversity when it come to roles. Direct and act is a biggie! Super Troopers is a movie that will be quoted for years to come. This movie and the cast in it will be immortalized because of how funny it was. "},{"Title":"Best. Movie. Ever","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the funniest films of all times. It is an acquired taste and some audiences will probably balk at it. But if Broken Lizard is your offbeat brand of humor, you'll love this picture.Watching it you can tell the cast (who wrote the film as well) is enjoying it. Whether that is due to the excitement of their first feature or the sheer hilarity of the script or simply because of who they are naturally, it comes through. It is a joy to watch. You will wish you and your friends were this clever and funny.Parts of the story may be kind of weak, but for the most part it is quite a piece of work. Tight for a comedy script. The one-liners are great and the deliveries perfect. If it is your kind of movie, you will probably quote this film as much, if not more, than any of your other favorites. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A ridiculous movie, but different than a lot of other canned Hollywood style parodies of police. I live in New Hampshire, and this movie gets all the details of northern New England right--from the pot smuggling, the spoiled rich kids, truckers, hippies, rednecks--and how they are all in the same space. And don't forget Canada, the neighbors next door. The locals are so white, they don't know a Mexican from an Arab--oh yeah! I recommend this to any New Englander, or anyone who's lived here. And maybe the Canadians across the way. Some of the details might be lost on others, but check it out anyway. Put it on your queue. My daughter and I laughed and laughed. "},{"Title":"I cannot wait to watch this again","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A friend of ours recommended this movie, mentioning it after we saw the Dukes of Hazzard and said, well, most of the guys in Super Troopers were in there. Our friend's tastes don't always line up with ours 100% but it was on cable the other day and I said what the heck, let's TiVo it. Two weeks later we play it and it CRACKED US UP!!! I told my husband we only had to give it 15 minutes and if he didn't like it we could bail but he could only say I can't look away... it was just hysterical! The director and main character are HILARIOUS. The humor is broad, but so are some of the best movies, and this one absolutely fell into that category for me. It's so hilarious and I can tell it's going to be super quotable. I'm buying the DVD tomorrow to watch it with no commercials and with all the swear words! LOLOL... I love it! "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" the only reason i watched this show is because it was free on my satellite, and i am so glad i gave it a chance. really funny jokes you may not catch the first time stinks like sex in here! & grow a ******* mustache already! ha ha ha if you want a film then you may not enjoy it but if you can forget your over analysis and remember that it is supposed to be kind of goofy and fun then you will really enjoy this show. looking forward to more from broken lizard. 8 out of 10 stars for this goofy comedy! makes me wish i had not seen club dread, because that outing from the broken lizard dudes SUCKED! anyways if you like movies that are offensive, silly and all that junk then i would definitely recommend this flick as a rent or even a buy for your DVD collection! cheers "}{"Title":"This movie is so incredibly funny!","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I am such a fanatic for this movie. It is so damn funny!!!! The opening sequence is perhaps the funniest movie scene ever. Some people complain that it drags on after half way through. I can't really argue against that, but the plot line remains consistent and there are still many funny moments throughout. In a way, part of the movie's charm is that, even though they are patently absurd -- the characters are real. It is definitely an R-rated film, with plenty of well-placed expletives, numerous drug references, and sexual situations. On the comedy spectrum, if Dumb And Dumber is at the unendurably stupid end (nearing the point of be boring and unimaginative), then Super Troopers is near comic genius. "},{"Title":"three thumbs up!","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Awesome movie! You can really tell that broken lizard have been around together for a while - their kind of fool-around mateship (or as they would say 'Shenanigans') really comes across well on the screen.Their laid back fraternity (boys mucking around, playing pranks, taking life very unseriously) humor is gold!You can tell that they had fun making this film - and i sure had fun watching it.They are a bit hard on themselves in the directors commentary about the standard of the film - there's a few things they seem to think a bigger budget would have improved - but i disagree - i don't think one single thing could improve upon this great comedy.I look forward to seeing more from broken lizard! "},{"Title":"Finally we can poke a little fun at the boys in blue!","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A refreshingly hilarious look at the usually over-serious highway patrol. I know at least 2 guys who grew a mustache for laughs after watching that movie. A shining performance by the Governor of Vermont. After directing this now cult-classic, Jay Chandrasekhar should have seized the opportunity to take his burgeoning directorial talent and sly humor to the next level. We're still waiting Jay! and NO Club Dread doesn't count! I think there is still a ton of funny material in law enforcement. I propose that instead of recycling the Canadians into Super Troopers II, we inject the Mexican Mafia, hell bent on bringing us the lowest grade pot. Well Jay, I will give you guys another couple years before I produce my very own Super Troopers rip off with quicker jokes and more corrupt cops... so you can't say I stole your idea.  "},{"Title":"funny....the 2nd time around","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this movie once and did not really care for it, but a bunch of guys at work began quoting it on a daily basis. At this point I though maybe it deserved a second chance and I am so glad that I did. This movie has become one of my favorites. There are a ton of quotable line...liter of cola, i just lost a buck...to myself and of course cat game. I'm still trying to come up with a way to play this game at my job in retail without getting fired. Farva is an extremely memorable character although I would have been okay with not seeing him NAKED. Eeekk!!The kids at the beginning are brilliant. I love the whole opening scene, because I just think how much fun it would be to be a cop and do that to people.  "},{"Title":"Very funny!","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I was not sure weather or not I would like this movie, because a lot of the slapstick comedies that come out I find to be just plain stupid. I have never heard of Broken Lizard before seeing the Club Dread commercials, so I had no real expectations of quality going into this movie. While the theme of the movie was about Cops, there was a lot more then just cop joke after cop joke. There really was not a single character in this that brought the comedy down a notch, everyone was great. I thought Super Troopers was a hilarious movie that I can't recommend enough to friends. I look forward to watching Club Dread because I think this group has great potential, I would encourage everyone to check this one out. Great, great movie -- I would give Super Troopers a 4/5.  "},{"Title":"A movie of neverending laughs","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Super Troopers is a movie that I would say was put together very well, by director Jay Chandrasekhar. It had laughs from the very first scene when the stoned college kids were going up to Canada. The police aren't the best police officers in the force but they show you how some people could actually be since they were druggies and had many other problems. I don't have one favorite character because all the characters are perfect for this comedy. The movie was one of the funniest movies I have seen and i continue to watch it atleast once a month since it came out on video. However, the new movie by the crew from Super Troopers, called Club Dread, didn't meet my expectations and i thought it could have been a little better.  "},{"Title":"Funny every time I watch it.","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I first saw this movie the first week it came out in theaters. I thought it was hilarious. It was the first movie in a long time that actually made me laugh out loud, instead of most other comedies that you have to force out a laughter or two to enjoy the movie. This film was original, well scripted, and the talent is definately there. I own the movie, and I have seen well over 20 times. I have laughed every time I have watched it. It is almost as if the movie just gets funnier every time I see it. I'm not saying this movie is the best comedy ever, and it isn't by far, but I have to say that if you're looking for a movie thats guaranteed to make you laugh, look for this on the store shelves. It won't be a let down. "},{"Title":"Thank God for Simple Comedies","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Although this may not be the greatest comedy of all time, at least it is a good one.  The members of Broken Lizard have an infectious rapport, great comic timing and true comic inventiveness.  The opening scene starts out as the oldest hippy/drug joke of all time (eating the bag of pot) which morphs into a really bizarre series gags.  The rest of the movie follows this same pattern where you know the joke that is coming, but it doesn't arrive the way you thought it would.  Although there are juvenile sex and gross-out jokes, they are tame and avoid the usual modern comedy stand-by--feces.  How refreshing to find people amused by the simple standards of weirdness instead of embarrassment. "},{"Title":"this movie makes me giggle.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is silly. Its unrealistic. It also makes me giggle. Its one of those movies you and your buddies put in to watch when there's nothing on and you want to laugh at the 'bits' in the movie.I'm sure this comparison will draw fire, but its like Office Space, but with cops instead of office drones.  "},{"Title":"A movie to get drunk to","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Sheesh, if I have to read one more review of this movie that says 'it isn't realistic', I am going to go postal.Right off the bat, I don't know why anyone would go into a movie called 'Super Troopers' and involving a comedy group called Broken Lizard and expect it to be a frank and realistic portrayal of the Vermont police service. Whilst the state police and highway patrol are both central agencies in the movie, they are portrayed more as college frats than as authority figures.When I first saw this movie I was a little apprehensive, too often a comedy with a good preview is sadly little more than that- a good preview with eighty five minutes of crap packed around the good bits. Super Troopers starts a little slow, but it picks up, and soon you're laughing at every second or third scene. The thing that makes Super Troopers work as a comedy is the different levels and styles of comedy you see in it. While my sixteen year old brother is most amused by Fava's violent outbursts and crude language, I found more amusement in the witty quips of Ramathorne and the wonderful acting by Bryan Cox as a drunken highway patrol chief. His performance as a drunk is the finest I've ever seen in a movie. Reminded me of countless drunken nights at college.Now, this film won't suit everyone, obviously. There are a lot of sexual allusions and a lot of foul language that may offend some people. But, for the most part, it's one of those movies that we need more of. It's innocent (in that it doesn't deal with any real issues), funny, and it has (I shudder at using the cliched expression) 'heart'. You can tell that all of Broken Lizard, as well as the other cast members, had an immense amount of fun filming the film. While the director and writer also plays a role, he doesn't pull a Tarantino and make himself out to be anything more special than the other cast members. That said, he is probably the strongest member of Broken Lizard when it comes to acting and line delivery.The entire cast, down to the redneck cops and Ramathorne's live-in girlfriend are played well, but it is the 'Super Troopers' that really dominate the show.See If You Liked American Pie, Not Another Teen Movie, and Scary Movie. Strengths Lots of different comedic styles, some classic one-liners ('Who wants a moustache ride' and 'You crapped on my heart' are both great). Weaknesses Flimsy plot. But who really cares.My Rating 8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"This movie rules","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was hilarious. The first couple of times that I saw it I must be honest and say that I thought that it was the worst peice of garbage that I ever did see. However, please note that I was only watching bits and pieces of it. Once, I saw it in it's entirety I can't get enough of it. I see it just about every day. No matter what type of crappy day I am having gauranteed I put this movie on and I will be laughing in no time flat. Others may think that this is a goofball movie and they are right but a comedy should make you laugh. Alot of the stuff that is being listed as comedy these days is truly not. This movie delivers what it promises a laugh out loud time. Go for it!!! "},{"Title":"Funniest movie ever","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  For everyone who is looking for some kind of deep meaning out of comedies, this is not for you.  This movie is one of those rarely funny light comedies, not meant to intrigue or confuse the viewer.  Just sit back, watch it, and enjoy.  You'll find yourself repeating lines to others all the time.I am an EMT and work closely with police... and this movie is hilarious from that point of view.  We have found ourselves pulling some of their pranks on real calls...  It's so funny!10/10 "},{"Title":"yo wats... response to comments below","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"   bought it, watched it, threw it in garbage can next time save the space in our dumps for cluttering up with empty diet coke cans and dirty paper plates...  drop me an email, i'll buy your movies off of you before you throw them in the trash!  come on?!?!?!thought this movie was pretty damn funny myself!  rod sucks so bad that he is hillarious!!  liter of cola...  HA! "},{"Title":"Hands down one of the funniest movies ever","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I laughed until I cried.  You have to pay close attention to this one. There's a ton of quips and one-liners that you might not catch the first time around.  The characters are outlandish, their 'shenanigans' really are cheeky and fun.  It's the type of movie you can't take too seriously. Those who expect too much in the way of insert joke here type of comedies, might be disappointed.  But for those who really appreciate fine humor will love it.  And what the...is Brian Cox doing in this movie?  He's awesome. "},{"Title":"Don't take it seriously, just laugh.","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  You've got to appreciate how Super Troopers can get you out of a bad mood. You watch it and think 'is this for real?' but don't get much farther than that -- you're laughing too hard.But I may be predisposed for laughter since I'm one of the under-30 crowd. However, Super Troopers is a work of pure insanity and pure genius. From start to finish, you don't get much time to recover from laughing. All things considered, it had a plot that won out over most of the teen-bop movies I've had to sit through.  And those didn't make me laugh a quarter as much. So you decide on what you want to watch -- another teen movie or this work of masterpiece?It's in some town in Vermont near the border, who cares? It's got the green New England small town feel.  Complete with a local diner that the town and highway cops frequent. Notice they park on polar sides. Then the next thing you see is maple syrup. Pure, viscous maple syrup being chugged in competition. It makes you cringe, laugh and feel empathy for Rabbit when he has to finish the rest of the bottle.The town cops are condescending, and clearly more organized in the sane sense of the word. The two factions hate each other, but even as the ax comes down to close the state police station they keep at it by 'it' I mean shananigans.  There's a murder on the highway, but a rampaging pig inside a Winnebago coerces the state police to give it to the locals. It turns out that case, solved in entirety is the key edge either side needs to survive the firing.There's enough quirks, and pure comic craziness to keep you guessing what they'll do next. They're all newcomers to me except Brian Cox, and Daniel von Bargen. If you can get your hands on it, sacrifice a few hours and watch this.  ..Twice.  You'll get subtle things you missed the first time with the second round.I gave it a 10.  A comedy is a comedy, but this is a comedy that's innovative in its own genre. One day, I hope to write something as crazy. "},{"Title":"bought it, watched it, threw it in garbage can","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Strictly made for (and apparently by) juveniles. Where is the comedy? The only time I laughed was when I threw this trashy film in the trash can! Sorry folks, but smoking and eating grass/murder/vulgar language/state troopers drinking and driving/ sex/ nudity/fighting/chug-a-lugging bottles of maple syrup, a weak old story line you can figure out in the first 15 minutes, just isn't funny. And please, please, please- NO SEQUEL! "},{"Title":"its beautiful man...","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  this is the perfect 'stoner movie' it has it allits beautiful in every way, obvious gags, and subtle funnies, all done in a slightly innocent way Ignore the complaints about gross out humour and stuff - this film has practically no violence, very little gross out stuff and one brief flash of breasts. Its doesn't go over the top really or get really silly its just 'funny' when todays movies either try to be too clever or rehash old jokesif you like simpsons style humour you will probably like this film, Homer would love it!the highlight for me was probably the 'litre of cola' bit, you just knew he was gonna freak but it played out like a mutha the intro is also hilarious and anyone who's ever run into the law whilst mashed will identify with the three unfortunante stonersif you like cult funny films that the majority seem to dislike then its probably your kind of movie!I expect the director knew it would get panned a lot, but he knows there will be lots of very happy people that he never sold out  "},{"Title":"License and registration....chickenf*cker!!!","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was funny from beginning to end. Random jokes andfunny parts come out of nowhere, and a lot of cases that's whatmakes a comedy so great... ..but then again, I'm biased.  Just seeing these guys in umiformmakes me laugh..What keeps the charm of this film is that thesecharacters are believable as cops. Casting the crew-unknowns infront of the camers-was a great idea.I'm convinced there are cops who like to kick back and watch thisfor a good time. "},{"Title":"kind of a drag","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Something is always lost for me when watching a comedy on DVD as opposed to a theater environment...that goes for movies in general, actually.  Anyway, Super Troopers isn't as funny as I anticipated, and my anticipation wasn't that high.  The casts' effort at trying to be outrageous and the comedic timing just didn't gel.  Some comparisons of this movie have been made to Caddyshack and Monty Python projects...shame on those of you who've made such accusations.For something truly outrageous and off-the-wall, Kung Pow Enter the Fist is a prime choice. "},{"Title":"One of the top ten funniest movies!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I know as far as critics are concerned comedy like this and other sketch-comedy are weak and lack plot. but as i sat through super troopers i died laughing. this movie is filled with quotable parts and hilarious shenanigans This movie ranks up there with any other movie that i can think of. "}{"Title":"Movie thats gets better as time goes on. Best watched with friends","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I have watched this movie over 30 times and it is still my most treasured movie.Myself and my friends all keep it in our top 5 movies. I have never laughed so hard in a movie.Most critics of this move don't take it for what it is and thats a basic comedy thats designed to make you laugh and want to watch it over and over again.I would say its definitely a movie to watch with a group of friends. People i know who have watched it alone have been disappointed but upon watching with friends have found that is is highly enjoyable. you will want to quote the movie all the time as there are some really memorable scenes. over all its my favorite comedy and i have been waiting for a sequel for a couple of years. meow! "},{"Title":"Makes little sense, but very funny at times","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 'Super Troopers' has taken the 'Police Academy'-films and changed it into something funny. One of the differences is that the State Troopers in this movie want to be funny, things are not simply happening to them. The Troopers are Thorny (Jay Chandrasekhar), Mac (Steve Lemme), Foster (Paul Soter), a rookie named Rabbit (Erik Stolhanske) and the weird outsider Farva (Kevin Heffernan), all under the leadership of Capt. John O'Hagan (Brian Cox). The movie is set in Spurbury, Vermont where so little is happening they play games to have some fun. Their victims are the people they turn over. They also have a constant battle with the local police.There is a story, although it is more like a framework for gags. The Spurbury State Trooper department is about to be closed due financial problems. A dead body is found and it seems that there is a connection with some drugs, found in a truck. A great bust could help the Troopers. Of course the local police wants the same bust causing more problems between the two departments. A sub-plot involves Foster and a girl from the local police, Ursula (Marisa Coughlan), who are dating although that is against the rules. Of course Ursula might come in handy when it comes to who will solve the crime first, the Troopers or the local police.But like I said, the story does not really matter here. It is divided in funny segments, one a little funnier than the other, but all quite entertaining. Especially the verbal jokes dealing with some drivers they have pulled over will give you some great laughs. It is especially funny because at first we think the Troopers are just very dumb and talk in clichés. But then we learn that before they walk up to a car they decide which joke they will try, simply for their own amusement. Of course the movie goes over the top at some points, especially with the Farva-character, but it is not distracting because almost every comedy these days has a character like his.This may not be a great movie, but is an entertaining from start to finish. It made me want to see the other films from these comedians, their group is called Broken Lizard, including 2004's 'Club Dread'. Since it is hard to top this movie at least in this particular genre, I am not sure whether I should, but that says enough about 'Super Troopers' itself. "},{"Title":"buy this","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie rules and I would recommend it to anyone who like cursing, and loves a lot of funny stuff. This movie is so original and It is great to watch 300 times and it has lots of quotes to use. This thing is making me write more and I don't like it so I will just write about how it makes me write more and I don't like it so I just write more. This movie rules and I would recommend it to anyone who like cursing, and loves a lot of funny stuff. This movie is so original and It is great to watch 300 times and it has lots of quotes to use. This thingness movie rules and I would recommend it to anyone who like cursing, and loves a lot of funny stuff. This movie is so original and It is great to watch 300 times and it has lots of quotes to use. This thingness movie rules and I would recommend it to anyone who like cursing, and loves a lot of funny stuff. This movie is so original and It is great to watch 300 times and it has lots of quotes to use. This thing "},{"Title":"It's the little things","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Upon first screening, Super Troopers is merely another, albeit more clever, comedy about the police. Of course it is much more that that. It is a funny little glimpse into the inner workings of a group of tight-knit coworkers. They do the kind of stuff that you would do if you worked in a highway patrol office in a small town. They play pranks on each other, they give each other crap, and they try to make their job a little more enjoyable. In fact, I wouldn't doubt it if some of these things were excerpts from these guys' lives. It has the kind of re-watch potential that made Meet The Parents and other select comedies so beloved. It has the little things. Each character could had very well been made from a blueprint of any group of friends. It's got the tough guy, the new guy, the leader, and of course, the target. They make it look like these type of things are done every day and you're just getting a glimpse of the wacky stuff that happens in their lives. It's funny because it's true. This stuff does happen, and we're just lucky enough to catch a peek. "},{"Title":"Hated it then fell in love with it","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Man the first time I saw this movie I thought it was awful. From the trailer my friends and I thought it would be based around the college guys, but it's based on the cops, which at first was disappointing. But later when we watched it on PPV it was hilarious. It's one of those movies that will give you thousands of quotes to crack up you and your friends like the always fun He's already pulled over he can't pull over any farther. It's definitely a movie to watch in good company and preferably unsober. There's too many little funny things in it to mention, you have to watch it a few times to catch them all, and if your like me you'll want to. Don't expect to see an Oscar winner, or for that matter any award winner, it's just a stupid fun movie, and if thats your style this one is definitely for you. "},{"Title":"Great movie to see with some friends","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie is one of my favorite pré-party movies. Together with Old School this is the thing that gets you going. The film is hilarious, though it doesn't switch into overkill. Although this isn't a big budget movie, I find it better then most others. This is a good example of how a talented cast and (fairly) good script, can sometimes do more then just Big Bucks. You can actually see, that the actors are having a great time. And that atmosphere will be reflected into your living room.If you ever feel down, and you need a good laugh, don't think about it twice, just pop it in your DVD-player and run it. You will not regret it.-=RamroD=- Rulez!!! "},{"Title":"Pure genius! Rent this, invite friends, be a hero.","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is the funniest movie I have seen in three years. I hope this group of writers/actors stays together. They are a bazillion times better and smarter than that Clerks/Dogma stuff that you might think is comparable.One way to put it this is a wonderfully stupid movie that never insults your intelligence, and I can't think of 10 movies I'd say that about. And all of them are classics. So is this.I'm shocked by how underrated this is. Must I also lose my faith in the voters at IMDb? Gah! Where has all our common sense gone? We worship at the feet of Animal House, and then give this movie a six-point-sumthin? Maan, that's backwards! "},{"Title":"A waste of a good evening...","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I remember when this was released, and the trailers made it look kind of funny.  Now that I've actually viewed the movie, I realize how some movie trailers can fool you.My father - of all people - recommended this movie to me, and he's VERY picky about what he likes.  He told me it was hilarious and that I had to see it.  Well, dad, you picked a really sucky one this time.  The thing that gets me is that I like stupid humor, but this movie just doesn't even have THAT.  Gosh, I think I chuckled (not all-out laugh, mind you) maybe three times during the entire movie.  The bear scene got me and Farva running up and yelling chicken f*cker was pretty funny.  Other than that, it was lame joke after lame joke, and they all fell waaaaay short.  Everything was horribly predictable.I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone, not even people I don't like. I've definitely seen worse, but this one will be filed into the CRAP category immediately.   "},{"Title":"UPS loves it","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  this movie is great.  while at first it was one of those movies where you kinda wanna see it but you don't really wanna tell anyone just in case it turns out to be a box-office flop.  eventually i got around to seeing it, once i saw it, i told some friends at work.  immediately we all fell in love with this hilarious comedy.  especially since we all work with a guy who reminds us so much of officer farva, as well as rabbit the stupid rookie. typically we enjoy sitting back and drinking a few beers after work, putting in this movie and laughing our asses off.  actually we're doing that right meow.  i strongly recommend this movie for a good laugh.MEOW! "},{"Title":"Kind of funny when I saw it the first time as Police Academy","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  After the first 45 minutes this movie got really old. Gee, I should have gotten a clue when I saw the movie had more than 5 writers. Way too long when there is nothing funny going on. This movie would have been hilarious if it was broken up into a TV series. Unfortunately I think you can get more laughs watching Comedy Central reruns.  "}{"Title":"With more consistency....this could've been a comedy classic!!!!","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  After seeing the lame previews for Super Troopers, my hopes weren't high. In fact, it looked so crappy that I thought to myself, Who would actually watch this?  Is it much better than I expected?  Definitely!  But all in all, it's an OK comedy.This movie doesn't suffer from the same flaws as most contemporary comedies it's not silly, annoying or unbelievably gross.  The problem?  Most of the gags are dull!  I wasn't cringing and I wasn't laughing either; but I did roll my eyes a few times.The actors all seem talented.  I understand they're all part of a comedy troup.  And if they ever decide to make another movie, I'll probably get in line to see it, because they definitely have potential.  The only known actors are Brian Cox and Marisa Coughlan.  Brian Cox shows off his hidden comic talent.  In one scene, he gets drunk and urinates into someone's car. Yep, this is the same dude who played Hannibal Lecter.  Marisa Coughlan has never looked hotter!  She provides great eye candy for the (most likely) predominantly male audience.Now, why do I think this could've been a comedy classic?  Because there are a few hilarious, hilarious scenes that had me rolling with laughter!  In fact, I'm still laughing thinking back to those moments.  When Farva went up to that old couple in the car and spontaneously yelled out chickenf**ker, I was laughing for at least three minutes straight!  And there are other classic moments, including the opening scene in which a stoner devours pounds of marijuana and one where a cop straps on a bulletproof jockstrap and has his fellow officers shoot at his crotch.  Now that's comedy!! During those few scenes, I laughed harder than I have in years!  Which is why I feel it's tragic that the writing wasn't more consistent.  I feel bad giving it a score of 5, but that's what it deserves.  Just like if I see a good comedy with a few truly awful gags, I'm not going to give it a bad review.So I am definitely suggesting you check out Super Troopers on video. Those funny moments are worth indulging, and you can always fast-forward through all the dull scenes.My score  5 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"By far -the WORST movie I have ever seen!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  **I FEEL IT'S A PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENT, IF I CAN SAVE JUST ONE PERSON FROM THE PAINFUL TWO HOURS I WENT THROUGH, THE WORLD WILL BE A BETTER PLACE** It's not often that I take the time to write a movie review.  Everyone has different tastes, and while I have always appreciated reading reviews, I've just found it better to keep most of my opinions to myself. . .Until now. I'm a screenwriter.  I live in LA.  Translation.  I've seen LOTS of horrible movies.  I thought I had a pretty good grasp on horrible film making. That was until, my friend dragged me this premiere with the promise of a good after party.  Super Troopers redefined the definition of bad film making. From fat nudity-to borderline racist profiling jokes, this is by far the most tasteless disgusting WASTE of time, effort, and money that has been released for quite a while.  The dialogue was painful, the plot nonexistent, and the acting embarrassing.  I can honestly say that there was not one single redeeming quality about this film.  I've found more entertainment staring at a wall for two hours.  Fifteen minutes into the movie I started thinking of creative ways to kill myself with my Palm Pilot.  Halfway through (right around the time the fat man started showing skin) I started praying for a natural disaster.  At the after party I used every creative phrase in the book when asked what I thought of the movie.  If your going to see a movie, see something, ANYTHING but this.  Super Troopers is so bad that even though I had nothing to do with it's conception and production I feel like I have to apologize!  How this movie was picked up for theatrical release will forever be a great mystery to me. . . Although I have some theories!  To the writers of this catastrophe, I thing to say For God's sake, don't make a sequel.   "},{"Title":"Ow... my sides hurt...","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Yeah, that's how hard I laughed at this movie.  I caught it during it's  first screening at SXSW, and good lord almighty, I have not laughed that hard at a movie in a good long time.  So many things from this movie will become pop-culture quotes if it gets released nationwide, and I hope it does.  Though it is fairly light on plot and there are things people could say detract from the movie, I say it's just a fun comedy, it's not meant to be Dr. Zhivago.  It's one that your supposed to go to knowing your in for a good time and some good laughs.  Hell, I liked it so much, I worked my schedule around during SXSW so that I made sure I caught the second and third showings of it as well.  Hopefully we have a new comedy writing group picking up on some good movies, since SNL hasn't been trustworthy in years in the feature film category. "},{"Title":"Far too basic and laugh free but may provide laughs for those that find the troopers' pranks funny","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The Vermont state troopers are little more than a collection of jokers with a reputation of messing up more than enforcing crime. With budget cuts coming in, the local city police feel confident that the highway will be brought under their jurisdiction and the state troopers scrapped. However the troopers have no intension of letting this happen and a murder and a major drugs bust on the highway seems to offer them away onto the front pages for something good for once.I taped this cop spoof because I had hopes that it would be witty and fun. The plot was less important to me because I had just hoped I would be laughing too much to care. Sadly it wasn't anything of the sort and I was disappointed by how unfunny the whole thing was. The humour is basic and doesn't really show much in the way of invention. The silliness of the whole thing does help it as much as I wanted although some moments are so off the wall that I couldn't help but laugh. If only it had more moments of inspired madness it would have been a lot better but as it was it is just daft without actually being funny.The cast don't really offer much to lift the material above the level it is at. Turns from Stolhanske, Chandrasekhar, Lemme, Heffernan and Soter suit the approach of just mucking around but generally they don't do more than that. The presence of Cox and von Bargen suggests that there is more to be had from the cast but really they are both wasted and it is particularly embarrassing to see Cox slumming it and putting in so little effort in a film that doesn't deserve him. Coughlan drifts around being blonde and pretty to attract the male audience but she isn't as blatant as viewers of this will require so I'm not entirely sure what she was for.Overall then a fairly unfunny and unremarkable comedy that does the basics but nothing else. Undemanding viewers might find the air of mucking around to be enough to get by but for me it was just too worthless and hardly provided one or two laughs for me the whole time. "},{"Title":"Meow THIS is what I call funny","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 5 bumbling, prank loving Vermont State troopers need to shape up to avoid being out of the job due to the rival police department of the same town as they reside in. This small film is hilarious and single handedly put the Broken Lizard comedy troupe on the map and rightfully so as the film is highly quotable, extremely re-watchable and the comic timing of everyone involved is simply remarkable. Sadly, their next movie Club Dread wouldn't be nearly as great as this one is. If you ever find that any of your friends that don't laugh at this film then it's really time to get some new friends meow.Eye Candy Maria Tornberg gets topless (and again in the Deleted scenes section of the DVD extras) My Grade A DVD Extras Commentary with director Jay Chandrasekhar and and actor Erik Stolhanske; Second commentary by actors Kevin Heffermen, Steve Lemme and Paul Soter; 6 minute Making Of featurette; 2 minute 'Road trip Newsrap' featurette; 14 outtakes & extended Scenes with optional commentary; Theatrical trailer; and Trailer for Kung Pow Enter he Fist "},{"Title":"a new classic for those who love irreverent comedies","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" no, this is not another bland predictable Will Farrell or Ben Stiller picture. Super Troopers does what Police Academy never could and films like Wayne's World and Tommy Boy are most revered for. this is the story of a rag-tag group of highway patrol men trying desperately to keep their station from closing while still enjoying the lax and sometimes ridiculous habits that cure their everyday monotony. great skits combined with crazy stock characters that everyone has somehow met keeps the story alive and the audience pumped until the closing credits. join together with a large group of pals and chill in front of the tube to this one - it delivers more laugh out louds than Napoleon Dynamite and will be quoted in the *in the know* circles for a long time to come. "},{"Title":"Hilarious! Funniest movie I've seen in years.","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Of course, you have to be okay with drug and corruption humor, and that is right up my alley. Maybe lack of this quality is the source of some people's dislike for the movie? Frankly, I am surprised by the percentage of people who don't think it is hilarious! I think it is a classic irreverent comedy.  "},{"Title":"sweetly dumb comedy","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  `Super Troopers' has a wacky cartoon-like quality that turns what might have been just a typical, lame-brained police comedy into an infectious little romp.  Prime credit goes to a quintet of performers known as `Broken Lizard,' a New York and L.A. based comedy team that has appeared on stage together for the past 10 years.  The five play Vermont State troopers who spend most of their time staging elaborate pranks and practical jokes to the befuddlement of all those who come in contact with them.  The nice thing about `Super Troopers' is that it keeps the antics more or less life-sized, not allowing them to spill over into elaborate preposterousness.  The officers seem more like shrewd, good-natured kids out having a good time than the mentally deficient whackos we usually find in films of this nature.The comedy troupe consists of Jay Chandrasekhar (who also directed the film), Kevin Heffernan , Steve Lemme, Paul Soter and Erik Stolhanske, all of whom had a hand in the screenplay as well.  These actors obviously feel comfortable working together as an ensemble and the results show up on screen.  Their interactions with one another have a sly, unforced quality to them that makes the comedy seem almost effortless at times.  The film, therefore, has a kind of breezy charm that helps override the inherent silliness of the material.  Of course, if you are offended by the very thought of using pot-smoking teenagers and drunk-driving law enforcers as sources of comedy, this may not be the film for you.`Super Troopers' runs a bit too long and there are some arid spots that one has to cross over occasionally, but if you are looking for a crazy comedy that doesn't have to sweat and strain to get the laughs, you could do worse than this film.  "},{"Title":"10 minutes of comedy out off 100; 1 out of 10","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Comparing this to Caddyshack?? Put the pipe down!! This movie has about 10 minutes of funny material, the rest of it just drags along and tries too hard. I appreciate lowbrow humor but this movie fails miserably. Low budget and Low quality. Rent a Cheech and Chong Movie instead of seeing this bomb. There are too many better (actually funny)movies out there . I wouldn't even recommend it on video.  "},{"Title":"One of the most horrible comedies I've ever seen","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is nowhere near as funny as it thinks it is. It compares itself to the comedy greats of the past but it is even lower than the badly-written TV sitcoms that have come about since the 1990s.The film consists of 103 minutes of tiresome, forced gags strung together by a hackneyed plot built around these shopworn gags, played poorly (albeit with enthusiasm) by forgettable actors. The film's inability to generate laughter at any point in the film soon degenerates into irritated boredom. In fact, I booed the film all through the closing credits.Consider yourself warned. "}{"Title":"So bad it makes you cringe","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Having been persuaded by a friend to see it despite my protests, I went to see it only to witness the most unfunny movie I had ever seen. This movie didn't give me any laughs and most of the time I was cringing at how bad some of the puns were.To give you an idea at how lame the jokes were without spoiling it, imagine a tough guy riding a little tricycle down a street. That just about how lazy and contrived the humor is.And not only that but this movie feels extremely short. After watching this you'll feel like you've just watched something that's run for barely an hour.Overall a waste of money. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This was a true comedy gem. Everything about it rocked. It has the real goofball humor but hopefully you'll notice the real subtle things in the movie that can even be more hiliarious. Buy this movie, and I am already lining up for Broken Lizards Club Dread. "},{"Title":"Disappointment...","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Before i watch the movie, i said to myself OK, a bunch of goofy policemen like the police academy but in a modern way , without the lame 80's jokes but in the end if the movie the result was 10 minutes of fun and the rest of the movie was a waste of time. It was just so empty, without a point, I mean you just don't care about the characters and their problems.After the first half an hour the movie became so boring and you just wait to see a funny line but that funny line comes every 20 minutes.Finally in a movie of hundred minutes the funny minutes are just 10. So i rate this movie with a 4 only because of the idea and the 2 or 3 times that the jokes of the movie made me laugh. "},{"Title":"Great Stoner Comedy, But It's Missing a Plot","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A seriously thin, mindless exercise that has no right to be anywhere near as much fun as it actually is. The Broken Lizard guys basically use this as an excuse to wear trucker shades and sunglasses, then just ad-lib their way through a dozen identical situations with a broad variety of results. At some points, like the busted stoners opening spot, or the infamous meow exchange with Jim Gaffigan, it's uproariously, tear-streakingly hilarious. In just as many others, though, the crew overreaches to stay in character and their quips fall flat. Brian Cox pulls off a great Rip Torn impression as the reluctantly strict station captain, but his officers pay him so little heed that it doesn't amount to much more than a gag role, while basically everyone else on-camera seems content to play themselves. With just the faintest hint of an arching plot line and a weird non-ending before the credits, this is best seen as a series of interrelated sketches and nothing more... which makes it perfect for fans of a particular attention-sapping intoxicant. "},{"Title":"Head to Reno, Instead","Date":"22 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" About a year and half following the official US release of Super Troopers, Reno 911!'s first TV season debuted and lasted for another five seasons and one movie of their own. In Super Troopers' defense, I began with Reno 911! first and watched all seasons, at least once, and the movie, Reno 911! Miami, before I just now got around to fully see Super Troopers.I say fully because I've tried once before, approximately 4-5 years ago, but gave up 10 minutes into it when I wasn't laughing one bit. I also gave up, because what they presented to me in that opening shot &#x96; concerning three potheads being harassed by juvenile-acting highway police officers &#x96; looked like it had such potential, but instead had two dozen missed opportunities. And, that was just the first 10 minutes!Well, finally, just yesterday, I got a chance to see the whole and overlong film through to the end. And my first impression was Man, I am missing out on some incredible inside jokes. These guys lack both any tiny little bit of charisma or humor. What am I missing here?Don't get me wrong; I understood the jokes. I got where each one was headed from the beginning of each scene, I just kept thinking that this kept missing the mark everywhere.And no&#x85;I am not comparing it to the incredibly superior and similar Reno 911!. I let this movie stand on its own, but maybe that was a mistake since both the TV series Reno 911! and its movie took this concept, in addition to mocking the long-standing series, COPS, and improved in every step of the way.But, that's unfair to the movie, so, again, I watched it on its own merit.The very basic synopsis of Super Troopers is a bunch of wise-cracking boys in men's bodies are somewhat trying to hold on to their Highway Patrol jobs when budget cuts loom. So, after a long series of hijinks, the movie settles in on a plot (yeah, it took awhile to get there since I'm now referring to the third act) of proving themselves, albeit it's juvenile, once again.While the movie wasn't incredibly stale and unfunny, I didn't care for the cast whatsoever. There was no one I could latch onto, root for, care about. They may all be friends, or a group in real life &#x96; hence the inside joke I failed to get, but they were incredibly blah. Each and every one of them. Combine that with jokes that were ho-hum, it was a displeasure to get to the end.At least a childhood favorite of mine, Lynda Carter, showed up in a tiny, but welcoming part and there was a shower scene with the bear of the group. Finally, I got to two parts that made me, um, sit up and notice.Overall, while not the worst comedy I've seen, it's not recommended. Just stick with the incredible, talented and charismatic cast of Reno 911! instead. "},{"Title":"Great movie crappy people","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" If you would have asked me 1 month ago how this movie was I probably would have left most of this out, but I am a fan and as any fan I visit the movies sites often well when Super Troopers came out I visited that site after the release on DVD and was hooked yea it's a difficult site to stay on, but the good ones normally are like good families they stick together. What a story this company/comedy troop has.BEGGING people to come and see there movies on street corners,universities, anywhere they can and all for free and after all that to develop a great fan base after a few years THEY CRAP ON IT And decide to close down there website that helped them and was created for the fans, but the worst thing about it....THEY DIDN'T TELL ANY OF THEM. They just decided that they are better than us they want new fans not the fans that helped them get where they are....you know the same fans they begged years ago. Still the smart crew they are they released the best movie with Super Troopers and got everyones attention and thank God for that because after that they have sucked with everything else. Good for you guys way to go mainstream, just remember when you realize your material isn't that good and you have no new fans left you are the ones who crapped the original ones away. FANS MAKE YOU WHO YOU ARE NOT THE OTHER WAY AROUND. Never burn your bridges "},{"Title":"Not what I expected...","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I really expected a really poor Police Academy-esque comedy with little originality and possibly just parodying endless other films but I was wrong. The humour is just original enough to keep you entertained and some of the one liners will have you soiling yourself profusely. I highly recommend it, especially if you expect it to be awful as I did. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've seen in ages","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Don't expect Academy-worthy cinema, but this is seriously one of my favorite movies of all time.  Everyone in my office has watched it and we quote it incessantly.  The plot is stupid, the acting is awful, but damn if they don't do some funny stuff. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest ever","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  If you do not laugh watching the first 20-minutes of this movie, there is something wrong with your laughter meter. This is one of the funniest movies that I have ever seen. Super Troopers is a laugh-out-loud movie that can actually make you wet yourself if you're in the right mood. "},{"Title":"Silly, but stomach achingly funny","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The plot is uneven and there are some loose ends, but when this movie hits, it hits hard.  Many of the lines in this movie have become a staples in my vocabulary and that of my friends and co-workers.  I can't wait to see the next project from Broken Lizard! "}{"Title":"That's alotta dimp!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I remember first hearing about this movie by listening to the radio and hearing the band .38 Special on a show saying they did the music for it. Soon thereafter I saw a preview for it and it seemed really funny.I was right.The humor in this movie is not for everybody, but for the ones who do get it, it is gold. So many memorable lines and scenes make this movie one of the funniest I have ever seen. And I've seen a lot. This movie can be watched anytime, as many times as you want and it doesn't become old.God bless Broken Lizard and their comic genius. I can't wait for their next outing in Club Dread where hi-jinks are sure to ensue. "},{"Title":"Brilliant portrayal of stupidity... hilarious","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Like Dumb and Dumber you have to be really smart to write and act this stupid. The movie holds together for plot and continuous laughs, and not just compared to other indie/low budget films.  Another shining example of not needing stars to make people laugh. "},{"Title":"This is the Best  Movie EVER!!!","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I love this movie...it is funny and action packed..it is the kind of movie you can watch over and over and still laugh...lol...i love this movie You boys like MEXICO! lol the characters are funny with a great since of humor...well that all i have to say...I AM A MOVIE FREAK...bye "},{"Title":"Super Troopers ROCK!!!!!","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie, and anyone who says anything different about should get a cat scan. I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who likes to laugh.  When I rented this, I didn't have enough time to see all the special features on the DVD.  There are actually 2 commentaries, with half of the cast on one, and the other half commentating on the other. I started a mini-mania and it seems everyone I know has seen it now, and are proud to have seen it.  But it gets on my nerves when they quote lines incorrectly from the movie.  Who DOESN'T?  -) HAPPY WATCHING. "},{"Title":"light fun","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This wasn't a good movie in any regular sense of the concept. The acting? Meh. Plot?  Gah! Theme? Don't make me smack you.But g'damnit if it wasn't funny.  Basically the film was an excuse to splice together a bunch of bits involving zany and likeable cops doing nutty things to themselves or others.  On that level it worked very well and was quite funny.As an aside, I first discovered this movie while stoned with friends.  One of them played the intro and it was amazing how disorienting it was.  I felt exactly like one of the stoned kids in the car, wondering where the cop suddenly disappeared to ... why's he driving away ... oh s*it how did he end up behind them? ... didn't he already tell them to pull over? ... why's he driving right at them?! ... He's asking for their license again? Didn't he already do that? ... etc.  I definately recommend watching the intro while stoned.  I think the cops actions were very carefully planned to have disorienting effects on those with altered minds, whether it be the stoned kids in the car or anyone else watching it from their viewpoint (which is how the scene was shot, the only scene not from the officer's perspective btw)A couple weeks after that I decided to rent it and watch the whole thing (sober).  I expected it to be stupid and funny, and it pretty much delivered. "},{"Title":"It grows on you","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I felt the same way about this one as I did the first Austin Powers not a lot there; but a repeated viewing the other night had me in stitches. It's not high comedy, but I've seen a lot worse and this one does have me chuckling quietly to myself on occasion. -D "},{"Title":"Insanity is Proved the Best Method","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Equal to South Park Bigger, Longer and Uncut and Death to Smoochy when it comes to mindless fun. And when I say mindless, it is truly meant lovingly. The German couple will keep you rolling, and the team's antics are worth watching in theaters four times over! "},{"Title":"awsome","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  this is a very funny good movie and i think it should get an A++++++++.it is one of the best films made by independent filmmakers.People can relate to how the cops act and alot of what they do real cops admitted to do it.some people say that they might not like it but alot of people want a perfect movie but there arn't any.see it A++++++++++++)  "},{"Title":"Funny stuff...and very realistic","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Coming from a police officer, this movie is actually very realistic inthe use of pranks and such. Police Officers are not robots, we liketo have a good laugh like anyone else, and this movie definitlystruck a chord. The camraderie between the cast is excellent andthe plot about the department being swallowed by budget cuts isalso very realistic. I found myself laughing at the jokes becausethese things really do happen! I dont know how many times I'vegone into a restaurant and said to myself  God I hope they're notspitting in my food! Really funny stuff, even if your not a cop. "},{"Title":"Giving quotes from movie and a rating","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  First off to those of you who did not like this movie are you dead!!! This not suspose to be a serious movie, HELLO this is a comedy and a damn good one at that.  The whole movie is full of good one liners.  (sniffing) Stinks like sex in here I don't want a large, I want a goddamn litre of cola.  This movie is a classic all the way.  I can't wait for Broken Lizards next movie.  This is a 9 1/2 out of 10 in my book. "}{"Title":"Funniest Movie In Three Years!","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I knew this was a low budget/independent movie going in. I laughed more, and harder than anything from Hollywood in the last three years. I felt like i was being let in, on an inside joke the entire movie. The comedy troupe worked great together. I have had 6 other people watch it with me and everybody thought it was hysterical.It had quick wit, gags, and big jokes. I was very pleased. "},{"Title":"instant classic","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  super troopers is about five highway patrolmen who are trying to stop their station from being shut down.  i laughed for 103 minutes straight. this movie is a classic for my friends and me. i think most of the people i know would be happy to pay to see this movie. 7.7/10.  "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  My friends brought this movie over last night.  It's the funniest thing I've seen in a long time.  It's alot like Animal House for our generation.  Okay, this is the story of a bunch of highway patrolmen who love to have fun on the job.  They have great pranks, etc. they pull.  The station is about to be closed, so they have to deal with the rival, jerk police station.  The plot is dumb, but the lines and the gags are the funniest things I've seen since....Clerks, I guess.  Rent or buy it, you'll laugh. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but it's heart is in the right place","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This isn't a teen comedy movie.  It's not a gross-out movie.  The script branches off down too many dead ends and some of the character development is iffy.  Apart from the little character development there is, it's VERY uncomplicated.But that's great; it works so well a lot of the time.  You just have a bunch of highway cops who are compelled to screw up at every opportunity. It's their whole reason for being.  This is where character development doesn't work for two of the characters.  One involves a plot device formula relationship (going out with one of the regular cops on the other team); the other is a strange long term relationship with a woman (who has a son from another relationship) who wants him to stay in town if the department shuts down.The long term girlfriend of Thorny (possibly the lead character?) only reacts to him passively and in no way sways him from the capers he pulls while on highway patrol (i.e. he doesn't mature, therefore, what's the point?).This is my main gripe, apart from that the film starts off strong and then loses its impetus, with the exception of the occasional brilliant scene or snippet of dialog.  Lots of great ideas were exposed and then discarded (the German couple were woefully under used as a comic device).The role of Thorny is played brilliantly deadpan by Jay Chandrasekhar, and the other highway patroller's are great, with well defined individual character traits.  Brian Cox makes an appearance, but doesn't pull off anything spectacular (he's no Lloyd Bridges).It's strange and it's beautiful, give it a chance!  "},{"Title":"Turn your brain off and laugh","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Movies like this aren't really my cup of tea, but a friend put it on one afternoon and we watched it. I thought it was pretty consistently funny. The state trooper characters could have come off as annoying, but the Broken Lizard guys just made it all seem like fun.I never thought I'd watch this movie let alone enjoy it. My enjoyment of this movie is remarkable to me because movies that are intended to make me laugh rarely do (they're too predictable and strident - I usually get my laughs in inappropriate moments of serious movies instead), but the good-natured stupidity of this movie actually cracked me up. "},{"Title":"Dumb but FUNNY","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Ok this isn't exactly 'Citizen Kane' but damn, if you're looking for something to make you laugh your ass off, this is it.Lighten up and you'll enjoy.  This is a perfect non-thinking movie. good for late nights after the bar or the recovery on the couch the next day. "},{"Title":"Laughed many times","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie starts out with a riot, and ends with a giggle.  The riot refers to the first 10 minutes of the movie which is one of the funniest scenes I have ever seen.  This troop is very talented at pulling off the one liners and all the little gags that take place throughout the movie.  Many of them still make me chuckle to myself every time I think about them.  The acting in this movie is very mediocre, but in this kind of movie an oscar performance is not required to make it funny.  The movie does a good job in tieing together all the skits of their traffic stops with the main story of trying to save the station, and uncovering the smuggling ring etc. Overall, I really enjoyed this movie and found it to be extremly funny.  Definately worth seeing once for anyone who enjoys a good belly laugh mixed in with a bunch of giggles          "},{"Title":"a guilty little pleasure","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I know, I know. This movie had a silly little plot, and some rather iffy acting. And that's being generous. But still, I loved Super Troopers. From the opening sequence with the drugged-out college kids, to the closing sequence with uhh...the drugged-out college kids, this movie was hilarious. I especially enjoyed the running joke of the other characters making ignorant comments about not knowing Thorny's ethnic make-up. The local police think he's Mexican, his own Trooper captain thinks he's an Arab. Not highbrow stuff to be sure, but oh so funny.There's no point laying out the film in any detail. You'll either like it or you won't. It is in the vein of Ace Ventura paper-thin plot, paper-thin characters, funny gags. I consider it a guilty pleasure that I'm almost ashamed to admit I loved. Almost.Rating 8/10 for pure silliness.*MINOR SPOILERS* DVD the DVD contains 3 different audio commentaries that are all pretty funny. There's also the obligitory Deleted Scenes and Outtakes reel that shows the pancake syrup the Troopers were guzzling was actual pancake syrup, and the scene of Farva throwing up was the real actor throwing up. Neat. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed this fun, light-hearted, 80s-style comedy.","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I saw the trailer, I expected a slightly cheesy, 80s-style comedy - and thankfully that's what Super Troopers delivered. Don't take it too seriously and, like me, you'll not be disappointed.The atmosphere was good - at points I thought I'd stumbled on an inside-joke, or that this was a feature length movie of an existing series, but this is probably due to the fun relationship between the characters.I'd put this flick somewhere between Bachelor Party and Me, Myself & Irene as a comedy not quite as all-out farce as the former, not quite as involved as the latter. But more my style than Dude, Where's My Car (even if it's just as silly ;)  "},{"Title":"I hope real state troopers don't act like this","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  (SPOILERS)Super Troopers is about a group of cops who need to solve a big case, so they won't lose their budget.  Throughout they do many crazy things. The beginning is funny with the 3 college guys as one of them gets all their grass and shrooms.  When they are put in the back of the police car, a speeder comes along and the police give chase.  The speeder is really a cop, playing a dangerous prank. The 3 guys think the speeder kills the police and then hops in the car and gives them a spin. But, it is funny because the one guy is flipping out on the all the shrooms he eat.Of course, the local cops want to see the troopers close down.  And you have your sterotypical characters, such as the annoying, hot tempered fat guy, the red-neck flirt, the immature guy, and the middle age guy who has a unique home life.And in the end, the troopers solve the drug case and discover the local cops were in on the drug trade, and they don't end up unemployed.  Some of the better scenes were the fat guy getting sprayed with water and powder sugar, the cop hitting on the European wife, the fat guy at the fast food restaurant, the whipped cream rookie.FINAL VERDICT  Funny, unexpectedly entertaining.  Worth watching if you want to see a silly comedy.  "}{"Title":"Broken Lizard Rules","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Thorny(Jay Chandrasekhar) Mac(Steve Lemme) Rabbit(Erik Stolhanske)Foster(Paul Soter) and Farva(Kevin Heffernan) are Vermont state troopers out to have a good time. Stationed in a remote area near the Canadian border, the troopers are avid pranksters with an affinity for syrup, have a knack for screwing up on the job. But when budget cuts threaten their livelihood and pit them against arch-rival Spurbury P.D.The five friends try to straighten and do the job right.But when a dead body is discovered and a possible drug ring is unearthed.The super troopers spring into action attempting to solve the crime, save their jobs, and outdo the local police department.Also in the cast is Marisa Coughlan and Lynda Carter.Broken Lizard consist of Jay Chandrasekhar, Steve Lemme, Erik Stolhanske, Paul Soter and Kevin Heffernan.They made their first film Puddle Cruiser a few years back which is now becoming a cult classic, while Puddle Cruiser was funny Super Troopers was much better.Broken Lizard wrote a fine script and Jay Chandrasekhar directing was well done.The opening scene was just too funny, i was hooked after that.The meow scene was also really funny, rent the movie and you will see what i mean.Super Troopers was one of the funniest movies of 2001.I give Super Troopers 8/10Go rent this movie right meow  "},{"Title":"Think Up in Smoke crossed with Farrelly Bro.","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie caught me unaware while I was flipping through cable channels, which is probably the best way to see it. A pleasant surprise.Expectations were not high, but this movie really struck a nerve. Very laid-back and sweet natured. Like hanging out and goofing around with old college buddies.It also helped that Farva looks and behaves just like a cousin of mine who is kind of a cop groupie.P.S. More Brian Cox, please. "},{"Title":"Give it a few minutes and you'll start laughing.","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  As a comedy, I give this movie 7/10.I rarely give comedies more than 7, reserving the higher ratings for dramas.A great movie, full of laughs and surprizes!I was a bit worried that it would be a teen road movie, but luckily I was spared the pain.See it if you're into funny movies! "},{"Title":"Don't forget your low expectations","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The key to enjoying Supertroopers is to set your preconceived notions of what comedy is and isn't, and watch the movie for yourself, wide-eyed and innocent.I enjoyed this movie because it made me fall on the floor laughing.  Most notably in the first act, it both makes me glad state troopers don't really act this way and makes me wish they would.Brian Cox, for whom I have tremendous respect for (watch him in Minus Man), is the glue of this movie. While the others are serving their adolescent insanity, Cox keeps things in order and occasionally slips to his charges' level.Yes, the movie sags a bit in the middle, and yes, this is due to a reliance on plot over comedy, but to hell with it, sit back and enjoy the stupid plot for what it's worth.This movie is at times considered forgettable, but I feel compelled to rate it a 7. It might be a bit high, but when you consider the inexperience of the creators of this movie, it stands up decently. Of course, I would feel that anything over a 7 for this movie would be inappropriate.7/10 "},{"Title":"I suggest you see this movie right meow!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Although the brand of humor might not be for everyone, I was laughing through most of the movie.  It had it's down moments but the funny parts were worth waiting for.  Especially if you like stupid humor like I do.  I definitely recommend it! "},{"Title":"One funny movie!","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Dont be fooled by the previews for this flick. It's way funnier than first perceived and ignore the snobs that gave it a low rating or who lacked the sense of humor and said it wasn't funny. Give it a chance, I promise you'll be a better person for it.  "},{"Title":"Laugh my @$$ off funny!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was incredibly entertaining, and it kept me laughing all the way through. Funniest Movie since I saw Dirty Work. Wear a diaper while watching this unless you like watching a movie in urine-soaked pants. Seeing how funny this Broken Lizard comedy group is makes me very anxious to see their next work of comedic genius. 10/10  "},{"Title":"This is the Best Movie Ever!!!!","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is the Best Movie Ever! If you are looking for a really good time, you have got to get this movie. It's even better than Office Space. You get to see three teens pulled over for littering and smoking the reefer. Rabbit, the rookie, humps a bear and get coated in shaving cream. Mac gets shoot at while wearing only a bullet proof cup and nothing else! Jeff gets it on with a local cop, Farva gets naked and Thorny chugs syrup. I won't tell you what Thorny and Rabbit do when they have to pull over this hot foriegn couple for speeding and stealing a porshe!!! You have got to see this movie.  It is on all on my friends top ten lists! "},{"Title":"Not all that bad","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Not all that good, but not as bad as my first viewing of it. A lot of the comedy works better with repeated viewings, as more can be taken in while not worrying about the paper thin plot.Overall, 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Funny but why follow a plot","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Super Troopers follows a very small Vermont highway troopers outfit (so small they seemingly have no night shift) who is being downsized by state budget cuts.Anyway, that is all pointless. This movie is about the guys of Broken Lizard. This comedy troupe no one has heard of. But they are truly funny, the opening scene when they pull over a group teenagers is absolutely hilarious.I wish the movie would have stayed in that vein at all times. As reviewers have said before, the moments when Super Troopers is a weird, completely out there movie, it is great. But it gets caught in the 80's trap of having a completely useless plot and actually following it through to the end.We get plenty of laughs along the way and you do enjoy the characters enough to pull for them through the plot. But you can't help but think there is so much they could done with this movie but elected not to. 5.5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"I Loved It!!!","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Super Troopers was so funny my sides almost split.Everything was funny.And this movie was so original.I always like these kind of comedy.When I want comedy,I want real silliness like this,not lame stuff like When Harry Met Sally.Supper Troopers is a dream to be watched over and over again.If you have to spend a million dollars to see this,then spend that money.IT'S GREAT. Rating 10 OUT OF 10. "},{"Title":"Goofy, Stupid, Funny","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  If you click on my IMDB ID above you'll see a list of my comments on films.  And most of them are bad because I tend to comment on films that shock me.  This is not the case for Super Troopers however.By no means is this a great film.  It is dumb and looks like sketch comedy, but it is comedy.  Basically its about a posse of childish Vermont State Troopers who goof off and play with the speeding motorists and with the cars they impound.  This movie has mostly bathroom humor and is not to be compared with the PG-13 Police Academy movies.  It has a few cool jokes and I did laugh a few times.  It is much better than any Adam Sandler or Rob Schneider trash and is much more realistic than XXX and Die Another Day.  I liked itBOTTOMLINE If you see it on cable one day, watch it. "},{"Title":"The Office Space Of Law Enforcement","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I was a little worried that my expectations for this movie would be realized as it played on my dvd player. I was so wrong. As I watched this movie I was relieved to see that there is still some original thought in the movie industry (albeit from an independent comedy group known as Broken Lizard). I was glad to see that the same old gags that i have seen hashed and rehashed for the last 10 years were left out of this movie and some fresh material found its way in.  I cannot wait until these guys put out another movie. They will certainly have a hard time topping TROOPERS, but if anyone can do it. Its these guys.  "},{"Title":"This movie has some of the funniest scenes ever.","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  You'll want to rewind the beginning over and over to see the comedy antics played out by the Troopers.  The story does get lost a little and you're going loose a little interest, however, it does entertain you enough that it's worth renting.  I feel that I was entertained enough that it was worth the price of rental and glad that I did. You will laugh out loud. g "},{"Title":"LOVED IT","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  ok so im reading a few of these reviews and they all seem really negative. based on the previews i saw, i honestly thought that there was no way this movie could live up to what it showed. i figured it was one of those movies that put ALL the funny stuff into the commercial, but no. this movie is by far the funniest movie i have ever seen. i have seen it more then 50 times and i still laugh at everything. of course this does have dirty jokes in it, and the humor is a little elementary, but for me, this is a very excellent flick, i totally love it. "},{"Title":"Shenanigans prevail- 4* out of 5","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Comedy is taken to an all-time low- in a good way.  Super Troopers is truly a good movie.  The plot may lack, but it is made up in the comedy.  The premise is basically this 5 Highway Patrol Officers and their Captain are steadily rising on the state's list of expendable offices, due to the lack of action and shenanigans pulled by the Troopers.  But, when a murder case turns up in their jurisdiction, the Troopers realize that this may be their last hope to save their jobs.  The ensuing jokes, pranks, and plain comedy make this movie one of my personal favorites.  This movie is definitely enough to brighten up anyone's gloomy day.  It had me laughing from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Funny.  Very funny.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I found this movie hilarious.I think that if you're just looking for laughs, you can really enjoy this movie.  There's some very memorable comedy here.  Devoid of intellectual material, yes, but not every movie has to be a thriller or pontification. For cheap laughs, I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Really funny","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I freely admit this isn't for everybody, although I was busting a gut.   If you're looking for something in the vein of Caddyshack or Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, this is definitely your kind of movie.  It's not a classic, but it's still a lot of fun and worth seeing at least once. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise, and a festival of facial hair!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" While a film of this formula would have been more successful theatrically in the 1970s and early '80s for it's drive-in theatre appeal, Super Troopers is still a nice surprise and just right for enjoying on home video. Highway Patrol VS. the local cops is the theme here, and I was quite surprised it actually had a bit of substance to it instead of being a lame-brained comedy. Will these troopers save the day? Ah, how could you expect any less? And some have found this film to be an insult to cops in general, but I didn't at all. Just take a look out there in the real world, and there are people behaving a LOT worse than this, and I'm referring to the local cops in the film (the Highway troopers really were good guys!).Instead of trying to work a film around reasons to show naked women and excessive drug humour, there is actually a lot of concentration on a story here, and the shenanigans of the troopers were accent enough to add to the fun. Sure, the yuks weren't always there, but just look at the Police Academy films and you'll wonder how so many of those got made. While the cops were rather dimwitted in the Police Academy films, the officers in Super Troopers were no dummies (except for the obligatory one like Farva). I didn't mind that that gags weren't being forced at you every second, I actually found myself interested in the plot. The rest of these comments that follow here are what I feel set Super Troopers so apart from the usual drek of raunch comediesMAJOR KUDOS SECTION! There are a few rather unusual qualities about this film that set it apart from the others of this genre. FIRSTLY, the Highway troopers were likable guys and all rather good-hearted. You really find yourself wishing you had more friends like these! They weren't pulling stunts just to be crap disturbers or hurt anyone. The shenanigans they pulled on people were obviously well deserved. The opening scene where they mess with the minds of teens smoking pot in a car is a hoot.SECONDLY, many films with this level of testosterone usually go the gay-bashing route, and in a wonderful turn, writer/director/actor Jay Chandrasekhar shows us some scenes of male bisexuality in a positive light, not using it as reason to make fun of one's masculinity but rather showing everyone has fun side if they let themselves experience it. After all, Jay's character Ramathorn is the one who asked the swinging bisexual German couple Who wants a moustache ride? in which both gleefully exclaim I do! I do! Great to see who I considered the lead role to be that open-minded. It's refreshing to see this level of open-mindedness in a comedy. No gay stereotype jokes at all, and if anything, this film shows something that many people deny is REALLY going on in the world of swinging where both male and female partners are of equal enthusiasm and participation! Big points to Chandrasekhar for that! I know some of you think this is strange to comment about this aspect, but it really is important in the big picture of things. There is still plenty of ignorance to enjoy of that nature if that's what you desire by just tuning in to Howard Stern, The Man Show, or Jerry Springer.THIRDLY, it's great to see a focus on story and comedy instead of distracting the drooling straight male crowd with distractions of naked women and lesbian kissing -- there is only one very, very brief glimpse of the German Woman's breasts, but two very visible scenes showing male nudity. I'm sure many guys will complain about the lack of sex and raunch (what's there is definitely R-rated, but not as offensive as one might expect!), but I'm also certain there are plenty of us that were quite pleased that it didn't try to fill time with distractions of breasts to cover lack of wit. There are plenty of American Pie types of comedies out there, I think it's a welcome sight that Super Troopers didn't wallow in that area.FOURTHLY, it's great to see the whole Broken Lizard team as the actors themselves, instead of using more well-groomed hunks to play the characters. These guys looked like real folk and played their parts quite naturally. Plus, it's nice to see an ENCOURAGEMENT of facial hair for a change! I liked the scene where they were ribbing a fellow trooper about not having grown a moustache yet like everyone else!I know it's only a comedy, but there really are some nice things about Super Troopers that offer more than just a few laughs. It's a film I'll definitely have in my collection and I thank the Broken Lizard team for making this film possible, as it gives me hope that there will be more films out there that have some punch to them without just trying to appeal to a jerky crowd. "},{"Title":"this movie is amazing","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  alright, not only was this movie hilarious from start to finish, but the characters are so cute and amusing, that it makes for a great movie. the story line is about a group of state highway patrol men and the funny things they do while at work. broken lizard is hilarious, and i recommend that you see this movie.  "}{"Title":"This movie is hilarious","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is for everyone who has ever wondered what it would be like if police officers abused their power in comical ways. Super Troopers is very very funny. I was laughing so much at this movie. The first 15 minutes are great. It was exciting to watch what the cast of state troopers would do next. I've never seen any of these actors before but they were perfect together. They had excellent chemistry and sharp wits that led to comical delivery of their lines. The story was simple, and that doesn't hurt the film at all. Super Troopers is comedy at its best. "},{"Title":"All about context... a fine addition to the genre","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Many comedy troupes have put their acts on the big screen withmixed results.  The best of them, like Monty Python and MelBrooks/Carl Reiner are pillars of film as well as stage comedy. More often, great stage troupes can't effectively translate their shortsketches to full-length - Kids in the Hall (the best troupe whocouldn't make film work) and most Saturday Night Live offshootsare the obvious examples.   Broken Lizard fall somewhere in the middle with Super Troopers. This movie is funniest when taken in this context.  Sketchcomedians are like stand-ups in that they observe the mainstreamand riff on it to find the humour.  This movie does that better thanmost.  In the hands of a good veteren troupe, the idea of beingpulled over on the highway and thinking what do these cops dothe rest of the time? is fodder for some great jokes.  Lizard provestheir worth by culling enough jokes from that premise to fill 90minutes and that's no small feat!  No, they're not Python andTroopers is not Holy Grail, but they are pretty close to The Kids andthis is better than Brain Candy.  Their personal chemistry showsthrough and it's obvious that they work well together and shareeach other's sense of humour... all making for a great feel-goodfun laugh atmosphere.  If they can pull that off, I'd love to see themon stage.    They wear their influences on their sleeve as there is a PoliceAcademy sensibility (but without resorting to they're all stupid andbumbling so it's funny as the only gag) and the ending is lifteddirectly from the Simpsons we're jammin' episode.  But that's apretty good mix and they don't fall into the trap of trying to do toomuch.  Light, clever and funny.  You won't have your life changed,but you'll be entertained for a couple of hours... and sometimesthat's all a film needs to do.  7/10 when placed against their peers. "},{"Title":"Reservoir Dogs for the Office Space crowd","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Its like watching a guy run head first into a brick wall in slow mo. Too ridiculous not to laugh at. Kind of like a Chevy Chase version of Police Academy for the 90s. If you liked Office Space, you might like this, though its more below the belt.  "},{"Title":"Cheech & Chong meets Police Academy meets Animal House!","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This video was a definite buyer! As a former police officer and having tried marijuana more than once in high school, I could relate to both sides. None of the cliches were overdone and I thoroughly enjoyed the entire move. One scene got rewound and watched four times before a friend and I could go on (and yes, we were sober!)! Not a family movie, but a new classic for sure! "},{"Title":"Entertaining and well-crafted comedy gem","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  MILD SPOILERS...Super Troopers is a breath of fresh air in an increasingly-repetitive and mass-market-driven pool of modern comedies. Pulling no punches with its edgy humor, the film carefully balances story and jokes to create a wholly unique and enjoyable experience.The plot of the film focuses around five Vermont State Troopers who spend more time pulling pranks on each other and playing mind games with the unlucky speeders they pull over than actually enforcing the law. But when state budget cuts threaten to close down their station, they try to pull together and show that they deserve to stay on the road.Written and acted by the comedy troupe Broken Lizard, Super Troopers succeeds when so many other comedies fail in the careful balance of plot and comedy. Some movies are simply one-gag skits strung together loosely for ninety minutes, which makes me feel like I could have stayed at home and watched Saturday Night Live and saved myself the price of admission. Other comedies are so overly-sentimental and bogged down with plot that they forget they are comedies. Super Troopers lands squarely in the middle-- it remains consistently hilarious throughout the entire film with many, many laugh-out-loud moments, but also weaves enough of a plot that you are interested in the outcome.The characters help with this tremendously. The five members of Broken Lizard each play a trooper with a problem that, to varying degrees, makes you care about their fate. Foster has a thing for a local policewoman, but the romance does have some bearing on the plot and is not thrown in just to be there. Thorny is faced with leaving his girlfriend and son if the station closes. And Farva has a severe anger management problem. For the first time in a long time, we have a buddy comedy actually made by a group of buddies, and it shows as these comedians allow their personality to emerge in the film and its characters.Another appealing aspect of this movie is that it clearly does not pander or soften its comedy. Mike Myers and Adam Sandler tone down their flicks just enough so that they will get a PG-13 rating and kids will be able to see them. On the other hand, many stage comedians seem to think that a constant stream of profanity is what makes them funny. The comedy of Super Troopers feels-- natural -- for lack of a better word-- never forced in one direction or another by financial interests. Such is the beauty of a low-budget masterpiece of comedy such as this.If you're looking for an original comedy that doesn't disappoint like so many big-budget, big-name snoozers do today, I highly recommend Super Troopers. "},{"Title":"If you have ever been pulled over, this flick is for you.","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Super Troopers follows the antics of five backwoods Vermont State Troopers in their quest to keep their jobs and stick it to the members of the local Police Department.  Their desire to save their jobs often comes second to their urge to keep themselves constantly entertained.During the opening moments of this movie, the time I spent not rolling around on the floor laughing was spent thinking, These guys had to have been pulled over one too many times.  They KNOW what it's like having a cop mess with you.  Of course no cop has ever messed with anyone the way these guys do, but to a young hooligan like I once was, Cops are seen with a paranoid fear somewhere in between fear of your father, and fear of death. Broken Lizard uses this fear to stage several hilarious scenes dealing with John Q Public and the way in which their fear keeps them from calling these cops out on their pranks.Super Troopers is by no means intellectual cinema, but I got my money's worth, which is (I believe) a rare thing when it comes to movies.  If you approach it willing to laugh out loud at often crude and ridiculous situations, then you will enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"one of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is priceless.  More great one-liners than you can count (Your suspension...continues!, CAR RAMROD Liter is French for 'Give me some cola!', and countless more), and hilarious acting by the comedy troupe known as the Broken Lizard.  Kevin Heffernan, as Rodney Farva, is one of the funniest men I've ever seen (Who wants cream?  Nobody?  Okay, no cream...), and he alone makes the movie worth watching.  This is the kind of movie you can see again and again and still laugh like crazy, so rent it now!  Not tomorrow, not next week, but now.  NOW.  NOOOOW!!!!...or you'll regret it. "},{"Title":"The funniest cop movie since Police Academy 1!","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one funny movie!! I really enjoyed this. It was a breath of fresh air to see a comedy like this after all the crap that has been released in the past few years.This movie is about a group of Highway Patrolmen, who go up against the city patrol. When they find out that one of the departments is going to be brought down, the two try to outdo each other.Really good movie!! I didn't see anyone that I really recognized, but the cast was really great. The opening scene still cracks me up.I really hope they make a sequel.  "},{"Title":"Funniest move I have ever seen!!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This was the funniest movie ever.  You have to watch it!  Go rent it right now!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  I laughed so hard I thought I was going to pass out!  I know you might think it was stupid, but it was hilarious.  I was laughing so hard I can't even remember what was so funny.  You need to see this movie! "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever!","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  As an avid viewer of comedy, I think it's fairly accurate when I say that THIS MOVIE IS THE FUNNIEST THING I'VE EVER SEEN! Not only are the pranks these highway patrol officers pull original, they're hilarious. The Farrelly brothers have nothing on these Broken Lizard guys! "}{"Title":"Absolutely the funniest movie of the year","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I love movies and usually I stick to the more cerebral. My actual last comment was on Waking Life, but I have to say that I was surprised to find myself laughing till tears at Super Troopers. It's not a movie I would rent, but my beau made me watch it. ;)The plot centers on 5 Vermont State Troopers who spend their days goofing off, playing pranks and terrifying unsuspecting motorists, until they find out that their jobs are in danger. Then they take it upon themselves to actually uphold the law (well, not really) and find a good crime to solve. Thin plot. But really funny movie.I especially enjoyed the fact that topics like mild racism and wild sex were introduced ever-so-lightly and loved the DVD extras (lots of extended and cut scenes, plus on alternate ending). I give it four stars! It was truly hilarious - rivaling all those slapstick 80's comedies.It does has one thing in common with Waking Life...it's much better with a bit of the green. ) "},{"Title":"a cleaner style of humour","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" a refreshing change to see a film that made me laugh outloud that didn't resort at any point to base toilet/gross humour tactics. the characters were funny and original, the jokes still shocking, but not in a nasty way, and it even had a good ending. "},{"Title":"An ambiguous movie","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  At first, I reluctantly went to the movie theater to see this movie. I thought I would watch this movie and crack wise jokes and laugh at the stupidity. I was so mistaken. I laughed at the raunchy jokes and I fell in love with all the characters (troopers). This movie is a must see for those with an open mind and not too sensitive. Not recommended for the younger audience but definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"This is the funniest movie of the year.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  My mother went and saw Super Troopers in the theater with a girlfriend. This is not the kind of movie my mother normally sees, but she said it was pretty funny. I saw the movie a few weeks ago, and it is far funnier, more original and more consistently entertaining than the last movie from Mike Myers, Adam Sandler and the Farrelly Brothers combined. Guys, take notesThe state troopers of Spurbury, Vermont are a rowdy, fun-loving bunch of hell-raisers, making their job a lot more fun by pulling absurd pranks on the people they pull over. (There are several things in these scenes alone that I don't want to spoil, so I will not mention them.) When they start butting heads with the local police and the governer threatens to cut their funding and close their station down, the troopers must put their heads together to stay ahead.The best thing in the film is not only the incredibly funny script, but the enthusiastic performances of guys that we actually care about. Broken Lizard, the comedy troupe who starred in, wrote and directed this movie, know how things can be funny in mostly real situations. For instance, a trooper is in a restaurant dressed like Lance Armstrong secretly meeting a female local cop dressed as a biker babe; he figures out what she meant by biker and coyly replies, I'm an idiot. Even the exaggerated humor is great, because they still know where it comes from, as opposed to a scene in the awful Van Wilder, which, for no good reason, features frat boys eating eclairs with a different kind of creme filling. Come to think of it, if there was any gross-out humor, I couldn't see it.Sure, it also features mandatory boozing, toplessness and some other shenanigans (another great scene), but it flows together perfectly. This is the funniest and most underrated comedy of the year.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Very funny film","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  What do you get if you cross 'CHiPs' with 'Kids in the Hall'?  You would get 'Super Troopers'.  This is the funniest film I have ever seen about highway patrolmen. Out of all the gross-out comedies I have seen, this is one of best.  The jokes were gross but not over done.  The jokes were also perfectly timed and well-written.  The intro alone is worth the DVD rental.  If you are looking for a good stupid movie that will just make you laugh as opposed to gross you out, watch 'Super Troopers'.  It gets 9 out of 10.Other stupid but funny films to see  Joe Dirt, Caddyshack, Big Daddy, and Dirty Work "},{"Title":"Vanilla Ice Cream","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  You know the way vanilla ice cream tastes?  Fairly tasty, but nothing too spectacular at the same time.  That's kind of the way Super Troopers plays out.  It has the chance to really run with some funny gags, but instead chooses to just go far enough to get a couple of laughs.  The script is OK, but the Broken Lizard comedy team didn't even try to establish a plausible story.  It's pretty much a bunch of sight and situational jokes strung together for 90 minutes.  Overall this movie isn't anything you haven't seen before, and probably done better. "},{"Title":"Very Funny! NOT POLICE ACADEMY! See this one!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  First off, I grew up with those lame cop parody movies. All the Police Academy movies sucked and the Naked Gun movies were barely better. That is why I was so apprehensive to see this. I'm glad I gave it a shot, because the Broken Lizard comedy troupe is my new love. After seeing this movie I put them up there with Monty Python, Kids in the Hall, Mr. Show and SCTV. You sense right away that they have been performing and writing together for a long time, their timing is perfect. Very witty dialogue. This movie was alot of fun and I look forward to Club Dread, their next movie. Don't pan this movie or watch it with any preconceptions about it being a Police Academy rip-off. This is an original, funny movie with more laughs in the first scene than Police Academy 1-8 put together. "},{"Title":"Consistently Entertaining With a Few Glitches","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Without a doubt Super Troopers was funny from the beginning to the end. Specifically enjoyable was the way the characters did what we would all like to do to a variety of everyday jerks. My only complaint was that parts of the movie would have been more understandable had certain deleted scenes been left in. I will be on the lookout for more films from Broken Lizard. "},{"Title":"Best... Movie... Ever.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  In all the years I have watched movies (and it has been a lot, I work at home and have every channel known to man).   I don't think I have ever seen such a fine piece of work as this.Sure people may say it has its own comical genius and is by far the funniest movie I have ever seen, there is something to be said about the quality of acting as well.  Each member of Broken Lizard plays such a great role you would actually think they were real Highway Patrolmen.  I would like to give a special note to Kevin Heffernan (Farva) who definatly played his role the best.  The ability to play the loser or cop that no one likes was amazing. The realism to the fact everyone hated him showed a comical group with true talent.They have another movie called Puddle Cruising, which I have been unable to locate but others say it is just as funny.  I hope these guys keep producing films.After watching the movie one time, we instantly went out and bought it. Great Job again Broken Lizard! =) "},{"Title":"**1/2 out of 5","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A group of highway partol cops play a bunch of pranks on eachother and people they pull over. There is vitually no plot and the whole film is a tollerence test to see how many fart and sex jokes a viewer can take befor it's just not funny anymore. Somewhere within this mess is a story about trying to save their squad from getting closed down but gets lost in its ongoing stupidity of a film that never takes itself seriously from start to finish. The fime is not a ttotal waste in that it has seceral undeniablbly hilarious scenes but probably the only people that will really enjoy it are teenagers who are about as mature as the men this movie portrays. Note to filmmakers, Animal House is over 30 years old it's time to stop ripping it off and make something original.  "}{"Title":"NOT that funny-Way too timid","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A great premise not fully realised-The movie has a WEAK  plot. And the characters are not well developed or explored which MIGHT have helped the story somewhat. ALL of the situations in the film are very juvinille and I doubt anyone except a preteen would find them funny-The whole thing comes off like a poorly made collage film. "},{"Title":"Funniest and possibly best movie of 2001","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  2001 had more than it's share of bad movies. But Super Troopers is a great piece of film-making. although not for the weak at heart. Broken Lizard is the funniest group of guys in the movie business. I am hoping for a sequel "},{"Title":"The laughs here just smash the speedometer with carefree ambition.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Outrageous, bizarre, and severely under-rated road comedy about five very lazy and laconic Vermont state troopers (known as the Broken Lizard troupe and who wrote the script which is good) who comically wreak havoc on the highway every day despite the concern of their up-tight, sarcastic captain (Brian Cox), who's extremely worried about the state budget and what the governor may do down the line. The five patrolmen here are ones that you wouldn't dare pick an argument with if one of them pulls you over. Most of the laughs here just smash the speedometer with carefree ambition. It's just pure satisfaction all the way. "},{"Title":"Perfect Example Of Afghanistanimation","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I missed this film in the theaters... but on advice from some online forums, I bought the dvd. I am very glad I did. After watching a disappointing Signs last night, this movie is exactly what I needed. Very funny, I was howling. There were a few slow moments in the film, but there was a ton of comedy in there. If you like laughing, you'll love this movie. "},{"Title":"Great, underrated comedy","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Probably my favorite comedy of the year.  Highly underrated.  One of the few films where the least funny parts of the movie are shown in the previews. This makes the movie even funnier, but for only those brave enough to see. I highly reccomend this film and most of you will be suprised how funny it is. "},{"Title":"8 out of 10","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I'm really not too surprised that many of the folks who gave Super Troopers a bad grade happen to mention that burger scene was one of the only funny scenes.  I happen to think that scene was one of the more juvenile - so it's not surprising that people who enjoyed that scene the most wouldn't like the rest of the movie.I'm not giving it a 10/10 because I don't think it deserved that. There were one or two slow or confusing scenes. But it was, however, one of the funniest movies I've seen in a very long time. I'm not a big comedy fan so giving it an 8 out of 10 stars really speaks volumes for this movie.Spoiler Warning! From the moment the shroom eater declared, the snozzberries taste like snozzberries.  I knew I would love this flick.I think it's original, and for a comedy, I was surprised at how well they kept to the plot. To be honest, it's refreshing compared to a lot of the comedies that have been released in the past few years.  It gets a thumbs up for me for creating memorable characters (not just ONE standout character) and for making me laugh out loud for the first time in a while.I'll definitely be keeping my eye out for any further Broken Lizard Productions. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie, the antics are are just side-splitting, i haven't laughed this hard since Joe Dirt, I loved the shooting range, syrup drinking contest, fight at burger joint, etc... I would change a few things though, like moving the camera higher, when farva is being hosed and powdered, and i would change the part with rabbit and the bear. All in All i loved this movie absolutely Hilarious, a must buy, i give 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"a diamond in the rough","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  When your stomach aches from laughing, you know it's got to be a good one. When you recognize that if you and your wise**s friends could come up with enough one-liners and camp scenarios to make a genuine, original movie, you know there's something there. Renting Super Troopers surpassed my expectations by turning out to be $3.16 well-spent.  "},{"Title":"Broken Lizard may very well be the next Kids In The Hall","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Whats the hold up, give these guys a tv show and lets get laughing!Seriously though, this has to have been one of the funniest movies I have seen in a very long while. The first 10 minutes were a bit slow however, I thought I was gonna be in for a disapointment, but I was wrong!I could sum up the plot, but any number of these reviews do, and its really not important in a film like this, which is too funny. Each member of Broken Lizard is great, they are all good actors, and the script is very funny.I have to say I laughed more during this movie than I did in Austin Powers in Goldmember. "},{"Title":"Hilarious from start to finish!!!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I am kind of in shock from the negative comments about this hilariously well done film. Anyone who did not laugh during this film definitely has something shoved up their you-know-what. I loved this movie and I will soon be buying it on DVD. The Broken Lizard comedy troupe did a great job with this movie. The film is essentially about a group highway patrollers who spend more time playing games and tricks on drivers then issuing tickets or arresting them. Throughout the film they pull off hilarious tricks and attempt to freak out the drivers. This movie is easily one of the funniest of all time and is an instant comedy classic. OVERALL 10/10 (Broken Lizard Rules!!!) "}{"Title":"heh... and you say cops are stupid ?!","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Yeah, sometimes they are meow. Don't laugh meow. This isn't a joke meow! It isn't so funny meow now, right ? Smile up now meow. The screenplay is ok meow. Nice actors meow, specially the local cop chick... And laugh meow! Did I just wrote meow ? Nah, it can't be... meow... "},{"Title":"If you want a lot of laughs, see this movie!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I just finished watching the Super Troopers DVD and was blown away by the simple yet genius forms of humor. Everything you want in a comedy is in there and more. The characters are played convincingly, there's even a suspence and a surprise at the end. Maybe i didn't foresee the plot unwinding like it did because i was rolling on the floor laughing out loud but i don't mind a bit this is a brilliant laugh. First time I ever heard of this writers group who made the movie but i'm hungry for more, a lot more. Most comedies i have seen the last few years have been winding down the same road of politically correct jokes and clichés. Expect some clichés but also expect them to be brought in an original way and funny as hell! Everyone looking for a good time; rent this movie! "},{"Title":"Pretty durn funny","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  OK, let's preface this by saying this movie is not Oscar material.  It is a jackassed movie, and those who walked into it expecting to see high drama and sophisticated sex jokes walked into the wrong theatre.  What you get is a damn funny movie with a bunch of unsophisticated (read STILL funny) sex jokes and a bunch of other stuff. I laughed nearly to tears on several occasions and I'll definately watch this baby again. Hopefully Broken Lizard will come up with another movie soon... I'll definitely go see it!  "},{"Title":"Stop thinking and start laughing","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I for one agree with the negative comments so far in one aspect.  This movie is dumb!  But the fact that this movie doesn't assume it is any better than that is what makes the entire thing work.  Plot?  Who cares?!  Line up the next joke.  Uh oh!  Another joke about excrement, drugs or sex?!  Well, damn!  Thats exactly what I expected when I plunked down my hard earned money I make from being serious all day.Maybe the problem for some people is that they don't belong to the right audience to appreciate and enjoy this film.  Here's some pointers  If you still find yourself quoting movies like Friday, Animal House, Army of Darkness, Billy Madison, Tommy Boy or Ace Ventura you are in the target audience.  If you like to pull a few pranks every now and then (or at least are able to laugh at one) you are going to appreciate this film.  If you aren't uptight at the thought of watching a little nudity or hearing a few drug references, you will make it through just fine.  If you have trouble sitting through any of the afore mentioned movies because there's a stick in your rectum (damn nearly killed-em) then give this one with a wide berth.To anyone who calls this immature yes, it definately is.  But the fact that it pulls off immature better than most films that have come up since Animal House is what makes it stand out.  And the slight indie film aftertaste coupled with the break from the overly done poopy joke of most mainstream Hollywood films is what will leave you wanting to see it again as soon as the end credits are over.  "},{"Title":"Loved it... One of the best ever","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The movie was just very funny.  Don't listen to others in this review.. It was really funny.  The story was just amazing, kept you anticipating the next scene all the time.  It was so entertaining that time just flew by so fast.No really..  it was just plain awful.  Seemed like it was longer than the titanic (first time I looked at my watch was after 10 minutes).  I have NO IDEA why so many people gave it a 10 (in my opinion, it wasn't even a 1). The movie made me appreciate my time.  Amazingly BORING, not funny. "},{"Title":"absolutely hilarious","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  i dont know why this movie didnt get much publicity because it seriously is one of the funniest movies ever made.  the humor is different than anything i have ever seen, as it avoids all the cliches that comedies tend to fall into these days.  this movie is hilarious from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie EVER.","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see this movie with a group of my friends.  I went in expecting some boring, silly indy film.  I was SO wrong.  I started laughing during the intro, and I didn't stop until about two hours after I left the theater. It was the first time I ever felt that it was worth the price of the ticket.  Supertroopers is worth every cent. "},{"Title":"This Movie is funny makes Naked Gun 33 1/2 look boring.","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was so funny Me and my friends saw it multiable times. My friend Stephan (Farva Because he is a large person) saw it 5 times. My Friend Mark (Rabbit) Saw it once. My friend Tom (WoMack) Saw it once. My Friend Roland (Foster) saw it twice, I (Ramathorn) saw it a amazing 7 times. (Mostly taking Farva for 5 of the 7 times) I have no life but hell it was a wonderful movie. I will but it on DVD when it comes out. People this movie is for partiers, comedy lovers alike. This movie may not of done well in theaters but is a good one to watch if yer out of movies to watch. I am wating till it goes to the cheap theater ($3.50 all showing) I will see it another 3 times to make my total 10. This movie is the most funniest shibby I seen since Licensed to drive.If anything this movie is not for kids tho sexual content (Full frontal nudity of Farva you see everything if only for a second.) And Drug Use along with alcohol drinking makes this a bad movie for kids. Parents dont take your kids to it unless your prepared to teach them about the bad things that drugs and alcohol does to your body.Dave "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious.","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is the funniest movie to come out in a long time. A must see for any college student, it combines pranks, marijuana humor and beer jokes. All encompassing low brow humor, but with class. Do not miss this movie. "},{"Title":"Has its moments but just not enough of them","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Super Troopers is a movie spattered with great comedic moments, mildly humorous jokes and some down right sleep enducing moments (maybe a little harsh, perhaps I should reclassify them as bad jokes that don't work at all). As has all ready been stated the best jokes are in the previews, so you find yourself searching for fresh material that doesn't live up to what you expect from a comedy movie. At its best it is a movie to rent from the video store when there's nothing else out or if you happen to be entertaining people who find a naked fat man being covered in castor sugar funny. Enjoy the funny moments because there just aren't enough of them to sustain this movie.        "}{"Title":"Half mad funny cops film with some nice touches but definitely not worth a sequel. One Fly Out Of Five","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Super Troopers seems to be yet another University skit review taken to film that has trouble filling out 90 minutes. But it has its moments.                Five Vermont traffic patrolmen spend their time having fun at the public's expense. That doesn't sound very funny except that these troopers seem to be for the most part pretty good natured.They're mostly out for laughs, not to be nasty. Unless you count bestiality, homophobia and misogyny as not being nice. It does take all types.                Anyway their gentle inquisitions are the best part of the film. Having competitions to see who can say the most sotto `meows' while writing a traffic ticket gives you the idea.                The troopers are in danger of losing their patrol though to the local town police and the governor played in a small part by Wonder Woman (Linda Blair) is due to soon make the announcement.                So a questionable plot develops involving a drug bust and a monkey on a sticker. Two of America's best become enamoured (they are heterosexual), but a fake big brown bear does get rogered.                Super Troopers is fairly sweetly natured and a bit of a laugh for the right sort of audience. I did like the attack on the fast food joint but I'd be reluctant to admit to that in genteel company.1 Fast Food Fly Out Of Five  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest of ALL time","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen this movie 3 times and I still haven't got enough of it. I am not even sure what it is about the movie that I like so much but I was in tears, laughing so much that I still have missed alot of the dialog. Don't get me wrong this movie wont be winning an Oscar, but if you need an hilarious escape from your world don't hesitate seeing this movie.10/10 for pure entertainment. "},{"Title":"Animal House + Police Academy = Super Troopers","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Super Troopers is not a movie of quality.  It has low-brow humor, and is overloaded with vulgarity.  But I still laughed out loud!  The funniest character has to be Rod Farva, he of the short temper and the checkered past (i.e., his school bus incident).  This is the first movie from the comedy troupe Broken Lizard.  And I'm looking forward to their second one! "},{"Title":"Loosen Up","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  After all of the comments about the movie being stupid, childish, degrading, etc - yep, it sure is!   Anyone going to this film should know to expect such a thing.  It's not the quality of Animal House nor is it Airplane. It's not Neil Simon or Woody Allen.  It's just some innocent stupid immature comedy - kind of like a decent Saturday Night Live skit...and what's wrong with that?   I enjoy this type of film every once in a while just to put the brain on hold and kick back and laugh.  It has quite a few good laughs in it, it's well directed and the pace moves along nicely.   Just loosen up, put your brain in park and enjoy the film.  Everything doesn't have to be Shakespeare... "},{"Title":"biggest surprise of the year (so far)","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I went into this movie simply because nothing else was playing at the time. Expecting an awful slapstick film,  I was completely surprised by the movie. Simply put, it was really good!  I laughed a lot, enjoyed it from beginning to end and felt satisfied that it was well worth the ticket price.  I definitely recommend this movie, its overall a very funny movie that's enjoying to see.  "},{"Title":"It's like the Animal House of police movies!!!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I thought the movie would be funny, but I didn't think it would be this funny!  A lot of comedies these days have departed from the comedy standards set forth in the 70s and 80s, but this one returns to them with a lot of drinking, sex, and recreational drugs, along with a plot that had many twists but was not separate from the vices.  It flowed well and had few slow parts.  Some comedies tend to go off into a lot of little sub-plots, but this one remained true to the story and I went away from the movie satisfied that there were no loose ends.  I certainly didn't expect it to end the way it did.  I would say that if you're in the mood for a good comedy that has a lot of surprises, go see this one. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, start of new comedy writing team","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw the preview for Super Troopers, it looked funny but then again I've been fooled before.  This movie was hilarious especially the part with the Swedish or German car thiefs and the dude humping the bear.  I enjoyed this movie from the beginning to end and I hope that Broken Lizard will make many more movies! "},{"Title":"the complete comedy, it hasn't been done this good in years","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Where to begin, Motion Picture Comedy has been this good since the 80's. Comedy is coming back in a real way. From the editing to the actors timing, this was a flawlessly overtop killer comedy. You could tell how cohesive the movie was. Everything was done to a t. It was irreverent and the pace was fast and funny . I can't wait for club dread. "},{"Title":"Super","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I loved super troopers! its one of the funniest movies i have seen  in a long time! it rocks from the opening scene until the end!  i laughed so hard i was crying. if you need a good laugh go see this movie, it's great! "},{"Title":"Every bit as funny as the previews","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie delivered everything the previews promised and more.  Not that the previews promised much.  This movie was hilarious, and one of the funniest comedies that I've seen in a long time.  While there is a bit of romance the plot does not rely on it.  Rather, the story does its own thing, and the movie is all the better for it. "}{"Title":"appreciation for fresh, off-beat comedy","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Super Troopers is an off-beat comedy about slacker/bad-ass cops in Vermont who like the sex and the drugs.  That's pretty much all you need to know.  Some of the humor is waaaaay out there, but not really offensive (and, yes, still very funny).  There's one particular joke about bikers (not really about bikers, but I don't want to ruin the scene) that is especially funny, and it's a really clean joke, too!The film is a bit long; the scene in which the guys go on a drinking binge and rip up a rival officer's lawn isn't really necessary.  Too, it  seems as if some of the scenes were improvised and sometimes they don't completely come together scenes drag or lose their comic punch on a few occassion when Serious Actor (notice the capital S and A) Brian Cox enters.I really enjoyed the actors, though, and thier fresh approach to fairly standard material.  Kevin Heffernan is a riot as a patrolman on probation, and Paul Soter stands out in his role as an officer in romantic pursuit of another cop (Marisa Coughlan, who is also good) on a rival squad.I read another review here that intimated some sexism, and I have to say that I disagree.  Don't want to give away too much of the plot, though...I was worried this would be a stoopid, Farrelly Brother-like comedy, and it wasn't.  I kinda liked it!  "},{"Title":"ridiculous, yet awesome...","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie a few weeks ago and I have to say I enjoyed it. I had anticipated it to be the kind of movie that Me, Myself  And Irene turned out to be, and it wasn't far from it. I don't mean to suggest it was the same, because it was better. The humor was good, the acting was well done, and the characters are ridiculous, yet awesome. I'd rate this movie about halfway on my laugh scale. When I laugh out loud, it's really funny. No laughing means not funny. Throughout this movie I was inner-laughing - where you laugh with your mouth closed. It has plenty of goofy moments and 13 year old humor in it, but any fan of the comedy group who wrote it would enjoy it. "},{"Title":"I was pleasantly surprised!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I saw Super Troopers last night. I had only seen one preview, but decided to see it because it was the only film at the theatre that I hadn't seen already.Boy, was I pleasantly surprised! I found this movie to be very funny. I laughed a lot and I don't usually like stupid humour (Ace Ventura, etc.)  It is refreshing to see something labelled as a comedy in which you actually laugh more than once during the film (unlike films like The Royal Tanenbaums, which I enjoyed, but barely laughed once).I didn't like the first scene (although a majority of those who commented seemed to like that scene) and I began to wonder what I was doing there. But after that first scene, when the true Trooper characters were revealed, I couldn't stop laughing.As for the gross-out scenes that everyone seems to be talking about, I have to ask what gross-out scenes? I didn't find any scene to be gross or off-putting. Perhaps I missed that scene because I was too busy wiping the tears from my eyes from laughing too hard..I'm still laughing today, as is my boyfriend, who I went and saw the movie with. We've both recommended it to all our friends - we're going back tonight with them to see it!Put away your snobbish-ness for a hundred minutes and enjoy the laughs. "},{"Title":"A funny side to law enforcement","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very funny movie.This movie is not for the younger audiences.It had a good story line.There was no dead spots.The movie kept you wondering what was next.It was very surprising with the wide variety of action comedy any pranks.This movie is for people who really have a sence of humor.Great job. "},{"Title":"Much better than it should be","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  What should have been a low-brow Police Academy ripoff is instead one of the most sweetly funny comedies I've seen in a long time. Look, I like my Academy Award nominees -- I saw Gosford Park TWICE, thank you very much -- but I was able to thoroughly enjoy the shenanigans because Super Troopers is smarter than it lets on.Comedy is entirely subjective, and thankfully, I found Super Troopers when I did. What a delight. Dave "},{"Title":"HA,HA!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Oh man, I thought it was great.  It was funny because they broke laws and since they're cops, that made it funny since cops uphold the laws.  I'd say see it a couple times because you catch more jokes when you see it again.Um.....Broken Lizard (the writers) made it to where they found the best cast for the parts.  Many good scenes and lots of funny things.See it and relax because it's a ride to laughter. "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie I have Seen in a Very Long Time","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see this with my friend last night and i wasn't really expecting much. We were justing looking for a stupid movie to get a few laughs out of but we got much more than that. We were laughing hysterically somtimes to the point of choking (not kidding). Thats how funny his movie is. I am so glad that we saw this movie. We almst couldn't get into the theatre either because there were a bunch of middle aged losers working at the ticket booth that wouldnt sell us a ticket for an R rated flick. So we had to buy tickets to some kids show and sneak into the other theatre once we were passed the ticket collectors... Anyway, back to the movie. It is so damn funny i just cant believe it. The cops are so funny the way they screw with all the baffled people they pull over. This movie has inspired me to become a cop just to mes with peoples heads. This movie has so much to offer. It has tons of outrageous gags and just plain funny dialogue between the crooked cops. We also get to see this one hot chick's boobs while shes jumping on a bed with her foreign boyfriend. Well I think you get he idea...This Movie Rules! So go and see it NOW. I beg you! "},{"Title":"You should see this, but if you were ever a cop, you MUST!!!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  If you ever were a cop or hung out with cops this movie will be about twice as funny.  There are a couple scenes that are can't breathe funny where you are glad you don't have a mouthful of Coke.  Other lines are really fast and if you don't pick up on them - they're gone. But the whole film is Caddyshack quality with a great blend of Over-The-Top and more believeable comedy.  Since so much of the humor is fast and on a higher plane it is like a 2 hour Frasier episode.  Filmed in Upstate New York you get the Vermont feeling but it would have been nice if they added a few Second Unit shots of Mount Mansfield,Vermont roadsigns or pick-up trucks with snowplow attachments in front.The patrol cars and uniforms are generally faithful to the style of the Vermont State Police.  See the authentic thing in Spitfire Grille. But the wording and several uniform details are signifgantly different and obviously they are not seriously trying to recreate a VSP car or uniform so I will not list it as a goof.The reality is that the VSP are a highly professional agency that are way, way understaffed and underfunded and with Socialist Bernie Sanders, Flatlander Jim Which Party Today Jeffords and others, having a Governor portrayed as being pro pot is not too far removed from reality.I look forward to Broken Lizard's next event! See this one before it leaves town!!! "},{"Title":"Wow instead of Yuk","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I was not prepared for the fun in Super Troopers, dreading another Police Academy.  This time the good cops are a clever clan.  I'll be seeing this movie again, as I barely caught some of the subtler witticisms.  This is approaching the Airplane and Naked Gun level.  Keep it up, Broken Lizard! "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  As of Last night I have a new favorite movie. This is the best movie I've ever watched. Anyone who said it sucked should be shot. This made me laugh from begining to end w/ those original pranks and games played w/ the people they pull over. I don't know where Broken Lizard comes up with this stuff but they did a superior job w/ it. The first scene grabbed me and didn't let go, Meow when I went to school I tried to see how many times I could say that. I would reccomend this movie to anyone in a heartbeat. I dare any of you reading this to go to that movie and not laugh through the entire thing, and if you can control yourself from laughing I dare you not to smile, I know you won't be able to last, trust me! Meow "}{"Title":"very very funny","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I have to admit I wasn't expecting much when I walked into the theater for this.  I was expecting very low-brow Tom Green esque humor (not that I dont' like Tom Green mind you) but this was a bit more clever than that.  Some kind of sick hybrid between Kids in the Hall and Meet the Parents.A few people have argued that the plot was too choppy, but that was pretty intentional from where I was sitting.  The movie was more like a series of small sketches intertwined by one linear story.  The characters were pretty much stock, but this did not hinder their ability to get a laugh out of me nor my cousin who saw the movie with me.  We were both laughing out loud throughout the entire movie, and that's something I haven't done in a very long time.I would definitely recommend seeing this, but don't overanalzye it or expect sophisticated humor.  This is just stupid fun at its best. "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is the best movie I've ever seen. It had me laughing the entire time. A lot of movies that look funny are stupid, but not this one. This is great, It gets a more humorous look at State Troopers. The funny games they play, the pranks they play on people and the stupid things they say is everything and more than I look for in a movie. I have a new favorite movie, Meow I would reference this flik to anyone w/ a sence of humor in a heartbeat! "},{"Title":"Trooper's Super!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Powdered sugar, bulletproof jock straps, overexposure of the word meow... I've always said these are the markings of a brilliant cinematic achievement.  Turns out I was right.Jay Chandrasekhar (credited not only as writer/director, but also playing one of the main characters) and his ragtag team of pseudo-heroes churn out a film that isn't hoping to be regarded by the Academy as the Best Movie of the year, nor is it trying to force upon us a political or religious statement.But what it IS trying to do is make us laugh, and with such scenes as a police unit fighting a ferocious pig guarding a Winnebago with a dead woman inside and a cop attacking the punk at the burger hut who spit in his burger, it succeeds.  Without comparing it to classic humourous powerhouses like Animal House, Caddyshack and the like, Super Troopers definitely stands on its own and delivers the goods.  Some may not appreciate the humour, as it does border on the offensive, however the characters come across as loveable despite their villainous status.Take, for example, Thorny (Jay Chandrasekhar).  In the opening scene, viewers will quickly love the three stoners who get pulled over and in order to rid themselves of the evidence, the kid in the backseat must eat a whole bag of marijuana and another of hallucinogenic mushrooms.  When Thorny pulls these kids over, the viewers' first instinct is to brand him the bad guy. But not moments later, he engages himself in an argument with the youngsters in which he takes THEIR SIDE and still manages to come out on top.  This not only proves his authority in any situation, but also displays a classic example of why this film has attained a somewhat cult status in such a short amount of box office time.The plot of the story, while defined, is very loose and comes across as clumsy at times.  But with such a diverse cast who each have their own subplots, it's to be expected.  There are always numerous scenarios happening at any given moment, many of them offering opportunities for uproarious laughter.  This merely shows one example of how the sometimes-sloppy plot is compensated for.  One more thing you have to give the movie credit for is the almost complete absence of any major Hollywood talent, not including rising talent Marisa Coughlan.  Even given the lack of familiar actors, the movie doesn't come across as low-budget, and the fresh faces on the screen are more than talented enough to carry the film from start to finish.All in all, while the movie isn't the best ever made and some of the jokes are rehashed from earlier theatrical releases, it firmly holds its own and is well worth the price of admission.I gave this movie 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I am in serious trouble the next time I get pulled over.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This was one of those, walk out of theatre, make way to restroom, stand in front of urinal, try to relax, begin convulsing because you can't believe they made a movie like that kind of movies.  I will never be able to look at a State Trooper again without cracking up.  I am in serious trouble the next time I get pulled over.  It is the next day and I still can't stop laughing. There are some items that may have been excluded, such as the partial nudity.  But, other than that, it was great.  I still can't believe they made a movie like that.  Boy am I in trouble if I get pulled over. "},{"Title":"Uproarious from Beginning to End","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  That was one of the most hillarious movies I can remember seeing in a long time. Sure it was disgusting at some points, but it was a delicious taste of pure wicked humor. I never write reviews, but this movie definately earned it. Make sure you don't miss this one... "},{"Title":"Fantastic Comedy","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Short and sweet, these guys know what is funny.  Super Troopers is very much worth seeing, and I plan on recommending it to all my friends.  You would be remiss in not seeing this; it's clearly one of the funniest movies out for 2001 and so far in 2002.  In fact, in recent memory I can not remember laughing as much. "},{"Title":"Bewilderment","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Enough is enough. This movie is horrible. I am all for swearing, crass humor and frontal nudity. That said, Broken Lizard owes me two hours of my life back. The first scene is funny. The second, third, fourth, etc. will actually make you feel embarrassed that you are sitting there watching it. The best movie since Caddyshack. Please! I feel it is my public obligation to warn you, the viewer, that any positive review found on this site must have been contributed by the friends, brother and sisters of Broken Lizard.  "},{"Title":"Somebody has it in for the Vermont cops","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Saw this movie the other nite as a last option. Has it's moments. The opening scene is hilarious with three dopers being harassed over and over by the Marx Brothers masquerading as Vermont State Troopers. Mostly a collage of unrelated skits building to a decision by the governor whether to close their station to the benefit of the local police-the blood rivals of our heroes. And I have nothing against gratuitous cursing, but these guys find no limits here. Not much creativity in the dialogue but a fun diversion although occasionally boring. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Inspired, Ridiculously Inspired","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  After seeing the fast food scene in the trailer for Super Troopers, I thought a thought I have thought many times before.  That was hilarious, but can the movie live up to its trailer?  I went into the theater with a sense of anticipation and dread.  Anticipation that the movie would turn out to be as clever as the trailer, dread that it would turn out like most modern comedies.  As soon as Willy Wonka was quoted, though, I fell in love with this movie.  I fear that the 1 or 2 key gross-out scenes will blind some viewers from the true cleverness of the comic madness perpetrated by Broken Lizard.  It meanders back and forth between razor-sharp dialogue and inspired physical comedy.  Many would call it sophomoric, and rightly so, but it achieves the kind of rare sophomoric brilliance delivered by the likes of Trey Parker and Matt Stone, the Farrely Brothers, and the creators of Airplane.  These are brilliant sophomores, and Broken Lizard should be proud to be a member of their exclusive group. "},{"Title":"funniest movie i have seen in a long time","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Going into this movie i was expecting there would be a couple laughs since there havent really been any funny movies in a while. But i was wrong Super Troopers turned out to be one of the funniest movies i have seen in a long time, I couldnt stop laughin at the antics of this Vermont highway police, with its shanatigins and with farvar who had to be a highlight of the movie just seeing him get p***** off at the fast food guy. I highly recommend this movie to n e one who likes hilarious movies. I cant wait till this comes out on dvd cuz i know im buyin it the day it comes out.  "}{"Title":"Jay Chandrasekhar, is a genious","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I was anticipating the release of this flic for over a year, since I heard about it on Apple.com.  It was like the acting and the antics were just fresh and overt.  So, today I went to see it.  Wow.  If you know a little about filmmaking, you can appreciate any lack of luster in the images and so forth, because this film was done on a low budget, but, man this makes no difference in the quality of the entertainment.  Jay the director/ writer, must be a genious because of his ability to confront the comedic elements and pull them off in this film!  I was laughing so much, I had to go on a liquid diet the next day!  His actors, ok, well they just stay in character, and you get this un-held back perfomance that really grabs the audience. I know the drug references were there, but only to show how silly they actually are.  ( I am not a pot supporter.)  Anyway, this kind of comedy is very needed, and I hope Jay makes many more films! I have not seen anything funny, really funny, like this, since Caddyshack.  Meet The Parents, was hilarious, but it won't outlast the strength of this films performances and writing. -Andre Magone, Film Composer "},{"Title":"Lots of laughs, worth the money","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  While Super Troopers may not have the best plot of 2002, it makes up for it in the quality and quantity of laughs.  The comedy is genuine, even if the story is only moved along by a series of skits.  I took two stars away for the weak plot and for one or two jokes that I thought could have very well been left out.  Yet I admire this movie's comedy for not resorting to fart jokes or toilet humor. Overall, a good time was had by all!  "},{"Title":"So refreshing and very funny","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know about the rest of you, but something that always appeals to me is when I don't know any of the stars of a movie.  Such is the case with Super Troopers.  A small college comedy troop known as Broken Lizard wrote and brought this very funny movie to the screen.  This movie is modeled after the Animal House type formula, but in my opinion, it succeeds in ways even the original Animal House could not.  Director Jay Chandrasekhar has genuine skill at movie making, and the result is a movie that delivers a steady stream of gags and basically side-splittingly funny situations.  There's just something inherently funny about inept state troopers who know they are inept and choose to mess with everyone they come in contact with.  Waste no more time...go see this movie! "},{"Title":"Best comedy in years","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has all the elements of a pot comedy such as 'cheech and chong', and the wackiness of an 80's movie like 'one crazy summer' or 'meatballs' i highly suggest spending your 7 to 10 bucks on this one. it will make your sides hurt.  "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I've seen in a LONG time","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is by far, the funniest movie out there right now.  I laughed so hard I cried.  My boyfriend and I agree on all of 5 movies and this one just made the list.  This is exactly the kind of movie that America needs right now - something off the wall, completely inappropriate and absolutely hilarious. Although it was incredibly zany and ridiculously unreal, I give it a ten. The cast was phenomonal - they made the movie. Along with wicked funny writing, this flick has made my list of top movies - a must see! "},{"Title":"Sketch comedy","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  If you like sketch comedy, see this hilarious film.  This film feels like a whole bunch of sketch comedy scenes with recurring characters and a loose plot to tie them together.  This seems to work for some people, while turning others off.  If you like Kids in the Hall, Monty Python, Mr. Show, etc., you'll like this movie.If you are expecting this movie to have a tight plot and character development that gives insight into why everybody does what they do, you'll be disappointed.If you are looking for the former rather than the latter, this is a must-see! "},{"Title":"The awful title should be a warning to you about the film.","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Already a winner for worst movie title of the year, the film isn't much better than its name. Like a second rate Police Academy or Kids in the Hall, the Broken Lizard comedy troupe delivers a movie that reminds you of the early 80s senseless comedies that have long since been forgotten. If you've ever read the comics in the daily papers and thought they were a little funny, but not enough so to laugh out loud, you'll get the idea of how it feels to sit through this one.   Directed and starring Jay Chandrasekhar, the only really original thing is the fact that this is a rare American film starring someone of Indian descent. Other than that, the skits are a cross between Cannonball Run and Who's on First?, just not as amusing. The opening is a little funny as the state troopers terrorize some potheads and play pranks on each other, but it gets old pretty quickly. The caricatures are predictable and so is the plot. Unfortunately, there's nothing new to watch here.  This is a hard movie to recommend. I'm not sure who would like it. It's probably going to be one of those movies that's brilliant to some people and horrible to others. This is a rental at best to those who aren't sure if it's worth checking out in the theater. For fans of whoever this appeals to, you're on your own here. Don't say we didn't warn you.  "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was hysterical! Nevertheless, if you are a very conservative type you won't like it...for everyone else, it's a riot. It packs a laugh a minute. Go see it! The jokes are original and make the crowd go wild. It was a blast to see in the theatre. "},{"Title":"A different kind of humor...funny.","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I saw SUPER TROOPERS at a sneak preview on 2/11. It is a very different kind of humor. The film is low-budget, but it's funnier in parts than most of the big money comedies. Far from perfect, but far from dull, some of the scenes are classic. I'd recommend it if you want a comedy and not a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Had me laughing from the beginning to this morning.","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I've read all the reviews for this movie and I see something consistent in them... a pattern.  Everyone who criticizes the movie sounds like a pretentious jerk.  Everyone who loved it and said they enjoyed it sound like your average every day people.Well, I'm chiming in with the rest of the Joe Blows out there.  This movie had me laughing so hard I could barely hold it in.  Some of the jokes even had me chuckling minutes after they were over.  It all had to do with your attitude.  If you are in there to criticize the film, analize it, disect it, see what makes it tick... well, you'll realize there's little plot, little rationalization for some of the major actions in the movie, blah blah blah blah blah.  Who cares!  Are you there to see the Red Violin?!  NO!  You're probably searching for something, ANYTHING, to take the place of Animal House since you've seen it a million times.  And if you are, i don't think you'll be disappointed.  This movie has much of the same attitude, great character, a free spirit (lacking the confines of many Hollywood cookie-cutter gross out commedies) and a group of actors who look like they're actualy enjoying the movie while they're making it!If you want art, theres a million films out there for you to choose from. If you want laughs and think that pranks, practical jokes and goofiness are funny things, check out this fun, fresh approach to filmmaking, Broken Lizard style. "}{"Title":"Really, really funny","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Super troopers was a great comedy, not at all what I expected from seeing the previews.  I'd never heard of Broken Lizard before seeing the movie, but I think they're in the same league as Kids in the Hall and Monty Python. I don't want to give anything away to anyone who hasn't seen the movie yet, so I'm not going to talk about any of the scenes, but I was laughing through the whole thing.  They are really twisted and perverse, it's great. Go see the movie as soon as it comes out, don't pay any attention to how the previews make the movie look!!! "},{"Title":"A movie you see, laugh, and come out like nothing happened","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  same as all the others, just entertainment but nothing spectacular (i mean come on it had a 1.5 mil budget, give em a break).  I saw the movie at a prescreening in chicago, IL.  The actors/creators of it came to the movie and we talked with them after.  That made the movie a lot better for me (especially since we got free handcuffs!)` "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  When I first heard the title SUPERTROOPERS, I was like Whats this? a Power Ranger knock off? So I then checked out IMDB and saw that it got pretty good reviews.  So I expected a pretty funny movie.  After I watched the screener, I was like wow.. this movie kicks @ssSo.. thumbs up for me on this movie. Go check it out. "},{"Title":"This movie rocks!","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Saw this at UCSB screening last week.  The guys who made the movie were there and introduced the movie.  It was incredibly funny and I think it will do really well.  It is not gross-out humor like Tom Green, it is more old fashioned like Stripes or Caddyshack and I haven't seen a movie like that in a long time.  See it if the tour comes to your city and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"I agree - the funniest movie since Caddyshack.","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Once in a decade a movie comes along that sets the bar for all other movies. I'm not talking about Schindler's List, I mean Ace Ventura.  A film that is so damn funny it becomes the reference for all other comedies. Something About Mary was one of those films.  Office Space was another. Yet somehow, none of them were as incessantly quoteable as Caddyshack. Until now.Supertroopers is quite simply the best comedy since Caddyshack.  It is funnier than Rushmore.  It is funnier than anything.  I almost feel badly building it up too much because it's better if it comes out of nowhere and surprises people, but no matter how funny you think it is, it's going to be funnier.  And it's the best kind of humor it's the perfect blend of stupid humor, sick humor, and funny, smart humor.  The guys who wrote and starred in this masterpiece are geniuses.  Literally.  People will read this review and think that I'm crazy or that I somehow work for the filmmakers.  I don't.  I mean, yeah, I'm crazy, but that's a whole other story.  I hope this movie makes more money than Titanic because the filmmakers should have an endless supply of cash to make movies for the rest of their lives. "},{"Title":"2 thumbs up","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  i saw clips from this movie and then read the script and it is by far one of the funniest, laugh-out-loud movies i have seen/read in a hell of a long time.  this ranks up with the all time best comedies of the 70s/80s (there weren't any in the 90s) like Caddyshack, Stripes, Airplane and Fletch.  I can't wait to see what else comes out of these guys - writers & actors "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but flimsy (teeny spoiler)","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Super Troopers is a lightly funny indie ensemble comedy about Vermont state troopers that unfortunately doesn't feature the Abba song and can't shake its unpleasant similarity to Police Academy.  I watched it at Austin's SXSW festival and enjoyed it, but got the feeling that watching it a second time would be a bit of a chore.  The movie's greatest strength is a kind of warmly amorality - these are cops who smoke pot, engage in swinging relationships, and harass drivers for their own amusement.  Unfortunately, this same who cares amorality leeches the film of any kind of conflict that would make its plot interesting; the climax of the film centers on a marijuana bust, but who really cares who wins when the only difference between the cops and the drug dealers/users is that the cops get it for free?  Additionally, there is a pretty disturbing image of a strangled half-naked woman with her face pushed into a dog food bowl that is never played for anything but laughs, which makes the relative lack of female characters in Super Troopers all the more damning. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie since Caddyshack.","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie at the USCAF 2001 and I was blown away. From the opening scene to the end credits I was laughing hysterically. Broken Lizard (the writing group) delivers a movie that the Farrelly brothers wish they could write. The characters come alive with their absurd antics and witty charm. If this movie ever gets mass distribution, I recommend it to anyone. I saw it with my father, who is in his forties, and I quote him at saying, I have never laughed so hard in a movie since City Slickers.  "},{"Title":"Next Time Make Movies While You're Sober Guys !","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Of course it's supposed to be enjoyable, but it really isn't. The plot seems copied from many police Academy movies, though the comedy is taken away. The intended mad spirit is missing since it's not originally cartoonish, ironically realistic or superficially serious. The situations are so badly made. The jokes aren't droll, rather boring and ridiculous. It fills itself with too many sexual references; for little instance the monkey masturbates, the officer's son masturbates, another officer masturbates himself, to an extent where you must ask why they didn't call it Super Masturbators then !! At one moment an officer tends to have sex with a woman on the road in front of her husband and his own friend's child as well (???!!). Generally, aside from being ugly things that move your stomach instead of tempting you to smile, they represented perfectly the poorness of this movie. The pace is drunken. And it got the word artless all over it. The direction is awfully lame to the extent that you might feel there wasn't one in the first place. Director (Jay Chandrasekhar), who co-wrote it also, was leading everything and everyone like several short improvised sketches or a home made video of bachelor party's shenanigans without being initially cinematic and with the driest humor I have ever witnessed. Actually what's harder than a stand-up comedian who says the silly jests and laughs lonely at himself ?! It's exactly the same case here. All the cast was pathetic, delivering the weak moments weakly. I hated the actors, their characters, feeling all the time nothing but how silly and how alleged. (Brian Cox) is the main disappointment, how he did it as lazy and blank as this ? It's a big proof that this is a stupid movie which turned even the good element into bad. Unfunny comedy is a waste of time. However unfunny comedy that thinks itself so comic and &#x96; more than that &#x96; excels in making you disgusted is a torture! (Super Troopers) is such a glaring example for a movie had been written and directed while most of its makers were under the influence of heavy bad beer.. Or that what seemed eventually ! The line You crapped on my heart is just a summarization of the whole thing.. It wasn't funny or even has been said in a funny way ! "},{"Title":"Great review for a great movie","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Written by Broken Lizard, a group of writers/actors who have given us other comedies such as Beerfest (2006), Super Troopers is a hilarious comedy about some Vermont state troopers who are about to be shut down because of their lack of performance and the overshadowing from the know-it-all local cops. From the look of it, Super Troopers is just another silly slob humor movie, but unlike other movies in that genre, the movie's comedy is backed up by a pretty decent plot with a surprising twist toward the end of it. It has certainly earned a place in my mind as one of the funniest movies to come out in the past ten years.Broken Lizard, the writers and director of this movie, were also the five central characters of it. Jay Chandrasekhar, Steve Lemme, Erik Stolhanske, Kevin Heffernan, and Paul Soter starred as the five super troopers, a quirky group of highway cops who enjoy playing pranks on people that they have pulled over in the name of fun. When this leads to none of them making quota and the idea of shutting their station down, the captain (Brian Cox) decides that they must fight to keep the station open so that they will not have to look for other jobs. Standing in their way, however, is the local police force, a bunch of guys who are just generally not nice to the state troopers, and seem to try and take all the busts, even ones out of their jurisdiction. The local cops do this so that they can get the troopers eliminated, and has total jurisdiction in the area.The film was shot decently, using mainly head shots, and was basic to say the most. The main things that I noticed when watching this movie were the camera angles in scenes where both the local cops and the state troopers were in the same room. The local cops were shot from lower angles but still were head-shots, so that they could be portrayed as bigger and more intimidating, whereas the troopers were shot either from a straight on shot or a higher camera. I think that the significance of that is to show that even though the local cops are usually better cops, the directors didn't want to make their main characters seem small. Other than that, there weren't any complex shots or angles that might be seen in other movies, mainly because this movie is not meant to be like that. It isn't artsy or complex, it is just a straightforward comedy with a crime-mystery type plot. It is real-life; when I saw this movie, I saw shades of my buddies in most of the main characters, making it easy to relate to and thus more enjoyable, because it seems like they were just everyday guys. I think that if being a policeman were actually like what these characters portrayed it as, more people would try to become policeman.Overall, I would give this movie 4 out of 5 stars. In my opinion, it is still in the category of slob humor, and as a critic, I'm not one to give that genre any more than 4 stars. Having said that, in the little pond that is slob humor, Super Troopers is definitely one of the biggest fish, and a force to be reckoned with. I recommend this movie if you liked other movies like Beerfest, not only because it has the same actors and writers, but because the humor involved is so similar, and so brilliant in both. It also would appeal to fans of Dodgeball (2004), Office Space (1999), and Superbad (2007). So in conclusion, if you're looking for something silly, Super Troopers is the movie for you. "}{"Title":"It's Afghanistanimation&#133;Super Troopers","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Ah, Broken Lizard. I would say that this is the movie that started it all, but of course it is not. That mantle is held by Puddle Cruiser, a little seen at the time, (self-distributed across country, college campus to college campus), released to DVD upon the troupe's burgeoning popularity that has some charm if only showing what was to soon come fro. Super Troopers is the film that brought the group into the mainstream consciousness. The jokes may be crude, the humor a little lowbrow, but the movie as a whole is just plain funny. Some of the gags fire on all cylinders, utilizing wordplay, physical comedy, and well played cameos. These boys are certainly close-knit and unafraid to try something new or make fools of themselves. They write it all together and go out in front of the camera to make the audience laugh, even if that viewership consists solely of them. Not quite a pot comedy, nor a strict spoof on law enforcement, Super Troopers is a grab-bag of laughs that come often and fast, disguising a flimsy premise with its flash, one-liners, and shenanigans.I will admit that I'd love this film if the final hour was acted out by sock puppets&#151;that's how good the first scene is. Littering and&#133; littering and&#133;littering and&#133; When Jay Chandrasekhar (Thorny and the movie's director) and Erik Stolhanske (Rabbit) take on the duty of pulling over a trio of drug-addled frat boys on the freeway, you will miss moments because of the loud laughter. From the moment they come on screen until Steve Lemme (Mac) hijacks the cop car they are being held in for a trip to Mexico, you will have tears in your eyes. Hopefully I am not playing this sequence up, I truly believe anyone will find it hilarious. Geoffrey Arend steals the scene by far as he completely freaks out from the amount of drugs coursing through his body.As for the actual plot, basically, the Vermont city they are in is strapped for cash and looking to dissolve either the state troopers or the city police. The troopers are played by our stars and while partaking in antics and games on the job; they do actually seem to work when needed. Whether they play the repeater game, try and say meow as often as they can, or any other crazy activity to infuse some fun into the daily grind, they'll still write the ticket and put the bad guys behind bars. Even when a couple of German swingers offer their bodies for a warning, Thorny knows that they must be brought in because the car is stolen&#133;he can always bring them home to spend some time with he and his hippy wife anyways, moustache rides free of charge. But I digress, the troopers attempt to crack open a case of drug smuggling in order to prove to the mayor that they should stay open while the city cops try and do the same. The two sides clash often and even find a bit of romance between them before all is said and done, but in the end, one must go the way of the dinosaur.Credit must be given to Brian Cox, yes that venerable Scotsman, classically trained on the stage. This guy has no shame and just has fun with a group of jackasses, letting loose while still bringing his trademark professionalism. He boxes, while drunk, soon after urinating on a pulled-over car&#151;classic. And besides those already mentioned, Paul Soter is great as Foster, whose biker snafu with Ursula (Marisa Coughlan) is a standout moment, and Kevin Heffernan steals the show as Farva. I knew this film had hit big and crossed into the American lexicon when, while working at Ted's Hot Dogs here in Buffalo, a police officer came in for dinner and asked for a liter of cola. I had to smile as he returned one of his own&#151;we both knew the joke and kudos to him for having a great sense of humor. "},{"Title":"A huge notch above all other immature comedies","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Super Troopers is a great comedy because it's hysterical yet there's nothing recycled about it. There aren't any actors who have been in too many comedies or a plot that's just about setting up gag after gag. This is a true ensemble comedy, and although it may be easy to dismiss as immature, it's sharp and clever immaturity. There are plenty of interesting and amusing characters and there's even some mystery to keep your interest.The film is the first hit by the Broken Lizard group, which is led by director/writer Jay Chandrasekhar. It's basically about a group of state troopers who are literally so bored that they result to making bets and playing ridiculous games that result in hilarity. The mystery starts when the begin to uncover a crime and are trying to outdo the local police department.There is a lot of drug humor and use as well as plenty of immature sex-related humor. It's pretty classic immature humor, but it's not forgettable. The opening scene is a great tone setter for the film and really illustrates how Broken Lizard is a bit more clever and less formula-dependent as other immature movies that use similar comedic tactics. The other reason this film is better than others of the genre is that these actors have talent and create interesting characters. It's not just about gags, but about the way the characters behave. That's all that can be said as to why this film is better than similar fare without ruining the movie.The most memorable character is probably Farva, the stupid cop who takes his job the most seriously and is the butt of everyone's jokes, played by Kevin Heffernan. Brian Cox is also great in his only comedic role I can remember as the foul-mouthed captain.Very few movies will offer you mindless entertainment like Super Troopers does and actually capture your attention and convince you it's worth watching again and again. "},{"Title":"hilarious! don't miss this one.","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" this is a movie about slacker cops who like to screw with the minds of the people hey pull over, jerk off to stripper billboards and have syrup chugging contests, even when they have a case to work on! how could you not love this?! its got hilarious dialog, a good plot and great acting. broken lizard is hilarious! how do they come up with this kind of stuff? i mean these cops are crazy. they screw with the minds of stoners, call a bunch of old people chicken-f*****s, leave a dummy in their patrol car while they go fishing, and try to have sex with the people that they pull over. this movie is flippin crazy and hilarious. WARNING this film contains extreme stupidity. so, if you don't like stupid movies, or broken lizard you will die if you watch this!...just kidding "},{"Title":"Very Overrated and Overly Hyped","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I've seen Super Troopers like 7 times now since I somehow manage to be at someone's place where it is playing. It never changed for me from the 1st time to the 7th. I bought this movie just to give it one last chance and it just didn't do it for me. It's an entertaining rental and it has plenty of wit, but I felt like I was watching one huge sketch instead of a movie. I read all these reviews, and always hear people at work talk about how funny it is and seriously, I don't know what the big fuss is all about. This movie is over-hyped and definitely overrated as a comedy. It's OK but no it's not pee in your pants funny so calm down. It doesn't top Caddyshack or Animal House whatsoever. Super Troopers is a good movie to watch with your friends and have a few laughs but it's just average at best, it's not hilarious like everyone claims it to be. I appreciate Broken Lizards work and attempts to make a comedy but all these things have been done before. Still I recommend it as an entertaining comedy movie that you'll like but please don't over hype movies like this. I give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I loved this movie. one of my top 10 funny movies. its a lesser known movie but is gaining popularity a great one to rent (if you don't own) at least and watch with a group of friends. the movie is one of the funniest I've seen in along time. the just the quotes from this movie that you will get are awesome! but like i said you'll have a better time watching with friends. and even more fun with the quotes they use after wards. hope you rent it at least great movie. if your not in the mood for a comedy thats funny A because its so stupid B because its so outrageous and C because its staring cops. then don't rent this but if you want to see a movie that will make you cry.......from laughter then this is the movie for you. definitely worth a rent and i would recommend buying it. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Comedies in a while.","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In a small Vermont town, a bunch of slackers police Highway Patrolmen (Jay Chandrasekhar, Kevin Herrernan, Steve Lemme, Paul Soter & Erik Stolhanske) decide to pull off pranks an unsuspected people on the road, since it's their last week on the Job. But when they find the opportunity to solve a real crime that involves drugs and murder. These inept Highway Patrolmen have their last chance to save their jobs before another Vermont's Partols Cops take over.Directed by Jay Chandrasekhar (Club Dread, The Dukes of Hazzard) made a low brow, highly funny film. It's shows that Chandrasekhar wanted to make a smart Police Academy comedy with doses of Farrelly's Humor and it's surprisingly well. This independent comedy did well in theaters and to find better success on DVD. While the lead cast are unknown. The Supporting Cast are Brian Cox, Daniel Van Bargen and Marisa Coughlan.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an terrific-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has two commentaries by the Director and Cast Members, Deleted Scenes with/without Commentary and more. The Blu-ray version has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) 1080P transfer and an good DTS 5.1 HD Sound. New to the Blu-ray is an Picture In Picture commentary by the Broken Lizard gang with special guest appearance from the movie and Stupor TroopersThe Drinking Game. Which the Blu-ray includes all the original Special Features from the 2002 Disc. Do not miss this hilarious comedy that becomes a instant Cult Classic. Written by the Broken Lizard gang, which is the five lead actors of the film. Lynda Carter from T.V.'s Wonder Woman fame appears in a Cameo here. (**** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Great stuff","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" One of the funniest movies of all time it is really up there at least for my thinking. It ain't mainstream nor high budget in fact i'd say it's cult only a handful of people I know have seen it and everybody else is missing out. But it is a new wave twist on old school comedy and should be given 3 claps by all, gotta love it. How did this score an R in the U.S.A? It hasn't got anything graphic sure I wouldn't recommend it for under 10's or over 50's but besides that go right ahead. It's only M15+ in Australia which means any 5 year old could have walked into the cinema without an adult and seen it. Go Australian censorship laws. "},{"Title":"What an experience!","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie, albeit set in USA - is a close comparison to some of the policing in NSW Australia!! And what wasn't now is! As a Despatcher (I prefer not to compare myself to Farva but to Ursula (well I am a girl),what games we didn't play over air are now part of daily protocol....Such as Miaow game and of course, The Repeater.And Mac - Bring that moustache over here and give me a moustache ride - bugger Ramathorne - I want you!!! If only the NSW Police Coppers were as sexy, or as funny!It has given me a quote that I have used over the NSWP airwaves many a time, sometimes the full quote, others with partial quote - Unit 91, unit91, quit counting your pubes, we have a pursuit out hereI have watched the movie that many times, my hubby, also a copper, hates being near me, cause I can go line for line with you!Love your work guys!!When is Supertroopers 2???? "},{"Title":"Super Troopers is super, stupid, zany and outrageous fun","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Super Troopers is the wild side of what our local law enforcement could become. The characters play classic games such as the Cat Game and The Repeater which leave the audience in stitches. The plot is straight forward - the Highway patrol office will be shut down if the officers do not clean up their act. This leads to zany antics, drunk and disturbing behavior, and one unlucky soul covered in icing sugar. The movie is one hundred percent quotable from start to finish leaving you with lines and lines of dialog. This movie should be in everyone's collection as a fun let's get drunk or high and watch Super Troopers over and over. Littering and??? Littering and??? Littering and... This movie will forever be one of my favorite movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Who wants a mustache ride","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  and and and and .... one of the funniest films in the puniverse.So many classic lines and scenes. Did you say meow It's like Afghanimation it's sugar - tastes good Enhance, enhance French fries and Gravy She can sue me I got you good you rookie XXXX Hey stop jumping on the bed Oh the humanity They think I'm MexicanIf these mean nothing to you - go and watch the film, it's like Road Trip but intelligent and funny, it's like National Animal House - but not twenty odd years old ( and maybe as good ), and most of all it doesn't suck - which makes a change for most modern films.Shouldn't be funny - but is.  "}{"Title":"BEST MOVIE EVER!!","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Pay no attention to the previous review. This movie so kicks butt. I laughed from beginning to end. It is the funniest movie I have seen. I find myself, everyday, quoting from this movie. I can't go to a fast food place with out wanting to laugh when they ask, what would you like to drink? You know I want to say, GIMME A LITER O'COLA or PIE-APPLE. And when I doubt someone's honesty..(in an Irish voice) I'LL BELIEVE THAT WHEN ME POOP TURNS PURPLE AND SMELLS LIKE RAINBOW SHERBET. This movie is not for the boring, artsy type folks. You have got to have a great and I mean super size sense of humor. This is by far the funniest movie. I haven't seen Club Dread yet, but looking forward to it. Broken Lizard are an awesome group of guys and I wish them much success. Till next time....tag em, & bag em *CHELLE*  "},{"Title":"whaaaaa?","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  My sister told me Super Trooper was the funniest movie she'd ever seen and asked me to rent it and tell her if I thought it was as funny as she had... I respect her opinion so I rented the movie. I must say that after watching this film I was a little embarrassed for everyone involved including my boyfriend who decided to watched it with me.The jokes were ill timed so it was difficult to tell whether they might have been funny given better circumstances. The sheer stupidity of the characters and the mean spirited tomfoolery made me hope that the movie would end soon with the troopers getting there well deserved comeuppance. The juvenile pranks lacked imagination yet brought to mind an odious combination of fraternity hazings and the Abu Ghraib guards who thought it was humorous to photograph themselves humiliating Iraqi detainees.What is wrong with you people? I enjoy schadenfreude probably more than most people but there must be a reason the victim deserves the humiliation and abuse other than mere boredom or the characters are seen as cruel. I can't believe anyone would sympathize with these characters and hope for their success in any endeavor. I haven't lost any respect for my sister but I'm at a loss as to what she or any one else might have gotten out of this movie - even after reading all the comments on this page.  "},{"Title":"Just plain stupid with a few redeeming moments","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  There is not much that can be said favorably about this movie. The premise is stupid, the acting unremarkable, the `humor' not humorous for the most part, and nothing else particularly redeeming.  I am all for suspension of disbelief, and I am a fan of stupid humor, but even preparing myself for a silly film I was not really prepared for the idiocy that was Super Troopers.  I watched it because my friends often quote from it.  While there are some good one-liners, the situational comedy was not up to par, and was really just an excuse for a bunch of guys to live out their idiotic fantasies onscreen, rather than actually entertain an audience.  That said, there are a very few moments that are memorable.  If you're interested in seeing this film because your friends talk about it, that's about the only reason to see it.  The funny moments, which are sparse to begin with, do not really make it worth seeing in its own right apart from referencing it with your friends (and my recommendation if your friends like this film a lot is to make new friends).  I watched it with my brothers, and while we laughed a number of times, normally when we get together to watch a comedy we can't stop laughing.  Bad sign for a comedy. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious slapstick comedy","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The production group that refers to itself as Broken Lizard (also comprising the main actors of the film) are a group of funny, witty, talented screen writers.  The movie is filled with funny one-liners, great antics and a more-than believable storyline (sometimes difficult to do with comedic writing).  While somewhat immature comedy may not be everyone's style (if you're looking for Gone with the Wind, you're in the wrong place with this movie), this film is a must see if you've ever gotten a chuckle out of Jackass, Something about Mary and the like.  I can't wait for their next movie release (summer 2003). "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the greatest comedy's of all time.  When I saw previews I thought it looked stupid.  Two of my brothers loved it so I rented it, and I was hooked.  I bought the DVD and watched it 5 days in a row. I have probably watched it 20 times already.  These guys have got to make more movies. "},{"Title":"truly brilliant","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I'm going to keep this review simple. Go see this movie. Buy the DVD. if you like GOOD comedy, you will like super troopers. It has a great combination of smart comedy and low-brow humor and exceptional acting. This is already a modern cult classic, in the vein of office space. The bottom line is - if you like to laugh (a lot), see this movie. I recommend buying it because you pick up on more and more jokes every time you watch it. "},{"Title":"Classic movie in the style of 80's goofball comedy, see this!","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, first I have to say that I'm not a big fan of the uber-stupid comedies like Dumb and Dumber.  I prefer SOME intelligence and cleverness.While this movie isn't a masterpiece of writing, it's the execution that really does it for me.  This movie totally feels like a new fresh version of Porkys.  It has all the flavor, stupidity of the comedies I grew up with, Caddyshack era stuff.The humor is very casual and sometimes subtle, but you have to love the characters, especially writer/director and Ramathorn himself, Jay Chandrasekhar.  I can't wait to see more by him and what appears to be a group of his friends who've never been in anything else except his productions.These guys are more human and 'real' than the characters in a lot of comedies now.  They're people you can identify with.  Their thoughts, feelings and motivations, no matter how idiotic, are things that we may have at least considered at some point in our life.  But they act upon them and let us live vicariously through them!Give it a chance.  Enjoy the insanity and idiocy.  Anyone who can come up with Afghanistanimation can't be ALL bad!-TG "},{"Title":"awesome - can't believe the bad review","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  this movie is classic. few people i know have seen this movie, but of those few it is an acknowledged smash. to think that someone read bad reviews of this movie, assumed it to be thusly good, and then hated the flick is absurd. it is well written and hilarious, and i'm waiting for this crew to strike again. "},{"Title":"Still Funny","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I've watched this on cable twice in two days and it is STILL funny. Sure it's the same plot to Save the fill in the blank...camp, ski lodge, hotel, whatever. But it's still got a freshness about it. Of course if you don't like sex, drug or toilet humor you may not like it.  "},{"Title":"You boys like Mexico? Fun stuff.","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The first ten minutes of this film is worth the rental price. I thought throughout the film a lot of funny things happened. Was it consistent? No.The film definitely had some lulls but considering it was there first feature I cant wait to see the next film.I also want to say that I know a few cops that have seen this film and went out and bought a copy. I guess in a way they do things that real officers would love to do themselves. I mean come on meow, who wouldn't? "}{"Title":"Funny, funny stuff","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I love this movie!!! The more you watch it the funnier it gets! My friends and I toss lines back and forth from the movie. My personal favorite Evil shenanigans. We must have rewound that scene at least six times! GREAT STUFF! FUNNY FUNNY! "},{"Title":"Stupid is not always funny...","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The spark is there but the laugh isn't always. This movie could be quite funny if the actors wouldn't have to play so stupid all the time. A comedy actually can be funny without stupid people and this movie sure have the potential. The highway patrol troopers have fun at work in this movie and provide one or two good laughs, but sometimes it just overdone.  "},{"Title":"Sheesh!","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Although the film contained a few belly laughs I can't say that I enjoyed it. As the film progressed the routines became cliched and predictable and it frankly became a strain to watch. Some people may like it but it just wasn't my bag.  "},{"Title":"Lame slap stick","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Apparently the second half of this movie is where it and the troopers redeem themselves. The problem is the first half is so bad I couldn't get there. It's populated by bad sitcom characters who are caricatures of incompetent cops. They bumble around blowing testosterone on the viewer with lame practical jokes and macho dufus clichés. When the characters weren't insulting my intelligence, the director was, with 'humor' derived from silly coincidences of situation. (I'm thinking of the errant baseball hitting the girl with eyes closed in the face at just the right moment to make her think the dufus is also abusive. What a crack-up, eh.)I recently moved to Vermont, the setting for this movie. I love it here. I was totally prepared for a silly little movie that I would get a kick out of if for no other reason than that it was about Vermont. Further, I paid $5 for it on Vudu so it was either watch it now or waste $5. But it was just too awful. "},{"Title":"This movie is an 8 or 9","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was down right funny, I love it. From the opening with the weedheads i died laughing.I think its amazingly smart comedy I have seen to many bull crap comedies with big names that suck, Lots of Adam Sandler and kevin smith films, dont get me wrong I like those guys a lot but this movie was so funny, My new favorite character of all time is Farva, I just lost a buck..... to my self. Thats funny  "},{"Title":"boring and stupid","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I never thought there would be enough space for a even more awkward version of police academy... The first five minutes of the movie are quite funny, but then there´s only one dirty and flat joke after another... "},{"Title":"I can never watch Cops again.  I'm still laughing!","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Waaaaaaaay back in the 1980s, before everyone was on the Internet, we used to log on to bulletin board systems, a.k.a. BBSs.  On a BBS you could post a message and it would be relayed to other BBSs during the night, so it was a bit like email, only with a longer lag factor between sending and receiving. And everyone could read it, not just one person.  Anyway, at the end of each message there was this space, 57 (or was it 58?) characters long. I'm not sure why, but for some reason a tradition developed of putting some random thing into that space.  It (whatever was put there) was called a tag line, and some of them were brilliant (If at first you don't succeed, skydiving is not for y; All wiyht.  Rho sritched mg kegtops awound?). One of them was That's disgusting -- but funny.That could pretty much be my review of (most of) this movie, which manages to be both in-your-face outrageous _and_ subtle, or at least sly, and you never know which is next, so it's a lot of fun to watch.  No, it's not for kids; I'd even feel awkward watching it with some adults, but if you're alone or with people who can enjoy raunchy humor, this is very amusing.I agree with whoever said the cops in this movie seem more real than a lot of movie cops; these guys seem like just regular guys who happen to be cops, and I enjoyed their story more because of that.  I kept getting the feeling I really was seeing a little snippet taken from the actual lives of some cops somewhere...not that any given set of them would ever do everything in this movie, but somewhere, sometime, I'll bet most of these things really have happened, or at least something along these lines.  Broken Lizard has a great -- if frequently disgusting -- sense of humor.Funny stuff!!  Also, it was great to see the darling Marisa Coughlan get a halfway decent role (the only other thing I've seen her in is Freddy Got Fingered, and she was the only ray of sunshine in that stinker). "},{"Title":"Goof-off comedy made for ADULTS, for once","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A comedy about people slacking off and abusing their authority, in which much of the humour derives from people being humiliated; and yet ... why, it's actually good-natured, with not the slightest trace of nastiness about it. If you're one of those people who actually care for the hundred or so teen comedies that have been made in the past half-dozen years you might like to try a more mature version of the same thing, without the sour aftertaste, and with as much genuine humour as the rest of them combined.Take the gross-out scene earlier on. We wince as we watch competitive drinkers force vast quantities a certain substance down their throats - but the substance is not semen, not urine, not blood plasma, not even hard liquor, but ... maple syrup. Technically, this DOES qualify as gross-out humour, but of a strangely witty and not unpleasant kind.Obviously I'm not claiming that this is the most brilliant comedy ever made; just the best (or one of the best) in its own particular territory. It's a movie that makes me suspicious of people who don't enjoy it. Quite frankly, if you don't find at least some of its jokes (It's Afghanistanimation!) amusing, then you have no soul. "},{"Title":"Just. Not. Funny.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  It pained me to sit through this--I almost walked out. I've seen 325 movies in the theatre in the past 5 years alone--never came close to walking out till now. It just isn't funny. Sorry guys. I don't think I've ever been so happy that I didn't pay for a movie in my life (a friend got me in). "},{"Title":"The laughs aren't always there, but there are sparks about","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Broken Lizard, a comedy troupe I never heard of before until I started seeing trailers for this movie months back, has a movie out now called Super Troopers, an engagingly stupid cop/state trooper comedy.  The plot involves a dead body, over a hundred kilos of grass, but that's just the baseline for the troupe to stage skits somewhat connected together (along with co-stars Marisa Coughlan, Daniel Von Bargen, and surprisingly Brian Cox who delivers some of the best lines of the movie).  At times I saw what the film was trying to do to inspire laughs and indeed I did grin at a number of things throughout, and even burst out laughing in some scenes the first drug bust scene, the fast-food scene, and one of the most disturbing gags I've seen in a number of years, the bear-f***er gag.  But it fell flat at too many points where it could've been funnier.  Still, Lizard has done the best with what they could've done, topping nearly all of the Police Academy movies, and delivering better than I expected.  Grade (a strong) B "}{"Title":"closure","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Why take the time to bag a film? Why not do something useful, like yell at homeless people?? I need closure. I did not rent this film so I am not out of pocket, for that I thank the spiteful god up above. It happened slowly, I found all my energies being drained so I couldn't move from my rather comfy chair.. then I found my IQ dropping (left myself open for criticism there....), I found myself holding popular political views, beer did not alleviate my personal suffering. I warn all people who respect their independence NOT to watch this move. I am very much against censorship, otherwise I would outright call for its banning. Still, it is one star better than Mariah Carey's Glitter, but that is another story. "},{"Title":"I'm so confused..","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" ....as to WHY this film is being rated a six. I gave it a one just because I couldn't score any lower.  I would never in my right mind rent this movie, but I saw it with a couple of friends and not once, throughout the entire thing, did we laugh. And this is coming from a group of 14, 15, and 16 year olds at three in the morning. The jokes were in bad taste, there was too much gratuituous sex/sexual jokes, and it wasn't even a tad believable. Avoid this film if you have an IQ any higher than the nearest doorknob. "},{"Title":"Can we put these Troopers behind bars for this?","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Using a slew of stale gags for comedy, a downright bad script, and all-around untalented deliveries, the 'Broken Lizard' comedy team offers one unfunny yarn with Super Troopers. The movie follows a gang of Vermont highway patrolmen, who love pulling pranks on whoever they pull over. To save their outfit from being shut down by the governor, they try and out-do the local police station in solving a big-time crime, and inevitably lots of gags ensue and everyone finds the time to get drunk. Embarassingly unfunny, somebody needs to retire the Broken Lizard team before they do any more theatrical damage.   "},{"Title":"AWFUL MOVIE","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The first 12 minutes of the movie where somewhat funny...then it went downhill from there...and I mean DOWN!!!!!!!! It was just stupid....the characters where unlikeable and annoying....I just think it was a total waste of my time! I wouldnt advise renting or buying this STUPID movie!  "},{"Title":"Funny as an amputation without anaesthesia","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  When I sat down to watch this movie, I didn't expect anything great.  Nor was I surprised.  On the other hand, I expected a few laughs.  I watched over 45 minutes of the movie before the lameness forced me to turn it off.  It was NOT funny.  It was NOT amusing.  It was not the source of a single chuckle.  On the pywrit scale of 1-10, this one gets a score of 1 (ONE). "},{"Title":"Genuine poo.","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This isn't funny, well not past the 12 year old mark anyway. The jokes are lame, the plot goes no where, the movie dosen't come together probably, and whats worse its full of a bunch of no-name actors who obviously had nothing better to do.2/10 "},{"Title":"UNFUNNY","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I sat through this mess waiting for a funny moment and it never came. Just god awful. Totally unfunny. I wondered where they got so many unknown actors and later I found out that they are a comedy troupe called Broken Lizard. A complete waste of time. At the end they show outtakes and it appropriately ends with a vomiting scene. Why is a talented actor like Brian Cox in this piece of tripe? "},{"Title":"If you think this is funny I want to cry","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is so bad, I have no idea why it was made.  I checked IMDB to see if the director/writer/producer was some relative of a Hollywood star.  There is no reason that I can see why this movie was sold.  I did not laugh once.  Words that come to mind are stupid, unoriginal, immature, retarded, and just BAD.Why?  Why?  WHYYYYYYYYY? "},{"Title":"Super Troopers is AOK","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Written by the five officers this is not your typical comedy, nor cop flick. It is pretty off-beat = ORIGINAL! It was directed by the leader Jay Chandrasekhar. Although I was disappointed by the number of laughs I definitely enjoyed this fun movie.It is very adult in places and so parental discretion is advised. 8/10.- Zafoid "},{"Title":"police-forces survival of the funniest","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I was the only one at the movie theater. Tears in my eyes from laughing... GREAT!!This movie is a real treat, especially if you want to have a good laugh, if you want to free your mind. It's a bit like Hot shots, only it is no parody. The story is about two police forces that have to battle against each other because only one force can be kept. The one with the best points (most tickets, arrests,...) wins. Both forces try to make a big drug arrest in order to survive as a police force. It's a bit like police academy, but this one is a lot funnier.I think that everybody has got to see this one, certainly everybody who likes to have a good laugh. I'd like to quote some jokes, or tell some of the great laughs of the movie but don't want to spoil the fun for anybody else. Just check this one out, it's great! Warning dangerous for people with hart-conditions. contains drinking scenes, drug scenes, extreme violence, sex scenes, even some with animals. But no worries, they are all funny and not offending. "}{"Title":"An extended 'Dukes of Hazzard' episode??","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I want to first defend myself by saying that I purposely saw SUPER TROOPERS for only one reason -- old stage mate from our 1960s days at Purdue, Daniel Von Bargen, plays the town sheriff. It didn't hurt that I got the DVD as a free loan from my local library. Why a Texas public library would buy a copy of SUPER TROOPERS will remain a mystery. While the critic Ebert has a very accurate review, I believe he rates it a bit too high.  Most of the IMDb votes for this film come from the under 29 males, but for we older folk it is more realistically a 4. While I found many good laughs throughout, this is basically your crude slapstick bodily function joke story and frankly is pretty juvenile.It is set in Vermont, near the border, the local village cops and the local state trooper office compete for action, and each is concerned that they will be abolished if they can't drum up more action. Part of the problem is that except for the two chiefs, all the officers, except the pretty young blonde town dispatcher, are buffoons who play inside jokes whenever they make a traffic stop, like see if you can say 'meow' ten times while you question the driver. Eventually all get involved with apparent drug smuggling, a murder, and several fights between the village and state cops. Even the background music reminded me of the old TV series, Dukes of Hazzard, and the movie is mostly like one extended episode of the Dukes. "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Definitely not your typical State Troopers; at least I hope not. This movie is good for a few laughs and there was some funny lines, but that is about it. The plot is weak and the acting is subpar. It was a good way to kill about 90 minutes of my Saturday night; and I do mean kill.  "},{"Title":"Can't even recommend this, this, piece of film.","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  As I write this, apparently 491 people found this hunk of junk to be an excellent movie.To that, all I can say is, you have got to be kidding!This is a farce, both the movie and that kind of voting. Ok, maybe the camera work is pretty good, and the locations are well picked, but...The plot is dismal. The acting is, uhm, what's the word ... oh yeah, terrible. The direction is so so at best. But then again, maybe your into crude lame jokes that don't work at all. Maybe you like references of young people smoking pot as they try to drive on our nations highway. Maybe you like seeing the hard working policeman of this country (USA) made fun of and shown to be almost complete buffons. Just maybe, then you might get a glimmer of hope out of this , ahem, movie. (I use the term lightly)Just didn't do it for me.I couldn't recommend this movie at all.Still I gave it a very generous 5 / 10.  I guess I liked the locations. "},{"Title":"Very very very very very funny film!!!","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This group of guys have written and acted what is such a funny film, I think I have to see it again so I don't miss some parts from laughing!The screenplay was very funny and the acting was so natural, it doesn't look like acting at all.  Who ARE these guys?  They have bright futures ahead of them!  "},{"Title":"The Best Comdey Cop movie EVER!","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Usually I am not a fan of the kind of movies that seem so dumb that you feel like you lost brain cells just by watching it. And looking at the cover you'd expect that kind of movie. But as they say don't judge a movie by it's cover. And this is a truly original and funny movie. I am a Criminal Justice Major, and as someone who wants to become a cop. I would really love to find a department like the Highway patrol in this movie. Being a cop is a hard, stressful, and underpaid job. And I can see that picking on people would be highly entertaining. And although some parts of what they did in the movie would be very wrong in real life, was still funny in a way. The best thing to remember is that cops are civilians trapped in a Officer's uniform, they like to laugh, but they are the people who protect the public, and serve their community. So I give this movie two thumbs up, for showing that cops are the coolest people around! "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever!","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie is quite arguably one of the best modern comedies since Caddyshack. The writing is impeccable not to mention the dead-on portrayals of all of the characters, big and small. Each of the characters fit each other and the story better than most screenplays that are out there today. Instead of making the story an unfathomable premise, it makes a believable plot that keeps you interested due to the hilarity that ensues. Like Foster says, (they) bring the funny. The reason I think that the story is written so well, is because the cast/writers can relate to the plight of highway cops, professional courtesy and mutual boredom. Once again, one of the best comedies ever. Plus it's fun to play drinking games while watching it. Enjoy Ryan Fossum "},{"Title":"Loses steam quickly.","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Wow. Where to begin.The previews for this movie contain everything worthwhile seeing. This movie is tedious, unfunny save for a few quips.Go rent anything with Will Farrell or Jack Black and enjoy real consistent comedy.If you do rent this movie, just watch the meow scene over and over. It's the only funny part and the beginning where the pull over the kids in the car. That scene is hilarious, everyone has been in a similar, if not identical, situation.The writing is terrible. Avoid. 4/10 "},{"Title":"America's baffled indie scene","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  What I find most baffling of the current indie scene is that this film was the first to sell at Sundance.Maybe the success of Dude, where's my car.I did not see the film but what I heard and read leads me to think that we're more interested in laughing than thinking or feeling. "},{"Title":"Worthless Piece of Crap","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie is by far the worst movie I have ever seen. Do not waste your time. Aside from the opening scene there is nothing funny about this movie. They tried too hard to take a dumb plot and maker it dumber. If they hadn't put so much effort into the stupidity, this may of had a chance. but a very slim one at that. I have seen a lot of dumb movie before and even bad ones. Still this movie takes the prize. it is a mind numbing experience. If you watch this movie you will regret the loss of the time and money you invested to be entertained. And if I have to keep dragging this out to show you how bad it is to just to meet the 10 min text guideline rule all of our minds will melt. "},{"Title":"I'm sorry I watched it.","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie tried to be funny, but it failed. The characters did not say one funny thing through out the movie. The ending looked like it was just thrown together. This has to be one of the worst movies of 2001. I'm just glad I didn't pay money to see this crap.  "}{"Title":"And then, just when you think it can't get any worse, here is Super Troopers","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  There is only one thing that amazes/impresses me about this movie...the fact that anyone could have thought making this thing was a good idea, especially to the point of actually funding it.  If you ever look up the word lame in the big pop-up dictionary, this movie's picture will appear. "},{"Title":"I want that 1 hour and 43 minutes of my life back!","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Perhaps this could be the dumbest movie I have ever SEEN.  I was watching it and I was like, why, why are these characters doing this, what the hell are they doing.  Driving down the road trying to get caught with their cop friends.  The plot was predictable, now that i think of it, there was no plot!  It was horrible, I never wanted to see another movie after this one, why were these cop wannabees doing this anyway?  what were they doing.  I saw it as a wannabe comedy troop trying to make a funny movie! but failed cuz it sucked bad, characters actions weren't justified, and you didn't know what was going on half the time, the story line was all over the place, there doing this, now there doing this, now, wtf, why am I watching that! its more like SUPER SH*** MOVIE!I would rather have spent my 6 dollars on some gasoline to burn the broken lizrd into ashes so they cannot make a horrible movies ever again like SUPER TROOPERS. "},{"Title":"Like RENO 911 Only Not Funny","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Since this was on the Independent Film Channel I figured it would be worth watching. RENO 911 leaves me falling off the couch laughing, and I thought this would be more of the same. Wrong.I can't remember having sat through an entire comedy without laughing, but that was the case tonight. Normally I'd say that the movie would make me remember the director's name to avoid his work in the future, but after this he went on to direct episodes of the awesomely funny TV show ARRESTED DEVELOPMENT so I'd say it was the writing that sank this project.If I had a chemical dependency problem I'd have enjoyed the endless drug references. If I were twelve years old the general air of vulgarity would have been a plus heh, heh, he said 'ass'. If I were brain damaged I'd have been amused by the vomit jokes.The movie was bad enough in and of itself. But seeing Brian Cos in something like this is just short of heartbreaking. Sure, he's got bills to pay like the rest of us. Not many actors can make both SUPER TROOPERS and Spike Lee's 25TH HOUR in the same lifetime. "},{"Title":"Unfunny Dreck","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Super Troopers has little going for it. It's got a cast of amateurs with no comic timing plus genius, Brian Cox in a role of which, frankly, he should be ashamed. Cox can play comedy, in the subdued Rushmore he gets some of the biggest laughs. His role is strictly by the numbers and makes way for the aimless comic flailing and groping of Broken Lizard. they stick mainly to the obvious. drug references funny. loud voices funny. occasionally they land on something worth a laugh. when the cop peeks his head around the car to fit in one final compulsory meow, i laughed. i also laughed at the entire bar of soap in the guy's coffee. i also had to contain my anger as the remaining hour and ten minutes didn't have a single laugh.willfilly being shot in the crotch isn't funny, but the concept yields itself to any number of approaches that would have been. as a method of interrogation it might have been funny... something like that.but most offensive to comedy everywhere is the group of stoners making the worst possible pot jokes on the planet. the snozberries taste like snozberries has to go down as the worst, most unnecessary reference to another movie in history. in conclusion i hate it. and i hate you.  "},{"Title":"Good concept, but lame story","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I seen all this cheese in the 80's, and this film is not original.  The film's funny moments make it enjoyable, but one loses interest in the story. Funny, but not that funny describes this movie.  Worth renting, but I would never buy the film. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Failed movie titles Highway Patrol Academy.","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Wow, someone must really have had a bad runin with the police or with the Highway Patrol, since they're both made to look completely ridiculous in this movie. I can't say that the movie is entirely without laughs, because there were several scenes during which I was laughing so hard that I just about fell off the couch (`Hey, I got an idea! Let's pop some Viagra and issue tickets with raging mega-huge boners!'). I guess the movie is about what law enforcement would look like if the police force and the Highway Patrol were run as though they were fraternities instead of government run entities. The police and the Highway Patrol are rival fraternities fighting each other over state funding, since one of them is about to be shut down and so they better make some heroic drug bust or something right before the budget hearings in order to stay in business.This plotline sort of falls to the side for the majority of the film in favor of freaky antics and games played by the cops as they pull people over and try to see how many times they can get away with saying Meow without being caught. This is the type of humor that might have done well had it been more prevalent, and the most extensive, seen in the film.The problem with Super Troopers is that it just goes too far at many points. It's perfectly believable to have a lot of guys on the police force who screw around in the locker room, playing practical jokes on each other and trying to do some goofy routines like the Meow routine while on the job, but the film also has them busting a teen party and then getting smashed with the kids themselves and forcing the kids to do humiliating fraternity hazing rituals, something absolutely certain to land them in court, as well as to immediately cost them their jobs, the importance of which drives the entire plot.If the movie had been something of a behind the scenes of law enforcement comedy that let us see an entirely different side of the police force than the stolid one that we usually see peering at us disappointedly through our driver's side windows, it could have been a smashing success. But instead it decides to display full frontal nudity of fat men covered in powdered sugar, a toothless redneck having sex with a bear in the woods, two cops trying to go undercover in a semi truck that they don't know how to drive, and a lot of other idiot cops doing a lot of idiot things. Given the fact that the movie is all about two law enforcement agencies trying to save their jobs by actually solving a crime (notably something entirely out of the ordinary for them), the least the movie could have done is provide us with at least a single person on either team that we would actually want to see driving a patrol car and wearing a policemen's uniform.The movie is the product of a goofball comedy troupe who call themselves Broken Lizard, but who don't realize that if you want your audience to root for your characters to keep their jobs as police officers, it might be beneficial to keep in mind that police officers have power over the general public. Personally, I'm not too thrilled about the possibility of being pulled over by someone who is going to demand my license and registration and then call me a chickenf**ker.  "},{"Title":"Not funny. And I was high.","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" An overrated, unfunny, duh-duh-dumb movie. Bad acting, awful timing. Ugh. Who will pay me back for the joint I wasted on this laugh riot? There are better things I could be watching. Like static. Or infomercials. Ya know, just because your friends loved this doesn't necessarily mean you will. Blecch. God, American comedy sucks. I don't think most comedy directors know intrinsically what funny is. Most people are happy with easy gags or drug references. But it takes MORE than that, people, please. If this is what constitutes funny, than no more comedies. Life is much to weird to accept this as fun. I need a drink. "},{"Title":"If it comes down to this movie,or a rectal exam,gimme the rectal exam,baby!!!","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" how many ways can you say awful?too many to list here.somehow i have to find a way to get in the minimum words required by IMDb.if you read my summary,you know already know that a rectal exam is much more fun and entertaining than this piece of afterbirth.this movie is below the intellect of the slowest 3 year old.absolutely atrocious to the nth degree.it blew chunks all over my house.i hope i get the stains out before before it sets.look,there is nothing in this world you could do which would be less amusing and pleasurable than this stink bomb.route canals,invasive surgery,having your fingernails and toenails pulled out with pliers,eating a bucket of broken glass and of course the always popular-rectal exam.take your pick.me i'd go for the rectal exam.trust me,you'll be aching with desire to bend over and feel that rubber glove after this excruciatingly agonizing excuse of a movie.this one is too low to rate "},{"Title":"Overrated Brainless Comedy","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In Vermont, the budget of the City Hall is not enough to maintain the highway patrol and the police force, and one of them is to be terminated. When the two troopers are disputing their survival, the highway patrol arrests a huge load of marijuana. However, their apprehension is credited to the police department, enhancing their dispute. Yesterday I saw this VHS on sale, and after reading many favorable reviews in IMDb, I decided to buy it. My son and I laughed a lot of the silly and very dumb jokes, and Super Troopers is nothing more than an overrated brainless comedy. However, call it future classic or one of the best comedies ever is such an exaggeration and I can imagine how is the taste of such a viewer. Super Troopers follows the same type of low-level jokes and satires of the Police Academy, which is better and better. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Super Tiras (Super Cops) "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've seen in ages.  I heard some good reviews about this movie.  I actually liked most of the Police Academy movies but this I found was just awful.  Not funny at all.The fact that this movie has got alot of 10/10 votes and alot of 1/10 votes just goes to show how peoples tastes can differ.  I watched this movie with 5 other people and none of us liked it.  I am in Dublin, Ireland so maybe the humour is just not international? "}{"Title":"Goofs with Guns","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Only in the US would it be possible to make a movie based on the premise that the local police, men with guns and power, are primarily interested in jerking the public around.In their defense, this was released before September 11, and who would have guessed the power that these stereotypes would take in a slightly different context. A context where a Pakistani copy of a western cartoon calls for death is different indeed.Well, it ain't a funny idea now. But all would be forgotten if there were one really good joke in this. Dude, Where's My Car had one. But this didn't have a single moment worth remembering.There is one interesting thing about this movie, and you don't have to actually watch it to appreciate it.The movie is about a group of pranksters that sort of make stuff up as they go, but in the large they are incompetent. Those same guys are the ones that collectively wrote this movie, with the same results.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"not funny, not good","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" i just didn't like this one at all ... my brother talked it up for over a year boasting how great it was the funniest movie second only to spaceballs and i finally gave in. I laughed once, with the softball gag, and after a half hour it was as torturous as a queer eye marathon. you guys will talk up about how funny parts are, but parts don't make up a comedy, take a look at goldmember. The there's the idea of having to see it twice to really like it -- but if i didn't like it the first time, why would i sit thru it again? I can see why Old School has such a following, even though I had to force laughter at that one, but i can't understand why super troopers is so well received. reno 911 succeeds where super troopers fails. "},{"Title":"SUPER LOSERS!","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Any movie that makes Scary Movie 2 look like Godfather, has GOT to be incredibly awful.  In fact, there are no words to describe this mess.  It's quite clear that it has been shuffled together by a bunch of kiddies who thought they were the next Zucher-Abrahams.  The genre comedy is one of the most difficult ones and this proves it all.  I didn't even smile once ... and actually I gave up on this piece of junk after almost an hour.Everything is bad about this movie.  There is absolutely nothing positive... ok maybe the short close-up of a beautiful, German woman's breasts and legs, but that's as far as it goes.  This is the most awful movie of 2001 (and 2002 if it (like in Belgium here) only was released one year later.  I guess you could say that the latter a film is released comparing to America and the rest of Europe, the less worth is it watching it, right?)Again a black page in the big Hollywood-book ... they've gotta be careful down there.  Feardotcom and The Majestic are quite recent black pages in the huge Hollywood-book and only in very few cases there are still some good movies coming out.  I guess Hollywood is facing a difficult period in movie-making.  Time for genius Martin Scorsese and Peter Jackson to release their masterpieces (or so it looks like that!) "}]