[{"Title":"another thought-provoking, humanistic beauty from Agnes Varda","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  You may remember director Agnès Varda from her 1986 film, VAGABOND. But over the last five decades, the `grandmother of French New Wave' has completed 29 other works, most showing her affection, bemusement, outrage, and wide-ranging curiosity for humanity.Varda's most recent effort-the first filmed with a digital videocamera-focuses on gleaners, those who gather the spoils left after a harvest, as well as those who mine the trash. Some completely exist on the leavings; others turn them into art, exercise their ethics, or simply have fun. The director likens gleaning to her own profession-that of collecting images, stories, fragments of sound, light, and color.In this hybrid of documentary and reflection, Varda raises a number of philosophical questions. Has the bottom line replaced our concern with others' well-being, even on the most essential level of food? What happens to those who opt out of our consumerist society? And even, What constitutes--or reconstitutes--art?Along this road trip, she interviews plenty of French characters. We meet a man who has survived almost completely on trash for 15 years. Though he has a job and other trappings, for him it is `a matter of ethics.' Another, who holds a master's degree in biology, sells newspapers and lives in a homeless shelter, scavenges food from market, and spends his nights teaching African immigrants to read and write. Varda is an old hippie, and her sympathies clearly lie with such characters who choose to live off the grid. She takes our frenetically consuming society to task and suggests that learning how to live more simply is vital to our survival. At times we can almost visualize her clucking and wagging her finger-a tad heavy-handedly advancing her agenda. However, the sheer waste of 25 tons of food at a clip is legitimately something to cluck about. And it is her very willingness to make direct statements and NOT sit on the fence that Varda fans most enjoy, knowing that her indignation is deeply rooted in her love of humanity.The director interjects her playful humor as well-though it's subtle, French humor that differs widely from that of, say, Tom Green. Take the judge in full robes who stands in a cabbage field citing the legality of gleaning chapter and verse. Quirky and exuberant, Varda, 72, is at an age where she's more concerned with having fun with her craft than impressing anyone. With her handheld digital toy, she pans around her house and pauses to appreciate a patch of ceiling mold. When she later forgets to turn off her camera, she films `the dance of the lens cap.' One of the picture's undercurrents is the cycle of life-growth, harvest, decay. She often films her wrinkled hands and speaks  directly about her aging process, suggesting that her own mortality is much on her mind. The gleaners pluck the fruits before their decay, as Varda lives life to the fullest, defying the inevitability of death. Toward the movie's end, she salvages a Lucite clock with no hands. As she films her face passing behind it, she notes, `A clock with no hands is my kind of thing.'If you'd be the first to grab a heart-shaped potato from the harvest, or make a pile of discarded dolls into a totem pole, THE GLEANERS is probably your kind of thing. "},{"Title":"A great film maker examines the role of the artist in society","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This film is a feast for anyone who loves film, photography or art in general. Agnes Varda takes the viewer along on a very personal exploration about what it means to be an artist. To glean means to gather whatever crops have been left in the field after a harvest and the film is on one level a straight documentary about gleaners in France, exploring the various reasons why they glean - survival, to feed the poor, for fun. But gleaning is revealed to be an apt metaphor for the process of making art, and so, perhaps on a deeper level, Varda is examining her role as a film maker, a gleaner of images and life moments. Regardless of why you might watch this film, I recommend it for the playfulness and beauty of the photography, and the complex and personal depth of Varda's narrative.   "},{"Title":"One of the best docs I've ever seen!","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Yeah, it was that good. I was introduced to the French New Wave when I was in college and I was instantly a fan. Of course I loved Godard and Truffaut but I was also a always a fan of Varda's work. The one woman allowed run with the boy's club.Even in her later years in 2000, the mark of the Nouvelle Vague was still evident in her work. Shot on video at a time when things looked like they were shot on video, this movie held true to all of the same ideals that Varda stood for 40 years earlier. There wasn't a lot of time or money spent on lighting and capturing the perfect image but what was lacking was made up for with true cinematography and framing of the shots. Visually the movie is both cheap and no frills and meticulous and artistic.But like any good documentary, Varda's vision and message trumps any superficial aspect of the film-making. The message that there is beauty in every aspect of our existence regardless of how insignificant we think it is resonates throughout the story and will stick with you long after the movie has ended. "},{"Title":"The gatherers","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Jean Francois Millet, the French painter of the Barbizon school, seems to have been the inspiration for Agnes Varda's interesting documentary Les glaneurs et la glaneuse. In fact, Ms. Varda makes it a point to take us along to the French countryside where Millet got the inspiration for his masterpiece Les Glaneurs. Like in his other paintings, Millet comments about the peasantry working the fields in most of his canvases. One can see the poverty in his subjects as they struggle to gather crops for their employers.Ms. Varda takes a humanistic approach to another type of activity in which she bases her story. In fact, the people one sees in the film are perhaps the descendants of the gleaners of Millet's time, except they are bringing whatever is left behind once the machinery takes care of gathering the best of each crop, leaving the rest to rot in the fields.Agnes Varda takes a trip through her native France to show us the inequality of a system that produces such excesses that a part of it has to be dumped because it doesn't meet standards. On the one hand, there is such abundance, and on the other, one sees how some of the poor people showcased in the documentary can't afford to buy the basics and must resort to take it on their own to get whatever has been left in order to survive.With this documentary, Agnes Varda shows an uncanny understanding to the problems most of these people are facing. "},{"Title":"Filmmaker as gleaner","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Agnes Varda's documentary The Gleaners and I celebrates the notion of freeganism or what the French call gleaners. Unlike the punk antics of activists, gleaning in France is not so much a matter of rebellion but a matter of rite. There is a tradition in France from days of old that allows people to come behind a harvest and pick up any fruit and veggies that weren't elected by the grower to go to market, over-sized or heart shaped potatoes for instances. This apple is like a stupid ugly woman, says one person of the discards, zero value. Here, gleaners give new meaning to the phrase having a field day. (Although gleaning is forbidden in precious Burgundy wine country!) The film moves from these rural gleaners to the urban gleaners as Varda talks with a wide variety of interesting characters drunks, gypsies, artists, activists, rappers, volunteer teachers... many with a very lived look to their faces. Gleaners come from all walks of life and here they include a gourmet chef and a psychoanalyst. Picking a patient's brain is too a form of gleaning as the therapists is in a state of poverty, a state of not knowing.Varda uses this film as her owns means of self-exploration. It is told in a very self-reflexive style that you will either enjoy or be irritated by. We are subjected to extreme close-ups of her gray hair or her aging liver spotted hands as she says, we enter in the horror of her hand. The beauty in her choosing to take home a clock with no hands is symbolic of the overall poetic style to this work - an emotion film. Long shots of her lens cap dancing in the wind, repetitive shots of trucks on the highway, and of course, her fascination with the heart shaped potatoes - food that warms the heart.There are many words to describe this gleaning behavior stoopers, pickers, retrievers, recyclers... Some see found objects as dictionaries - helping us to come to an understanding of humankind. Varda has a fascination with old paintings showing gleaners, like Millet's famous Gleaneuses (pictured here), but she unearths many others - from op shops to the storage basement of a museum. Marey, an early innovator of photographer, even gets evoked somehow and the combination of all her elements gives this film a very ethnographic feel.Varda describes herself as a gleaner of images and she explores this idea in a 60 minute follow-up 2 years on (an extra on the DVD). Here she not only revisits some of the characters in the original documentary but she also meets with new gleaners who flooded her with letters and gifts in response to the release of the first film. She looks at the impact the film had on her and those who participated, the characters who share their confidence and confidences. The Gleaners and I is a delight to watch on so many levels. It is a meditation on waste, of living on the fringes of society and conversely, what this says about people we don't see in the film the thoughtless consumers. To me, the film is not only about the discarding of objects, but of the decay and disenfranchising of the aged. Finally, in a subtle way, this film is about self and our relationship to the world through the eyes of a very creative filmmaker for whom low production values equates to high art. "},{"Title":"The Gleaners and I","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The Gleaners and I is odd in that it hardly feels like a proper film at all it's shot on visibly cheap MiniDV, its editing is consistently unpolished, and it delights in crossing the line from personal to indulgent in excess. It's obvious that these are all deliberate choices; the question is, would we care if it didn't have the name Agnès Varda on it? Ultimately, the film's amateurish style is somewhat deceptive Varda demonstrates her talent for finding significance in the mundane, and strikes a number of compelling parallels in her examination of scavenger culture. The film does tend to coast on Varda's legendary new wave status at times, particularly as we linger on interviews and segments only tenuously related to the film's subject, but it's interesting as an example of a living legend embracing her medium's democratization for all the good and bad it implies, she blends in seamlessly with the millions of talented people who own camcorders. -TK 10/21/10 "},{"Title":"There will be those who will see only junk, and those who will see a cluster of possibilities","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" To glean is to see something beautiful or useful in something that is conventionally useless, pointless or ugly, and to make that thing even more beautiful or useful. One can consume the stuff they glean, or they could recycle it into an art form, creating a whole new purpose for the object(s). Gleaning also applies to our basic ability for survival. In the worst times of our lives, whether it's the death of a friend or facing poverty or illness, there is a way of seeing things positively that helps us survive. Thus, faith and hope are gleaned in the face of disparity. Scientists glean facts and turn them into theory. We glean possibilities every time we use our imaginations. We glean memories when we write (James Joyce was probably the world's greatest literary gleaner). And psychiatrists pay attention to what others don't notice by gleaning beneath the stubborn surface of our egos. This film blew me away in how it depicted how much waste our society makes, and the myriad of ways in which those who glean what we discard benefit society. But the film is even more than a fascinating documentary and social statement. As one can see from the concepts listed above, it's also a celebration of seeing our world and ourselves as a cluster of possibilities. There are many theories that we are all in essence stardust developed from fragments of 'the big bang' and quintessentially, this film is about gleaners of stardust. It pertains to those who metaphorically glean the hidden mysteries and possibilities of our world (i.e. the gleaners of dreams and ideas). Come to think of it, film lovers and the best filmmakers are in fact, gleaners by that very definition. Agnes Varda has proved that she is one of the greatest gleaners of all time. "},{"Title":"A fascinating, offbeat French film","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The French film Les glaneurs et la glaneuse was shown in the U.S. as The Gleaners & I (2000). It was written and directed by Agnès Varda,Varda is a fascinating figure in the history of French filmmaking. Although she was making movies in France in the 60's, she wasn't actually a member of the French New Wave. Instead, Varda was part of a loosely joined group of directors that also included Alain Resnais and Chris Marker. (Although theoreticians place them into a group, Resnais said, It is true that we are always ranked together, but what can you say we share apart from cats?) In any event Varda has a secure place in the history of French filmaking.The Gleaners is a movie about people who survive by searching for food or objects that others don't want, or, at least, don't want to work to find. In the country, gleaners find fruits and vegetables that remain after the harvest has been completed. In the cities they scavenge for food that has been thrown out as garbage, or that has been left behind when the vegetable markets close. They also claim discarded furniture and appliances for repair and resale.Whether by choice or by necessity, gleaners do their work at the fringes of the society. What they do isn't illegal, but it's not exactly mainstream either. However, this doesn't mean that the gleaners don't have their own fascinating personalities and informal codes of conduct.Varda interviews gleaners in both rural and urban areas. What she learns--as do we--is that they are very skilled at--and often proud of--what they do. As Varda shows us, it takes skill and knowledge to survive as a gleaner. You have to know where to look and when to look to get enough to eat, or to sell. The gleaners are interesting individuals, and they're happy to talk about what they do. Varda has taken what they told her, and fashioned it into a fascinating movie.The irony of this is clear when you look at the French title of the movie. The film is about gleaners, but it's also about one gleaner--Agnès Varda. Varda uses the bits and pieces offered to her by the gleaners, and fashions them into a movie. So, in that sense, she herself is the ultimate gleaner.We saw the film on the large screen at Rochester's Dryden Theatre, as part of the excellent Rochester Labor Film Festival. However, it should also work on DVD. "},{"Title":"More than the will to","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This is Varda going out again with just a camera. This time she finds vagrants and gatherers of all kinds around the streets of France, some who pick up after discarded harvests in the fields, others who find their objects of art or utility in what people abandon in the street corner. There's a French history of gleaning that she references via paintings of women picking up wheat in the fields, that is of course her entry into images of life she gleans with her camera, herself a gatherer, but in another way it is to situate what we see as a certain rite of life with its continuity, something that people do. So I like that we're called to see beyond desperation here, though at a glance many of these lives will seem dismal. Varda has taken an interest in itinerant lives for a long time as previous films by her suggest, Vagabond most notably, and she has the sensitivity of empathizing. We do see a few troubled individuals, because life kind of swung that way before they had a chance to hold on perhaps. But we also see a life that manages just fine for itself and roots itself in the other, something like the anti-ego philosophy of one of the people in the film.None of them are vexed to live as they do, that we see anyway, and it manages to remind me of the ancient Taoist injunctions to forego the anxieties for humanity and responsibility, often hypocritical, and make yourself like a clump of earth that goes on without minding. We manage to fret quite a bit after all as we do our own gathering of important things, though god knows to what real purpose.This is a small film that will appear at times purposeless or addled, in that Varda doesn't aspire for more than what the ground will turn up for her, but she picks it all up with care and has fun with it. She doesn't just see a social issue here and we're better off for it. How much richer the landscape of film would be if more filmmakers would just go out with a cheap camcorder? It isn't the topical subject, any TV crew could film that, it's gracing us with a way of seeing. "},{"Title":"Finding value in things people throw away","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I love this film so much. In addition to all the insights from previous comments, I'd like to add that there are no moral judgements made on Varda's part about not only the people she meets who are gleaners, but also those were are on the opposing side. The harshest words she says about them is that they don't want to be nice.I think if I met most of the people in this documentary on the street, I would simply pass them by (without knowing or wanting to know anything about them), but Varda has such a knack in finding their humanity, their beauty, that I am humbled by her curiosity and love of her fellow human beings. In the accompanying film on the DVD - made two years after the film, a woman on the street points out that after watching this film you want to become a better human being. What else is there to say after that? It is also important to note that it is a film that resonates, for me anyway, so that the desire to be a better human being is not a fleeting desire felt only after watching the film, it does stay with you. "}{"Title":"Could have been good","Date":"8 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" It could of been good if she had stuck with the focus upon the gleaners instead of trying to catch a lorry with her hand and also get constantly distracted by pipes or her hands. Maybe it was trying to be artistic but to me, art wasn't the main point of the film. The main point were the poor people of France and their struggle to find food while gleaning. Her mention of her old hands and hair meaning she would soon pass away made the outlook of the film more depressing and couldn't even be uplifted by the spirit of the gleaners who, if you think about people picking up the leftovers would be a depressing subject, did it with a spring in their step and never let it stop them. All in all, a waste of a film in my opinion. "},{"Title":"I mean this is my project to film with one hand my other hand.  &#x96;Agnes Varda","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Title I mean this is my project to film with one hand my other hand -Agnes Varda username docugleanerFor any documentary lover that enjoys a little French humor, great cinematography, people speaking in French, rides in a car, a one-hand held camera, and having the director on-screen at times or listening to what he/she has to say, The Gleaners and I is the perfect documentary for you. If you know the definition of what a gleaner is that's great, if you don't know then just watch the film! The Gleaners and I is one of those films that will make you feel like you're on a roller coaster ride. There is a lot going on whether its interviews with gleaners in the farms or in the streets, talking about famous paintings about gleaning, traveling around in a car, or listening to Varda's voice-over about her interests. Varda accomplishes this taking her hand-held camera everywhere she goes and occasionally giving her insight on gleaning or philosophical thoughts on aging in a voice over. Varda has a lot to say in this film, mostly about gleaning but a lot about aging as well. It's interesting how she combines her own aging, shots of her graying hair and wrinkled hand, with decaying of food or things, shots of her collection of rotting heart-shaped potatoes. You'll feel as if a lot of what she does or says in the documentary has no connection with the topic on gleaning but you'll soon come to realize how it fits all together. It's not only about the gleaners she interviews but a personal travelogue on herself as a gleaner of frame shots, heart-shaped potatoes, driving trucks on the freeway, and a lot more. So, as a filmmaker, Varda gleaned all this footage into this captivating documentary. The original French title, Les glaneurs et la glaneuse, gives away what the documentary is about. In the film you can tell Varda has a lot of knowledge on art when she mentions artists who created paintings of how people used to glean. She actually presents some of these paintings and pays much attention to a particular painting of a gleaner alone who she comically imitates in the film. Although when you think about it, people gleaning in the streets is a depressing subject, Varda pokes fun at it especially on gleaning in general. She collects peoples different knowledge on what the French law says about gleaning and puts it all together as a way to make fun at how lenient the law is in France or how these people don't know the specifics of that law and quite honestly don't care. There is a lot that can be said about this documentary. I tried not to give too much specifics because I want people to see this film through their own eyes and to discover things in the film as I discovered them. Throughout the film you will discover Vardas interests and love for these people and the little details in life. In the end, you will come to enjoy them as much as she does. And you will end up looking for the beauty in your own life. "},{"Title":"The Gleaners and I","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" From director Agnès Varda (Cleo from 5 to 7), there are a few documentary films that feature in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, and this French one sounded like a very interesting one to look forward to. The definition of gleaning is to collect or gather left over crops after a harvest, but for the purposes of this film it is not crops that is seen picked up by people, it is other forms. In this film we see people in cities, towns, villages and in open spaces picking up food, such as fruit (apples, tomatoes), vegetables (potatoes, lettuce), bread, meat, near its sell by date packages, and much more. There are many forms of people who are seen gleaning in this form, such as homeless people, people in poverty, travellers, unemployed people, and some that just take advantage of the opportunity. There are also the occasional other forms of gleaning, such as using rubbish and old items and turning them into something else whether to be used again or for art, including pieces using recycled materials, and old paintings not put on show. Through the film we follow these various types of people doing what they can to survive and get by, director Varda has her participation in the situations seen, and there are interviews from the people who do it, and psychologists who explain the reasons. This is a very insightful film that shows the things people will do to eat and survive, and it is really informative about what you can do with these foods and materials that most people would think should be left alone, a great documentary. Very good! "},{"Title":"Positive position","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This playful, inspiring little gem from France comes courtesy of the vastly under-represented Agnes Varda, the so-called grandmother of the French New Wave who indeed has had an important impact in world cinema, only to come second in knowledge to the likes of Truffaut and Godard. At any rate, part of the charm of this documentary is Varda's own humor and kindness, and in a way this movie is a loving ode to the beauty she finds in life even when faced with poverty and capitalistic waste.Gleaners are those that pick up after the crop has been harvested, getting the remainder for themselves. In the modern day, when most harvesting is done by machine, that means quite a lot of produce is left over (several hundred tons, in fact), which are readily taken by various people, but not completely. Indeed, quite a lot of produce is simply dumped. Vardas explores the people who glean and includes herself in that respect, both gleaning with the gleaners and also with the camera, this new small camera I carry around. The self-reflective camera gives Vardas the opportunity to draw parallels between gleaning in the sustenance world and gleaning in the art world, and she quite literally plays with the camera for great effect, enjoying its ability to capture things instantly and even takes pleasure out of when she accidentally leaves it on. She gleans the mistakes she makes, and turns them into imaginative dance sequences to modern jazz music.Though Varda is now well into her 80s, this movie is definitely an example of the positive power of staying young at heart. She delights in heart-shaped potatoes, blank clocks, and perspective shots of her hand smooshing trucks on the highway (who hasn't done something like that in their childhood, riding passenger and visually playing with the cars on the road?). And even in its social commentary of the excesses and waste, she does not pass negative judgment on the land owners, nor is she trying to turn this into a treatise into the evils of capitalism. Rather, she remarks upon how the role of gleaner has changed over time and the different ways in which landowners have come to terms with that role. It's surprising how positive she remains about all of it, ultimately, and in that way she's even able to meet a lot of interesting people who take her into their confidence.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"I love the I part of the Gleaners and I","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I saw this movie again last night (at the Harvard Film Archive) as they are having a retrospective with Agnes introducing and doing Q&A after the films. I've got to say that I love many of Agnes' films (and Jacques Demy's, her late husband, as well), but this is my favorite. So, I like the I part of the Gleaners and I even though she said that she didn't like the English-language title (the French title doesn't include the I in the title). I do a little gleaning here and there, not that I need to, but I think in this current crazy world gleaning is an important topic. I'm going to rent the DVD again as I want to see the two years later piece again. The audience at Harvard loved Agnes, why is it wrong for her to have a voice? Her most recent film is a film essay of all the people she met during her long life the guy behind me complained about it being too much about her even though it was a memoir! Making any documentary involves making many choices, picking the sound bites that express the documentarian's points, why should the documentary hide the inherent subjectivity? Her perennial interests have to do with subjectivity/objectivity, real vs subjective time, film as a cimema essay and so on. There is a lot in this movie that is both important and interesting. "},{"Title":"The Gleaning Mode","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The modes of documentary film-making, as brought out in Bill Nichols' INTRODUCTION TO DOCUMENTARY, evoke sensations that frame the viewer's connection to the subject. Some documentaries cause the viewer to come to his/her own conclusion, some prompt him/her to sit back, relax, and enjoy spoon-fed information given by the voice of god. Others freely mix these modes, creating an approach that cannot be classified within the confines of one specific mode. Agnes Varda's THE GLEANERS AND I, a concoction of several documentary film modes, explores the reality achieved when various techniques are used to bring together a coherent whole.Referring to expository documentary film, Nichols deems it ideal&#x85; for conveying information&#x85; (adding) to our stockpile of knowledge. Varda presents viewers with paintings by Van Gogh and Millet of women in fields gleaning wheat, a reminder of the historic nature of the practice. Discussion of the Bible book Ruth is included where Ruth, an alien resident in the land of Israel benefits from the Mosaic Law's provision of gleaning. Although GLEANERS isn't a typical expository documentary, it holds true to many of the mode's characteristics. Interviews, narration, facts -- Varda allows viewers to walk away with a sense of enlightenment about gleaning. The sole purpose of expository documentary is to educate an audience on a subject, a purpose Varda employs by educating viewers about gleaning alongside related subjects of homelessness and art.Expository documentaries have one characteristic not present in Varda's film the nonexistent relationship between the audience and filmmaker. This absence achieves a greater emphasis on the material and retains a sense of detachment between the filmmaker, the subject, and the audience. Varda does indeed add to ther viewer's stockpile of knowledge, and her commentary is along the same vein of the expository -- the only difference in her case is the viewer's active relationship with her voice.GLEANERS exhibits aspects of the expository documentary while intermeddling a personal overtone that resonates with another mode -- the participatory mode, defined by Nichols as giving the viewer a sense of what it is like for the filmmaker to be in a given situation and how that situation alters as a result. The filmmaker shows himself participating in the construction of the film. He tells viewers it is he who is filming, it is his voice narrating, and it is him who has put the film together. Likewise, as she relates factual information, Varda reminds viewers it is her presence that shapes the documentary. Nichols continues The first-person becomes prominent in the overall structure of the film&#x85; It is the filmmaker's participatory engagement with unfolding events that holds our attention. Subjectivity predominates due to Varda's participation and is amplified by her use of the performative mode. Defined as a deflection of documentary emphasis away from a realist representation of the historical world and toward poetic liberties, more unconventional narrative structures, and more subjective forms of representation (Nichols) Varda presents viewers with information, actively participates in the film's development, and includes her own bias. While these elements do not detract from the factualness of information she presents, one must remember it is presented in a way that serves Varda's purposes and reflects her opinions.The performative aspect of GLEANERS is highlighted in intensely subjective moments Varda entertains. Another theme in her film is that of being thrown away like left-over food. Varda, an aging woman, does not want to be thrown away and forgotten like scraps in a field. Coupled with her commentary, viewers get to know Varda as a real person who feels. She is seen in her flat looking at her aging face in a mirror alongside forgotten heart-shaped potatoes she herself gleaned. In another interlude, we see her hand glean passing cars, plucking them from the air, symbolically alluding to herself as a gleaner of images and moments -- one who remembers and collects. Her strive to gather moments points to her desire to be remembered. Far from an invisible, faceless narrator, Varda is an active entity in her documentary, the central figure.Varda uses yet another mode Instead of seeing though documentaries to the world beyond them, reflexive documentaries ask us to see documentary for what it is a construct of representation (Nichols). Viewers are highly aware of the camera in GLEANERS. Varda comments on her little video camera during a contemplative aside, shown looking into a mirror filming herself. Within this filmic self-consciousness, the viewer is forced to ask Does the awareness of the film as a film detract from its message? What does documentary film-making as a mode of representation achieve? Evocative of Dziga Vertov's MAN WITH A MOVIE CAMERA (1929), Varda, by blatantly revealing what we are watching is a film, causes viewers to ascend to a heightened form of consciousness about (our) relation to a documentary and what it represents (Nichols). Varda reflexively poses viewers with questions, unavoidable and penetrating. Viewers become players in her film, decision-making agents striving to make sense of the themes she presents, stringed together by the gleaning motif while searching for a correlation to how this information is conveyed through the film medium.Nichols' modes come together in GLEANERS and form a fresh representation of documentary film-making. This nexus forces one to question the act of labeling films under a given mode. A jumble of gleaned styles becomes a new style, a new mode, Varda's mode, and cannot be classified other than a creation of the generalized modes Nichols presents. Does another mode exist? Varda shows the product that can be achieved when these modes are fused into one. She shows how these modes are in fact derivatives of each other that seamlessly interweave to achieve a certain taste truth.*See Bill Nichols' INTRODUCTION TO DOCUMENTARY "},{"Title":"apples, potatoes, and clocks without hands.","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" When I was young I would go with my grandparents to my uncle's farm to pick fresh vegetables. The main vegetable that I remember picking is okra. Armed with my pocket knife, I was informed by my grandmother to only gather the medium sized okra pods because they were the best ones to eat. I was a bit bothered by this because I felt that the other ones would go to waste. I am not sure what my uncle did with remaining vegetables, but I assume they were often left to rot in his fields without serving their purpose to feed the populace.Varda's film The Gleaners and I is a documentary depicting her travels throughout the countryside of France in her pursuit to find individuals who live off of the items cast off by others. Gleaning used to be a normal activity of woman in the countryside who gathered the remaining grain in the fields after the harvest came to an end, but this practice almost ceased to be after heavy machinery came to gather the food. Now, gleaners are quite often the destitute who gather the leftovers of the harvest in order to add to their meager diets. However, there are also those who glean because the activity was passed down in their blood or it is something they enjoy doing.Traveling from vineyards to potato fields, apple orchards to the urban sprawl, and the seaside to museums, Varda's documentary encompasses the waste that is common in capitalist societies and how many farmers, winemakers, store owners prefer the excess to rot, spoil, and be thrown away instead of being used to help the down and out. However, the mood of the film is not entirely dark, because Varda does a wonderful job of depicting the beauty of castoff items and how some individuals, the castoffs of society, make due in a society that would prefer them just to disappear. "},{"Title":"Hollywood studios will never approve such a film","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" At least a film has been made with courage,determination and above all without caring at all about what the film market would say.Who in the world had thought that someone would take the trouble of making a documentary about people who do nothing but sort out eatables from huge piles of junk.The one and the only unofficial grand mother of French new wave cinema Agnes Varda has embraced modern Digital video technology in a nice way thereby enabling us viewers to watch hitherto unknown facets of impecunious people's lives in Francea country which is always feeling proud of its state controlled socialist traditions. The film is a proof that documentary tradition is still very much alive in France and most of the established veterans like Varda do like to dabble in such uncommon ventures.The best parts of this documentary revolve around Varda as she takes a tour of France on her hunt for the gleaners.This is really France uncut,a France you have all been longing to see but never got a chance to do so.Voilà explore France with this film. "},{"Title":"Artistically done","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" At one point in this unusual and very interesting documentary by French New Wave director Agnes Varda (born, 1928!) she ties it together by showing art made from gleaned articles--that is, trash thrown away and made into objects of art by artists.Of course it is trite to recall that one man's trash is another man's treasure, but it is so. How dearly archeologists love ancient midden sites, and how much we can learn about the ancients from their trash. But Varda is here to show us that we can also learn a lot about modern people from what they throw away, and from what is gleaned, and from the gleaners themselves. I thought the guy who ate (grazed almost) as he went through the market place after closing was interesting. Clearly going through the trash is something instinctive with humans no doubt it comes from our prehistoric past when we were hunters and gatherers.The main focus here is on gleaning fruits and vegetables left behind by mechanized pickers. It is interesting to note that there are laws going back hundreds of years that regulate gleaners. (Varda puts a French lawyer on camera to quote some relevant law.) I was fascinated to see that there are dumpster divers in France. In America dumpster diving has been a big deal since at least the sixties. Today there are Web sites devoted to dumpster diving, and I personally know some people who dumpster dive for fun and profit. It was also interesting to see just which fruits and vegetable are gleaned from the ground and from the trees and vines and plants left after the harvest, and to hear from the people who do the gleaning. Varda shows mounds of potatoes left behind, and we learn that both potatoes too small and potatoes too big are discarded by the producers. (In America, large potatoes are not only not discarded, they bring a higher price.) Interesting too were her interviews with French gypsies and others who derive a good part of their subsistence from gleaning.I enjoyed seeing parts of France not normally seen on the screen or by tourists. In fact in some ways this documentary could serve as a kind of travelog so widely does Varda and her camera travel about the French countryside and cities.See this for the Grande Dame of French cinema, Agnes Varda, auteur of the innovative documentary Cléo from 5 to 7 (1961) and other films who is now 77 years old and still going strong.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Just a masterpiece","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This is a film-essay about the word glaneur (which means collector and much more). And what Agnes Varda finds on her filmic search through france and collects to this little film is just a masterpiece. Moving, funny and clever. Every scene adds something more to the words meaning and opens new ways of thinking obout it. By that the film introduces us to people we would never meet in our lives (unfortunately including the charming director Agnes Varda) and can not forget anymore. "}{"Title":"A Dud for the Interest","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I am not as familiar with documentaries as I should be. I know they are important, but I've always been more intrigued by narrative films. The Gleaners and I, as a documentary is an informative blurb of the past and present of Gleaners. The problem I had with The Gleaners and I is the output of lifeless topic. There was nothing drew me into the topic of Gleaners, nor do I think I completely think I understand Gleaners from the documentary. The documentary utilizes the space of Gleaners extraordinarily well. The farm-spaces are explained and shot in detail, but the surprising aspect of the Gleaners and I was the use of location and space outside of plantation areas. The documentary takes us out of our space from into deeper parts of towns and the city. The space that's shown to us is dry, brittle, and deserted, which reflects the harsh topic at hand. The filmmakers have a good sense for putting black and white real-footage on top of voice-over explanation. Too bad the topic is dull enough to put the most energized person in a comatose state. The message I took away from The Gleaners and I is that veggies are the key to life. I could've checked Gwyneth Paltrow's goop website for that fact, I didn't need to sit through an 80 minute documentary. "},{"Title":"Gleanings of greatness","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" What is it about New Wave directors and cats? Rivette, Resnais and Marker often feature them prominently, and a kitty opens this masterful essay by the Grandmother of the New Wave, which has plenty of space in its very tightly constructed 80 minutes or so for other shots of the director's beloved companions.Cats (and dogs) of course are often scavengers, both around human companions and left to their own devices, and it's quite possible that the director is drawing some subtle parallels here between the placid animals and the surprisingly well-adjusted (though probably not placid) humans that scavenge, pick, and glean for their lives, conscience, and art in this wonderfully multifaceted and wide-ranging exploration of those who take up what society throws away. Shot on hand-held digital video, the whole film has an immediacy and street-level appeal, but the intellect behind it is anything but cheap or simple.The largest part of the focus here is on those who glean from the soil, dumpster and tree, the poor (mostly) who gain sustenance from the leavings of farmers, vintners, supermarkets and restaurants. Though there is certainly an underlying scorn, even outrage, against the waste in society and the few provisions made for the poor when there could easily be more, the director is amazingly even-handed and unsentimental in her portraits both of those on society's margins and those who might be numbered amongst the wasters. The same attitude prevails when she is dealing with the art, artists, and collectors who take the castoff physical properties of the ownership society and transform them into other things often beautiful as well as useful. Though it is only expressed obliquely, the attitude present throughout the film seems to be, why have we come to this pass? Why are we so careless as a species, throwing away useful items and usable foods, treating everything in the world as disposable, treating life and each other as just things to use until we don't need them or care about them anymore.Mixed in with all of this are personal musings by the then-72-year-old director on her waning strength and energies, and towards the end of the film, on possible answers as we meet the most extraordinary character, a well-educated scavenger in Paris who sells newspapers and tourist maps, and teaches (for free) incoming African immigrants in the shelter he lives in and who seems perfectly adjusted to having a different idea of success than the rest of the world, movingly articulated as he explains what the word means to his eager adult students.Watched on DVD accompanied by the sequel which is reviewed separately. "},{"Title":"A documentary about the many ways people use found objects.","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I work for a homeless services agency as the food services manager. I have found that there is a large amount of gleaning in our communities. This movie affirmed my inclusion of gleaned food in our program. The food that I receive from gleaners tend to be more nutritious than much of the food that is readily available to low income individuals and families. I hope many see this film and understand that the elements in this movie are much larger than the french culture. I feel that I know of the American equivalent of many of the people featured in this documentary. It's interesting how many do this to survive and how many do it as a personal, political and ethical choice. I am very thankful that this movie was made. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Excellent documentary giving voices to those who are usually unheard.","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Saw this at The London Film Festival in November 2000. It s in French with subtitles. Have a look at this if you have an interest in those who are marginalised, on the fringes or excluded from society altogether, you are interested in alternative lifestyles, you have concerns about globalisation and unchecked capitalism, you are interested in France and her people, you have interests in 'outsider' art...The film may be considered slow moving by some, but if you ve an attention span greater than that of a goldfish you should be able to manage it.As much about the people Varda encountered it s something of a road movie / travelogue exploring the film makers' own concerns, particularly the way shes concious of herself ageing.I was so impressed with this film I m planning to screen it myself through a film society I help run in Swindon, England. I m aware our American friends get little chance to see foreign language films - one such as this which is absorbing, moving, challenging, uncomfortable to watch then by turns funny, certainly deserves a wide audience. "},{"Title":"c'est bon","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  this is a sweet, engaging, inspiring movie, not diminished by itsbeing very personal, even if AV obsessing over aging and death isa tad off the subject. don't listen to some orange county type orhollywood type for that matter calling it down!...it's kind of sad that people can't get into the dance of the lens cap if I wonder if they like it better in american beauty when the bagdances around with all this meaningful monologue on top (I foundthat a tad indigestible somehow...) anyway, it's most definitely akind of acculturated blindness that goes right through to theirtroubles with the rest of the film.this is definitely a functioning documentary. since farenheit 911this whole question of what is a documentary is more in peoples'minds, like farenheit 911 this film is also political speech of a kindthat begs to be heard in this messed up world . . .  "},{"Title":"The documentary works best when Agnès Varda keeps a tight focus...though some times she seems to wander a bit off-topic.","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Some parts of The Gleaners & I is loved. However, had the movie been entitled The Gleaners and stuck to that theme, it would have been much better. Still, the gleaners aspect of the film is quite compelling.The documentarian and widow of Jacques Demy (The Umbrellas of Cherbourg), Agnès Varda, made this film on videotape using what looks like a home video camera. This isn't necessarily a complaint-- especially since much of the theme of this film is making use of discarded items--and you usually don't discard state of the art cameras and other film equipment. The film begins by showing the famous Millet painting The Gleaners at the d'Orsay Museum in Paris and then showing how gleaning like they did in the old days is alive and well. Let me explain a bit. In the old days (such as in the book of Ruth in the Bible), poor folks were allowed to pick through the fields once the crops were harvested. Anything they wanted to take (the castoffs) they were allowed to take. Just like this today people in France have been able to take advantage of this in a variety of settings. Seeing tons of unwanted potatoes which were going to simply rot being picked by folks for useful potatoes (over or under-sized ones) made me quite happy since it avoids waste. Other ways to avoid waste are shown such as dumpster divers, artists who use garbage and people who pick through restaurant and grocer garbage piles all reminds us how wasteful modern society is and the film has a great point to make.Unfortunately, too often the filmmaker loses focus--either by going off on tangents or by focusing the film too much on herself or her desire to be artsy (such as filming mildew spots in her own home). It was like Ms. Varda wasn't sure if the film should be about her or the pickers. Clearly it SHOULD have been all about the pickers. When she's focused on this, the film is like gold! When she doesn't, it becomes tedious and, dare I say, a bit self-indulgent. Interestingly, in her follow- up film where Varda revisits people two years later, one of her most important interviewees says exactly that when she asks him what he didn't like about the film...and then she has some middle-class lady come up to the guy (like a surrogate to the filmmaker) and argue with the guy about this!! She DID ask him about his opinion!!! "},{"Title":"unique","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  There are a number of reasons why I enjoyed this movie.1.) I am into etymology. Most english words come through French through Latin and it was fun to attempt to match spoken word and subtitle.2.) French rap. I am very much interested in the hip hop subculture and was amazed how similar theirs is to ours.3.) Scenic shots. There were orchards, fields, barren highways, a gypsie camp, a great many paintings, junk yards, and such.4.) The camera shots. The journal/documentary filming allowed for several film taboos to be artfully waived. For example, the directors hands often purposefully find themselves in a shot, these were my favorite parts because of the witticisms she gave at these times. Also, an accidental shot were the camera lense gets in the way was made into another piece of ordinary object art.5.) Also, I was intrigued by the comparison between classical gleaning, modern gleaning, and modern scavenging. See Dark Days for another good real life scavenger flick.6.) Lastly, I felt a connection with many of the characters. People who were on the fringe of society and enjoyed it. Specifically, there were a few who had jobs and apartments, but still chose to rumage through old trash for their meals. I've been living off trash for 10 years and I haven't been sick once, as on of them candidly stated.Note - For me, these 6 items more than made this movie an enjoyable experience, but this is basically all there is, so be warned There is no plot! Really it is just a bunch of stuff that happens, but feel that this helps the movie more than hurts.  "},{"Title":"A Dud for the Interest","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I am not as familiar with documentaries as I should be. I know they are important, but I've always been more intrigued by narrative films. The Gleaners and I, as a documentary is an informative blurb of the past and present of Gleaners. The problem I had with The Gleaners and I is the output of lifeless topic. There was nothing drew me into the topic of Gleaners, nor do I think I completely think I understand Gleaners from the documentary. The documentary utilizes the space of Gleaners extraordinarily well. The farm-spaces are explained and shot in detail, but the surprising aspect of the Gleaners and I was the use of location and space outside of plantation areas. The documentary takes us out of our space from into deeper parts of towns and the city. The space that's shown to us is dry, brittle, and deserted, which reflects the harsh topic at hand. The filmmakers have a good sense for putting black and white real-footage on top of voice-over explanation. Too bad the topic is dull enough to put the most energized person in a comatose state. The message I took away from The Gleaners and I is that veggies are the key to life. I could've checked Gwyneth Paltrow's goop website for that fact, I didn't need to sit through an 80 minute documentary. "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This film concerns gleaners, people who collects what other people throw away, food and junk etc. We met them at a potato field, on a cabbage field and on the markets. People who dont hesitate to look in the nearest thrash can for both breakfast and dinner.We meet a man who always arrive to the fruit market after closing time to get parsley, and spends the evening teaching african immigrants how to read and write. And another man who builds high towers out of junk. People who are very poor, outside the community, but mostly happy.One cant help to wonder why so food producers throw away so much when people go hungry. And why are todays society so focused on buying new things all the time, instead of repair things when they break. "},{"Title":"It has its moments, but.....zzzzzzzzzzzzzz.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I find the nearly universal praise heaped on this film puzzling.  I think critics are praising Varda's career, or her past works, or her reputation--everything but this film, which is disjointed, unfocused, and overall excruciatingly boring.  This having been said, I should point out that it does have some fascinating moments, especially when we realize that some of the gleaners don't have to be doing this--they're doing it by choice.  It's worth viewing for a glimpse into a style of life rarely seen; just don't watch it late at night. "}{"Title":"Must have seen a different movie...","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I'm a huge fan of all things French New Wave. I went into this widely touted movie expecting to see a masterful, well-executed documentary about scavengers &#151; a segment of society whose struggles aren't often chronicled.Instead, I got a rambling, unfocused picture that focused way too much on the director herself. Every time the movie started to get good and really engage my interest, Varda would break away from the subject she was documenting either to film herself or prattle away while filming a bunch of trucks on the freeway. What's more, she even saw fit to put in footage where she left the camera running as she carried it, calling the scene The Dance of the Lens Cap, or some such thing. And while you can make statements that Varda, like her subjects, is using footage other directors just throw away, there's a reason directors don't use that footage. It's almost as if some studio executive has decided to play a prank on snooty French film snobs, handing a camera to a goofball old woman who once upon a time made decent movies. I appear to be one of the few who didn't fall for it. "},{"Title":"Good but insignificant","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  In The Gleaners and I, Varda uses a broad definition of gleaning as taking anything anyone left behind and then explores that subject without surprising results. You'll see people picking up potatoes missed by machines from fields and people who make art from trash. You'll see people who dumpster dive for edibles and people gathering clams from a beach. You'll see a whole lot of stuff, most of it interesting and none of it surprising, as Varda explores gleaning from more angels than the subject is able to support, studies her hand, and demonstrates a strange fascination with big rigs. When compared to A&E's Jesus to Christ or Ken Burns Civil War or the panoply of available substantive documentaries, this subtitled French gem is something best left for those gleaning documentary films. (C)Note I wasn't sufficiently intrigued by the original film to sit through the sequel/follow-up which is also aboard the DVD. "},{"Title":"Only moderately interesting","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Yeah, I totally agree with the last couple of comments. I love Varda's two most popular films (which are the only others I've seen), Cleo from 5 to 7 and Vagabond, but The Gleaners and I is a rambling, tenuous, and only intermittently interesting mess. She makes all these trash diggers seem like rebellious, beautiful heroes, but really they're nothing but trash diggers. The political message is negligible. I like the stuff about Varda's fleeting life, but it's very poorly integrated into the rest of the film. 5/10. "}]