[{"Title":"Worth Renting For A Couple Of Bucks","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This was a decent thriller with good-guy Frank Morrison (John Travolta) trying to save his former family from the dangerous new husband. That's not a new theme in Hollywood movies (the dangerous husband) but this is acted well and presented without heavy-handedness. They were smart to keep the story relatively-short, too, at 89 minutes. As a consequence, nothing dragged.To me, the film would have been more enjoyable had the 12-year-old boy been a nicer kid, but he's an annoying brat. The mother (Teri Polo) is not that endearing, either. Definitely a movie that will entertain but a one-look film and nothing more, especially with the ending being as predictable as it turned out. "},{"Title":"Exceptionally mediocre","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What is it with John Travolta?  He can command just about any script he desires, and he signs on for the lead in this pedestrian rubbish?  The man has talent, but he needs some serious career counseling.  This script is not even TV grade.  A kid has cried wolf a couple of times so the police don't bother to follow up when he claims he saw his step father murder someone; yes, that's very realistic.  The screenplay would make any Wisconsin dairy farmer proud.  It has so many holes that it is better classified as fantasy/comedy than drama.I'm surprised that this product comes from director Harold Becker (`The Onion Field', Malice') who has given us a couple of fine thrillers.  Besides the flimsy script, the cinematography is annoyingly underexposed.  If Becker was trying for a dark look, he achieved it, because the film is so dark that much of the time you can only tell who's speaking by voice recognition, and that's outdoors during the day!If there is anything that saves this film from the abyss, it is the acting.  Travolta is sometimes fantastic and sometimes awful.  In this film he is very good, especially considering the material with which he has to work.  Matthew O'Leary is particularly good as the troubled son.  He gives a convincing performance, capturing the motivations of his character effectively with all the conflict one would expect from a kid in his situation.  Vince Vaughn gives a decent performance, though he is a bit tentative when trying to be duplicitous.  He is much more convincing as a villain than a good guy.  Steve Buscemi is one of my favorite bad guys, extremely underrated and unappreciated for his consistently sleazy characters.  Again, he gives us a terrifically slimy portrayal of Rick's former underworld buddy.To enjoy this film you have to look beyond the tired plot, the unbelievable departures from reality and the poor cinematography.  These are just too many liabilities to overcome.  I rated it a 5/10. "},{"Title":"Domestic Clichéd Disturbance","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'Domestic Disturbance' is pretty much another typical Hollywood thriller. The thing with these movies is that they are very easy to predict. We already know what will happen in the end. So why watch it? Well, the plot might be interesting. In this case, it isn't bad but it gives the deja-vu impression. It isn't anything intricate enough to create suspense but what kept me entertained were the characters and actors. I liked Travolta's Frank. A hardworking down-to-earth boatmaker who's going through a slump in business because people prefer plastic over wood. But through it all he remains a good father and a kind person at heart. It was fun to watch Vince Vaughn play a sociopath. He does not overact and brilliantly maintains Rick's deceitful gentleman mask behind which hides someone dangerous. The child actor is clueless. Teri Polo is pretty much given a clichéd role but I liked her, especially in the scene where she discovers that Rick was the one who set fire. 'Domestic Disturbance' doesn't have much (or anything?) to offer in terms of novelty but it was not exactly boring for me so one can give it a go if there is nothing else better on offer. "},{"Title":"A disturbing movie","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was just trifling, right from the start. I tried to give it a fair shake, but repeated examples of terrible acting (let's just say the kid won't win an Oscar) and even worse writing (watch the step dad and kid play catch, brutal) just wouldn't allow me to. I saw the trailer and expected it to be a tense thriller, with a lot of suspense, but all I could do was laugh, and feel bad for doing so. The only reason this movie got a rating as high as it did (3), was Steve Buscemi's role in the movie. Buscemi is great as always, but enough to save this movie. "},{"Title":"Dull unoriginal thriller enlivened by excellent performances.","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well, this is certainly nothing we haven't seen before. A rerun of every domestic situation thriller of the past two decades (everything from Pacific Heights to The Hand That Rocks the Cradle), its one saving grace is its excellent performances Matt O'Leary, who was also fantastic as Fenton in the brilliant Frailty, gives a very intelligent mature perfromance; John Travolta makes a likeable hero, while Vince Vaughan is good as the creepy villian (much better than his camp performance as Norman Bates in Gus Van Sant's pointless remake of Psycho); and Teri Polo does the best she can with the role of damsel-in-distress. Otherwise, a very dull (apart from the scene where O'Leary is hiding in the car watching the murder - this is suspenseful) movie, with no originality whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Practically defines routine thriller.","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS.It's not bad considering that it was probably designed by a committee of recent film school graduates and greenlighted by a tight-lipped gaggle of MBAs.  It has a certain splashy tension and there are lots of action scenes but it doesn't own an original thought.  And on the other hand it's not bad enough to be revoltingly amusing.The story is elementary.  Travolta's ex wife has custody of their kid (Jason, what else) and she remarries a recently arrived guy (Vaughn) who is a business success and is on his way to becoming a pillar of the community. The problem with Vaughn is that he has a past in racketeering under a previous cognomen.  Buscemi finds out where he's living, tracks him down, and applies a little blackmail logic, which is foolish because, as every moviegoer knows, when you try to extort money from a really rotten guy this is as likely to lead to the furnace of a brick factory as it is to a luxury condo in Boca Raton.  The murder and disposal of the corpse is witnessed by Jason who tells everyone who will listen to him.  Nobody listens to him. Except, after giving it due thought, Travolta realizes that Jason lies a lot, true -- but never to HIM.  (This kid is a paragon of virtue.)  So Travolta goes about uncovering the facts of the matter with the grudging help of the police and the sometimes fierce resistance of Vaughn.  Things turn out as you expect.  As I say, it's not original.I lost count of the number of times someone gets whacked over the head (or is thrown against a wall or clipped on the jaw) and falls unconscious to the floor, only to wake up just in time to save his/her life or otherwise interfere with destiny.  One example.  Travolta is beaned by Vaughn with what seems to be a crowbar.  He collapses in a heap.  Vaughn sets fire to the building (somebody involved in this movie like fires).  The building goes up like a torch around Travolta's body.  We have several shots of a huge wooden ladder suspended from the ceiling just over his body.  In each shot the ladder is more thoroughly burned.  It will fall on Travolta at any moment.  But does it?  No.  Slowly Travolta shakes his head, massages his occiput, looks up and sees the flaming ladder about to drop.  He crawls out under it, gets to his feet and leaps into the water outside the boat house. What a close call.  What a very very tired close call.Travolta is okay, though.  He gives a decent performance.  So does everyone else for that matter.  Whoever plays Vaughn stands out a bit from the others.  He has the kind of bland face with a built-in open-mouth smile that could pass either for a priest's or a vampire's.  But the juicy villain role is usually more attractive than that of the upright hero.This virtue is small potatoes in a huge olla podrida.  The movie rolls along in its self-satisfied way, with the cash registers clinking in the background, until finally the credits roll.  It would be good if Travolta picked his material more carefully.  Everything he does in this movie, every expression, every tonal quirk, all of it put together, does not add up to what he contributes during the few seconds in Pulp Fiction when he comes crouching out of the toilet and looks up to find Bruce Willis pointing a machine pistol at him.   "},{"Title":"Quite decent.","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  To start off, I enjoyed Domestic Disturbance. I found it kept me shaking and on the edge of my seat through-out the entire film (which was rather short, by the way).ACTING As you probably already know, this film has some of the best-in-the-biz. Including such stars as John Travolta and Vince Vaughn, alongside newcomer Daniel O'Leary. Travolta decently played the good-guy divorced father, trying to protect his teenage son from an apparent murderer.The murderer/stepfather was played typically by Vaugh who's portrayed serial killer roles in other movies such as Clay Pigeons and the remake of Hitchcock's classic thriller, Psycho. And on to the young victim of mayhem...Daniel O'Leary. A relatively good child actor who convincingly plays a stressed, frightened teen boy seems the perfect choice, with his convicingly frightened facial expressions.All in all good acting. Mainly on Vaughn and Travolta's part.STORY/WRITING The movie flails mainly in this category. Thrilling, edge-of-your seat thriller until un-eventful ending. I'll try not to give it away, but it's a tad rushed.The story isn't all-to origional, nor is anything else in this film. The dialogue is mediocre. Basically the entire script is pretty mediocre...DIRECTING Very nice direction. The director's dark, creepy style carries the movie along swiftly. If this director had been given a better script, with the same actors, Domestic Disturbance could've achieved brilliance.Once again, direction is a high-point in this film.BOTTOM LINE A good thriller. 7 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Felt like a made for TV movie with some swearing! Cliched!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you see this movie, you might as well be watching a made for TV movie! The acting,story everything about this movie has been done before. There is nothing new from Hollywood from this movie.Basically if you've seen the trailer and TV ads, you know what is going to happen. If you want to see this movie watch The Hand That Rocks The Cradle. This movie is the male vs. male version of that movie. Instead of a baby in trouble, it's been changed to a 12 year boy.if you wish to see it fine but it's another recycled movie from Hollywood. Wait for it on DVD and video as it should be coming out in a few months. It also did very bad opening weekend? I guess John Travolta's bad movie  streak he started with Battlefield Earth is still going on. If you like the film's main stars see it for that. But Vince Vaughn's bad guy drill is getting old(Clay Pigeons,Psycho anyone?) and Travolta still plays the good guy(expect for Battlefield Earth). I just wish this movie was a direct to video release and spared the big screen release! "},{"Title":"Bad and boring","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Teri Polo is cute, but wooden and overdressed. otherwise, John Travolta sleepwalks, Vince Vaughan is stonefaced, rather than menacing. Steve Buscemi's cameo was the best part of the movie. The plot is obvious, but contrived. The incompetence of the police is totally incredible.why this movie was made is unclear. It shares a genre with many better examples.  "},{"Title":"Predictable but well-made thriller.","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Predictable (you know exactly what the last scene will be like right from the start), contrived (the police really should have looked harder for evidence), but well-made, extremely well-acted (especially by Vince Vaughn) and psychologically accurate (the baseball practice scene was perfectly written and played). Might have been better if it had kept us in doubt a little longer about whether the kid is telling the truth or not. Still, the running time of the movie flies by, and that has to count for something, right? Some have complained  about it being too short, but surely this is preferable to the opposite, too long.    (**1/2)  "}{"Title":"Sorry, that's asking too much...","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Warning  Some spoilers here.I watched this movie with my girlfriend on a Saturday night.  For me that means it better be `ready for prime time', or I've wasted my time. Because I had no preconceptions about it and hadn't read any reviews, I was ready to give it a fair chance.  I like both Travolta and Vaughn, so I thought I'd be OK.  Although it did at least pass my first test of movie engagement - that I care about what happens to one or more of the characters - I found quickly that I was disappointed in having to suspend disbelief to the extent the writers asked me to.  My companion was bothered when I became vocal with my objections to the weak plot, early on.  She chided me, pointing out that it's just a movie (never an acceptable excuse for me) and that things like this could happen in real life.  For her sake, I did my best to hold back, but it wasn't easy.  Suspending disbelief is one thing.  Ignoring gaping holes in the plot is another.The complete incompetence of the police department is by the far the most objectionable component of the impossible-to-swallow story line.  How quick they are to dismiss serious accusations of wrongdoing, how unbelievable in there unwillingness to even perform a simple background check on a potential murderer, how unprofessional in not employing routine forensic tools to search for evidence (they find no sign of wrongdoing in Vaughn's vehicle? Come on.).  It just made me angry.  There are plenty of other examples of poor writing, but they've already been pointed out (as has the police piece, but I just couldn't resist).Furthermore, I never bought the relationship between Vaughn and Travolta's ex-wife.  Vaughn's character is so obviously shifty (and dangerous) that it's impossible to believe his new bride incapable of sensing anything wrong with him.  It's an insult to her character.  She only comes to her senses when the evidence slaps her in the face (which qualifies her to join the local police force, I suspect).  As such, her role in the plot quickly becomes inconsequential and superficial.I must admit reluctantly, though, that I did feel compelled to watch it all the way through.  Yes, I did care what ultimately happened to the characters (both good and bad).  Yes, the movie was successful in creating suspense, and both Travolta and Vaughn contributed to the sense of desperation that the writers clearly wanted to create.  It's just that I felt cheated in the way I was set up.  I agree with what many reviewers here have suggested - it does have the feeling of a made-for-TV movie.  Too bad.  "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be, but still a predictable Hollywood thriller","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hollywood movies like this come out all the time.  Before Domestic Disturbance came Don't Say A Word.  These types of movies have the occasional pretty good lines and familiar Hollywood actors you all know and love.  At times, you think to yourself that the movie is really good.  But then it just gets so predictable, and by the end of the movie (which you predicted, and were right), you feel warm and happy the good guys one, but still cheated.  C+, 6/10 "},{"Title":"it wasn't terrible, just formulaic","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There's nothing that pisses me off more in a movie than when someone fails to put up an adequate argument on their behalf when they're being accused of something.It's like they either have the character act like a total maniac by flying off the handle when denying what they're being accused of (so obviously the other party will of course not believe them now), or they say the completely wrong things and understate their case, and it is extremely frustrating to watch because you're just sitting there screaming, WHY DON'T YOU JUST SAY THIS!! When that kid was in the interrogation room, his best method of convincing people that a murder took place was by weakly repeating look, I know what I saw OK.. Yeah that's gonna convince people. I don't care if you're 12, that's not the way you argue with people, and it's unrealistic.The other thing that was silly was how the kid and the mother was STILL in the car by the time the father called her cell phone. They should've been gone by then, there was no logical reason why they would've still been in that garage, other than the fact the movie called for them to be there so the stepfather could catch them.Come on be intelligent when you write, justify your damn script. "},{"Title":"d grade script with a decent cast","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i read a majority of reviews for this on imdb and a few people really liked it and im thinking do u people know what a good movie is?.john travolta,vince vaughn and steve buscemi are very decent actors and try in this one but havent got the material to work with.try not to laugh when vaughn notices the phone book in travoltas car i couldent help it.one of the worst of 2002. * out of 4 "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not a lot of surprises here. Typical `boy who cried wolf' type film. I just wanted to slap the mother in the back of the head. What an idiot. I would wait for this one to make it to cable. Don't waste your money on a rental.(4 out of 10)  "},{"Title":"Travolta saves the day.","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While the reviews I've heard didn't have much good to say about this film I appreciated it for it's straight-forwardness. It is an entertainment. That's all I wanted on the day I saw this film so I was pleased. There are points that seem implausible and ask the audiences' indulgence but they are forgivable and do not detract from the story Travolta and Vaughn give solid performances and for me, Buscemi is always fun to watch. Don't expect the reaffirmation of the virtues of being an involved parent. Expect to finish your popcorn and rasinettes. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What a shame this predictable dross had some potential but decided to cop out after an hour and 25 mins,when you see Steve Buscemi and John Travolta in the cast you expect an attempt at quality,what you get here is a third rate TV movie that rushes along at breakneck speed to an ending you've seen a thousand times before.Villains who have committed crimes that require intelligence and patientce under pressure suddenly behave like irrational joyriders making every mistake in the book.This could have been a tense nerve jangling thriller potentially,why not make use of the other two villains in Buscemi's gang,after the mysterious arrival of Buscemi at the wedding you are too quickly given the makeup of the films direction and already predicting the ending rather than  pondering whether the Vince Vaughn character is good or bad.Teri Polo is too young to be a Mother of a child this age or seems to be or perhaps just miscast an older actress with a better resume might fulfilled the role more successfully.Overall the makers have a rushed thriller that needed timing and patience,if this is a book and they have stayed loyal to it's format then why do it in the first place? If instead they have used creative licence they've botched it up. "},{"Title":"Simple thriller","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is about the events that sparked after a young boy accused his step father of murder.From the title I thought it was about domestic violence. I was wrong! The first half of the movie was slow because they had to build everything up. In the second part, particularly when the young boy got threatened in the hallway, the film got a lot more suspenseful and exciting. The story was simple, and it was told effectively. The plot was easy to understand, which was great because I was not in the mood for any complex films.Vince Vaughn was impressive in playing a psychopathic father. It was refreshing for him to play out of character. in fact, I think it is the first time that I see him playing films other than comedies. "},{"Title":"Great John Travolta Film","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film started out with a couple having trouble with their young son who seemed to enjoy telling lies, in other words, it was Cry Wolf all the time which had the couple visiting the police department quite often. John Travolta was the father and he was getting a divorce from his wife and the boy was not very happy about his new step-father, because he was very close to his own father. Vince Vaughn, (Rich Barnes) plays the role of the new father and has some very deep dark secrets about his past; however, he is very rich and is very popular in their home town. It is not too long after the wedding that the film explodes into a very fast action filled film with plenty of heat, like a very hot furnace. John Travolta gave an outstanding performance as a boat builder and a very loving father. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Polished and professional but obvious genre movie with nothing to really recommend it for other than being serviceable genre fare","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Frank and Laurie have been divorced for years but still get on well and look after their teenage son Danny. However when Laurie decides to get married to boyfriend Rick, Danny starts playing up, leading Frank to get involved with the happy couple to try and help his son accept the changes. However when an old friend of Rick's turns up at the wedding, Frank notices that Rick seems surprised by the man and, in casual chat, notices minor discrepancies in how the two men describe their relationship with one another. When Danny claims he has seen Rick murder his friend, Frank is the only one who believes his son.By choosing to let us in on the fact that Rick is indeed a bad man, this drama becomes more a matter of time rather than a film that is packed with twists and intrigues. The detail of what way Rick is a bad man is not revealed until later on but this detail doesn't really matter and although the revelation is delivered as a discovery, the fact that the audience already knew most of it, we're not really with Frank as he gets sucked in. This is not to say it is a bad film, just quite an unmemorable one, as it doesn't have much special going on in it and just delivers a typical enemy within thriller (albeit quite low on thrills). This is due to the delivery mostly. Personally I would have preferred it if the film had kept an air of mystery and played with the character of Rick &#150; it would have given Vaughn more to work with and would have made more of the mystery. As it is we trudge drearily towards the inevitable conclusion, doing what you'd expect in a professional manner which might be enough for many viewers just looking to fill time.The cast don't seem too thankful for having been given obvious material. Travolta is OK but he is hardly pushing out the ol' acting boat on this one. It is at least a chance to see Vaughn out of Swingers mode and he does well enough. It would have been much better for him to have had more mystery within his script but he is still OK. Tilney, Floyd, Santiago-Hudson and Buscemi all fill round the edges solidly enough but really nothing is there to allow any of them to do much more than produce generic performances within an obvious genre film.Polished and professional stuff then but nothing out of the ordinary or special. To fill a few hours with something undemanding and by-the-numbers, this is probably just good enough to do you as a genre film but a different delivery and better script could have produced something better and given Vaughn and Travolta more to do. "}{"Title":"He doesn't lie to me.","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Domestic Disturbance is a typical Hollywood film. The story, characters, and even the camera-work all seem prefabricated and recycled. The language that Travolta and Vaughn spurt from their mouths even feels repetitive. Do you know why? Because we have seen it all before. This film did not scare me, did not entice me, or even excite me in anyway because of the resemblance this had to every other film of this genre. It is the classic story of the boy that cried wolf too many times and eventually everyone never believed him. It is the classic story of the strength of a father that believes that when life throws lemons, that he must make lemonade. It is the classic story of the family struggle to survive against all odds. It is nothing fresh, it is nothing new, it is nothing remarkable. It is Hollywood, in its purest form. Audiences paid money to see this recycled film and for that I think we should all be issued an apology from the Hollywood community.I even have the subtle feeling that everyone involved in this project felt the same way. Travolta and Vaughn are laughable in their roles. The child actor was acting, and you could tell every time he was on screen. The only fun character in this entire production was Steve Buscemi, who continually plays this slippery sneaky fishy looking character that just gets under your skin the wrong way. He was perfect, I only wish I could say the same for everyone else. Perhaps it is my newer images of Vaughn that hurt him in this role. After seeing the comedy duds like Dodgeball and Starsky & Hutch, I couldn't help but think that Vaughn was trying to play a bit of comedy into this role as well. He just didn't seem to fit. His eyes needed to see evil, when in fact they saw nothing more than the cue cards reminding him of his lines. I kept waiting to hear him say something to Travolta about Vegas Baby, Vegas, but alas, it never occurred. I felt similar about Travolta's role in this film. His character suffered from lack of solidity. I never felt that he was a strong father. I knew he could build boats, but fight evil I just couldn't see it. I also had trouble seeing the father/son dynamic. During the scenes that him and O'Leary share, I continually felt that they were acting their parts, not building the characters. It was sad, and only left me with a weak impression of them when the climax occurred. Teri Polo was shallow, really contributing nothing to the story other than the classic role of mother who will not believe, while child actor Matt O'Leary definitely needed more time with an acting coach before landing this role. All of these paid actors were going through their parts, but not into their characters, which ultimately flawed the film.What happens when you have actors not reaching their potential and a story that seems like it could be a Made-for-TV-Movie? You get the film Domestic Disturbance. The story was horrible. Father who loves his son, who cannot let go of a previous life (although it seemed that in the film Travolta and Polo were OK with there divorce), who doesn't trust his ex-wife's new beau. This seemed like a very troubled man instead of the hero that he portrayed. I also felt that this story really didn't give any credit to the local police. Instead of investigating, it seemed like they were just sitting around. That was Travolta's tax dollars at work, but instead he ended up doing all the work. It reminded me of the times that I have to bag my own groceries at the story. Am I not paying for the goods so that they can provide baggers? Ah well. From the opening scene of this film until the unclimactic ending (which made me chuckle due to the lack of sympathy), it was nothing more than Hollywood fluff. Travolta had been making a strong return to the film industry prior to this project, and I wish that somebody had talked him out of it. This film was filler, and plenty of people got paid for some shoddy workmanship.Overall, I was very disappointed with this film. In fact, I was more than disappointed, I was appalled. This had no redeeming value to it (outside of Buscemi) and it continually perplexed me as to why it was made. There was no stretching of anyone's acting ability, nor did I ever really see the power family structure that was so important to the characters. What I saw was an angry father upset about the path his life has taken, and decides to do something about it using his son's lies as a crutch. Perhaps I needed Vaughn's character to be darker, or maybe more boats built to help me understand Travolta's role, but something needed to happen and it didn't. This was a sad excuse of a film, and I do not recommend it to anyone who is a fan of the cinema.Grade ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"cut up the film and use it for guitar picks","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A perfect example of the type of film where every character has to keep acting like an idiot to keep the movie going. Because if at any point in the film anyone did anything logical or sensible, the story would be over. A man is stabbed in a car and the killer wipes up all the blood with one piece of tissue paper. The police, of course, find nothing. When the body is cremated the police decide not to waste time with an actual investigation. When the boy who witnessed the killing is questioned, the police allow the man he has accused to be in the room with them during the interrogation. The killer has become a prominent business man in town apparently without anyone ever doing even the simpliest background check on this guy. When Travolta finally gets around to looking into this guy's background he does on his computer and in about two minutes finds out the man is a criminal.A real waste of a talented cast. The real shame is thinking about all the great scripts lying on shelves somewhere while this awful film got produced and a major release.  "},{"Title":"Good solid edge of your seat movie.","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie after reading the votes on it, and I must say it delievered more than i could expect.  The acting in the movie was terrific! The plot was great and character development was excellent as well!  A great flick to catch!!! "},{"Title":"Travolta is back!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A all around good film.  Travolta has been in some extremly horrible films these past few year, but i think Disturbence is going to pull him out of the water.  The son was a pretty good actor, i can see a future in fil with him.  It was suspencful, funny, and exciting, it had a few draw backs, A rushed ending, not very good charector build up, but it was highly entertaining, a good father+son movie.  I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Horrible film with so much potential","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I thought this film was horrible. It is the embodiment of everything that's wrong with Hollywood today. It emphasized the thrills and suspense at the expense of well developed characters as well as believable plot twists. It makes you wonder what a great director like Alfred Hitchcock would have made with this material. Because this movie could be right up his alley, unfortunately so many short cuts were made that this movie plays more like a cheaply made movie that plays on the Lifetime network than a real thriller. Hitchcock's secret, a secret that Steven Spielberg and, to a limited extent, M. Night Shaymalan understood was create a small world with believable characters and situations, then throw in the thrills and the suspense or twist. This film wants to emphasize the suspense and minimize everything else. Watching this movie I found myself asking questions why did they do that, what started the fight, why did they act that way. The acting was decent, John Travolta was okay and Vince Vaughn is better as a creep than a romantic lead. But the kid, Matt O'Leary, knows nothing about being subtle. He's practically jumping out of his shoes every scene.Like I said the film had so much potential if only the studio had enough faith in the audience to let them be drawn in and watch a thriller unfold properly. Too bad the studios believe that their audience are addle minded morons who can only decipher MTV type editing and mindless video game type action. "},{"Title":"AWFUL","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe this movie was ever made.  I feel sorry for people that actually paid money to see it in the theater.  Thankfully, I only rented it on DVD, but I'm still upset that I paid .99 cents to see this crap.  It was so boring. I agree totally with another poster that said it looked like it was a made for TV movie, which generally tend to be better than this was. It was predictable from beginning to end and just seemed to drag on even though it was only an hour and a half (thank God).  I usually don't mind the mediocre, overdone plot, thriller - but this was just plain boring with absolutely no substance, character development, or even climax.  I don't understand why anyone would like this movie.  1/10 "},{"Title":"Good Thriller","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I didn't expect much from this movie but at the end I was very satisfied with the story. In the first third of the film happened not much but the last two thirds were suspenseful and very entertaining. There were also some scary moments and the soundtrack was also top. The picture was clear and the actors did a great job here. I liked especially John Travolta and Vince Vaughn. Congratulation also to the director Harold Becker and thank you. I hope that Hollywood will create more films like this one because quality is no more the same than before. After I watched it again with my wife we upgraded our rating from 6/10 to 7/10. "},{"Title":"Domestic flop","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I did not expect too much out of this movie ever sense it got bad reviews when it first came out, but, I wanted to see it anyway.  This movie is about a crazy man that gets involved with a woman and her son and soon turns into a madman.  Thats about it.  He kills a man and his wifes son sees the murder in the back seat of his van.  The boy tries to tell the police what happened to the man and they do not belive him, not even his parents but his father secretly believes him after the crazy husband is then let off the hook and let loose to roam free.  This movie makes no sense whatsoever.  First, there is no investigation from the police to try and find out if this guy is guilty or not, he's just let go and then doughts really come up when the crazy husband tries to kill the kid or his father if he tells the courts what really happened makeing the kid lie in court.  The wife is just plain dumb and does not know who to believe.  Travolta's girlfriend should have left him long before the movie because of all his emotional baggage.  And the kid acts like he doesn't know who's side he should be on.  And then there's a big explosion and Travolta just wakes up and rolls himself down a pier and looks out at his lifes work as if blows up in smoke.  And the ending is just pathetic.  It was a fast, easy ending because apparently the people makeing this movie wanted to finish it off quick because it was going nowhere.  Piece of crap!!! "},{"Title":"Ok thriller","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A so-so thriller where John Travolta discovers that his ex-wife is about to marry a killer (a convincing Vince Vaughn) and his child is in danger. Pretty much by the numbers thriller stuff, but it's an ok viewing with decent performances. GRADE C "},{"Title":"Tight Fast Moving Thriller!","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   I guess I liked Domestic Disturbance more than most critics and visitors to this site. I thought it was a compact fast moving little thriller that packed a lot into its brief 89 minute running time. Frank Morrison (John Travolta) and his ex-wife Susan (Teri Polo) have a 12 year old son Danny (Matthew O'Leary) who is taking their breakup and Susan's impending marriage to local hot shot Rick Barnes (Vince Vaughn) very hard. He is taken to running off and lying to his parents and the authorities. Frank meanwhile, tries to encourage Danny to give his new stepfather an even chance. At Rick and Susan's wedding an uninvited guest Ray Coleman (Steve Buscemi) shows up and we learn that Rick has a past. When Susan announces that she is pregnant with Rick's child, Danny sneaks out of the house and into the back of Rick's car in order to get to his father's home. At the same time, Rick decides to rid himself of Coleman who is threatening to expose his past. Rick murders Coleman and Danny witness the act. Danny must now convince his parents and the police of Rick's guilt. But because he has cried wolf so many times before, no one will believe him. To make matters worse Rick has threatened to do harm to his father if he talks. Susan unaware of all of this supports Rick. Frank on the other hand, begins to smell a rat. Director Harold Becker keeps the story moving and at the same time, heightening the suspense. Travolta gives good performance as Frank. He wants his son back and has trouble at first convincing himself that Danny and his ex are in harm's way. Vaughn makes a chilling villain and young O'Leary is excellent as the son who is caught in one too many lies. And no one can play a slimy underworld type any better than Buscemi. Don't read the reviews. This is a good movie. "}{"Title":"Mediocre but still watchable","Date":"12 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Hard to resist and a little bit easy to forget, the sometimes unintentionally laughable Domestic Disturbance can be a nice and simple entertainment that rewards its audience with the most obvious clichés ever presented in films. The movie's premise is not new, the script takes the more traveled route just to please a larger part of the audience that loves some easy tension, those moments when you can play the psychic with family and friends while watching together, saying That character is going to die now things like that.Once again, there's a boy who because of his constant lies no one will believe when he finally says the truth and needs help from his parents. In this case, the boy (Matt O'Leary) is in trouble after being the sole witness of a crime committed by Rick, his stepfather (Vince Vaughn), arranged for life now that he recently married with Susan (Teri Polo), who divorced the boy's father (John Travolta). After that, it's a battle to prove that Rick is a killer and needs to stay away from his new family.Let's face it, the kid is a brat! The movie would be interesting if the writers take the father away and let the kid try to make things for himself, because he knows how to cause trouble and he could play fire with fire against his step dad. imagine this kid being a dangerous type who can challenge his opponent family member, knowing how to make the other guy a living hell, blackmailing the guy or doing tricky things, trying to survive the whole situation and we would have a greater picture. Instead, there's this other known thing. It's too damn predictable! You can always tell what's going to happen next, surprises are so rare to find in here.However, anyone can and will enjoy this flick due to fact the cast united here is very good even playing some dumb roles. Matt O'Leary and Steve Buscemi (as the mysterious Ray Coleman) are the best in the show; Vaughn and Travolta got a little bit ridiculous playing heavy clichéd figures, evil versus good. But it's not a great example of what Harold Becker knows how to do in terms of thriller (the spectacular ones City Hall, Malice and Sea of Love). Domestic Disturbance is quite good, watchable but it's light years from being a helluva of a movie.10 years later and we're still waiting for another Becker's film, back in shape, but it looks like we're not gonna see that so early and this might be his last picture. That wouldn't be so good. 6/10 "},{"Title":"With the power to disturb domestically, more than anything else - and not in a good way; a sordid, easy-frills thriller doing few favours for anyone.","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" How is one to react to a film whose idea of a chief source for dramatic content, indeed entertainment, is the ambiguity surrounding whether or not a frail and insecure twelve year old boy is going to get his either head bashed in or is going to fall foul of being suffocated to death? Broken down into its rawest of forms, Harold Becker's 2001 film Domestic Disturbance is a cheap; flimsy; nasty 89 minute exercise in sleazy thrills pumping through the motions and applying deadening logic in the process of begging the audience for some sort of reaction Look! Look at that! React, go on; react! Prominent British director Alfred Hitchcock of oft Hollywood residence would call on the unexpected; would call upon the unpredictable and the outrageous, but would almost always be able pull it back by the end in a manner that would see it sync the preceding actions up with what the truth of the matter really was. Things were preordained and made sense in most of Hitchcock's films, but the nifty nature of most of his thrillers were that they were never channelled in a glaringly obvious manner at the time of their happening.Domestic Disturbance film will begin with some disfigured opening titles in the mould of Hitchcock's famous thriller Psycho, itself a film that happened to insert into proceedings a dangerous man appearing friendly. In a similar mould to that of the aforementioned thriller's part-time lead Marion Crane, we witness a car driving what appears to be an awfully long way over these titles; a prominent theme tune inferring a certain amount of dread overlying proceedings and things kick off expansively on a bright day to some fancy camera-work, but in essence, the only item connecting Becker's tedious thriller to Hitchock's masterstroke is that of the fact his villain here played the villain there in a 1998 remake.The film settles into following that of a boat builder in Frank Morrison, played by John Travolta; a charming and upstanding individual with a career in something that has him create items in a very articulate, very precise manner for the pleasure of others. Here is a man whose kindness extends so far, that he is willing to risk his business disappearing altogether due to his generosity; he's a well natured, everyday sort of a guy with his feet on the ground and head in the right place when the new owners of a fancy boat he's just built them celebrate with champagne, he opts out for a straight-up beer. Frank is a man carrying out a craft that was taught to him by that of his father; now doing his utmost in passing on said trades downwards onto his own son, the aptly played Danny (O'Leary), without ever necessarily being forcing or overbearing in the process.Through some insane instance or two, Teri Polo's Susan has split from our Frank and opted instead to shack up with Vince Vaughn's Rick Barnes; a guy whose stock price in a pharmaceutical company went sky-high and as a result, retreated out to this idyllic community of yachts and warm weather to start enjoying life. With Danny arrives various issues of delinquency and rebellious behaviour. I suppose you would be on edge if your father was as kind as Travolta is here and if your home was one of those detached, whitewashed residences from around the late 18th Century you might get in places like Maine - yeah, I guess any kid almost have to be on the Ritalin from day one in that domestic set up. Danny's problems are put to us solely so as to pump up suspense during later reveals, suspense born out of whether anyone's going to believe this unruly kid and what he says. Surprise they don't.Things seems to work out well in the beginning; Frank bears no grudge towards Rick nor Susan and they marry without issue. It's here things get tricker; Danny's ending up unnoticed in the boot of his new step-father's automobile has him witness the murder of one of Rick's old business cohorts, whose true reasons for being in the sleepy town are more broadly linked to Rick's real persona. One thing leads to another, and Danny falls under the watchful evil-eye of his new relative as Susan idly stands by and Frank maintains a deeply routed sense of trust about the situation as everything plays out.Some of the more annoying sequences include that of Teri Polo. When you want a passive, dopey, mandatorily stupid middle aged blonde female character, whose voice could cut through panes of glass, you go to someone like Teri Polo to play the (delete as appropriate) wife/girl-friend/partner whose hapless task it is to spout all the customary dialogue and patronising crap to her kid once the catalyst happens and no one believes him. There was another instance of it happening in a film from the same year Joe Johnston's Jurassic Park sequel, in which Téa Leoni (why do all these annoying women and their names look the same on paper!?) was required to do all the stuff you shouldn't do at exactly the time it wasn't required Honey! Dr. Grant says that's a bad idea. ....says WHAT'S a bad idea? The film is all surface and zero substance; a series of obligatory set-ups relying on a sense of suspense, although getting very little out of its audience bar the proverbial clipboard complete with sheet of paper housing a list of phrases; some tickable empty squared boxes beside them and a chunky HB pencil, that falls flat on its face in what is a trudging, unholy mess of a picture. "},{"Title":"good thriller","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a thriller with a standard formula, but the formula isn't too bad. In the movie, Vince Vaughn marries John Travolta's ex-wife, and he is a pillar of the community. Travolta's son, a habitual liar, stows away in Vaughn's car one night and watches him kill Steve Buscemi. Of course, everyone takes Vaughn's word over the kid's. Travolta, however, smells a rat and begins investigating into Vaughn's past, uncovering a great big rat, about the size of a dog.How often have we seen this formula? This movie doesn't offer anything new in that department, but it does present it in a plausible and suspenseful way. It is very well executed, and everything about it is good. I rank it as one of my favorite thrillers with good suspense and a great cast. I highly recommend this one.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Drama with thrills, suspense,  and magnificent performances","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The film deals about a divorced father(an agreeable role for John Travolta)named Frank, he's boat builder and shares custody with his ex-spouse(Teri Polo) of their son Danny(a newcomer Matt O'Leary). But she is about to marry again to suspect rich businessman(Vince Vaughn)named Rick. Then, in the little town takes appearance of Ray (a shady Steve Buscemi), a sleazy hood of Rick. Soon Danny is witness to a killing which nobody will believe took place, neither the police sergeant(Ruben Santiago-Hudson), only his daddy believes him.This enjoyable thriller contains suspense, thriller, tension and straightforward performances. Most of the acting seem excellent with special mention to Vince Vaughn as suave suitor turned to menacing new father and Steven Buscemi in a secondary role as seedy friend.The film is suspenseful though predictable with the final confrontation between good daddy and bad dad. Film displays colorful cinematography by Michael Seresin and appropriate musical score by Mark Mancina. The motion picture is professionally directed by Harold Becker. He's a gritty thrillers expert, charged with dark atmosphere and with famous stars, such as ¨The Onion field(John Woods), Sea of love(Pacino),Malice(Nicole Kidman),City Hall(again Pacino),Mercury rising(Bruce Willis) and this one with John Travolta making a top-notch interpretation. Rating Passable and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Vince Vaughn is amazing as a psycho! The funny man deal misses his mark.","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" OK, so I saw this again for the second time last night on T.V. I was pleased when I realized what it was because I saw it before and was happy then and this was no different the second time around. Great little suspense building thriller with several cool heart pounding moments.Now, that being said, let me just say that this is exactly what a good thriller should be. Not a lot of blood and guts, no gratuitous sex and violence, but rather trying to link many parts of a rather deep story all together for you, the viewer, in just 88 minutes. If the producers and directors used the modern day formula and made this story 100-120 minutes as so many are nowadays, then I'm sure I would have given it an even higher rating of 9 as it could only be better! So, yes, it seemed a little rushed to convey everything it did, but kudos to them for keeping viewer interest from one scene to the next as they did in the time allotted. It could have been a bit better, but it could have been a LOT worse.And now on to the acting as I won't even waste time telling you what you already know about the movie and the plot/storyline. I wanna tell you what you don't know and that is that Vince Vaughn is, in my mind, one of the greatest evil playing son's o' bitches this side of Hollyfake! He was natural, self assured, scary and most of all, downright convincing! Forget the funny guy stuff. We have the next great badass/gangster in our midst and we need to embrace him. I don't know who his agent is, but that guy needs to get fired and I need to get hired cuz Vince Vaughn has what it takes to be the next great Pacino, De Niro, Pesci or Liotta anyday of the week. Any bad guy you wanna throw at him? He can be. And you'll see it first hand in this movie.Forget about, Crashing Weddings, Breaking Up and being Santa Clauses brother. Somebody please let this guy go and do what he does best and wreak havoc across Villania and be the monster he truly needs to be.Check out the movie. I'm sure you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Ok","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Had good performances and introducing Matt o'Leary.There was'nt to much action but enough for this flick. Needed to be longer though.There was a lot of parts john travolta was'nt in focus and a lot more of Matt o'Leary. Overall a decent flick, could be better. "},{"Title":"some good acting, very bad editing.","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  the storyline was good, but it could have been a lot better.  the movie in general could have been a lot better.  i expected a lot more from john travolta.  vince vaughn did a good job and the kid wasn't too bad either. the movie was able to keep my interest, but not because it was interesting, but because i had nothing else to do and vince vaughn is eye candy.  i noticed that the editing was very bad.  you could tell that they cut out certain things that were probably important and would add more to the story because the scenes left you wanting something else. "},{"Title":"Souped-up TV movie","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Travolta is great. Vince Vaughan must be the least scary bad guy in years. This is a made for TV movie souped-up with high production values.Much of the plot is predictable. Steve Buscemi is good in a supporting role within the confines of the script. Not bad overall but it sure ain't good.  "},{"Title":" Daniel lies to everybody...but he doesn't lie to me","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Matthew O' Leary is quiet as Daniel in this cunning suspense film. The following cast is dull. The costumes are amusing. One of the fair flicks in the genre, Domestic Disturbance throws seldom suspenses. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great variation on boy who cried wolf, except a little too unrealistic at parts!","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is very entertaining, but it is far too short and unrealistic. Travolta almost instantly believes his sons notorious story without question, despite the fact it is too crazy to seem true. Vaughn does a great performance as the bad guy and travolta is in true form as the hero! It is too short, but if you don't expect much, you'll like it! "}{"Title":"Just OK","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I could have forgiven the plot shortcomings if this film had a better climax.  They could have taken an extra 10 minutes and made it scarier. There were opportunities to make it downright terrifying, but that never really happened here.Instead, we're left with a relatively short movie that's not bad, but not especially good either.  I rated it a 5. "},{"Title":"Simple but fine","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, this is truly a simple thriller, with no that excellent twist & turn. But, I must say, if the theater near you doesn't have any good movies, this is truly a-must-see. The act is fine. The directing is standard. Some moment are great. But, there's nothing else to offer. 5/10 "},{"Title":"I and my viewing companion were irritated more than we were entertained.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You already know the major premise of the movie going in.  You watch it as a diversion from reality, but, since this is not part of the fantasy genre, you expect realistic actions. The writer and screenwriters make enough glaring errors that you lose track of the movie in a fit of pique. The police department is portrayed as totally incompetent and biased, whereas they should take information and investigate every reported crime. Where's the luminol?  Where are the polygraph analysts to analyze testimony that is declared unsound without so much as an interview by a psychologist? Certain police procedures are standard, and must be performed properly to avoid the possibility of affecting a conviction if a crime has occurred.The mother-figure walks around in a fog, and seems to be totally deaf to the heavy thumps of her son being shoved against the wall in a largely silent house.  She is also deaf to her son's pleading for understanding, yet pretends to be a concerned parent.If I were afraid that there might be a witness who saw me kill someone, I would not walk over to the nearest hiding place and fail to check it.If I were hiding from a killer in his back seat, I would not lie on the floorboards with my bright shining face in full view, or raise up to look over the back of the seat.  I would press my body and face as much under the seat backs as possible and stay there until I thought I could get away...probably during the fight.If I had been bashed unconscious, and had suffered smoke inhalation from the toxic fumes of burning paint, shellac, and paint thinner, I wouldn't be very spry.  Nor would I emerge from a physical confrontation with a killer who was knocking me around without my receiving so much as a scratch.  I would still be reeling from the first bash to the head, and would at least admit to having a bit of a headache.  I don't think I could smile and drive off happily into the sunset.Come on, writers and script reviewers!  You all could have done much better.I want digression from my view of reality (that's why I want entertainment), but I don't want to have stupidity flung in my face unless the piece is labeled a farce or comedy.I feel that the actors did their best in light of the constraints of the scripted material.  The fault is not in the acting, but in the writing and directing.  The project should have been shelved until someone with a rudimentary knowledge of human behavior, medical realities, and police procedures could be consulted.  "},{"Title":"Fair plot, good music, good starring roles, GREAT ACTING BY THE KID","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think the title says it all, but let me clarify.IMO the plot is fair. Not the most original thing, but it's interesting and intriguing.The music is fantastic, as noted in some of my other reviews I am an avid soundtrack fan. I doubt this will be famous or anything except the main title, but the music helps keep one on edge.The acting by the lead characters, (Travolta, Vaughn) is fair, especially Vaughn, absolutely scary. I wouldn't nominate it for an Oscar, but it's still nice to watch if you want to be entertained.The young man, Matt O'Leary, is definitely a great actor in this one. I expect him to be the next Haley Joel Osmont.My rating, 7 out of 10, for the music's ability to put the audience on edge, and for O'Leary's fantastic performance. I recommend this to people who will watch anything, and who pay attention to the music. I think it's awesome, but of course some other reviews here don't seem to think so. Use your own judgment. Whatever you think MIGHT be good, usually is. "},{"Title":"Looks cheap, feels lazy. 4/10","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The first thing I noticed when I started watching John Travolta's Domestic Disturbance, was how cheap the film stock looked.  As the story went on, I realized how the film basically has a simple premise, that could have worked.  It could have worked, if the film makers wouldn't have been so lazy.I think John Travolta felt sorry for a few producers and thought he would give out some favors by deciding to join this turd cake.  It is amazing how many big names this film attracted, but it has all the ingredients of a cheap student film. Travolta is quite good, playing an ordinary decent man has always come natural to the actor.  The problem isn't the story, as much as the execution.  It seems like the writers and director just ignored all the possible ways they could take the premise and decided they would just make a film that looks perfect for the USA network.The best example I can use to describe the laziness of Domestic Disturbance, is the final scene.  When was the last time you saw the grand finale of a film in a regular old garage?  The scene is dull and unbelievably simplistic, just like this movie.  If you are looking for something with a similar tone, check out 1984's Firstborn.  "},{"Title":"waste of time","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  3/10 only for Travolta's ability to carry this all too predictable fable.  Everyone else was miscast - making Travolta look great. Vince Vaughn wanders the set searching for dialogue and making faces at his new wife and troubled step-son.  The kid is supposed to be twelve but looks and acts sixteen.  Anyway, Vince is the villian and is discovered murdering an old friend by his new stepson who runs to his real father - Travolta - for protection.  Well, you can guess what all happens next.This film is poorly cast, poorly edited, poorly written (although they have a decent premise) and most of all, badly directed.  The individual actors do their best to overcome the above.  Travolta is the only reason to waste your time on this bomb.   "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've not been impressed with many Travolta films; so, I wasn't expecting much from this film, but it was good, solid entertainment for an hour and a half. The story line was not complicated or unique, but who cares? If a film can hold your attention for its duration and you are left with a feeling of satisfaction - it's done its job. "},{"Title":"Admirable acting but poor writing/directing.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Recommend watching this movie to see the fine acting by young Matt O'Leary and by Vince Vaughn. John Travolta, Teri Polo & Steve Buscemi convey their characters quite well too. But the script and directing yield a story that is predictable without sufficient character development and interaction between characters to offset the predictability.This is a nice rendition of an obvious plot. Although some of the acting is superb, it leaves one dissatisfied because the character's are so shallowly developed. The writers & director failed to convey truly unique and memorable characters; seeming, rather, to rely much too heavily upon each viewer's own conception of the characters beliefs, feelings and motivations.In the commentary accompanying Deleted Scenes in the Special Features portion of the DVD, the director Harold Becker comments that he left out substantial materials in favor of maintaining tension. Big mistake, because the supposed tension in the final product is undermined greatly by the lack of portrayal on screen of sufficient detail about each character and the interaction between the various characters. If this were a relatively unique story plot, perhaps the quick pacing for tension would have worked, but with such an obvious and predictable plot it simply does not.Watch it for the acting, but don't expect a great thrill. "},{"Title":"Can anyone say Made for TV?","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was very disappointed with Domestic Disturbance when I watched it last night.  Sure it was moderately entertaining, but the movie would have been much better served as a Movie of the Night on channel 2.  Completely predictable with no real climax, I would say this movie is a waste of time and money. "},{"Title":"Not bad but also not thrilling","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  DD tries hard to be a thriller but it never become a really thrilling. The acting is okay, but the story never delivers. Too bad, because I rather would have guessed a bit longer if Danny was telling the truth or not. "}{"Title":"Deja vu all over again.","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Domestic Disturbance sucks.There, a short, lame and generic summary that I shouldn't have used, but that fits perfectly for a short, lame and generic movie that shouldn't have been made.Is there anybody on this planet who has not seen one of those movies where a respected man is actually a dangerous criminal but the police refuses to investigate? Or one where an apparently normal person who is actually a dangerous criminal hides in the midst of a family? I frankly doubt it.More often than not, the aforementioned premises are the subject of made-for-TV movies. In some rare cases, the films based on such premises are able to put a nice spin into an otherwise tiresome story; most of the time, they are mediocre, cliché-ridden pieces of work devoid of vision or originality. Such is the case with Domestic Disturbance, one of the most unnecessary and brain-dead thrillers to come out in the last few years. To call it a thriller seems wrong at all it's a cinematic exercise in boredom and deja vu.Domestic Disturbance stars John Travolta as Frank Morrison, a boat builder who recently divorced from his former wife Susan (Teri Polo). Susan is currently dating a young and wealthy man, Rick Barnes (Vince Vaughn); the problem is, Frank's and Susan's young kid, Danny (Matthew O'Leary), who lives with his mother, does not like Rick. Not at all. And after his mother finally marries Rick, Danny sees something that makes him dislike his stepfather even more. You see, Rick is also a murderer. Will Danny -- who is known for being a problematic young kid by the police and the like -- convince the people around him that he is telling the truth? Or are the menacing presence of his stepfather and the ridiculous incredulity of the police going to prevail? Thus is introduced to us the tiresome piece of crap that is Domestic Disturbance.Multiple moments in this film that have the word laziness written all over. Oh, watch how conveniently young boy Danny hides in the back of the car despite the fact that he knew his stepfather was going to take it. Watch how conveniently the camera focuses on a cigarette lighter that is going to be a key element for Frank to know the truth. Watch how conveniently Frank is able to gather private information about the phone calls a person made from the hotel. Not only that, Domestic Disturbance is the kind of film where for events to develop everyone has to behave like a moron Susan doesn't believe his son's words one bit at first. You know, the kid just accused his stepfather of committing a murder... every mother would think he just lied for jealousy, right? And of course, why would the police even think of at least checking out a couple of things?Every event in Domestic Disturbance looks like it was taken straight out of the book of clichés. The scene where the hero discovers the truth about the villain by looking up online? Check. Scenes where the endangered person is scared by a noise in the hall, but the villain appears right behind? Check. The same can be said about the characters; there is nothing remotely interesting about them, because they are all cardboard cutouts.Acting-wise, the film is hard to judge. It's obvious that with this kind of material even a very good performance would feel insipid.Domestic Disturbance is certainly not one of the worst movies I have ever seen. It's not even Travolta's worst. But it is so unnecessary and insipid that I the only reason why I would recommend it is a cure to insomnia.4/10 "},{"Title":"Just Average.","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched this film on my PC. I don't believe anyone could honestly say that the acting was bad, but I do believe they could say the movie, plot-wise, was shopworn and stale.I'm not really one to dis a flick because it's too predictable, unless of course I'm watching a whodunit, but this film was both predictable and unsound. It went south for me when the detectives couldn't find any evidence of a murder. Come on, watch Forensic Files or Court TV for that matter. Get real. Also, if you seriously didn't know that he was gonna kill the guy (the criminal acquaintance), then you were simply sleeping . . . admit it . . . come on, it's OK, I wanted to sleep too, and should have.There were a few enjoyable moments, like when the boy's father slugs a nosey guy. And Travolta's character displays an admirable love for his son and even ex-wife. There's also the emotional stir of not having anyone believe you, which the boy struggles with throughout. But it's all average, if anything.Watch *Firstborn* or *The Good Son* if you want the same mood with a better delivery.*Domestic Disturbance* is forgettable. "},{"Title":" Good Movie ","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went today to watch this movie ( Domestic Disturbance ) as it just started showing in my country , ..The movie in general is very good , ..with good performance of the cast ..The story was a little bit familiar , but well-presented , ..Its short movie with a little of thrill SBYE4NOW "},{"Title":"Cut this movie some slack!!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I watched this today I was preparing for the worst.......I hadn't read a single promising review for this yet but still thought it looked entertaining. So as the movie began I waited and waited for the plot-holes and bad acting 2 begin. Yet I was happy acknowledged to see it didn't.I though it was a very good story, okay not very original but was still 90 minutes entertainment. It had a few scares in it, the acting was great especailly from John Travolta, one of my favourite actors and it never got boring. Ok you could argue the kid is never going to win an oscar for his role but he did a good job! Vince Vaughn was great as always and was creepy all the way through. The ending was a little predictable but was a good finish to a good film. I'd give it at least 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Boy, this one came and went pretty quickly, didn't it?","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the previews for this flick and knew that I wanted to see it.  I enjoy the Hitchcockian man-in-the-wrong-place-at-the wrong-time genre, and this is exactly that.  Here, though, instead of being a man, it's a young boy, Danny (Matt O'Leary), son of Frank (John Travolta).  Danny's mom, Susan (Teri Polo), has divorced Frank and remarried a scumbag named Rick Barnes (Vince Vaughn).  Fast-forward to the main plot conflict Danny, who doesn't like Barnes anyway, witnesses him commit murder, and tries to bring him to justice.  He fails, and the rest of the movie is a cat-and-mouse game between Danny and Barnes.Funny how Vaughn played Norman Bates in the dreadful remake of Psycho. And funny how there seem to be a lot of Psycho-like references, such as characters often facing each other as if looking into a mirror.  Yes, Domestic Disturbance tries to be a lot things, including Hitchcock, but it just doesn't go anywhere.  For me, it fails for two reasons.  The main reason is that it's unbelievable.  After Danny and his family meet with the police about Danny's allegations against Barnes, and the police don't believe him, he's sent to Barnes's home for the night!  Would you get into bed knowing that a cold-blooded murderer is in the next room, and he knows you know what he did?  An aware, crafty young man like Danny certainly would not have--he would have run to his friends.  Another useless scene occurs when Danny tries to secretly give Frank some information by slipping him his wallet without Barnes noticing.  But this never leads anywhere.  And Danny could have given Frank any information at any time simply by picking up the phone.  The other reason is that once the plot conflict is established, nothing is done with it.  Barnes merely menacingly approaches Danny a few times, letting him know he should fear for his life.  No plot twists, no surprises, no nothing.  And Susan, who has never found a reason to doubt Barnes's innocence, suddenly changes her tune just because she sees him putting first aid on his arm.  It just makes no sense.Long story short, this movie has a good set-up but it does not deliver. The climactic fight scene wasn't even that interesting; and it ends due to some incredible coincidences.  Even the last line, which tries to wrap up a remaining loose end, was unbelievable because there is no way the characters could have that information.  And the closing, new beginning music, only served to mask the grumblings of dissatisfaction from the audience. "},{"Title":"Great actors.... great director... what happened here?!","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Every now and then, a movie amazes me by completely missing the potential sum of it's parts. Domestic Disturbance is the perfect example. Vince Vaughn, who started out rocky in this reviewer's opinion by taking part in the b**tardization that was the the Psycho remake, has redeemed himself in recent times with a great lead in The Cell and a humorous cameo in the bizarre Zoolander. John Travolta, who can be forgiven Battlefield Earth simply by watching Pulp Fiction or Face/Off again, is one of today's great, versatile actors, and a darn likeable guy onscreen to boot, even when playing the baddest of the bad. And, I must admit, I am a huge Steve Buscemi mark. If there is a movie with this quirky, entertaining actor in it, I am sold. Having seen both Malice and City Hall going in, I felt these parts would be combined perfectly under skillful directorship. I was so incredibly wrong and disappointed.First off, the score to Domestic Disturbance is superb. If a score was released (which I haven't seen) I would purchase it. Big kudos there. Sadly, from the beautiful music and interesting title sequence, the movie, if slowly, slips towards mediocrity and bore.We are introduced to John Travolta's character, a fun, likeable boat builder who is divorced and has a child who lives with his ex-wife. His ex-wife is a cardboard cut-out character sadly... falling head over heels with no visible reasoning for Vaughn's slick smooth character, who in two years has become the pillar of the community. Why she has fallen for this guy, who acts controlling and suspicious in almost every scene he is in is beyond me, and apparently beyond the writer, who fails to bother with a backstory.Travolta, likewise has a new flame who we see all of twice, once while she's leaving to make him oh-so-more desperate in a movie cliche as old as time. But let's get down to it... Buscemi's character is killed in short order by Vaughn, and is witnessed by his new stepson who is hiding out in his truck... because he hates him and wanted to see his dad. Make sense? I didn't think so. It's explained away later as Vaughn's spoken destination was supposedly near Travolta's place... plot convenient improbabilty makes me ill, doesn't it make you ill?So, in a rushed and poorly thought out middle, Travolta gets drunk, investigates alot and turns up that, well my oh my Vaughn isn't the good guy we thought. They confront each other... and I won't tell you the ending, but bear in mind, this movie is one fat ugly cliche and Travolta is the good guy. Figure it out.Insert a lot of very uncomfortable sequences involving threatening a child , borderline abusing a child and there you have Domestic Disturbance.Remember that really interesting fight in the water sequence you saw in the trailer? Not in the movie. The scene where Vaughn offers Travolta a share if he lets him go? Not in the movie. Hell, I think all of the interesting scenes were edited, yet still used for the trailer! I can only conclude that this movie is a victim of edits and revamps... most likely by studio heads. The pieces don't add up here, and I can't believe that all this talent turned out such a horrible, cliched, run of the mill, ugly film. And that's what I was thinking as I shook my head and left the theater, wondering what the point of it all was. There was no message, no moral point, nothing... no suprises, no interesting viewpoints, nothing.... just a movie about a stepfather who kills people and hurts a small child, only to be thwarted by a cardboard cut out that looks like John Travolta....Where did I put that copy of Pulp Fiction....hmmm.... "},{"Title":"A gem without the hype","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this film basically just to kill a couple hours, and left with the intent on convincing people to see this movie....so SEE THIS MOVIE!!! I am not a John Travolta fan, nor am I a Vince Vaughn fan...not in the least, but John Travolta plays the part of a father, who is a best friend to his son, superbly. I watched this wishing my father was even a shadow of this character, and my dad wasn't to shabby. The part wasn't unrealistic and was done with, what seemed to be, ease. Vince Vaughn was convincing as the evil stepdad, and also played the part convincingly. The rest of the cast meshed well, and in his brief appearance Steve Buscemi was his usual comical self, something he can only do in a dramatic role. If you want to waste 10 bucks go see Out Cold, if you want your money's worth see this flick. "},{"Title":"Disturbance to the viewer","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film opening week in NY, and was engrossed in it, but rather disappointed by the cliche ending.  Travolta actually gives a decent performance for a change, kind of likeable, but in general the film doesn't measure up.  Vince Vaugh was convincing as well, but the script didn't give him too much room to wiggle in.  I left the theater thinking that another hollywood film which managed to get some suspense going, was sacrificed to a cheap, unbelievable ending.    "},{"Title":"DOMESTIC is so bad, it's disturbing...","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  DOMESTIC DISTURBANCE D+When I first saw DOMESTIC DISTURBANCE, I wasn't sure what to think. The more and more I thought about it, the worse and worse my opinion got. The verdict is this movie is bad. It's very bad. In fact, it's so bad that it's entertaining.DISTURBANCE is about a divorced couple (John Travolta, Terri Polo). They have a son together named Danny (Matthew O'Leary). He floats back and forth between their houses because they don't hate each other enough to go into a custody battle. But the mom, Susan, moves on quickly. She picks up a new beau named Rick Barnes (Vince Vaughn). Never trust a guy named Rick. The two soon wed and something fishy starts to happen. Danny notices that Rick isn't the nice guy he appears to be. And one night, Danny hides in Rick's car while Rick goes on an outing. Rick meets up with Ray Coleman (Steve Buscemi). There's another bad sign, if Steve Buscemi shows up as an ex-partner the guy might as well wear a sign that says, I'm a bad guy. Danny is the witness to a murder. He tries to tell everyone, but they just won't listen...Frank (Travolta) actually doesn't know what to think. Danny makes up stories, but he's never lied to him. The rest of the movie is a tired hack-job that puts great actors in a series of embarrassing acts of suspense. Even Travolta shows a little overacting in this. He always talksfrom the back of his jaw indicating that he's a red neck, rough guy. But we know that, no need to flaunt it. Vaughn works with what he can and does fairly well. In fact, he's the only one who manages to come out of this mess with his dignity in tacked. Polo does just fine as a wife, but in the final scenes she's a bit uneasy. O'Leary plays the tough kid and watcher of his mom. He comes off too strong and then towards the end figures out that he's in a bad movie and just kind of goes through the motions.The running time of the movie is perfect for the crap fest it is, but seriously 89 minutes for an adult thriller? Given the right running time and script this could have been a good movie. It has no time to develop and it gets to the final confrontation before you even had a chance to think about it. It's a rush job and the audience can feel it.DOMESTIC DISTURBANCE was pretty much doomed from the beginning. But the opening credits were quite neat.  "},{"Title":"Vince, Stevie, babies! The bar fight would've been more interesting.","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This type of big budget studio pap is exactly what one expects from the likes of Sir Travolta but the fact that it included the more indie-credible(pun intended) talents of Vaughn and Buscemi (who were apparently slashed in a Wilmington, NC barfight/redneck deathmatch during the shoot) managed to suck the money right out of my wallet despite my reservations. The movie, like most typical tinsletown offerings, resembles a beautifully wrapped Christmas gift that's nothing more than an empty box. Mr Travolta plays the worlds cleanest oldfashioned yachtmaker who's torn when his ex wife takes their troubled son and re marries with the mysterious handsome businessman, Vaughn(they never really say what type of business he's involved in but it's really, really important because he got the city award after only two years!!). The tone changes when, after a surprise visit, it becomes apparent that Vaughn's dark past isn't as far behind him as he thought.....blah, blah, blah. Enough with this drivel. It's not nearly as interesting as it sounds. This film couldn't have been more freakin' vanilla flavored if they used Cathy Lee Gifford. What you end up with here are enough credibility gaps to drive a gas tanker through, the typical WGA inspired two dimensional characters, and all in and all an experience that begs the question after one and a half hours of tedium ( i laughed at every inappropriate place in the finale-just to p*** off the sheep who were enjoying this garbage) Wouldn't this film have done better if it was made for LIFETIME NETWORK FOR WOMEN or better yet, PAX?(of course that's only if you take out that one edgy F bomb from Vincie) If you want edgy go check out the new Barbet Schroeder film about Medellin hustlers and lets all help this cinematic spoor to die a quick, natural death.  "}{"Title":"Pretty good original thriller","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Domestic Disturbance was quite a good thriller. The movie is about a man (Vince Vaughn) who marries John Travolta's ex-wife. Their son Danny, sees his stepfather murder someone. And now the kid has to watch out for the stepfather. This movie was original which was good, it had good acting, not great but good. But the one thing I didn't like was the ending, as with most people. It was just rushed and too fast. I recommend this movie to people who like thrillers, but just beware of the ending.9/10 "},{"Title":"enjoyable flick.. predictable ending","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  *** CONTAINS SPOILERS ***Domestic Disturbance was an enjoyable flick to watch. The ending however, was predictable.What makes a film enjoyable? The demonstration of a family bond. Many people are able to relate families they see in films to their own, allowing them to connect with the characters in some special way. Seeing a family win the battle in the end, leaves nothing but a happy audience. (It's like watching an episode of Full House) I suppose part of me likes this aspect of the film.Domestic Disturbance is similar to many other films by simply providing its audience with the ending before we actually make it to the end of the film. All that kept us in the theatre was the interest towards how the evil stepfather was going to be punished/killed in the end. Not only this, but the flick was lacking originality.. the bad guy looses in the end, and all we get out of it is yet another version of Boy Cries Wolf. (Which I guess is considered original, since it hasn't been used in quite a while)Although Domestic Disturbance was enjoyable to watch, The predictable ending left me leaving the theatre unsatisfied and somewhat disappointed.Wait 'til Blockbuster throws this one on the shelf ;)  "},{"Title":"Travolta is at his best playing a caring father in this movie.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta gives an excellent performance in this action-drama about a man who will do whatever it takes to protect his family. Contains Spoilers Frank Morrison is the divorced father of a 12 year old son, Danny (Matthew O'Leary in his big screen debut).  Danny, despite his young age, has had a few brushes with the police (breaking windows, running-away, etc.) and has been known to lie.  Rick Barnes (Vince Vaughn) has it all looks, money, and charm.  And now he's engaged to Danny's mom, Susan (Teri Polo).  At the wedding of Rick and Susan, Rick's old business acquaintance, Ray Coleman (Steve Buscemi), appears.  We soon discover that Rick and Ray share a checkered past.  They were all indicted on racketeering charges.  Ray and his two other partners ended up in prison while Rick beat the charges and took off with the money.  It took Ray years to find Rick, but when he finally did, he demanded his share of the cash.Danny doesn't like Rick, he never has.  At the urging of his father though, Danny decides to give him a chance.  However, when Danny accidentally discovers his mother is pregnant, he rebels again.   He want to see his dad but has no way to get there.  When  he overhears Rick say he's driving into town, he decides to hide in the back of his truck, hoping to make it to his father's house.  But Rick doesn't head to town.  Instead he picks up Ray and murders him in cold blood with Danny silently watching in the back seat.When Danny finally makes it to his dad's house, he tells him everything. Frank naturally believes his son.  But nobody else does.  Rick is a model citizen and Danny is a known liar.  Yet Frank knows time is running out.. Can he prove his son's claims before Rick harms him or worse yet, his son?John Travolta surely gives one of his best performances -- playing a father seems to be one of the most natural roles I've seen him in yet.  Vince Vaughn (Psycho 1998), however, lacks the experience to effectively play a bad-guy.  While he's not terrible in this role, he doesn't leave you sitting on the edge of your seat like Michael Keaton did in 'Pacific Heights or like Kiefer Sutherland did in An Eye For An Eye. Steve Buscemi (Fargo, Con Air, Pulp Fiction.) gives another outstanding performance. He often goes unrecognized in movies because he has the uncanny ability to become his characters rather than just play them.This movie is a good movie.  Not a great movie, but a good movie and worth seeing. "},{"Title":"very predictable","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  No surprises. Needed more character development - didn't get a chance to form an opinion of the characters before the bad stuff started, especially the stepfather. Was enjoyable, but nothing to rave about. Glad we only paid matinee price for it. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was exactly what I expected, a typical thriller with some solid acting and a fun, though not very unpredictable, story. John Travolta is good as the hero, but it is Vince Vaughn who is especially impressive as the villain. You will find that you hate Vaughn and are really rooting for Travolta to give him what's coming to him. Steve Buscemi is excellent in his role, however short it is.Many people have commented that they did not like the ending of the movie. I didn't think it was too bad, but it did seem to be a little quick and it certainly could have been better. There were plenty of other well done and fairly intense parts in the movie, mostly because of the evilness that is Vince Vaughn.The worst part of DOMESTIC DISTURBANCE is that it is predictable, just as many thrillers of this kind are. It didn't ruin the overall experience of the movie for me, though. It obviously wasn't a great movie, but it was an enjoyable way to spend and hour and a half. It was sure better than DON'T SAY A WORD (4/10), that's for sure. Worth checking out, especially when it is available for rent.7/10 "},{"Title":"John Travolta Plays a good guy again.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It seems like a while since John T. played a good guy.  He's been over-acting as so many bad guys it was great to see him in this movie. Good basic story, well casted.  Good performances.  Especially Vince! They didn't give you a whole lot to go on for each character.  A very economical script. Terri Polo didn't have a strong part but she is so Pretty, many will over look this.  The story moved right along.  No prolonged situations. Worth seeing for the overall results.  "},{"Title":"Promising start, bad finish.","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the good cast and director, DOMESTIC DISTURBANCE is nothing special. I liked how the movie started. John Travolta plays a boat builder in a small town. He is divorced from his wife (alcoholism is hinted at here, but never really stated) and his son is having trouble adjusting to his mother's new boyfriend, Vince Vaughn. At their wedding, Vaughn's old friend, Steve Buscemi, shows up and you know that Vaughn is not as perfect as he seems. The actors are perfectly cast. Travolta is good at playing the good guy, Vaughn good at playing the creep and Buscemi is great as playing an even creepier creep. However, once Vaughn's character murders Buscemi (in front of the kid of course) the movie starts to go downhill. We know the kid is telling the truth and Travolta knows he's telling the truth. It's frustrating sitting in the theater as no one else will believe him. The ending feels rushed. It's like the studio told them your movie can only be 90 minutes long, so once they hit 80, they just threw something together. The ending just doesn't work. Harold Becker, the director, has made wonderful thrillers before (SEA OF LOVE and THE ONION FIELD come to mind), but here he's just phoning it in. The movie's on autopilot. "},{"Title":"As predictable as a paint by the numbers picture","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Why bother. Everything that unfolds is absolutely as expected.  Its not that Travolta is bad..he's actually very likeable.  But its like eating a tuna sandwich on stale bread while waiting at the Dept of motor vehicles. Formula movies I guess pass the time and I suppose this was far more relaxing than undergoing a colonoscopy.    "},{"Title":"A predictable movie","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  **CONTAINS MAJOR SPOILERS** When I watch a movie, I like to predict certain things   When the characters are having their last kiss,   when the final fight will be, even how long the movie will be from any point.  If I guess correctly, then the movie is predictable.  I don't watch many movies either.  I saw EVERYTHING coming from this movie, which is a disappointment.   The acting was well done, but it's the same tired plot  Dad and mom divorce, mom gets creepy boyfriend (who becomes her husband) Incidentally the part where I came in the theater whose idea of fun is belittling and terrorizing his stepson and killing people,  son sees hubby kill a guy and tries to tell his mom and dad neither which believe him.  Anyway, that's all I'll get into as I don't want to see this post get deleted.  Save your money for something else.  I wish I did. "},{"Title":"Vaughn is terrific...","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Vince Vaughn is terrific in this lackluster movie.  I was disappointed in Travolta and Polo. After watching this 90 minute movie, I could definitely tell it was edited drastically to ensure a PG-13 rating.  This would have been better as a R-rated movie. There was absolutely no character developement and I found I didn't care about these characters at all, with the exception of Vaughn who I was almost rooting would win and start over again in a different town.  I give it 6/10 but 10/10 for Vince Vaughn's portrayal. "}{"Title":"Travolta can be my dad any day!","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A thriller, but more importantly, John Travolta does a great dad.  He can be my dad any day.  What a performance.  I was exhausted at the end, which ranks it high on my thriller list, but I think Travolta was the key.  Let's see more. "},{"Title":"A Good Thriller!!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was very good! One of the most thrilling movies that I have ever seen with surprises around every corner! Vince Vaughn was perfect for the role of the evil stepfather and John Travolta was perfect! One of the best thrillers to come around in years! Go see 'Domestic Disturbance', you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not Bad at all...","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Recentally I checked out Domestic Disturbance, and I was very pleased with what I saw. While John Travolta did an amazing (as always) job playing Frank Morrison, I think that the young actor Matt O'Leary did an awesome job playing Danny Morrison. For a young actor to do such a believible job is incredible. This is definetally a movie worth paying 8.25 to see!  "},{"Title":"The best thriller I've seen in a LONG time...","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Domestic Disturbance was smart and witty. The performances were excellent, the dialogue was great and the ending got me cheering for... Oh you'll find out when you see it.John Travolta is back and better than ever (he's actually HUMAN this time), He plays a father of an 11-year-old son with a tendency to lie. Ex-wife Susan (Teri Polo) recently re-married Rick (played suberbly by Vince Vaughn). However good old Rick may not be all that he's dished up to be. After the 11-year-old son Danny sees Rick kill someone, will anybody believe him?With an ending that is to die for, and a plot that keeps you asking for more, Domestic Disturbance is one of my new favorite movies. If you're looking for a suspense, good performances, and a lot of fun go see Domestic Disturbance. "},{"Title":"Cheesy and VERY predictable. Another bomb by John Travolta.","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you are expecting a creative, suspenseful action packed masterpiece think again. This has got to be one of the most plain, predictable, dull movies I have seen next to a Civil Action. John Travolta sure knows how to pick 'em. A 16 year old teenager could have done better writing than this. From the opening scene in this movie you can predict what is going to happen. There is almost no character build up and the movie just goes from one scene to the next. And Steve Buscemi looks unusually thin. 4/10. "},{"Title":"Too short!","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** The acting was flawless...the characters interesting...the story and plot intriguing...lot's of hooks, but ended WAY too abruptly. I was made to resent the fact that she divorced such a good guy, which culminates in an appropriate I told you so ending. Believable. Definitely not over the top. "},{"Title":"Domestic Disturbance","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Travolta and Vaughn are very good in this familiar but fast-paced thriller that, while never providing any REALLY overpowering suspense, manages to be a fairly diverting 90 minutes.  Director Harold Becker does his best with a thin script that, with a bit of judicious editing, would look right at home as a made-for-TV movie.  It's variation on the little boy who cried wolf story and it has it's share of contrivances, but Travolta is predictably compelling as the nice-guy dad (SO nice that it provides one of the movie's most nagging questions WHY did his wife see fit to divorce him?)and Vaughn is appropriately creepy as the new husband and stepdad with a shady past and sinister present.Not a classic, but given the talent involved, not bad either.  My rating **1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"Strong story with a rush ending","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I got a chance to preview Domestic Disturbance last week. In general, a good movie with a strong story line, though the ending seems a little bit rush. It should not disappoint most people, at least worth a drive to cinema.John Travolta proves once again himself a big star with his quiet and solid performing. Vince Vaughn (Rick Barnes) is almost as impressive as Travolta in the movie. What's most amazing is the performance of Matthew O'Leary, who plays their 11-year old son or stepson, Danny. The young boy looks so real in the movie that he immediately reminds me of those in my neighborhood.If I have any disappointment, it is the role of Susan Morrison. I do not mean to blame the actress Teri Polo, who has done her best there. But the plot on her is so weak that I can not believe she could be a caring mother as she is showed in the movie. I simply do not believe her ignorance of her son's severe responses to a strange stepfather could be connected with a mother who shows love and spend so much time with her son. When she risks everything to keep her son's custody from his father, this strengthens my suspect of how she could be so careless sometimes.The story line is strong, which drew my attention all the time. However, when everything ends in a rush, I almost fell out of my chair because of disappointment.One last thought here, Does the movie show any bias against women? The mother seems too weak-minded and naive. She can not sense the reactions of her son? She cannot sense any danger in her house when a murder suspect becomes her boyfriend and then husband? On the other hand, the men in the movie are masterful and unswerving no matter they make a boat or crime. Her former husband (played by Travolta) can reason that since his son never lies before, he should trust his son. But this never happens to the less brainy mother. Does this disclose Hollywood's anther stereotype when viewing women?# "},{"Title":"Nothing Special Here","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Domestic Disturbance sees John Travolta as Frank Morrison, a man who discovers his child's new step father (Vince Vaughn) isn't exactly what he pretends to be; and as he digs up the truth he realises he has to save his son from danger.The performances of the cast are all good, and in particular Travolta's performance is very engaging, the story is interesting and the plot develops quickly and keeps moving, so your unlikely to feel bored at any point.The problem is the lack of care taken to sustain any mystery in the plot, it's all too obvious from almost the very beginning of the film; and this destroys the thriller element of this mediocre thriller.5/10 "},{"Title":"It's all been done before. And often better.","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Susan Morrison, a divorcée with a twelve year old son, Danny, marries a wealthy businessman named Rick Barnes. Barnes initially seems a pleasant enough individual, but doubts about his past start to surface when a mysterious stranger appears at their wedding. Unknown to Susan, Barnes is living under a false name and is in reality a criminal who has narrowly avoided going to jail on racketeering charges (although he was in fact guilty). The stranger, Ray Coleman, is one of his former associates who has tracked him down in order to claim his share of the gang's loot.The above plot outline may seem very familiar. The plot about the newcomer into the hero or heroine's life who turns out to be dangerous or violent is an old one, but it took on a new lease of life in the late eighties and early nineties after we were introduced to the blind-date-from-hell in Fatal Attraction. That film and some of its imitators like Single White Female and The Hand that Rocks the Cradle were relatively well done, but it has been some time since I saw a film of this nature that I really liked, and Domestic Disturbance is no exception.The central figure is not really either Susan or Danny, but rather Frank, Susan's first husband. (This is, therefore, perhaps the first example of the ex-wife's-new-husband-from-hell genre). Frank has always had his doubts about Rick's suitability to be a substitute father for his son. These doubts are confirmed for the audience when Rick kills Ray (who was blackmailing him) and feeds his body into a furnace. Unknown to Rick, this deed is witnessed by Danny who accuses his stepfather of murder. Unfortunately, Frank is the only person who believes his son; everyone else, including Susan, assumes that Danny has invented the story because of a grudge against Rick. When Frank's efforts to win custody of Danny prove unsuccessful he has to try and uncover the truth about Rick's criminal past.Twelve year old boys are not always wholly truthful, but unless they are suffering from psychiatric disturbance they do not generally accuse family members of murder without good cause. I therefore found it unconvincing that Danny's accusation did not set more alarm bells ringing. If Susan and the authorities were not prepared to entertain the possibility that Rick might actually have killed someone, they should have at least been concerned about the psychological health of a boy who could invent such a falsehood. Instead, they simply dismissed his story, as though my stepfather is a murderer were a childish fib of similar magnitude to the dog ate my homework. That point aside, the film never becomes as implausible as some films of this type. Unlike, for example, Swimfan, another attempt to prolong the life of the &#133;. from Hell genre into the twenty-first century, it does not decline into fantasy violence, but rather ends with the familiar hero in peril from the villain sequence.Although this film was made for the cinema, there is nothing that would set it apart from a run-of-the-mill TV movie, other than the presence of a big-name star, John Travolta, and he does not really distinguish himself. He plays Frank (a Christian name presumably chosen because of its connotations of openness and honesty) as a big, lovable teddy bear of a man. He is by trade a boat-builder, and stress is laid upon his solid professional virtues. If his business has not prospered, it is because the modern consumer has no respect for craftsmanship, preferring plastic boats to Frank's lovingly made wooden ones. He is such a paragon that it is difficult to imagine why Susan ever divorced him, although some half-hearted reference is made to a possible drink problem in his past.The rest of the cast are all unmemorable. Vince Vaughn is not really menacing enough as Rick. The problem with the film, however, is that by now this sort of thing has come to seem all too familiar. I did not find anything to positively dislike about Domestic Disturbance in the same way that I disliked Swimfan; it's just that it's all been done before. And often better. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Creepy and personal, but it falls on the average pile","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When you see the coverbox to DD, one easily falls for a blockbuster hit with John Travolta and Vince Vaughn (both respected actors) in this dramatic DVD.Vaughn plays a creepy step-father with a shady past, which he keeps secret from his new wife and step-son. The step-son is put in a position where he learns of an attrocity that Vaughn is involved in, and it's up to the real father (Travolta) of the step-son to prove Vaughn is guilty and, ultimately, save his son.I found this thriller to be pretty average (5/10) and kind of a downer. Travolta pleases the audience that just wants justice instead of entertainment, but maybe I should be blaming the director instead of Travolta. Vaughn's character is creepy as he should be, but again, Travolta in most of this film is a lot like a more responsible-sounding character from Pulp Fiction (the drunken scene when he goes to the bar and acts aloof is exactly the same from Pulp Fiction). The kid in this is great about acting scared and everything, but again, every kid that year was acting this way.I recommend it only for fans of Vince Vaughn because I was greatly disappointed by Travolta's performance (and hair...my god, what's up with those two tentacles of hair coming from his forehead in this movie?) Decent but average. "},{"Title":"Domestic routine","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sincerely,I 've never thought that Travolta was a first-class thespian in the first place.A lightweight if you compare it to ... well fill in the blanks.This is not the movie that will make me change my mind.The best actor here is Steve B. ,but alas..The story is the umpteenth story of a brave father estranged from his bubble head wife -how dumb she must be not to realize she married someone dangerous!-and his courageous brat.Vincent Vaughn is the villain and he sometimes looks like a cartoon character.The movie becomes,at its worst,a ridiculous remake of night of the hunter (1955),Charles Laughton's unique masterpiece, which would take place in the modern world but without Mitchum,Winters and Gish.I really wonder how producers can waste money for such a hackneyed screenplay. "},{"Title":"Belongs on the Lifetime Channel","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Dreadful movie. What is Travolta doing in garbage like this. Travolta's dumb ex-wife marries this hunk, knowing nothing about him.....and he has a past. This goon knocks off his partner in crime, which is seen by his snotty stepson who blabs, is not believed, and is then terrorized by his stepfather. Formula ending. Don't waste your time seeing this garbage. You can catch stuff like this on the male-bashing Lifetime channel any evening.  "},{"Title":"Very predictable (Spoilers within)","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Im gonna keep this comment rather short as i am not a great journalist per se but, this movie started off rather well. It kept me hooked and waiting to see what was going to happen next but as soon as Rick (Vaughn) confronted Danny (O'Leary) the whole movie just went south. as i had stated already it was extremely predictable with Rick threatening Danny the rest of the movie and with Frank (Travolta) becoming the worlds greatest detective. The movie could have been much better but i guess the writers all got writers block and just wrote some words down.  "},{"Title":"Quite Poor","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is your ultra-formulaic emotional drama thriller that is not thrilling and does not convey any believable emotions. Everything that happens in this movie is forced. Few events really make any sense.Dumb kid witnesses his stepfather murdering someone. Kid tells family and police. Nobody believes him except his father (John Travolta), who is the only character in the movie who isn't pathetically dumb. Said dumb kid goes through series of beatings and threatenings until dad barges in to save the day.The acting is bottom of the barrel. The fear, anger, upset mother, it's all incredibly forced and unrealistic. Because of this, it's impossible to care about what happens to any of the characters, and so it ends up being 90 minutes of unimportant events.I voted 3/10. "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This must be one of the most predictable movies I have ever seen! After 10 minutes or so I could tell how the plot would develope and how the movie would end...  Why tell the viewer so early in the movie about the past of the stepfather?It is full of bad acting (son, mother and stepfather) and what is Travolta doing in such a b-movie? Well, I suppose acting bad himself. John, I hope you get some better scripts to choose from or you will be history soon. "},{"Title":"** out of ****","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  By the numbers thriller about a divorced boat builder (John Travolta), who's son (Matthew O'Leary) ends up living with a murderous stepfather (Vince Vaughn).  The storyline never steps outside of the evil stepfather formula, and there's nothing particularly clever in the script or the direction.  Travolta delivers a good performance, but Vaughn isn't particularly effective and O'Leary is downright unlikable as the child protagonist.  Some moderately entertaining scenes, but overall it's just tedious. "},{"Title":"Where's the other half of the script?","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  *~*~ One minor spoiler, I suppose. *~*~There's no polite way of describing this movie.  'Domestic Disturbance' is basically a boring film with a messy script and a cast not worth watching.This is the type of film where the entire movie is shown in the previews.  And the previews DID look good, which is obviously why I rented 'Disturbance' after wanting to see it for months. I'm sure that at least a couple of people will agree with me when I say this  the script seemed to just end at the drop of a hat.  It stopped at about the middle of the movie when it could have continued and turned this mess around into something actually worth watching.  I mean it's as if the director realized that they were many days over schedule and finally said Okay, that's a wrap right in the middle of production.  The beginning started out okay, the middle dragged on and on and on, and the slightly interesting part came at about the last ten minutes.  The writing wasn't anything too terrible, but it was bad. The performances in 'Disturbance' are in dire need of resuscitation.  What is it with John Travolta?  He's not one of my favorites, but he is a good actor.  I'll give him that much.  Lately though, he picks the WORST movies to take part in.  He desperately needs to fire his agent as soon as possible.  I also like Vince Vaughn.  He's decent; I could sit down and watch his movies, but definitely not this movie.  He's too 'slow' and could have done a lot more in his role than what he actually did do.  Teri Polo, who I had only seen prior to this was in 'Meet the Parents' was just okay as she was in that film as well.  She certainly didn't have that big of a role (and that's just fine!).  The best performance, surprisingly enough, came from Matthew O'Leary.  I really liked him here and thought that he did a very good job considering what kind of story he was thrown into.  By the way, what was Steve Buscemi doing in this film?  I'm a big fan of his but he should have stayed away from this project from the beginning.  I was led to believe that he would be one of the main characters, but he wasn't and he was gone before I had a chance to even realize that he was actually in the film.  The casting overall was a big mistake.I thought that there would be a lot more leading up to the story in general than there was.  The script was a mess, the acting pretty much sucked except for O'Leary's, (Buscemi could have been good but he didn't get a change to show his stuff), and basically it was just too slow to deal with.  Want to see 'Domestic Disturbance'?  Take a look at the trailer.  Skip it..... "},{"Title":"A yawner","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Totally predictable plot.  No mounting tension, since it is all calculated and telescoped. (For example, don't stand in front of the medicine chest mirror unless you expect to see a figure suddenly loom large when the mirror swings back).  The acting is presentable.  It's not a bad flick, but it isn't a good one either. "},{"Title":"Absurd...","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Absurd, simple, predictable, unthrilling... any negative or pejorative adjective is about enough to rate this unnecessary movie for the screen, which is just another telefilm with a competent cast, and I don't doubt that. That's the only reason I find for it being released on theaters. Travolta, Vaughn and others may seem alright, and they do because those roles are worth s*** and they can't do anymore to uplift them.A movie to forget. Would have made much better as a TV exclusive release.By the way, my vote's a 3 just because of Travolta. "}{"Title":"Very poor thriller...","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was boring.It got very bad reviews from critics,but that doesn`t always mean YOU think it`s bad.In this case;they were absolutely right. This is one of the most formulaic and by the numbers thriller in many many years.Even Don`t Say A Word had it`s moments.One hour and a half is a okey time for a college comedy for example,but not for a thriller. It also ends very suddenly as if director Harold Becker thought;no,this is taking too long time-I want to finish this movie now.The finale lasted only 5 minutes.I was VERY disappointed. Travolta is OK,but nothing more.His career is beginning to go downhill,it looks like,after failures like The General`s Daughter and the extremely bad Battlefield Earth.No,don`t waste your time with this.It`s not exciting for one minute.Poor movie and a stupid Steve Buscemi-he should have known better...Rating-2/10 "},{"Title":"Bad movie - what a waste of time","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was so predictable, that I almost fell asleep while watching it. Travoltas acting was fine though, and the same can be said about Buscine, but the Mother and especially the boy did really bad. The movie is also unrealistic in many scenes - fx. the way the boy reacts to the stepfathers murdering, and also the scene where the boy realises what his stepfather has done and still accepts to sleep in the same house as him. It is not worth wasting time on this movie. "},{"Title":"Mainstream John Travolta joke comeback vehicle chliche garbage","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is Imdb.  How  many of us have actually NOT seen TheShining.  About 0%  Therefore, we all know that most horror/thatguy wants to get us flicks are all terrible.  There's no moresurprises.  People have trouble being original, and apparently,thats a perfect excuse to make a movie anyways.  not for me, no.  This movie is worth nothing but a sunday afternoon basic cablewatch, when you can turn your back on the tv to grab some food.  Itwill obviously be on USA in a couple of years, starting out as one ofthose cheap suspense flicks that they show early in the morningon weekends.  There is nothing original about this movie at all,and how it got released in theaters is beyond me.John Travolta succeeds once again at his cheap paper thin acting. Vince Vaughn, who always sucks and tries to hard to play everypart he comes across, is also horrible.  Teri Polo, a decentactress, knows this project is in trouble and underplays every lineshe delivers.  I'll be sympathetic, as it seems she was the onlyactor that knew the project was doomed.The script is awful.  What more can I say.  It's a slasher fare. Don't even waste your time with this one.  The Shining will alwaysremain as one of the greatest movies of all time, eliminating allpossible surprises from a horror movie.  Until the next Kubrikcomes up (hopefully Richard kelley) horror will continue to behorrible like this "},{"Title":"Sigh.  Why so many tidy endings and idiot-plot devices in thrillers?","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** First let me say John Travolta is excellent in this film, as is Vince Vaughn and the boy, James Lashley.  Steve Buscemi's understated, realistic acting is also noteworthy, but his role is sadly skimpy.Some of the dialogue is sharp, but that's where the writing in this story has its only worth.  The plot has so many ridiculous contrivances, mostly by using characters that are sleepwalking morons, that the Oh, come on already frustrations clouded my enjoyment of the fine performances.The worst of the sleepwalkers is Travolta's ex-wife.  Has she no intuition? She certainly has no character development.  She is just the ex-wife, the new wife, and the clueless mother.  She is permitted little intelligence (until the last moment of course) and no charm.  A vapid screen mannequin who, when her string is pulled, utters little domestic-psychology lines about her ex not liking the new husband because the ex feels threatened. And if she is so in tune with Psych 101 terms, why doesn't she at least send her son to a counselor after he accuses his stepfather, in convincing detail, of being a ruthless murderer?About as incredibly hollow is the police detective.  He is not permitted to have any intelligence at all, because if he had considered the boy's story even for a moment he would have done some detective work and spoiled all the opportunities for melodrama. Just think  the police go to the brick factory within a few hours of the murder and body disposal.  Don't they think it's just a little interesting that the kiln is still warm in the middle of the night?  With an odd-sized pile of ashes?  Don't they think it's a bit unusual that the boy could have consistently related and retold so many details about the movements of Vince Vaughn, and the operation of the kiln? Weren't these details enough to at least ask Vaughn for a story about where he was that night?  And the boy did get a look at Buscemi's unusual face. Even if the boy didn't get a name, wouldn't the description of Buscemi make Travolta realize it was the uninvited wedding guest, and immediately start asking--in front of the detectives--all kinds of questions about Buscemi's whereabouts?  So the kid had a reputation for truancy.but his story rings true enough, with what Travolta could have added about Buscemi, for any detective to be put on alert and at least ask Vaughn a FEW questions. This is a typical Oh, come on already idiot-plot contrivance found in film after film.As is the perfect stabbing with the ice-pick.  What a skillful bloodless thrust--through the back and directly into the heart so that the victim can't even utter a scream or thrash around in pain.  Remember all those movies from before the 1960's where getting shot or stabbed results in a peaceful, painless, death that looks like a pleasant attack of narcolepsy? Hollywood deaths can be so realistic.  What happened here?  Of course if the victim did squirm around after getting stabbed in the back, at least one drop of blood would have gotten on the upholstery, and again, no chance for further melodrama.  And if the death hadn't silenced the victim so suddenly, he would have completed his sentence about who was in the backseat.  Oh, come on already.Another sleepwalker is Travolta's incredibly unpleasant, eye-rolling, waste of a new girlfriend.  Not only is she allowed no intelligence, but no class or empathy.  He sure finds hollow women in this film!  Thank goodness the new girlfriend abandons him early so she is literally out of the picture. Her brief function, apparently, was to underscore Travolta's resolve to go it alone and fight for his son's safety, or perhaps to show that only fathers truly understand there sons.Another major contrivance, again used just to set up the melodramatic final showdown between Vaughn and Travolta, is seen when the son brains Vaughn with a baseball bat.  Here he thinks Vaughn just burned his father to death, knows Vaughn will quickly try to kill him and his mother, but doesn't, enraged as he is, take a second swing to put Vaughn out of commission permanently.  All along this kid has been smart and tough, but at this moment, when he could have finished things, the boy becomes stupid and scared.  He sure ain't modeled on today's 12 year old American boys!***Spoiler Warning***This is the epitome of tidy endings.  As promised, at the moment Vaughn first hurts the boy, Travolta shows up.  Vaughn gets electrocuted like he deserves.  Father and son perform the ultimate act of male-bonding by killing a man together.  The police show up dutifully too late and with all questions about all homicides answered.  And the mother/ex-wife/widow loses her demon-seed child, as blatantly foreshadowed 20 minutes earlier. Wasn't it convenient that she and Travolta knew she lost the baby even before she is put in the ambulance?  Just so that nagging little question isn't left in our minds?  Oh, Come on already!As a movie fanatic, I don't expect to see something new and completely different in every movie coming out of Hollywood.  But I wonder when Hollywood will tire of using the same worn-out devices and ridiculously tidy endings that make a thriller seem a waste of time, instead of an attempt at entertaining artwork. "},{"Title":"A forgettable and mostly worthless movie","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Watching Domestic Disturbance isn't hard. In fact it's a very easy unchallenging ride in many ways - the huge swerves you must take to avoid the p(l)ot holes can be overcome by the fact that the whole journey is so run-of-the-mill, so incredibly humdrum that you just don't really mind.Many reviews of this movie have already compared it to a TV-movie-of-the-week. The comparisons are entirely justified. The action is pretty sub-standard fare. Vincent Vaughn is a poor actor (no offense) and fits into the role of stock-nice-guy-but-really-bad with all his cardboard skill. He has two emotional displays (and not much difference between them) the I'm a nice guy honest mode and the grr argh don't mess with me! mode. Travolta, as the good guy who believes his son's story that Vaugh's character murdered a man, is passable. His roles don't seem to have been particularly well chosen since his re-appearance as Vincent Vega, and this is no exception he certainly won't get an Oscar for this one. The son, played by Matthew O'Leary, is your average-forgotten-him-already kid actor. Which leaves me wondering why the unquestionably talented Steve Buscemi (playing the man who was killed by Vaughn) bothered with this was it some sort of favour to someone??The script constantly surprises by *never* surprising. It adheres to every cliche in the book from people appearing in mirrors to jumping up behind you. Perhaps the writers did this as a deliberate two-fingers to current ironic trends in movies but most likely they knocked up the weak script over a couple of beers some night (certainly can't have taken much longer). There's little point in talking about the gaping plot holes and inconsistincies (supporting my theory about it being done up in a night) because the feature is so riddled with them that it could be used as a fine sieve.Finally the director does little to try and lift the script up from a level of mediocrity. One can't really curse the director Harold Becker - he probably just needed the paycheck - but that doesn't excuse the fact we end up just merely plodding along through the whole movie. Zero tension exists and there's nothing striking at any moment about the movie (you'll struggle to remember this picture). Domestic Disturbance is another movie where you wonder why they bothered. Why not give the money spent here to charity instead? Don't bother seeing this in your local theatres or on video for that matter. If you're bored and it's on TV you could do worse because it's a completely painless affair. However I suggest you read a book instead. 3/10. "},{"Title":"Made for tv fare...","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The production values are great, and John Travolta is certainly engaging enough, but the two-dimensional Vince Vaughn and the always creepy Steve Buscemi conspire with the director to keep this one from ever rising above a certain level of mediocrity. When car doors are opened and the interior lights don't come on (so a kid can climb into the back seat of an automobile without being spotted by someone walking toward the auto), it's an early indication that this one's not going to pass muster. Lack of a decent script also helps. (The movie hinges on an amazingly BLOODLESS murder. One would think that a performer of Travolta's stature would've insisted on a rewrite or something.) This is definitely made for tv fare. "},{"Title":"A Great Cast Starring In An Great Movie.","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went to the theatre the evening that this movie came out expecting a suspenseful, action movie starring Vince Vaughn and John Travolta. I wasn't disappointed. Seeing a suspense film starring John Travolta was something I never expected because I'll never forget him in the Look Who's Talking Series! But it just prooved even more than John is a jack of all trades. This was a suspenseful movie and had me wondering what was going to happen next the whole time.I recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"Stepfather from hell","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  DOMESTIC DISTURBANCE (2001) ** John Travolta, Vince Vaughn, Teri Polo, Matthew O' Leary, Steve Buscemi, Chris Ellis, Nick Loren.  By-the-numbers thriller with Travolta as the father of an 11year old (O'Leary) whose habits for lying and juvenile delinquency causes friction when he claims his new stepfather (Vaughn) is a common criminal up to no good.  Travolta's engaging performance and Vaughn's creepy turn are the only things worth checking out in this predictable melodrama that offers a few twists but no real payoff in the end. (Dir Harold Becker) "},{"Title":"Seen It All Before","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This thriller evolves around Frank Morrison(Travolta) who had a failed marriage and has a son. He starts to worry about his son when his ex meets and decides to marry a wealthy and powerful local(Frank). Since then, Frank thinks that his son is acting different and hiding something from him. More Fank digs into what Frank is up to, more he finds about his dirty businesses and even a murder. Domestic disturbance is not a remarkable movie. It has been done so many times in different levels. It keeps you interested right until the end. But it is also very predictable. I could best describe this one as a TV movie. Not a bad film but just predictable and has wasted talents. ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Lapses in judgment all around...","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Low-brow, underwritten melodrama posing as a suspense thriller has divorced, modest-living boat-builder John Travolta living in a seaside town and hoping to get along with his ex-wife's new husband, but John's pre-teen son has convinced him that the new hubby is bad news. Flabby, witless picture makes all the females look like ninnies and the police detectives seem like lazy incompetents; but this is quite deliberate, as the filmmakers want the audience completely on Travolta's side--but isn't there a more intricate, subtle way of devising this? The kid (who, by the way, resembles new stepfather Vince Vaughn more so than John Travolta!) is 12-years-old going on 27, while John himself looks wrung out. The movie hopes desperately to appeal to only our most basic responses to terror in the familial unit new man in the house with a shady past is not only a crook but a psychopath, therefore he gets what's coming to him. But this is a cheat to anyone who invests their interest in these one-dimensional characters, and the cast struggles to enliven the stale scenario. ** from **** "}{"Title":"Quite a past from the rackets","Date":"19 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is some community on the Maryland shore where apparently everyone is just gentleman about things. Where else except among the English aristocracy would an ex-husband like John Travolta be invited to his ex-wife's wedding? I think that most people would find that an awkward situation.But it's more than awkward when Travolta's son Matthew O'Leary stows along and sees Vince Vaughn his mother's new husband kill someone and dispose of the body. He tells dad and that gets Travolta to investigating Vaughn. He proves quite adept as a detective, better than the local Mayberry like police they have in the area.Vince has got quite a past from the rackets, but he's sold himself well to his surroundings. It all comes out in the end of course.It's not a bad story, but it was given a mediocre production. Best in the film is young Matthew O'Leary. Most of the rest of the cast just walks through their roles. A shining exception is Steve Buscemi who always is playing sleazebags. In Domestic Disturbance he's at his sleaziest.For fans of Travolta and Buscemi. "},{"Title":"Slight disturbance","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An interesting idea that starts well, becomes predictable before the halfway point, but still provides a tense moment or two.Frank Morrison (John Travolta) is divorced from Susan Morrison, and they are having trouble with their son Danny (Matt O'Leary), who still lives with his mother. Danny hasn't accepted the divorce. When Susan meets and marries Rick Barnes (Vince Vaughan), Danny is the first to discover that his stepfather has a dark past, and is capable of just about anything.The film has a few twists on the bad stepfather theme, but it's the cast that saves the movie.John Travolta has that quality that lifts every movie he is in, even bad ones. In Domestic Disturbance, I think he gives the less showy role of Danny's dad a great deal of integrity. He was nominated for a Razzie for this film and also for Swordfish, but I feel both were undeserved &#x96; his OTT performance in Swordfish was just what that movie needed.If he sometimes gives his roles a little ham, it's worth remembering that Orson Welles hammed up every performance he ever gave, and he's considered one of the greatest actors of all time. I think our tolerance for ham is in direct proportion to how much we like the actor.Vince Vaughan gets the juicy scenes in Domestic Disturbance. Until I saw this movie, I thought comedies like Wedding Crashers and The Internship were his forte where he pretty much plays Vince Vaughan; usually enough because he has perfect timing and can steal a scene just by lifting an eyebrow. However, he was particularly good in the serious Prime Gig &#x96; still another variation on that personal style. I'm not so sure he's as effective when he tries to stretch his range in a movie like Lay the Favourite or the second season of True Detective&#x96; acting with a capital A. With that said though, the guy can play menacing. He's a huge man and he uses that sense of menace in the best scenes in Domestic Disturbance.Matt O'Leary plays Danny Morrison. He reminds me of a young Macauley Culkin, and although W.C. Fields once said Never work with animals or children, O'Leary doesn't steal the show. Travolta and Vaughan have the sort of larger-than-life personalities that are proof against animals or children and probably even W.C. Fields if he was still around.Although Domestic Disturbance plays it a little too much by the numbers, Travolta and Vaughan make the film worth watching just to see them strut their stuff. "},{"Title":"This Film is a Domestic Disturbance.","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Domestic Disturbance (2001) Dir Harold Becker / Cast John Travolta, Vince Vaughn, Teri Polo, Steve Buscemi, Matt O'Leary Title refers to trauma in a small area with John Travolta starring as a boat manufacturer divorced but maintains a good relationship with his son. His son is known for mischief and the news of his mother's new engagement doesn't help matters. Formula plot regards John Travolta investigating allegations made by his son that her fiancée committed murder. Vince Vaughn plays a public figure with a nasty side whom his son claims burned a body. Formula trash right up to its dumber than dumb climax where certain people just happen to end up in particular places at the right time. Directing by Harold Becker leaves much to be desired. He previously made the terrible Mercury Rising, another film about a kid in pearl. Travolta's role does him little justice as it is just by the numbers. Vaughn always seems to be in particular places at the convenience of the screenplay. Teri Polo is suppose to be blind to common sense. Steve Buscemi is wasted as Vaughn's former associate whom will obviously end up dead. Matt O'Leary plays the kid who reason for focus is to be threatened and being fakely heroic. With nothing surprising or suspenseful, viewers are left with a real yawner. Any theme presented is replaced with disturbance in the form of bullshit. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"John Travolta believes his ex-wife's new husband, Vince Vaughn, is a murderer","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Domestic Disturbance is, despite its story flaws, not too bad a modest thriller. It's really a b-movie carried by the star power of John Travolta and the supporting work of Steve Buscemi. Matthew O'Leary, who plays Travolta's 12-year old son, also does a very good job.Travolta plays a boat builder, recently divorced from his wife who houses their son. She remarries Vince Vaughn. He has money and he seems like a nice guy and businessman on the outside but is actually a criminal who has run off with the loot from a gang operation. One of his partners, Steve Buscemi, tracks him down, posing a real problem for Vaughn.Vaughn and O'Leary do not hit it off, and that's another problem. Plus the young man has been acting up and occasionally ending up at the police station, where the main officer (Ruben Santiago-Hudson) really doesn't want to have to put up with the boy again.Travolta's relationships with his son and ex-wife are brought out nicely. Travolta makes a very sympathetic father. When events turn against him, his reasonable approaches hit stone walls and he starts to break the conventional bounds but not so much as to be pursued by the law.Do not expect a big-budget thriller or some innovations in the genre from this movie. Expect more of a family drama in which tranquility is disturbed very seriously and must be dealt with. I found the film entertaining. "},{"Title":"A domesticated thriller, a real disturbing aspect","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The title I must say is cleverly catchy. Vaughn in one of his best roles, where he actually acts, plays a man with a not so inviting past, and is prone to violence. Only problem is, he's about to marry Travolta's ex, Teri Polo, who's juvenile of a son is unaccepting of the arrangement, distrustful of him. Travolta too isn't too happy about this either, but his son's words of warning fall on death ears, as this sounds like just another ploy, to get Mummy And Daddy hitched again. Vaughn is really unnerving in this. Too, at the most baddest of timing, a shady acquaintance of Vaughn's, (Buscemi, who's very good) pops back into his life threatening to put a rift into Vaughn's seemingly happy life, by spilling the beans, where soon he has to be taken out of the equation. Domestic Disturbance comes off pretty much as a barely adequate psychological thriller/drama if something that just slips through, to earn a cinema release. It's mostly a drama than anything else, no real thrills or surprises at all, this, more a disappointment, where this is from the guy who brought you Sea Of love and Malice. Travolta isn't anything special. In fact he's rather ordinary where ex (Polo) is much better where the son was very good too. Most twists of suspense fall flat, where this film could of been much more. What has eventuated, is a sheer just slipping through the cracks, thriller, one that rides on a linear or thin plot. The opening beaty music score with daunting tones was about the best thing I liked about the film. Lightweight, standard drama fare. "},{"Title":"Unexciting","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I watched this as it sounded good, the storyline was OK, but it could have been portrayed better.It was uneventful, unexciting, ungripping. The actors did a good job with what they were given. I wouldn't watch it again and I would not recommend this title.As a thriller you want to be kept in suspense, which only happened a couple of times during the whole film. It was dreary and boring. The storyline could have made an excellent film, but unfortunately the directors and writers failed on this occasion.Two words - don't bother! "},{"Title":"Overwhelming Domestic Thriller","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Frank Morrison (John Travolta) is a divorced father of a boy (Matt O'Leary) who is having trouble with the split. His ex-wife Susan (Teri Polo) is getting remarried to Rick Barnes (Vince Vaughn). At the wedding, Ray (Steve Buscemi) from Rick's past raises some suspicions. Rick may not be the nice guy that everybody thinks that he is.It's a thriller filled with all the dangers without any compelling characters. It actually starts with the kid character who is unlikeably angry. He's the key to it all. We need to like him and root for him. Then there is the unimpressive story. It piles everything on without any reservation. It overwhelms. The police work is laughable. The film certainly holds nothing back. There is no subtlety here. This is a too by-the-book thriller that tells you everything that's going to happen in the first 15 minutes. "},{"Title":"Where did all the money go?","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" For me, this was a trite movie with boring performances from Vaugn, Polo and the boy actor, and predictable dialogue and plot. Though it was professionally competent (no shaking sets or major continuity errors), I would like to know where US$53 million went. Why on earth do you need US$53 million for a suburban domestic drama with a small cast and no special effects? Such cookie-cutter tales and phoned in acting were typical of the old black-and-white B-movies of the '40s and '50s made for maybe US$2 million (allowing for inflation).Hollywood needs to get a grip. Many a far superior film is made outside the US (and a even a few inside the US) for a tenth of that budget.For half hour this was quite watchable. Then Steve Buscemi left us and the movie went into a coma. I award an extra point for his short contribution, otherwise a 4. "},{"Title":"Vince Vaughn VS Blind Ape","Date":"20 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Domestic Disturbance starring both John Travolta and Vince Vaughn was a good movie. that is my opening statement. Keep reading for the rest.It was nice. it had many good lines or comments, some were even funny and made me laugh. I laughed several times during this movie. It had great scenery and a great back-story plus a more than adequate script. They could have been a bit more creative instead of basing the movie on classic scenes from so many other movies, but ah well. So, in other words, it was worth watching. I liked it. Others may not have, but I did. Everyone is allowed to have their own opinion. Besides, it's like this with all movies and everything else in the world. Some like it and some don't. That is just the way it is in this world of ours.The acting was superb on some parts, others (thinking of Vince Vaughn)not so much. Travolta did a good job as he usually does. Mr. Vaughn had an easy role of which he could have done a much better job with (hell, a blind and deaf chimpanzee without any ability to speak could have done a better job), but all in all he did a good job. His character was convincing. And then there is Buscemi, playing Roy. He never lets me down. He is one of those who never do a bad job, not even a little! He is one of the greatest actors there is! So, obviously he did a great, fantastic, awesome and superb job playing his part as the shady yet nice character Roy Coleman.The start was great, the ending not so much, but nothing is perfect anyways. The movie itself was great with the turning points and the characters and everything. I enjoyed it, I did.This is a thriller, obviously. A thriller movie with a little comedy stuffed in it. It was thrilling at times. They could have made it more thrilling, but they didn't, and there is nothing to do about that. A big part of the movie were clichés. Some fit in and made it better, others did not. There were also parts that everyone could see coming, they were easy to foresee, but that doesn't make it bad, but it takes away a part of the thrill of the movie.So, this movie was enjoyable on a late spring night like this one. And after taking all of the things I said about the movie into consideration, I have decided to give this movie, Domestic Disturbance, 4 stars out of 10 possible.Rating 4/10.Thanks for reading, goodnight and sleep tight.- J.J. Shevy "},{"Title":"No subtext or symbolism, only text, with this abysmally packaged snoozefest","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Some times there comes along a movie that doesn't seem to have been made at all. As if some movie exec in Hollywoodland just pushed a few buttons on IMDb Keyword Search arson; stepfather; defenestration - and pressed enter for a predictable un-thriller without subtext or symbolism, only the basic text. 'Domestic Disturbance' is such a turgid excuse for a movie.Supposedly having made his riches in pharmaceuticals, Rick Barnes (Vince Vaughn) marries Susan, the ex-wife of Frank Morrison(John Travolta), in dull Southport, USA. Everyone seems satisfied to move on in their lives, except for their kid Danny Morrison, who the schools have been kicking around ever since his parents' divorce. Danny is the boy who cried wolf of the piece, but he's never lied to Frank. That is what allows the movie to accelerate when Danny witnesses Vince Vaughn murder his old business colleague (or is it college chum?) Ray, played with the expected lizard-like menace by Steve Buscemi. He tells all immediately afterwards to the townsfolk, now tired of his tales. Frank decides to investigate further but Rick threatens Danny into changing his story at a custody hearing after Danny runs away and the Judge decides in Susan's favour.This is all handled very unconvincingly by the actors and is where the movie falls apart. Danny and Frank's bond is never broken and since the movie is from the perspective of Frank, we are not so interested in Susan's lack of trust in her son. We know Vince Vaughn's going to get pushed into the propeller of one of John Travolta's boats or shoved into the back of a Crown Vic under the eyes of the betrayed people of Southport. So the real stake should be Danny retaining Frank's trust - a lapse of love made whole in a warm paternal embrace at the end would engage the audience instead of turning them out of the theatres when Danny tells Frank that he was forced to change his story by Rick at the end of act two.Rick's reasons for marrying Susan aren't even fully explained or looked into. At the end he tells pregnant Susan that she was the best thing that ever happened to him and then inexplicably throws her into a wall, killing his own Spawn of Vaughn. His demands of Frank to craft him a few boats are never resolved or even explored. It's as if the writer just chose to set it in Boat-town USA because he liked boats n stuff, mmm so yeah...Another thing that would have made the movie more watchable, or at least less jarring, would have been some exterior shots of Southport to bridge scenes together. Having Frank talk about the bad old days that ended his and Susan's marriage before cutting away directly to him eating in a diner seems like a flashback and is prevalent throughout the entire movie. It's not taut, but rather too tight in it's storytelling and pacing. We'll see Frank's car pulling up at the motel room where Steve Buscemi's mysterious old friend of Rick's stayed and nothing more. There is nothing to chew on or distract the viewer with and it makes for one uninvolving experience.Some colourfully quirky small-town characters could have also made Southport a more interesting setting, but the filmmakers didn't even use Frank's boathouse or the coastal setting in the climax, in which Rick is unimaginatively and irrelevantly killed by an electricity box. Deservedly, this movie bombed like Al Quaeda on a warm Tuesday morning in September, being released just less than two months after 9/11. Nobody wanted to see any gritty thrillers for another year. But the funny thing about this movie is that it is essentially timeless, dateless, placeless. The characters wear nondescript clothes, rarely swear, don't strip off and/or screw and speak with General American English accents. Actually, the only thing that dates this movie is John Travolta's 'dramatic' use of the internet in one scene.So if you like your movies without layers of meaning or any kind of significance, f*ck off. "}{"Title":"The Christmas Cracker Principle?","Date":"21 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I agree entirely with a previous reviewer that this film obtains the momentum to reach its conclusion via the idiocy of the major characters. I would add to their list of ridiculous behaviour the fact that it seemingly never occurs to Travolta's character that he might want to ask his son whether the murdered man looked like Steve Buscemi's character. Instead this apparently doesn't happen, and enough doubt is left in his mind to leave his son in the same house as the killer for several nights.I have read that the jokes in Christmas crackers are deliberately poor, the actual intent being to elicit groans around the dinner table, which apparently 'brings people together'. The effect was similar with those who I watched this movie with. "},{"Title":"Disjointed but watchable","Date":"30 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This has the look of a film with production problems, and I'm willing to bet a good deal of original content ended up on the cutting room floor. Travolta's character Frank Morrison's marriage to angular beauty Teri Polo has ended, and their 12-year-old son is now living with her and nice guy Rick (Vince Vaughn), who isn't actually as nice as he appears to be. At one point, as things are going particularly badly with his son, we see Frank downing shots in a bar at double-quick time. All of a sudden he's joined, without introduction, by a middle-aged lady who may or may not be the sister of Clarence from It's a Wonderful Life, but is more likely to be Frank's AA sponsor. He's a drunk, you see, and that's why his marriage ended. The trouble is, nobody involved in the film felt this was important enough to explain until this moment, about midway through the film. And after a brief, largely inconsequential conversation Clarence's sister disappears, never to be seen or referred to again.Vince Vaughn is the best thing about this entertaining if strictly ordinary little thriller. He switches effortlessly from the image of good-looking, laid-back American male perfection &#x96; or Hollywood's perception of it, anyway &#x96; to darkly menacing bad guy, looming over the hapless Jason (James Lashley) who finds himself in something of a quandary after eavesdropping on his step-dad cold-bloodedly murdering a former partner in crime who threatened to blow over the perfect house of cards he had so painstakingly constructed for himself. When Jason blows the whistle, nobody believes him &#x96; apart from his dad &#x96; and it looks as if it's only a matter of time before he and Pop meet with 'accidents' that will get them out of Rick's hair forever.Although Domestic Disturbance is entertaining enough, there are too many incidents like the one mentioned above to make it a film worth watching. For example, I can't remember any film in which a person accused of murder is allowed to sit in on the police interview with the person making that accusation &#x96; especially when it's a 12-year-old kid. Things like that are just examples of sloppy writing, of incidents in which the writer has forsaken reality in an attempt to crank up the tension. Likewise with the lighter that once belonged to Rick's murder victim, and the speed with which Rick catches on to what Frank's been up to. The film also loses focus at times as it neglects Frank or Jason's side of the story in order to concentrate on the other's side; it's an impossible story to tell from just one point of view, but they could have found a more seamless way of splitting the perspective between father and son. "},{"Title":"It just overextends the Inevitable Outcome and Throughout Grinds on your Nerves","Date":"29 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Why should I review it? It may foment it as opposed to expose it as nothing more then dreary and boring material, which is all it is; there's nothing riveting, nothing to care about; with what they had, it's just stale and flat. It's directed by Harold Becker, and this is my introduction to his resume - and it's not a pleasant one; it stars John Travolta (just subsequently a year from his terrible movie Battlefield Earth A Saga of the Year 3000, 2000) in a role where he plays Frank, who builds boats; his son is played by Matt O'leary, the typical young kid who has a criminal record and it documents all of his trivial actions. Vince Vaughn (one of cinema's most annoying faces) plays the Step Dad who marries his Mum played by Teri Polo. Of course, we know Vince Vaughn's character is the scarcely developed and shallow character (as seen in his portrayal as Norman Bates in Psycho (1998) and as he's more of a comical actor then a thrilling actor) - in fact, throughout the beginning there's not even a semblance of integrity. For example, a mysterious figure comes to his wedding recital, and we already know this guy is just a peril who deals with people like Buschemi's Character and backs out on them. So throughout the movie, all it showcases is finding out the truth behind this guy, in spite of the fact that we know. It drags out as well, for example, O'leary's lack of initiative; always looking for help and of course, in return, getting a vacant, empty denial without any deductive reasoning against it; oh yeah, apart from the fact he's a kid going through transitions. I don't not like it because it's clichéd - It's really banal however - But the reason I don't like it because of its superficial story arch and its lack of interest supplied to the audience; it never builds on anything about Vaughn, apart from the fact that he can say bad words in a 12 rated movie and the fact that he hates his stepson for no reason bu that he witnessed him killing somebody for his own guilty pleasure; even at the beginning of the movie where he deliberately throws the baseball at him. All John Travolta is there for is to pretend he cares and get through the murky pit that he's forced to endure; you can genuinely tell that he hates the Stepdad (who wouldn't) but apart from that all he seems intent on doing is to solve a mystery that his son pretty much relayed to everybody.Vaughn seems to be used as a functionality of deep inner secrets that no one knows and yet at every moment he wants to torment you into trying to be immersed in caring; however, this fails on him, as it does to the kid and as it does to Frank (Travolta) he even outwardly says in one scene You do not know that much about him and this right here, is how the movie sugarcoats its own faults.The dialogue is pretty wooden; Buschemi saying I kid you not and Vaughn saying you're just in a nightmare; what you saw was a nightmare was without a doubt pretty annoying to hear.We wait for it all to be over in its packaged running time of 80 or so minutes as Travolta escapes the fire... And from thereon, the denials that people had were then regurgitated and a simple apology was given for this troubling situation... However, I would like to say was this fair to make this blase a movie with as such as an redundant concept as this? Cat and Mouse? Is this trying to be in the same league as Cloaks and Daggers (while not a really effective Fritz Lang movie, it was far better in execution then this)?Well, at least I can say that I don't need to view it again; it was devoid of nuance, character, emotion and was instead filled up with Vaughn, a lack of mystery, terrible dialogue and nothing really to look forward to, apart from the predicted outcome which takes 40 minutes to come. "},{"Title":"Not exactly disturbing","Date":"16 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film ain't as bad as some of the reviews I have read on this site have made it out to be. Sure, the acting's not exactly Oscar worthy, but it's definitely credible, even if the dialogue is a little cheesy. Some of the plotting is fairly predictable too, but overall the films quite a watchable ride, as the tension does mount throughout as Vince Vaughn's character begins to feel the strain as he desperately attempts to keep his murderous secret, secret. The photography ain't nothing special and neither is the score, but like I said this film is certainly watchable and one I'd recommend you watch one night during the week after your favourite soaps over and there's nothing but the news or reality TV programmes on the box, as this is easily worth it's 1hr 20min running time. Just don't buy it because maybe then you might be disappointed. 4/10 (2*). "},{"Title":"He doesn't lie to me....","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Susan Morrison gets married to wealthy industrialist Rick Barnes. Danny, her teenage son with ex-husband Frank, isn't happy about this; he stows away in Rick's car one night, planning to go to Frank's house.But while there, he witnesses Rick murdering mysterious stranger Ray Coleman.Problem is, Rick's managed to dispose of most of the evidence, and he's considered a pillar of the community, while Danny has a history of lying.Frank believes him, though, and does some investigating of his own, as Rick's shady past slowly catches up to him and his new family....A movie of the week, gets that little bit better thanks to Travoltas performance and Vaughn on full psycho mode. The annoying things about these films are that you know who the bad guy is, but the red herrings and the narrative of these films just make you want to shout at the screen.As soon as we meet Vaughn, you know the guy is trouble, he offers travolta work and is just too nice, never a good sign. Cracks begin to show when we are introduced to Buscemi, arguably the best thing here. And then Vaughn has a heated game of catch with his new stepson....Bad news.It's all as predictable as the slew of films that were released in the early nineties, pacific heights, unlawful entry, single white female, and nothing new has been added to the mix here to make it different.It's an easy watch, with good performances from the cast, and thats it really. "},{"Title":"Liked Travolta as the good guy for a change...","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Having never been a real big John Travolta fan, I watched this just as a fillerfor the evening. I thought that John played a compelling role as the Dad of a struggling little boy. His acting was very believable to me. And for a change, I saw him as a real person. So often it seems that John has taken roles that, to me, have almost given him a comic persona. I really enjoyed watching him act with compassion and love displayed for his son, Danny,played very well by Matthew O'Leary. Although the script was somewhat predictable.It definitely more than kept my attention throughout. The actors were well cast for their roles. Vince Vaughn as the villain was perfect. As was Steve Buscemi,again perfectly type cast, as Vaughn's slimy ex-partner. I love that guy in any movie he appears in. Overall. Yeh. I give this movie more stars than average. I'd watch it again. Much better movie than I had anticipated. "},{"Title":"A burger with no meat","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Diluted thrills abound in this uninvolving re-run of THE STEPFATHER, in which a precocious youngster discovers that his new parent is, in fact, a cold-blooded killer who'll do anything to keep his crime a secret. Mainly getting by on the star presence of John Travolta alone, DOMESTIC DISTURBANCE is a well shot film that suffers from a weak script packed with Hollywood cliché. From the first twist, everything that plays out is entirely predictable, nowhere more so than the oh-so-boring climax that sees the protagonists trapped in their own home by a psychopath. From DISTURBIA to WHAT LIES BELOW, every film in the past ten years seems to end in exactly the same fashion and it's quickly become tiresome.Up until then, the film is serviceable but never surprising. The script foists upon us weak characters and it's hard to find somebody to care about &#x96; not least Matt O'Leary's brattish youngster. Vince Vaughn, so typecast in comedy these days, is never a threatening presence and you keep expecting him to crack a joke in his supposedly dramatic sequences. Teri Polo doesn't register, and only Steve Buscemi excels as a typical kook. As for Travolta, he's running through the motions, playing on the good nature he's won from audiences since PULP FICTION and never threatening to actually surprise us by acting. "},{"Title":"It's The Stepfather with an uncle added","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you like movies about people who use sincerity to hide a dark side, then Domestic Disturbance is for you. But if you're looking for something with a twist on the genre, then you'd better look elsewhere. This movie has absolutely nothing fresh in it, but it makes up for that as pure entertainment. Unlike The Stepfather, this one has a new character, the ex of the woman whom the stepfather is about to marry. Stop me if you've heard this one A man's ex-wife marries a very suspicious man, kid starts suspecting something's wrong, kid witnesses his evil stepfather kill someone, everyone (but the uncle) doubts the kid until it's almost too late, evil stepfather tries beating the hell out of everyone, everyone else lives happily ever after.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Vaughn's dark side","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Standard thriller by the numbers is actually held together by the presence of Steve Bsucemi as he hovers over the film and should've been cast as Vince Vaughn's part instead of being the buddy. Imagine how this would've turned out... sure Travolta is the star of this pic and Vaughn was still a rising star (living off of the title since '97's Swingers) but would Travolta be sleep walking this role if he had a villain with more malice? Teri Polo is arm candy and Travolta is decent as an understanding father; Vaughn here is the weak link. Not that Vaughn is horrific (he is TERRIFIC as Lester Long in Clay Pigeons) but his tic is about as menacing as Vaughn doing Norman Bates (wait a sec... joke on me because he wasn't as effective in that role either). If a different approach was taken and Vaughn came across as turned on his Cary Grant suave charm then think of the astronomical proportions this movie could've reached, but all we have is this version. If you buy this movie make sure that anything over $5 for it you are being ripped off "},{"Title":"An entertaining little thriller, not much else.","Date":"6 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In Domestic Disturbance, Danny (Matthew O'Leary) is having trouble coping with his mother's second marriage to the creepy Rick Barnes (Vince Vaughn). When he attempts to run away, he incidentally witnesses Rick murder a co-hort (Steve Buscemi) in cold blood and incinerate him, leaving virtually no evidence. Unfortunately for him, his mother (Teri Polo) has the maternal instincts of an eggplant, and doesn't realize that her new hubby is torturing her child under her own roof in an effort to keep him silent. Thankfully, his trusted, recovering alcoholic, good-guy dad (John Travolta) believes his wild story, and even when Danny tries to convince him to leave well enough alone, can't.In all honesty, Domestic Disturbance is a garden variety, by-the-numbers thriller. The boy cries wolf bit is ripped right out of Rear Window and while director Harold Becker does his best Hitchcock, it ultimately falls flat, giving way to implausibility and predictability. That's not to say, however, that some enjoyment can't be squeezed out of this movie. Vince Vaughn played Norman Bates in the 1998 remake of Psycho and his turn as the villain here is roughly in the same ballpark. While he may be synonymous with the Frat-Pack nowadays, he shows substantial range, posing as a believable threat to Danny's well-being. John Travolta plays the polar opposite, in the kind of role that made him who he is. Likable, a hero and just an all-around good guy, it makes you wonder why his airhead of a wife left him in the first place. Like I said, the woman hasn't a clue what is going on behind closed doors until she is confronted with it face to face. At least the father has the good sense to check the boy's story; the mother merely writes him off, which is a slap to the face of logic. The script, afterall, is the film's biggest weakness. With a little polishing, a much better film could have emerged. All flaws aside, though, it's a well-made, well-paced little thriller that provides a solid hour and a half of suspense, with some solid performances and cinematography. "}{"Title":"Family thriller, Travolta is good.","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Set in coastal Maryland, John Travolta is Frank Morrison, a 'poor' builder of fine wooden boats, carrying on the tradition of his father and his grandfather. He is divorced and his growing son lives with his mother in the same small community.Matt O'Leary, who hasn't done anything of note since this movie, is the son, Danny Morrison. He is very close to his father and acts out to try to get them back together, but dad assures him it won't happen. Mom is Teri Polo as Susan.The story heats up when Vince Vaughn as Rick Barnes becomes Susan's fiancée'. Danny acts up, but dad convinces him to give the new guy a try.SPOILERS FOLLOW One night when Danny gets upset he decides to go to dad, sneaks out of the house, and stows away in Rick's SUV. Rick drives to a motel, picks up a guy, and murders him with an ice pick, disposes of the body in a brick-making kiln. Danny witnesses all this, tells dad, who calls the police. Of course no one believes him, but things happen to make dad have concerns. Meantime Rick threatens Danny, if he makes more trouble dad will die. Dad eventually finds out Rick's true identity, and his criminal record back in Chicago, and in an exciting fight in the garage Rick dies of electrocution. "},{"Title":"Father Figures","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Fair-minded boat builder John Travolta (as Frank Morrison) takes time out to attend teenaged son Matt O'Leary (as Danny Morrison) ballgames. But, young O'Leary is more likely to be found at the Southport jail - he's having trouble accepting snarky rich Vince Vaughn (as Rick Barnes), who quickly marries his divorced mom, Teri Polo (as Susan). O'Leary is further alienated when he learns step-father Vaughn has impregnated Ms. Polo. Distressed, he stows away on a car ride with Vaughn, to the Shady Tree Motel. There, Vaughn picks up skuzzy ex-pal Steve Buscemi (as Ray Coleman). O'Leary witnesses a murder, but not even Travolta will believe him&#x85; Harold Becker's Domestic Disturbance provides a fair amount of suspense; but, it's not the edge of your seat thriller promised in the film's promotional material. The characterizations suffer, in a loose, contrived script. Travolta, for example, goes from sleuth&#x85; to disbelief in his son&#x85;to certainty&#x85; and, back to sleuthing. Vaughn is obviously villainous, and O'Leary is obviously sincere (in his first feature film) - poor Polo sure takes an extraordinary amount of time sorting them out.***** Domestic Disturbance (10/30/01) Harold Becker ~ John Travolta, Vince Vaughn, Matt O'Leary "},{"Title":"I was hoping to find a spoiler here so I can go to bed . . .","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am up at 115am watching this stupid movie, and the only thing I want to know is what Vince Vaughan's secret is, so I signed on here hoping to find a spoiler that would tell me. I read a couple dozen comments so I now know that the movie is going to turn out exactly as I expected, with lots of clichés along the way, but all I want to know is, what's the deal with Vince Vaughan. Was he a drug dealer, a bank robber (probably not; not enough money for this guy's lifestyle), or what? Well, I am not sure I care anymore. Here's the rest of my review the acting is pretty good, except the dopey, vapid wife, the scenery is interesting, but the plot is ridiculous, and nobody acts like a normal human being. "},{"Title":"Excellent and realistic movie","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A couple of hours ago I turned up this DVD in my father's collection and decided to watch the movie. I already watched it several months ago, but I didn't really remember details.I must say that all of the actors, especially Matt O'Leary, act astonishingly realistic, including their facial expressions and gestures.I like this movie because it covers several really important facts of family life I partially can understand quite well due to personal experience.Worth watching in any case! "},{"Title":"The personal domestic dimension makes the thriller very effective","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A simple film, a thriller indeed. It works because the simple violence and menace is wrapped up in a complex and yet simple story about a divorced mother, the custody of a child, the remarrying of the mother and the brilliant newcomer who was accepted at once without any inquiry about who he was in this small community. The conflict between the father and the stepfather with the son in between seems natural and it even makes the police be sloppy about what it is supposed to do. There is of course no real suspense since we know who the criminal is and what the end is going to be. The punch line is directed at the police. The chief of police of this small community is just sorry though he voluntarily neglected simple facts and evidence. Amazing how in our modern societies you just need to say you are sorry to be excused even of your worst negligence and incompetence. That's the new version of the Peter's Principle. When you have reached your level of incompetence just say you're sorry and everything will be just okay and go smooth and you will not be considered as responsible for the few dead people along the road. Who cares about them as long as the social order is not disturbed or menaced.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"This cast deserved a better script.","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Don't get me wrong. I really like John Travolta. I've grown up watching him in all sorts of movies. Some have been classics, but many of his films have been awful. This film is closer to awful than classic. I think Travolta should have found a different agent or two somewhere along the line who could have kept him out of films like this one, Perfect, Shout, The Experts, or Battlefield Earth. Well, I guess he did at least meet his wife while filming The Experts, so that was good for him.Domestic Disturbance is pretty much recycled matter. Travolta plays a divorced father whose ex-wife is about to marry what seems at first to be a nice and successful guy. (Vaughn) Travolta has a 12 year old son who lives with his ex-wife and he thinks the new guy is a creep, and we soon learn that this is indeed the case. The concept of an evil man coming into the life of a divorced woman and making things terrible for her children is nothing new. If you want to see a GOOD film about such things, stick with Firstborn or The Stepfather instead.There are some truly ridiculous things that happen as the action unfolds. We see Vaughn murder Steve Buscemi in a truly unbelievable way, and somehow the kid has a chance to watch it all happen. Of course nobody believes him except Travolta, but he is then accused of only wanting custody of his boy. I'm really sure the police could have found SOME physical evidence of the murder had they looked hard enough. How about Buscemi's clothes at the wedding (or anywhere else he goes for that matter)? We know he's a creep, but does he have to wear such tacky clothes to hammer home that point? How about when Travolta breaks into the brickhouse where the murder happened to look for evidence? He parks his truck right in FRONT of the place so anyone driving by could have seen him do it! Not that I break into a lot of places, but I'd at least park out back so as not to be seen so easily. And how about Vaughn taking a quick glimpse into Travolta's truck and being able to tell right away what he had been up to by simply seeing an open phone book??? The final showdown in the garage is a terribly filmed fight scene. After Travolta and Vaughn duke it out for a minute, Vaughn picks up a crowbar and swings it at Travolta who merely holds up a little stool to protect him. All Vaughn has to do is take a swing a Travolta's legs or lower body, but he repeatedly swings away at the stool. Laughable! The film is too by the numbers to be anything more than an insult to numbers. All the women in the film are made to act like idiots, common sense is non-existent, and a great cast is wasted. And all for a 53 million dollar budget!!!! The mid-Atlantic coast is a nice place to film a movie, however. It really looks peaceful around there.4 of 10 stars So sayeth the Hound. "},{"Title":"So, you are telling me...","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  that a divorced boat builder is better at background searches than the local cops. This really gives the police a bad name.  Apparently, it takes Frank Morrison(Travolta) all of a couple of hours to find out his son's stepdad is a criminal with several prior arrests.  While the police, don't have the foresight to do a simple background search on the internet.  And basically put no effort in looking into a story which concerns an accusation of murder.The mom in this, Susan, is really bad, as in bad acting. I mean, could a person get any more stupid. And before she marries that guy, did she not want to meet his family and old friends.The real mistake in a movie like this is not making the villian really evil. And the stepdad, Vaughn, is just not mean enough. He should have been threatening to kill the mom if the kid continued to repeat his story.  He should have set up some accidents in which people get hurt, as a way to scare the kid.FINAL VERDICT Very short, less than 90 minutes.  Nothing original about the story. It isn't scary nor does it have much suspense. The only good scene is the kid in the back of the SUV when the deed goes down.  I wouldn't recommend watching this unless you are desparate for a way to kill 80 minutes. "},{"Title":"Standard, run-of-the-mill suspense film","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nothing new, but keeps you watching if you have nothing else to do.  Everybody knows what will happen in the end, it is just mildly interesting to see how it will come about.  It is yet another story of someone pretending to be someone they are not.  In this case, the bad guy marries John Travolta's ex-wife, and of course, la-dee-da, only John and his kid know the truth.  Travolta goes about proving to everyone that the new husband is a bad guy in the most bone-headed manner possible; getting drunk, publicly accusing his rival, fighting with the school recess monitor, and more or less making an ass of himself.  Of course no one believes him, least of all his ex-wife.  The movie gets so frustrating with all the lame excuses for his behaviour (stop trying to get back what you had before by making up all these lies!, he is only doing it because he doesn't want to be replaced as a father, etc. etc. etc. ad nauseam.It's too bad that this movie has absolutely nothing new to offer.  As well, there were so many glaring plot holes.  For instance, you find out fairly early on that the evil stepfather was in prison and is now living under an assumed name.  He even gets investigated for murder, yet the cops never think to fingerprint him, nor to ask him the least bit about his history.  They just think that that 12 year old boy is just making things up again, lordy, lordy, will he ever stop?  In fact the director must take viewers for idiots because he makes sure to show us how bad a kid he is many times over just to ensure that it is believable that the cops don't buy his story.  And then there is a laughable scene where the cop satisfies himself that it is all a fabrication on one phone call; he calls San Francisco to see if anyone reported a Ray Coleman missing (the guy the bad guy was supposed to have murdered).  Nope?  Well, then, case closed, he couldn't possibly have been murdered if no one from San Fran reported him missing.  Better go get another donut.There is also the classic of the modern B movie; John Travolta finds the bad guy's identity on the Internet by simply searching for Chicago and Ray Coleman.  Oh, that'll work.  Why didn't I think of that?  And you know what is particularly funny?  Ray Coleman really was the name of a professional baseball player for the White Sox!!!!!!!  But does old Travolta find anything about the ball player?  No, of course not, just perfect photos in livid colour of the bad guy under his real name getting arrested for attempted murder and racketeering.  What an amazingly precise search engine, it even read his mind!Does no one in the entire town ever read a newspaper?  Does no one wonder where this wealthy businessman suddenly appears from, with no past, no old friends, no family, no history of any kind, like he was some sort of a ghost?  No, instead they give him the key to the city and all think he is just grand.  I really wonder how old movies filled in plot holes before the Internet, there had to be some convenient way for the hero to find the critical clue.  At least they didn't show Travolta guessing a password...Lame!  At most a 5 out of 10 (very generous), more like a 3.  The only fun part was it seemed as if Travolta didn't take it too seriously either.  Watch him when he arrives in time to save his son near the end.  It's classic.  You can just tell he was standing by the back door waiting for his queue.  And he does keep making those faces right out of Pulp Fiction which at least reminds you of a good movie. "},{"Title":"DUMB TO THE END!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was the worst thriller I have ever seen! This slacks off on suspense and thrills. The acting is the the worst I have heard (THE KID'S VOICE CHANGES FROM LIGHT TO DEEP IN A MATTER OF DAYS???) John Travolta is 48 and has lost his touch on action movies. I didn't find any character to be interesting especially that lying sack of junk Matthew O'Leary character. This movie doesn't get interesting until 50 minutes into it and still the movie is 89 minutes long. The first 50 minutes are a complete waste of time. The rest of the 39 minutes are not suspenseful nor is it easy to follow.Point Being 1/10 "},{"Title":"Oh, please.  I heard the words Diet Coke more than I cared to. - 3 of 10","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was not realistic in any way, shape, or form.  I read the reviews and saw a heap of bad stuff, but thought I'd give Vince Vaughn a chance, since I do like him.  His character stunk to high heaven.  If you want to see him excel in an excellent bad-guy role, go see Clay Pigeons.  This movie has more holes than a slice of swiss cheese.  I really don't know where to start, so I just won't.  But I will tell you NOT to see this movie. "}{"Title":"Awesome movie that can make you sit with your jaw to the floor!","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has absolutely great acting! John Travolta kicks acting butt! And Vince Vaugn will put you in awe. It's great to watch over and over again! This movie should have been remembered in the Oscar race! I guarantee it will make you jump out of your seat! "},{"Title":"Good, solid thriller","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Judging by the trailers, I wasn't expecting much.  And then I saw the PG-13 rating and my hopes were even lower.  It seems to be a tradition in recent years to market PG-13 films.  Even if it was originally going to be an R, they recut the film taking away a few f words and scenes of nudity to give it the PG-13, because supposedly it'll reach a more widespread audience.  It's obvious in this movie when in one scene Steve Buscemi says Get the f**k out of here and they dubbed it to have him say Get the hell out of here.  And there's a few other obvious attempts at a re-rating. All that aside, I was really impressed with this movie.  First of all, it's good to see John Travolta as a good guy for a change.  He's talented at playing the villain, but we don't want him to wear out that role.  Even Christopher Walken does a comedy now and then.  Vince Vaughn is convincingly fiendish as the new stepfather with a corrupt past lurking beneath his mild-mannered exterior.  Steve Buscemi plays his partner-in-crime, doing what he does best.  I was also very impressed with the boy, Matthew O'Leary.  He delivers a intense, disciplined, subtle performance as a boy conflicted between his love for his father and his fear of what his stepfather will do to him.  I'm lucky enough to have grown up with two parents, but I know lots of friends who grew up with stepparents, and the relationship between the boy his (real) father is very realistic.  No matter what happened between their parents, kids always feel a greater attachment to their real parents than their stepparents.  And you really feel captivated by the love between father and son.  Though there are no astonishing plot twists, I was on the edge of my seat the whole time, never looking at my watch.  So this isn't the derivative thriller I was expecting.  There are only a few elements of the plot which I didn't feel made much sense  I don't think a middle-class boat builder is going to scoop up evidence on a known offender by simply logging onto the Internet while the cops have no clue who he is.  And without giving anything away, I will leave all screenwriters and directors out there one thought  When you're in a fit of rage, you don't hit someone with a bat ONCE and run away, ASSUMING he's dead.  First of all, if you really hate someone and he's threatening the lives of everyone around you, you're going to want to beat him until his brains spill out.  Second of all, in the movies nobody dies after one strike of a bat. Domestic Disturbance nicely combines elements of human drama with psychotic thriller.  It's an edge-of-your-seat thrill ride that will probably hit home to some.  With Monsters Inc. out this weekend this movie doesn't stand much of a chance, but don't be fooled.  It's really worth checking out!My score  7 (out of 10)       "},{"Title":"AWESOME!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just got back from watching this thriller and I can't get over just how good it truly was.  John Travolta was excellent at playing the heroic father while Vince Vaughn is always the perfect villian. Your heart reaches out to Danny, the twelve year old adorable boy who is traumatized as he watches his mother remarry, but not just any man...a murderer. You will HATE and I mean HATE Rick Barnes, the whole theater was actually applauding when he got what he had coming (i wont ruin it for you!) I laughed at a few jokes, cried in frustration,  and was in total suspense cause I love legal investagation stuff. If you liked The Client, Eye for An Eye, Double Jeopardy etc...see this!!!   "},{"Title":"Much better than expected","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I did not think this movie would be that good because of the cheesy preview but it turned into a good thriller. The movie was kind of slow but with a good performance from Travolta and a perfect performance from Vaughn this movie is worth checking out. "},{"Title":"A well-done thriller.","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" DOMESTIC DISTURBANCE  **+_  Thriller   John Travolta, Vince Vaughn, Teri PoloA 10-year-old witnesses his new stepdad commit a murder. He reports it to the police, but they don't believe him. Worse, they hand him right back to his stepdad. The film is is tense and well done. It has a good pacing and never leaves you bored. There's nothing totally new here, but the elements are put together well into a tight little package. On the other hand, it has plenty of physical violence. No explosions, though.Dave "},{"Title":"If there's nothing good on TV watch...","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's not a horrible movie, it's got a truly basic, I know what's going to happen every scene kinda feel, kinda movie. With parents who've divorced and their son not dealing with it well, he ends up lying and sorta breaking the law...... the stories like the boy who cried wolf. Anyway they get into some trouble there's some lame confrontation scenes (between Travolta/Vaughn or Vaughn/O'leary) and stupid lazy cops parts. This movie is basically the opposite of CSI (the show) for cops, where CSI believes the right person and tries their hardest to solve a crime no matter what. While these cops say hey there's better things to investigate in a small town than a silly murder, like who took my doughnut.But it's got John Travolta, who I don't think deserved the Razzi nomination for this movie....'snicker' two Razzi nominations in one year 'snicker'.... and the great, but drug addict looking Steve Buscemi. The kid (Matt O'Leary) plays his part well enough to be believable, my favorite character was probably Teri Polo, she has the only good acting skills in this movie. (and it's got Vince Vaughn, still in his I can be in serious movies faze (It's so great he went to comedies!)).Anyway the stories the same old song and dance as other lame thrillers, but it's something to watch when bored. I don't recommend buying it or renting it, just watch it on TV if your bored at night, and then it's your choice. "},{"Title":"Illogical to the point of being hilarious *SPOILERS*","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" OK I've been reading some of the other reviews, and let me get this straight.. you think this film deserves a 10/10? Seriously? Jeez, if you genuinely feel this way I would advise you to either a) Get back on the medication or b) start watching more movies. I mean, I appreciate freedom of choice an' all, but come on.. Domestic Disturbance one of the best films ever made? Is that a flying pink elephant I see doing loop-de-loops around the moon?Anyway, this is another one of Travolta's cookie-cutter roles he has been forced to take after his second career slump since Grease. He plays the father of a boy whose parents have long been divorced, and now his mother is about to remarry. Unfortunately his stepdad has a less than law-abiding past, and the youth witnesses him murdering an old criminal colleague in a dispute over owed monies. Sadly, because the lad has a reputation as a habitual liar, no-one believes him.. least of all the police and his parents. But gradually JT becomes a bit suspicious, and does some digging.. CUE the DRAMATIC MUSIC!! Over the top action scenes, out of character plot motivations, stupid, time wasting conversations and relentlessly predictable scripting is the order of the day here, and it only gets worst as the film reaches the end of its blessedly short running time. Also not helping matters is a weak performance by Mr Kelly Preston and a downright embarrassing one by Vince Vaughn as the stepfather from hell. I swear, this guy turns into a robot halfway through. How else do you explain his bizarre behaviour? Even killers have got to have some personality, ya know.By the end, when the kid is tied up in the car and his two paters are fighting it out with a stool and a crowbar, I really could have cared less about the conclusion. Basically, this is just a B movie which was lucky enough to receive big studio backing, when really it was crying out for a straight to video release. Starring someone like Steven Seagul. Mind you, the way Travolta's career is going, the two of them could be sharing equal billing soon. Watch this space.. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Vince Vaughn looks like a pig","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was so stupid. i was laughing at the parts that were supposed to be  suspenseful. This movie was so predictable, i mean, from the beginning you knew that vince vaughn was some kind of a bad guy. And how the hell did he always manage to pop out in almost every scene. He's so freaking ugly, he looks like a pig. If i was that little boy i would have had killed him in his sleep, what the hell was he waiting for. And how didn't the police know who he really was, he was listen on the internet and everything. Blah blah blah, this movie was so boring, was it just me or was the movie short? At the end of the day John Travolta comes  and saves his day. Bah 3/10 "},{"Title":"Avoid this film at all costs","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I walked into this movie without a clue about the story or even what genre it was. I still wasn't sure of either when i left. A completely uneventful  action film where the bigger 'stunts' included Travolta stumbling and falling into a shallow puddle (In True Lies Arnie dives head first into the ocean and escapes an inferno, just a little something for comparison.) For a change Travolta wasn't to blame for this turkey, Vaughn was much worse as the 'deranged' yet slightly unthreatening bad guy. In fact the only person he intimidated was the kid. Yet Vaughn did have some quality comedy moments, setting his arm alight and then electrocuting himself, pure comedy. I had never laughed so hard yet the comedy was completely unintentional. The only plus point to the movie, Steve Buschemi of course.  "},{"Title":"Good potential lost to poor direction","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In Domestic Disturbance a seemingly perfect step dad (Vaughn) comes between a happily divorced couple (Travolta & Polo) and their son (O'Leary) and murder  follows. Shot in one of Hollywood's low rent districts (Wilmington, NC), top heavy with star power, and with poor attention to detail, this flick comes off like a rush to production audience rip-off. Director Becker turns what is superficially a decent story with potential into a lackluster product full of plot holes and other foibles. Acting lacks a natural flow, O'Leary jumps his lines, the psychodrama is underdone, police work is downright silly,  etc. making DD something best saved for broadcast or forever. "}{"Title":"Very intriguing concept,very poor execution","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsThere was something very suspenseful about both the set-up and the characters in this film.But in the end,you just can't ignore how silly and stupid it is.It's not so much that it's implausible,it just didn't make any sense.Why does Vince Vaughn's character kill the other guy anyway?Throughout the film,he seems like a graduate of some sort,how was he involved in the mafia underworld?And why does Matthew O'Leary jump in the back of Vaughn's car?He might not have liked having a step-dad,but there was nothing at the beginning he could see that would imply he was that sort of bad news.There are a fair few implausibilities too,like how Steve Buscemi's body could just disappear without someone smelling or noticing it,and O'Leary's mother so constantly missing Vaughn's abusive sessions with him.But to be honest,it's mostly the cliched script,lame build-up and anti-climatic conclusion that make this one your life won't be an any worse experience for missing.** "},{"Title":"I love a good thriller.....","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Susan is getting married to rich Rick, but her son, Danny with ex-husband, Frank is not happy. After a taking advice from his dad, Frank, Danny decides to try his best to get along with Rick, but still doesn't really like him. When Susan and Rick do get married though, a surprise visitor turns up at the wedding, Gary Coleman, a friend of Rick's who was on the bad side of law with him before Rick started his new rich family life. Gary decides to stick round for a little bit, causing worry to Rick, in case he spills the beans or if he might even tell something to Frank who Gary seems to be getting awfully friendly with since he's been in town. After finding out that Susan and Rick are going to have a baby, Danny wants to go see Frank, but Susan tells him no as she says, Danny shouldn't go running to his father every time a problem occurs. On the same night, Rick needs to go out and do some 'business', so Danny decides to hide in Rick's car and go to Frank's house. On the way though, he sees Rick murdering Ray, then getting rid of the evidence. Without Rick seeing him, Danny manages to escape from the car and goes straight to Frank to tell him what happened. Danny has a history of lying though, so no one seems to believe him. Frank does end up believing Danny though and slowly begins to undercover the truth about Rick. John Travolta, Vince Vaughn, Steve Buscemi, Teri Polo and Matthew O'Leary all star in the movie and they all give great performances here as always.Domestic Disturbance is a really good thriller with loads of suspense all the way though. There are good little twists in certain scenes in the movie and the acting is really believable too. Everything about the movie is just really great to watch and I would definitely recommend it if you're into thrillers or if just want to see a good movie. I give Domestic Disturbance a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Predictable and pathetic","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   (Possible Spoilers) While watching Domestic Disturbance I began to remember many other thrillers of the past. In fact almost every single of that I thought of, a few of them ranged from '96's Eye For An Eye to the recent doped-up 'thriller' Don't Say A Word, had more going for them that this dismal piece of (expletive deleted) did.     Domestic Disturbance is a hardly original, and very uninteresting thriller that tends to move along at such a brisk pace that we, the audience, barely have any time to get to know the characters. Not that that matters since these characters are so one-dimensional that they're hardly worth rooting for, let alone caring about, in the slightest bit. The acting isn't really that bad, the characters are just really poorly written and developed.     Well anyway, here's a moderate description of the story, John Travolta plays a father, who shares custody with his ex wife (Teri Polo, Meet The Parents), he's a loving dad who really cares for his son, oh and he also builds boats, which is something that apparently his grandfather and father have been doing for many years, or something like that.   His son, is just a little upset that his mother is getting married to a new guy, (Vince Vaughn, Psycho, JP2 and Swingers) whom he doesn't care for at all. He's afraid he won't be able to spend as much time with his dad once Polo and Vaughn get married. Well anyway, as shown in the trailer, one of Vaughn's old buddies shows up at the wedding (Steve Buscemi, Armageddon) and of course he's soon offed by Vaughn, for reasons which are never fully explained.       Ah, but here's where 'the twist' (and boy is it a big one, 'note the sarcasm') comes in, the boy is hiding in the backseat of Vaughn's car and soon after Vaughn finds out what his new stepson saw he becomes rather menacing towards the kid.       As said before Domestic Disturbance is hardly original but what makes it even worse is that it seems all too rushed, especially the ludicrous ending, which almost made me die from laughter, though for the sake of anyone who was interested in the film up to that point, I kept it to myself.      Travolta is okay, but his character is all too one-sided and the same goes for Vaughn (could he be any more over the top?), but Buscemi does a good job, though he's not on screen for very long. Polo is just bad as the mother, but Matthew O'Leary is decent as the son.      This is overall one of the worst thrillers I've seen in a long time, there's next to no character development, the plot is full of holes and the movie quickly turns into a sequence of one boring scene after another. * out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"John Travolta delivers FULL VOLTAGE!!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie because it was a simple way pass 90 minutes in an entertaining fashion.  This movie won't leave you pondering for days on end or even hours on end.  It has John Travolta is the caring father who believes his son, when his son tells him that he witnessed Vince Vaughn MURDER Steve Bushemi (which he did).  Vince Vaughn pulls off the bad guy role VERY well.  John Travolta, as always, is convincing as the good guy.  For such a short movie, it packed in a lot of great suspense and a good plot.  I would suggest this to anybody who likes to feel tension during a movie!! "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ask yourself this, what if you witnessed a crime and no one believed you? Better yet, what if you were a kid when this happened? That is the premise of this modern day thriller, Domestic Disturbance. It isn't the perfect movie, but the story, while predictable, was still so much fun to watch. As for the cast, John Travolta and Vince Vaughn alone should tell you that you're in for something special. I know a lot of people love Vaughn, I don't, but he was great in this film. Matthew O'Leary, a newcomer back then, seemed as thou he's been doing this for years, acting as the perfect go between and playing his role flawlessly. Domestic Disturbance is fun, exciting, and has an unbelievable cast. Besides the predictability, the only other thing I can say negatively about this film was that it wasn't long enough! I really enjoyed it and didn't want it to end. "},{"Title":"This movie brought a lot of suspicion","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Throughout the movie Domestic Disturbance, there was a lot of suspicion, especially after Danny's mother got remarried. When her new husband killed someone and after the police didn't believe Danny, I felt bad for him. The scene when Danny and his stepfather were alone in his bedroom at night was creepy, especially when his stepfather pushed him up against the wall. That was scary. Throughout the movie, it got scary. The stepfather gave me and Danny the creeps. When Danny was alone with him in the bedroom again before court and in the bathroom, I could tell the boy looked scared regardless. Those scenes were worse than a scene in Child's Play 2 when Andy woke up and realized Chucky tied him to the bed. I said to myself Please tell me he's dreaming that. He was alone and that was creepy. Anyways, Matt O Leary played an unexpected role. Ican't believe he was a juvenile delinquent and that he cries wolf unnecessarily. When he did tell the truth, the cops didn't believe him. The parents didn't believe him until the father had second thoughts. I like the scene when Danny and his mother were trying to get out of the house. She finally realized her son was telling the truth. For the record, when they got in the car, she should have locked the door, made sure our seat belts were on, opened the garage door, and drive far away as possible. I'm glad his stepfather got electrocuted to death. It serves him right. Now he can burn in hell. I felt bad for the mother towards the end when she had to be hospitalized. I think she had a miscarriage. Plus, it was nice for the police to apologize to Danny. It was like being treated like royalty by the authorities. Overall, Matt was terrific. I also liked the scene when he snuck out since it showed his backside. I have a tendency to look at a guy's behind, especially attractive guys. I may sound crazy but don't blame me, blame hormones. Besides, Matt's a cute actor and he's got a cute backside for an actor. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but not riveting","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Are people what they seem to be? This film clearly says that they're not, and we are drawn into Jason's world, consisting of his good (an extraordinary performance from John Travolta)and his bad stepfather (in places, well played by Vince Vaughan, but lacking something). Terri Polo completes the boy's triangle as the mother.This was an interesting film for Friday TV; it was gripping in places, although at times, it did lag. Performances varied widely, except for John Travolta, who played consistently.It's an easy film to watch, and makes no demands on the viewer. This is at once the film's weakness and strength it attracts a wide audience, but cannot sustain the audience for too long.It's just not incisive enough.Enjoyable, but not riveting... "},{"Title":"Fun,but there are some things wrong with this film","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is about Frank,a divorced man,with a 12 year old son called Danny.Danny's mother is going to marry with a guy called Rick.But one day Danny sees Rick killing a man.Nobody believes him,except Frank.So Frank starts to investigate Rick.Before Travolta starts to investigate the man,the film is fun.But when Travolta starts to investigate everything is solved very easy.It is like the writer did not know how to solve the story and the ending is predictable.But the film was fun,it needed to be more original.Matt Leary makes the best performance of the movie.Like I said before,the film is not original,but it is fun. So I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Leaves you feeling unsatisfied.","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" John Travolta, Steve Buscemi, Vince Vaughn. This unlikely trio star in Domestic disturbance a story about a relationship between a father, his son, ex-wife, and his son's stepfather. Why any woman would leave Travolta for Vaughn is beyond me, but that is beside the point. This is a weak thriller, with not many exciting scenes and nothing you haven't seen before. As always, Travolta and Buscemi are good, and do all they can with the script, and it's funny to watch Vaughn(Dodgeball) play the bad guy, which he luckily pulls of OK. The movie is never slow (thanks to good actors and known faces) but never makes you gasp either, and only a person who has never seen an action/thriller movie before would watch it with excitement. Domestic Disturbance leaves you feeling very unsatisfied, especially with the promising cast(Travolta brought us Face/Off) and John T. should stop signing up for these worthless projects. He's simply too a talented actor to star in a movie like DD, and if it wasn't for him the movie probably wouldn't be worth watching at all.A weak 4/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing more than average","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This attempt had all the necessary elements for a good movie. So where's the good movie?? This work does make the attempt to be suspenseful and entertaining. But it could have (should have) been so much more.One of the most popular of the come-back kids, John Travolta has exhibited extraordinary talents as a thespian, and has made some of the most unfortunate choices concerning what projects with which he associates himself. An actor (among other staff members) has to have complete faith in his/her director to produce a better than adequate finished product. It would seem as though Mr. Travolta has faith in just anyone. This director has a spotty reputation, at best. But in a field where the hit and miss ploy works more often than not, it appears that this just was not Mr. Travolta's turn.While his performance is stellar, he appears to be the only participant who has any idea what is going on. There is some element of suspense, but that element is broken too many times; the spell is shattered, leaving the viewer disillusioned with no atmospheric redemption and this work as nothing more than average.It rates a 4.4/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"This movie is awesome!","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a awesome off the seat thriller! I've just watched it for the 2end time, and it's amazing. John Travolta, and Matt O'Leary, are awesome!And Vince Vauhn and Teri Polo are pretty good. This movie, is very good, and anyone who comes across it needs to watch it. John stars as Frank Morrison, a man who discovers that his son's new step father (Vince Vaughn)is not who he pretends yo be. Frank's investigation into this man's past explodes into a terrifying mission to rescue his son from the ultimate danger.This chilling, critically acclaimed hit will have your heart pounding from start to finish! 10/10 -Jade  "},{"Title":"Disturbingly excellent","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I first heard about Domestic Disturbance, I thought it would be great to see. However, there were many mediocre reviews, but a few good reviews. After viewing the film, it's significantly better than most give credit.Matthew O'Leary plays Danny Morrison, a 12 year boy who lives in a broken home. Danny is notorious for lying and becoming involved with the police.Danny's mother Susan, remarries Rick Barnes, a Ralph Lauren type business executive who just moved into Southpot, Maryland where Susan and Danny live. Danny's father, Frank Morrison, notices something is not right with Rick and investigates him.One rainy night in October, Danny espionages and watches his malevolent step-dad murder Ray Coleman, an old friend who was part of a money laundering scheme in the midwest.Now Danny tells the cops that he saw Rick murder someone. Frank believes him, but Rick, Susan, and the police do not. As the clues start to unravel though, everyone catches up that Danny finally told the truth. Can Danny and Susan escape residing in the same house with a con-artist?This movie has been criticized for its cliches, short-length, and predictability. Now this movie is not perfect, but it is a 3 to 3 1/2 star film.I did not see the predictability, I was surprised with what happened as the movie progressed. I was holding onto my blanket hoping that Rick doesn't victimize poor Danny. There were so many ideas running in my head of what would happen next.The cliches in it are not numerous, every movie has a few. The ones involve a broken home and the love between a father and son. The film shows the love and appreciation that Frank has for Danny and Danny's love for Frank.The film has a running time of 92 minutes, which is fairly short to have any depth for the characters. However, the director Harold Becker intentionally made it short for its suspense and hold up the quick tempo, not having it drag. I don't think running a movie that is too short is as having one that is too long.Matthew O'Leary surprises me again. He portrays a strong young man who overcomes his evil stepdad. Also, he is not the stereotypical fourteen year-old actor.  He can actually act and I have to give him credit where credit is due by saying he is good looking.  Trovolta is great as always, the realistic heroism that he displays in this movie is terrific.  Vince Vaughn dramatic swings from a nice family man to evil con-artist is outstanding.Domestic Disturbance is one of the better ones I have seen lately because it does not show you the typical crap that you now have for films.Grade B+, 7.5/10, and 3 1/2 stars out of 4 "},{"Title":"not a bad film at all","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  my movie guide gave this 1 star (out of 4) i like travolta so i thought i would give it a go.i had already decided what i was going to switch over to had it been not very good.just shows what the so called experts Know i really enjoyed it.i would give this a 2.5 (out of 4).its never a 1 out of 4.give it a go make your own mind up. "},{"Title":"By the numbers thriller","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Domestic Disturbance is strictly a by the numbers thriller. Director Harold Becker who made the superior Sea Of Love seems to walk through this film. John Travolta does give a good performance though and Vince Vaughn does ok but I wish he would have been more meancing. My main compliant with the film is it was to short. "},{"Title":"I also love a good thriller","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Which is why I didn't have much time for this.This is the kind of run of the mill dreary film that Travolta has interspersed with classics post Pulp Fiction.The father of a boy whose ex wife marries Vaughan, Travolta then launches the oh so predictable crusade to save his boy and his ex wife from the evil man.Had a few interesting scenes, but largely not that interesting. "},{"Title":"It was Awesome","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie rocked it is one of my favorite movies. Vince vaughn Was really good in this movie he played the perfect villain. John Travolta was a good,good guy but he was better as the villain in Swordfish, and Matt O'leary Was hott(well there isn't a movie that i have seen that he wasn't hott in, well he wasn't as hott in Fraility be he still one of my favorite actors!) "},{"Title":"reality at its best","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I give this film an A for the overall concept that you don't know who you're involved with! If it wasn't for mattymatt4ever pointing out the lame parts of this movie, I would have overlooked them all together. I recommend this movie to women everywhere, whether they're divorcees or single parents. The part I really love is when Morrison believed his son no matter what and the part I hated was when his ex-wife didn't. It's sad to say that this is happening in reality when women in the name of love, charm or good looks choose the man over their children. I'm also glad when Morrison chose his son over his current girlfriend. I guess I'm just impressed with his dedication toward his son overall which is very rare these days. Unfortunately I can't watch this film with my children because of the profanity, but other than that I was very impressed. "},{"Title":"The new husband is a criminal","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nothing new, a film of scarce innovations from the point of view of the argument. It is a plot seen in many B films during the 30 and 40s, where usually the police is always coming late, i.e when the private justice has already taken place or when the good man won the fight against the villain at the last moment in an expected way.  "},{"Title":"Travolta was great&#133; but it didn't save the film","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film didn't have a clue where it was going.  Desperately trying to make thriller, while horribly failing to even create a sense of suspense.  There is so much rubbish out there that I wouldn't want to trash this film though.  The actors did well, with John Travolta just proofing once more how diverse and crowing-with-every-film actor he is.  But the film was just not exciting.  We know what is going on from beginning, there are no twists, no un-expected turns of events, almost no action and no complication.   I would say that this was well done film, from non-directional written script. 6/10 "},{"Title":"John Travolta is awesome!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta plays Frank Morrison, a divorced father who shares custody with his ex-wife Susan who's begun a new life with an affluent man, Rick Barnes.  Spoilers.  Her son Danny is disconcerted that his mother is participating in a new marriage and refuses to attend, until he is persuaded by his own father Frank. During the wedding ceremony Frank notices an unfamiliar man, Ray Colman, played by the eccentric Steve Buscemi. Frank soon suspects that Ray may know something about Rick Barnes, something incriminating.When Danny witnesses his stepfather murdering Ray, he immediately calls the police and informs his father of it. The evidence however is vague and brushed off mostly because young Danny has a tendency of lying. Frank decides he cannot let it go because his son never lies to him and suspiciously Ray has disappeared. Meanwhile Rick tortures Danny behind Susan's back and threatens to kill his father if he does not behave while Frank continues on a relentless hunt to prove his son's allegations are true.All around an excellent family thriller. John Travolta delivers an outstanding performance as the concerned and devoted father although Steve Buscemi may momentarily steal the spotlight. 10/10.   "}{"Title":"A good John Travolta film","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Domestic Disturbance is a thriller that has brains and chills. The film revolves around a kid that witnesses a brutal murder . No one belives him though(it's kind of like the boy who cried wolf- watch the movie and you'll understand.) Vince Vaughn is very good, as is the rest of the cast. A good movie most will enjoy. 3 out of 4 *'s. "},{"Title":"SCARY!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was the greatest thriller of all time. I LOVED THIS MOVIE!!!! John Travolta was great. The one thing I was surprised at is how good Matt O'Leary was an actor. He was great. Travolta stars as Frank Morrison the divorced husband of Susan Morrison(Teri Polo). Susan is getting remarried to a big buisness guy (Vince Vaughn) who turns out to be not who we thought. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was grateful that this film didn't drag out forever as most movies of this particular genre generally do.  Fortunately, a lot of cliches were not in the film, and at least the mother had the sense God gave a goose about what to do in this situation.  Overall an okay movie so it receives a 5 out of 10.  Even if this has John Travolta in it.  "},{"Title":"Piece of art Thriller","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I highly recommend Domestic Disturbance.  It is a great thrill-ride with minor flaws.  Like, You can tell when they dubbed over some of the F-bombs but it doesn't make the movie worse.  While Steve Buscemi's character added minor humor, Vaughn's character added the thrills. Overall I give it a 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good movie, but could have been better.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The story was very good, but the movie failed to capitalize on it.  John Travolta was brilliant as usual and Vince Vaugn pulls off the Psycho role perfectly.  But just when you start to see them shine the closing credits are rolling.  Even though there was not a whole lot of meat to the movie, I did enjoy it.  I was left with one question though?  What will the mom do about the killers baby she is carrying? "},{"Title":"Looking for a thriller? DON'T GET THIS MOVIE!!!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie doesn't even pass off as a thriller. How John Travolta can keep making bad movies is beyond me(Battlefield Earth, now this?) Travolta's acting was horrible in this, and Vince Vahn was way too blah blah blah-no voice pitches in his acting. I really don't know how this movie got passed by paramount as a thriller. It's the most predictable movie I've ever seen(well, close enough anyway). Even Steve Buscemi's short role came in with no comedy, unlike all his other supporting roles(he was great comedy relief in Con Air). If you want a good thriller go get something else. Don't even think about getting this movie. I give 'Domestic Disturbance' 2/5 stars(only because there was one fun part, watching John Travolta tracking down and revealing who Vince Vahn's character really is!)  "},{"Title":"Weak Ending","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie but I found the ending weak.  You're hoping the step-father will be stopped but the ending is a disappointment.  The way this movie was going I may have considered giving it a rating of eight.  Now I feel I am being generous by giving it a six. "},{"Title":"Predictable Disturbance","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  Missed this one at the theatre and just picked it up on video.  Very predictable, but very watchable.  Vince Vaughn has some excellent moments as the wicked step dad.  Travolta is likable, but a little inconsistent in his role.  Teri Polo from Meet the Parents has a shot to be a quality actress, but the emotional scenes lacked a little.  Harold Becker continues to produce slick Hollywood movies that will make money, but seems to have lost his edge since his fine early work (Vision Quest Taps Sea of Love).  Still predicting long career for Vince Vaughn - he really commands the screen. "},{"Title":"Good suspense movie","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this title last night, and it was just as good as it was the last time I saw it. And that was way back in December, when it was in theaters. John Travolta plays Frank Morrison, a man who's son Danny (Matt O'Leary) is having trouble coping with his parents' divorce. And after he witnesses his new stepfather, Rick Barnes (Vince Vaughn) kill a man in cold blood, things are going to be a lot harder. *SPOILERS* Danny goes to the police, looking for help, but they will not investigate into his story due to the fact that Rick is famous throughout the town....and has money. Thinking that he is just lying, Danny's mother, Susan (Teri Polo) just lets it slide by. But his father realizes one thing that his son lies to practically everyone, but has never lied to him. Believing him, he sets out to find the truth. Now, this movie was quaint and good. Believable acting from John Travolta and Vince Vaughn. Even Matt O'Leary was good. While the plot has somewhat of a musty smell, this movie managed to throw in some twists and takes about twenty minutes into developing the story, which helps us feel for the characters a little better. DOMESTIC DISTURBANCE is a movie you should see if you are in the mood to be shocked. Not scared. You will be amazed at the number of bad things that happen in this movie. Even worse, is that they happen in real life. This film delivers the goods with solid acting. My only complaint, is that-- Vince Vaughn does not know how to die!!!!!!!! *MAJOR SPOILER* When is he attacking Frank with a crowbar at the end of the movie in a garage, with an electrical box a few feet away, sparking and smoking out at him, you would think that he would atleast have the brains to try to avoid it. But no. When the crowbar finally does go into the electric box, (we could all see it coming) he just stands there looking like nothing is happening to him, except being amazed at the pretty sparks flying out at him. That was the cheapest acting I have seen in a movie from Vince Vaughn. And then, the box just stops sparking (for no reason at all), and Vaughn falls to the ground and dies. Sad, really. A sad job of acting that is... DOMESTIC DISTURBANCE 4/5. "},{"Title":"Looked and felt like a R movie, why PG-13 then?","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Why was Domestic DIsturbance a PG-13 movie?  There are shocks of violence and language (look closely for what looks like dubbed in language over cursing by the way) that should've merited it a R rating, but no, Paramount probably thinks more people will see the stars and story more because of a different rating.  Uh huh, would a few more dirty words and other things make an audience want to see John Travolta any more or less?  I don't think so.On the other hand, I don't know why any one would really want to see this movie and take it seriously as a good movie.  This is quite a poor movie, with a rushed plot mixed with rushed characters and all that crap.  Here, Travolta is a caring and sweet father type who has been divorced from his wife (Teri Polo) for some time now, but still keeps in contact with his son who is angry a lot of the time at what is happening to his family situation; his mother is getting remarried to a guy (Vince Vaughn) who is basically a creep.  This leads to a murder witnessing and the rest of the movie has Travolta trying to find if the killer is the killer, then he is, blah blah blah.The concept was a horrible one, but it is perverted into a boring and quite predictable thriller with characters who are so readable in personalities that it is hardly worth going through it here.  To sum it up, another Travolta bomb, which is a shame since the cast does try with the material, but it sinks.  D+ "}{"Title":"Try Hollow Reed instead for the divorced parents-child scenario, and The Deep End for more suspenseful domestic drama","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Domestic Disturbance is regular Hollywood fare with Travolta being the lead driving vehicle. It's ok. Ending was inevitable and matter of fact with scuffling and death. Not much depth (versatile Vince Vaughn and even Steve Buscemi's appearance couldn't add magic to this movie). The limp handshake scene could have done without. Was there an attempt to draw life lesson out of what the police officer's done? To believe a child or not believe an adult - to lie or not to lie - it's a fine line not to assume anything. True listening with patience is such a skill to be learned.  The premise of divorce parents with a son having trouble to accept mother's new man is much better done with depth and thought-provoking results in Angela Pope's Hollow Reed 1995, with Martin Donovan as the divorced dad, Joely Richardson as the mother with a new man (Jason Flemyng) who abuses/threatens the son, who was devastatingly real and sensitively portrayed by young Sam Bould. Hollow Reed is a thoughtful quality production that deserves more exposure and appreciation. For another 'domestic disturbance' movie that's more thrilling with writing depth, try Scott McGehee and David Siegel's The Deep End (2001) as an alternate recommendation.Vince Vaughn has a tour de force performance as Sheriff in Joseph Ruben's Return to Paradise 1998, opposite Anne Heche and Joaquin Phoenix. Steve Buscemi has a substantial role as Seymour in Terry Zwigoff's Ghost World 2001, opposite talented Thora Birch's Enid.  "},{"Title":"PLEASANT LITTLE MOVIE WITH GOOD ACTING","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie.  It was a pleasant surprise that this movie ran a little over 1 1/2 hours and it was ample time for this story to unwind. John Travolta was very good in his part and Vince Vaughan was excellent as the troubled step father.  The young man who played Travolta's son also did a good job of acting.   An entertaining hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Could've written it on the crapper.","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was such a waste of 90 minutes. The Vince Vaughn and Travolta roles should've been reversed. The wife was a moron - no mom would ever believe the new husband over the son. The kid was unlikable and acted like he was 25 instead of 12 like he was supposed to be. It never got interesting. Vaughn tries like hell but has nothing to do. Buscemi does an ok job but he's almost always at least 'good'. Travolta stunk as usual. He's such an ass since 'Get Shorty,' hams it up all of the time. He needs some serious self reflection. Anyway, wanted to give this a 'D' but after thinking about it more and how much it annoyed me, I'm giving it an F - 5 out of 10, don't waste your time. Better to watch a 90 minute mini-marathon of 'Welcome Back Kotter' or 'Swingers' again if you want to see Travolta or Vaughn.  "},{"Title":"Don't listen to these people","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First off I think reading reviews is terrible if you let it let you decide what movies you want to watch. In no way what so ever was this movie slow or boring. It's 83 minutes long so you don't have to be bored with a long movie. John Travolta and Vince Vaughn and great, especially John. The movie is close enough to original for me to enjoy and it's done very well, Steve Buscemi is great as well. See this thriller cause that's exactly what this is. 8/10 "},{"Title":"derivative but still good","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A very good movie with fine performances by John Travolta, Vince Vaughn and the rest of the cast. Travolta's performing is the centerpiece and he brings warmth to the role of the father. The film offers us atmosphere and suspense aplenty.  Not the most original plot in the world but very entertaining. There was one inevitable cop-out - you'll spot it immediately. "},{"Title":"Well worth your time -SPOILERS","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a VERY entertaining film. The previews left no doubt as to what the plot (and eventual outcome) was so no mind games. The fun was getting there.Very convincing performances by the entire cast. The finalé was extremely riveting, and boom- it was over. Just like a thing like that would happen in real life. A very touching scene between Frank and Susan was when Susan was on the stretcher Frank said 'I'm sorry about the baby'All in all, a fun and interesting movie. 10/10 just because it didn't drag on and the performers were so true to life. "},{"Title":"What a piece of crap....","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be one of the worst thrillers ever made. Why waste such talent, referring to Travolta and Vaughn. It takes 5 minutes to figure out the rest of the movie, and it does not get any better. Lame story, lame acting, stupid movie. If you wanna bother,watch the trailer, it shows everything....  "},{"Title":"Nothing new here.","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If there was ever a blueprint for what a run of the mill thriller is like then this is it . The film is OK , which basically means its isnt stunning and it isnt a turkey. I cant recommend it because there is nothing memorable here to recommend. It is plainly everage. Travolta stars as as a seperated father who has a son who lives with his mother and new step father. As time goes by with promting from his son he begings to realise that the new man in his sons life is not all he is cracked up to be. Every step of the way is predictable as is the ending and the really only thing good thing i can say about Domestic Disturbance is that the  Steve Bescumi is his usual brilliant self and lightens up what otherwise is a flat film. 6 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Matt Oleary.","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Hi Everyone. Excellent acting by Matt Oleary in 'Domestic Disturbance' brilliant, for such a young actor. Keep it up.I have also seen frailty film another brilliant movie and acting by Matt i was completely amazed by the brilliance of Mr Oleary. I personally think they both are fantastic films, and if there's anyone whos got a copy of 'moms got a date with a vampire' film, I more than prepared to pay for it, i have tryed every where to find it.I have also seen matt's new movie Bick, i found it strange but also interesting, a film completely different from domestic disturbance and frailty.I am currently waiting for the release of matts new film onto DVD HAVOC, I have read about it sounds pretty good, it also stars Anne Hathaway. From Adam Khan. "},{"Title":"Finally, A Movie that Vaughn Seems Decent In.","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have seen several movies with Vince Vaughn, but this is the only film in which I could buy him as an actor. Countless films he has appeared in-- Be Cool, and almost all of the Frat Pack films-- simply fall short of capitalizing on this man's potential (which still remains a mystery to me).Playing the cruel stepfather and central antagonist of the story, Vaughn juxtaposes Travolta perfectly, and surprisingly, the hamming tendency lies dormant in both key actors.The conclusion is fun, and the movie features enough shock moments to spell out a good time.6/10. "}{"Title":"Excellent, edge-of-your-seat domestic thriller","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" DOMESTIC DISTURBANCE, in my opinion, is an excellent, edge-of-your-seat domestic thriller. If you ask me, the way that Danny (Matt O'Leary) caught Rick (Vince Vaughn) committing murder was absolutely scary. The only other thing thing that scared me was the domestic violence. To be more specific, I got really scared whenever Rick beat someone up. That really scared me! When that happened, I wanted to scream. If I were Rick's wife, I'd either get a restraining order, tell him that I want a divorce. In conclusion, I recommend this excellent, edge-of-your-seat domestic thriller to those of you who like a nice, suspenseful thriller or are fans of John Travolta. You're in for some pure thrills and a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I thought this film was great, the acting was brilliant as well. I was most impressed with the performance of Matt O'Leary as Danny, he carried the character fantastically. Vince Vaughn and John travolta were also really, really good. I haven't really seen Vince Vaughn in anything but this, but now I want to see him in more things, he was really good at playing the bad guy. Also John travolta made a great performance, I'm definitely getting this movie on DVD, I really enjoyed it. I loved this film and the acting in it by all the actors and actresses, and I give it a 10 out of 10.Luv Lexi. xxxx. "},{"Title":"This movie ROCKS!","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the coolest movies ever! It was soo awesome! I loved it! I bought it on DVD.This movie stars, Matt O'Leary, who is an awesome actor, and it was a cool movie.Vince Vaughn did a great job as a villan, and Matt was good at being scared and cool.I don't know what to say other than this is an interesting, cool, movie. I love it, and I think everyone should see it (except for little kids).Steve Buscemi was good in the movie too. John Travolta was also good as usual. "},{"Title":"Great movie! One of the best to come out in a long time!","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Domestic Disturbance is a great great thriller and is in My opinion one of John Travolta's best movies to date! Vince Vaughn was very good! Steve Buscemi added great color to the film! Teri Polo and Chris Ellis was good. The music by Mark Mancina is very good! Domestic Disturbance is a great movie and if you love the cast mentioned and great thrillers then I strongly recommend you see Domestic Disturbance! "},{"Title":"Riveting","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is full of suspense. It's a class A thriller. John Travolta was fantastic. Matthew O'Leary was a great actor for his role as Danny Morrison. Acting as a kid being followed by a murderer is not that easy and he acted great. There is so much suspense in this movie. It will keep you guessing until the very end. Not a lot of people enjoyed watching this movie but I certainly enjoyed it. Horror/Thriller is one of the best types of movies of all time. It was a great movie and I recommend it to all viewers who like John Travolta and like suspense because this movie has a lot of it.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta is like a fine wine; he becomes more seasoned with time. This movie is an excellent portrayal of Travolta's seasoned talent. It also complements the abilities of each of Travolta's co-stars, and offers an intensity throughout that is rarely seen in a PG-13 movie. It is filled with both action and drama, and is incredibly realistic. Bravo! "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Thriller! Suspenseful From Beginning To End!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"      This movie was so great! Domestic Disturbance is a brilliant suspenseful thriller! John Travolta, Vince Vaughn, Matt O'Leary, Teri Polo, and Steve Buscemi were all great at acting. Vince Vaughn is very good at being the bad guy in movies, and hiding the truth, just like his character in Psycho (1998) did. John Travolta was really good as always too. Teri Polo, Matt O'Leary, and Steve Buscemi were all really good too. I highly recommend this movie. I give Domestic Disturbance a 10 out of 10!!!!  ) See it! "},{"Title":"awful film","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  domestic disturbance was an awful film. while the actors did quite well, the plot was so full of holes you could drive a truck through. and the movie is so predictable that it becomes boring.any more writing or reading about this film is a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This really is an awful film. A TV movie with a half-decent cast. Why Buscemi get's involved in rubbish like this i don't know. And Travolta should know better by now after his recent bad bad films (generals daughter, Michael, Phenomenon, Lucky Numbers and so on). Even Tarantino can't save him now. "},{"Title":"A weak screenplay with extraordinary circumstances","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw Domestic Disturbance I got really angry only five minutes into the film. I mean, the movie has a lot of huge things happening in the story, but the dialogue doesn't live up to all those circumstances and neither does the actors. They basically don't live truthfully under the circumstances that a coldblooded murderer is staying in the family. It's a terrible film that everyone should see. I saw it as a fast way of making money for the producers. Maybe they used amateurs for the screenwriting. "}]