[{"Title":"a sexual and violent experience....but a very nice one","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"143 out of 193 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe it's because I live in Holland and have a very open mind to sex, drugs and well, maybe not to murder but I was not that shocked.Of course the rape scene was a bit hard and did not leave much to your imagination, but the rest.... Me and my girlfriend were just entertained by the rest of the movie.I just read some other 20 user comments and I was in fact shocked by those. Prudish americans and british telling you that it is shocking and garbage and so on. A 5.0 average makes also clear that most of the people are still filled with tabboos.Big erections and mindless sex.... so what? shooting people up there arse? surely I'd prefer that compared to what happens to the guy that rapes marsellus wallace in Pulp Fiction.Indeed this was a low budget movie and the camerawork was perhaps of poor quality but it suits the pic. As a student indeed a search for reasons and meaning and I find it hihgly irritating that some people complain about things left unexplained. What are you? Can't you think and maybe even guess for yourselves? Does everything have to be explained?We both liked it and surely I understand this is not a movie for everyone. I think more of it as an experimental piece of work, seek your own reasons for what they are doing, enjoy this wild ride and if you persist in having a monumentuous storyline, oscar performances and so on, and you are not specifically entertained by x rated sex, lots of blood and the socalled 'holes' in this story then....Just don't watch this movie!!!!The backside of the DVD or VHS gives plenty of clues that this is a controversial movie and when you have an open mind and like these kind of movies, i recommend it.We give it a 7.0 "},{"Title":"Such a shame","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"150 out of 211 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It always interests me that anyone can really call this porn. This is an interesting film, even if you think it's 'crap'. Why is it that all the men I know who've watched it, think it's crap? I teach this film as part of a course and without fail all male students thus far have said it's 'not porn' and the thing they most objected to was seeing 'grannies doin' it'. Could it be the fact that for once we actually see men's faces when they come that disturbs so much? What we never or rarely see in porn, is a male appearing vulnerable. In Baise-Moi this is explored. As is said above, yes the 'plot' may be virtually non-existent, but isn't that the case with most regurgitated mainstream films anyway? This film isn't about stimulating an audience sexually, be they male or female, indeed it is just as objectionable to women as it is to men. But I do believe that the reasons are different. The feedback I've received is that men are expecting to be aroused either through plot, character or scenes of a blatant sexual nature. Women are generally just intrigued and then often put off by the violence - by the women - that is often apparently unmotivated. We don't really see films where women are violent without 'good' cause, it's too disturbing and dispels too many myths that potentially undermine society, supposedly. Only just over a decade ago a film, which by comparison views like Bambi, was almost not made because it depicted 'female violence'. Thelma and Louise was viewed as a rather risky production.So I'm not surprised that Baise-Moi gets a slating. It may well be all those things that the above reviewer suggests, and indeed there are elements I agree with. But this is an important film, even if you watch it just to hate it. If you do hate it, all I ask is that you really think about why you hate it. If you want CGI, predictable narrative structure, drip-feed invisible editing, and to feel absorbed and immersed (I knock none of these things), then don't bother. If you're a thinking person who has an inquiring mind, give it a go. "},{"Title":"A thought provoking shocker...","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"83 out of 111 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've read a lot of the comments for this movie and think that many of you have missed the point.  The directors claim this to be a movie about friendship - and that the bonds of that relationship have nothing to do with the circumstances from which they are born.  I'm somewhat sceptical about that.  If you just wanted to make a movie about friendship, it could be about nuns.  Or puppies.  Or just about anything. But Baise-moi (which translates as Shag Me, not F**k Me) serves to highlight very clearly the moral hypocrisy that surrounds cinema, and has done ever since the days of the Hayes Code.  The irony here lies in the fact that it is the explicit sex that caused the film to be banned in so many territories.  No one has a problem with the violence. Sure, the violence might be simulated, and the sex isn't - but they both occupy the same space on the screen.  And while it's legal to have sex in the privacy of your home, the violence depicted could never be legal. After all, you can see worse violence in Freddy vs. Jason, and more explicit sex on any porn video you might choose, so what is it about the combination that riles people so? I'll concede that the film is flawed, and demonstrates the debutant directors lack of experience, but for the challenge it sets to our jaded set of morals in the west, it should be applauded. "},{"Title":"Coarse and Crude the Film as Well as Its Subjects","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"84 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw a poster advertising this film on a street in Helsinki, Finland in June of 2000.  What caught my attention was the proud proclamation advising all readers that the movie, although itself French, had been Banned in France.  Upon returning home to New York, I discovered that one of the Art House movie theaters in the City was screening the film, and so (with my Finnish fiancee) decided to see what all the fuss was about.  Boy, did we ever.From the comments read here, and the reviews I knew the movie was violent and sexually explicit.  Not necessarily offended by either of these two conditions, I went with an open mind to see what had perturbed the sensibilities of our Gallic cousins.  Presumably, as anyone who is reading this will know, the story involves two women who embark on a crime and murder spree in France (the movie has English subtitles).  The resemblance to Thelma and Louise however, ends with that; the sex is unusually graphic (and in copious supply) as is the violence (a lot of stomping to death, and a lot of blood and other organic matter splattering after bullet impact).On an intellectual level, one could make the case that the film's very essence is the relationship of sex and violence (as manifested by the only sex these women know one is a small-time prostitute, and the other has earned money from time to time by performing in pornographic films.  When they, during their descent into crime and murder, have the upper hand over their sexual situations, they react only with the same violence and brutality that they themselves know and understand.  It is important to note, however, that the victims of their rampage are not only creepy men interested in creepy sex, (of which there are several)but innocent passersby, a woman at an ATM, for example, as well.I myself do not really understand why the repeated porn-movie shots were all that necessary, (except to depict the physical contact as cruel, unpassionate and debased) and the unrelenting gore did get rather tedious after the first few violent spasms.It is a coarse and crude movie, but in fairness, it is dealing with coarse and crude people and equally unpleasant circumstances.  From one point of view, the lives of the French underclasses is explored, and it's pretty grim; a travelogue for France it definitely is not- perhaps that's why the French banned it. "},{"Title":"Definitely not for everyone","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"50 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Don't be swayed by all the negative comments, Baise Moi is a worthwhile film.  Yes the sex is explicit, and much of the violence simply pointless, but underneath it all remains a compelling vision of two people on a road trip to hell.  Both leads may come from porn, but their acting skills are totally credible.  One of the most nihilistic movies ever made.   "},{"Title":"No Closing Your Eyes to Society's Injustice","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Why are people so outraged by BAISE-MOI (which literally means F**K ME, the English language title is a travesty) ? Is it because of the explicit sex (far more fleeting than that shown in any porno tape freely available at most corner video shops), the stylized ultra-violence or the combination of the two ? Unlike some films, this one doesn't in any way glorify violence though, it merely shows the sad inevitability of it as far as its two main characters are concerned.Both Nadine (Karen Lancaume aka Karen Bach) and Manu (Raffaella Anderson) routinely endure violation both in word and deed on an almost daily basis as sex workers, prostitute and part-time porno performer respectively. The gang rape of Manu and her drug-addicted friend shown here is totally different from the clichéd they-may-protest-at-first type of rape scene encountered in some adults only features. While the other girl cries and screams throughout (and is ever more horribly abused because of it), Manu adopts a facade of indifferent resignation, cleverly robbing her rapists of their sadistic thrill. Rest assured that the scene goes on a lot longer than anyone would want it to and that it is very painful to watch, which is the whole point of it. When Manu and Nadine meet and embark on their violent road trip, fully aware that they ultimately can't 'get away with it', sex becomes a source of liberation to them. Like so many guys on the lam in any criminal buddy movie you can think of, they take what they want, when and how they want it, casually discarding (not always violently) their casual partners post-orgasm. One of the most common accusations at porn's address is that the explicit sex scenes dehumanize the people performing them, but here that could not be further from the truth.Former hardcore actresses Lancaume and Anderson are both terrific in their parts and the sex they have (and, yes, it is 'real' sex) enhances their characterizations, rendering them more complete. The 'cinema vérité' rawness of the digital video format in which it was shot, interrupted by sudden flashes of style when violence erupts (an artistic decision to give the viewer a feel for the power and pleasure the women derive from their acts as an escape route from their drab lives), draws the viewer uncomfortably close to the action. Again, that seems to be the point. So don't let the negative publicity fool you. BAISE-MOI is a rare film that utterly achieves what it sets out to do and it bodes well for debut cinéastes Despentes (author of the sulfurous source novel) and ex-porn star Coralie. You may love it (as I obviously did) or you may hate it, but this is an important film that no one is likely to ever forget, no matter how hard they might try. "},{"Title":"useful perhaps in looking at the issues it raises","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm not exactly a Francophile. I love the cooking but hate the restaurants. French is one of the great languages of the world, but I find the French attitude to it xenophobic. Yet there is one thing that always stirs my passion. I admire them for it. I wish we had an ounce of it in Britain.The best known examples of course are the film protests in 1968 &#150; a time when everyone was protesting about everything. But they helped, indirectly, to restore the international prestige of French cinema. When Baise-Moi was banned shortly after release in 2000, there were spontaneous street protests. Now this is a bit different &#150; the film's artistic merits or lack of them are still a matter of debate. But I take my hats off to the French. I would love to see the British protest in the name of cinematic freedom. (The ban was eventually lifted after separate protests signed by Parisian intellectuals.)As you will already have guessed, the issues around this film are complicated. And they get worse. There is a tendency to react emotively to any highly charged sexual issues. This tendency can maybe blind us somewhat when it comes to analysing more important ones.This is a film made by women, about women living on the fringes of society. I was once importunate enough to argue with acclaimed filmmaker Gaspar Noé (after a public screening of Irreversible) that his film didn't address the issue of rape as well as Baise Moi. I still believe that, although Irreversible is a landmark film for other reasons entirely. Most films about rape follow male-orientated story lines. They often emphasise the purely physical, violence-aspect (as in Irreversible) or have a strong woman seeking and finding redress (as in The Accused). The reality is that most rape victims are traumatised mentally and emotionally. Physical hurt as a result of violence is no less an issue, but a separate one. Although The Accused looks at some of the metal trauma, it ultimately plays out as a success story. Few rape victims take on such a masculinised determination to succeed against the odds. Odds which are still stacked against the victim.What I liked about Baise-Moi is that it eschews the woman-survivor scenario for a more realistic picture of lasting psychological damage. Films that show the real horror of rape may discourage it more than ones that show women 'getting over it.' One of the victims of rape in Baise-Moi actually 'lets' her assailants get on with it, commenting to her friend afterwards that at least they didn't wind up dead. The rape (and the violence) of Baise-Moi convinced me that she probably hedged her bets wisely. Her lack of struggle didn't, in my mind, make her any the less a victim. And neither did the unpleasant fact that she was a part-time prostitute make her any more 'deserving.' This is something that it is not easy to live with. As a society, we have moved past the point where a girl in a short skirt acting flirtatiously (The Accused) is 'asking for it' or 'deserving of rape.' But where is our cut-off point? The marginals in society are often seen as dispensable. No-one wants to acknowledge them &#150; least of all mainstream filmmakers. Yet they can be just as much victims.Another thing I like about Baise-Moi is that the two girls that form a bond and go on a road trip are fully developed as characters. Like most young women, they enjoy having a good time and going after boys. But they have been mentally scarred. One of them has been brutally gang-raped and the other has watched her only friend being killed. They are not 'good girls gone bad'. They are fairly 'bad' already. But they are still victims. Beneath their bravado their mental deterioration is apparent. In Black Snake Moan, the horrific effects of a redneck woman's history of sexual abuse and rape are given some time through Christina Ricci's great acting, but the plot is driven by male characters towards a stupid and not very believable conclusion. In Baise-Moi, it is the trauma that the women went through that drives the plot. (Sadly one of the main actresses, Karen Bach committed suicide in 2005.) The film is arguably weakened by a change of style. The initial scenes are very realistic, including the horrific rape. But then the main protagonists go on a killing spree reminiscent of Natural Born Killers on trash aesthetic. Perhaps this is appropriate &#150; they live in la-la land as long as they can. But it will confuse some viewers.To reclaim women's rights over their true sexuality, to seize it back from the male gaze. It's always men who have a problem with a woman's sex that's their problem, not ours. A noble aim by the filmmakers. But will feminists baulk when they realise that one of the directors and two of the stars have previously worked in hard-core pornography? There's no logical reason why sex scenes should only be in porn, says Trinh Thi. Indeed, Hollywood agrees. I am sure there are convincing psychological arguments, but realistic sex still upsets many audiences (personally I have more of a problem with overly-realistic violence).This analysis has outstayed its welcome. I have laboured the good points of the film and rated it accordingly. On a technical level, the idea of using only natural lighting also works well. But apart from its stand against censorship and the way it deals with rape, the film is lacking in many respects. It was made on a very small budget and it shows. The acting is acceptable but not much is demanded from actors in terms of interiorisation and so on. There's a good soundtrack. But the main reason to see the film may probably be to argue over the issues it raises. "},{"Title":"It's got nobs in and I don't mean rich people","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"44 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Baise-moi is the second example of the recent French Graphic Rape Wave of cinema. Like a skanky French Natural Born Killers but without the talent, irony or indeed entertainment, the heavy-handed symbolism and maddening acting should have you turning off after the first 40 minutes. You continue to watch however, mainly though a fascination as to how far the director is willing to push the boundaries of good taste in order to convince us of his point. Something to do with society raping people and by-products of the system, a reflection of the perversity at the root of civilisation, monkeys with guns and Girl Power.Joining the sensational release of Irreversible, with its centrepiece a nine minute rape scene, it could look to some that modern French cinema had found itself in a quandary, desperately seeking its next big theme in the rapidly thinning file of the last taboos. Thankfully, L'Homme du train dispelled those fears,at least for now. And maybe just two films don't make a wave, perhaps just a ripple.However, nothing changes the fact that when the closing credits finally arrived, I was angry. Because it was rubbish. Not a patch on the glory of La Haine which dealt with a similar rage, but with far more heart and intelligence. Baise-Moi also has the worst soundtrack ever. I've got to stop wasting my life watching all these terrible films.  "},{"Title":"Unpleasant, unnecessary.","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"60 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the rare movies that I did not immediately discuss with my friends after watching it. This wasn't because it had particularly entranced or impressed me. The contrary, it had given me nothing at all.Why? Because somehow, everything was so much overdone that I couldn't take this film seriously anymore. There was so much sex and violence that I got the strong impression that the film was trying very, very hard to be offensive, as if it was aiming at superlatives in ugliness, rather than in telling a convincing tale about two women caught in a spiral of crime.Baise-moi had been described as Thelma & Louise with actual sex to me. Well, it is true that the main idea is similar. There are two women traveling through the country because they've committed crimes and know that their lives are finished now, that the police are going to catch them, and they decide that now that everything's over anyway, there is no way to hold back.Baise-moi had been described as a feminist film where women, who had suffered from male dominance in the past, exact revenge upon the men that they encounter.This is something that I had never interpreted into this film, simply because none of these women had ever been innocent, and because they do not just kill irresponsible, violent men, but also men that they seduce themselves, men that show the sense of wanting to do protected sex. And they kill women. No, they are in no way better than the characters that they encounter and murder in hideous, brutal ways.How easily the heroines decide to murder, and how much pleasure they take in it, made it absolutely impossible for me to relate to them in any way, or even take them seriously. It was just all too much. Too much sex, too much violence. I got the feeling that sex and violence were only there in order to create a superlative in ugliness, rather than in conveying a story, or making a point.Baise-moi left me with no impression, hadn't set me thinking, because it was so far removed from any real world. So constructed, unrealistic and over the top.There was nothing that I could do with this film, there was simply nothing about it to think about, other than Why did they make this terrible film? Had the intense unpleasantness going on in this film, served a purpose, I'd easily accepted it. But since I found nothing, since the film's story appeared to be not more than an excuse to squeeze as much and as ugly sex as possible into one film... I filed it away under unnecessary torture, decided to never ever, EVER, watch this film again, and I now consider this to be the worst film I've ever seen. Worst, not just because it really isn't my cup of tea to watch people get raped, rape, have sex in other forms and kill one another... but because whatever it was that the makers wanted to tell the world with their film... if they wanted to say anything at all... it just didn't work. And there's nothing else that could save this film, because it's also filmed in such an ugly style. "},{"Title":"Simply not very good.","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"28 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Amidst all the controversy about the porno-style sex scenes, random acts of violence, liberal depictions of drug use and so on it seems the central question has been lost - is Baise-moi actually any good? Well, the answer is No - not really.It starts well enough, nicely setting up the two main characters with some very well-acted, almost documentary-like scenes. Well, I say nicely - the word seems hardly appropriate when these scenes include Manu and another woman suffering a genuinely harrowing rape while Karen prostitutes herself, along with a liberal smattering of general sex, violence and substance abuse. Nevertheless, the opening is well-played out and directed with surprising flair (especially considering that this is the debut movie for both its directors).However, when the plot kicks in proper and the two women end up on the run together the film's interest begins to drop fast. Oddly, the further out of control the two protagonists get the less exciting the story is - it gradually becomes a mere retread of countless other low-grade revenge/exploitation movies, simply with a slightly more porno feel. By the denouement, to be brutally honest, I was bored stiff (a stiffness which is nothing to do with the pornographic element of the movie, I assure you).One of the main problems is the inherent lack of any kind of point. The beginning of the movie seems to be setting the film up as an analysis of our responses to violence - of how an upbringing in a cruel and violent environment can manifest those tendencies in ourselves - and also as a commentary on the parallels and links between violence and the act of fornication. However, it completely fails to deliver on either of these promises in the second and third acts and, increasingly, one gets the feeling the film's only reason for being is that it thinks it is cool. Unfortunately for Baise-moi, it isn't. It's a wasted opportunity. It's only real use is as a shock tactic, but even this is wasted on anyone who's seen a porn film - the violence side of it is no worse than is seen in any number of straight-to-video action/thriller flicks.Ultimately, all there is to recommend Baise-moi is a couple of impressive acting performances, a few amusing lines of dialogue and a thought-provoking 20 minutes at the start. The rest, sadly, is nothing to get excited about. "}{"Title":"A new benchmark... in bad movies.","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"25 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've just had the misfortune of sitting through this film. That it's title translates into 'F*** Me' in English was hardly promising - but I tried to keep an open mind throughout.Within minutes - I was left baffled by a plot that barely makes sense, acting that makes daytime tv soap operas look like Oscar material, and some of the worst directing I've ever seen.The violence within the film is highly graphic, but nothing particularly terrible.  There's much worse in several critically acclaimed films that I really enjoyed - so that in itself isn't a problem for me.  What is a problem is that the film's protagonists have no reason for doing what they do - other than their graphic rape at the beginning.  If this film can be compared to 'Thelma & Louise' in any way, its that Themla and Louise were both likeable people who ended up in a bad situation they couldn't escape from.  The leads in this film are not exactly likeable at the start of the picture, let alone when they go on a killing spree murdering anyone and everyone that gets in their way.The rape sequence is very graphic - and certainly more realistic than your average Hollywood attempts.  But there is no real explanation as to why it causes the characters to lose control - it just does.  Obviously, rape is a tramuatic experience - but this film seems to just trivilise their order in an attempt to score cheap 'shock points'.The explicit nature continues with sex scene after sex scene.  Blow jobs, sex from both front and behind, standing up, lying down, on all fours - whatever your dirty favourite - chances are its in here... and seemingly for little reason other than titilation.Chances of the film being saved by feminist undertones are not taken.  Thelma and Louise took revenge on the kind of men who raped them, this women just kill whoever they feel like.  Not even 'Ms 45' killed everyone she could - only men who she had an understandable fear of following her ordeal.Certainly not a film for the faint of heart, I thought I could stomach almost anything - but watching them murder yet another person unjustly whilst having sex with yet another person who they later murder - it all became a bit too much.  I didn't so much find it shocking, as entirely boring after a while.  That the potentially enjoyable scenes were scuppered by violence seconds before they could've gotten interesting didn't help either!To conclude - I learned nothing from this film.  It's appalling direction and somewhat hammy subtitles (in English, possibly identical to the French - but I couldn't tell you for certain), as well as some dreadful acting from its leads... and worst of all - a jumpy nature that effectively ruined every murder - simply left me unable to find any merits within this picture.  I may have seen a worse film... but I'd be hard pressed to name one!Avoid like the plague! "},{"Title":"My review (contains spoilers)","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Controversial. Explicit. Uncut. All true? Big yes. But does it live up the hype? I rented the tape in the same week as it was banned in Australia and for the same reasons the people there went to see it, I rented it I just wanted to know what kinda film created all the buzz.Two women kill - separately - two people and they decide to run. They meet at the train station and find out there are no trains going anywhere at that time of the night. They go together with a car and leave a trail of destruction behind them.Combine this with explicit sex (even porn), lots of ultra violence and you've got a clear picture of Baise-Moi. The most controversial thing about this film are the sex-scenes, which are - at times - hardcore. I admire the fact the makers had the guts to film them and even let it pass in the editing room, but I have a suspicious feeling they did it just for the effect. The violence is also explicit and sometimes gory. But ladies, nouvelle violence died about seven years ago. They also discuss the fact they should say something cool whenever they kill people. But somehow they never manage to really say anything important, to make a statement. Okay, they are both on the run and one of them was raped earlier in the film, but they never give a clear motivation for the killing. Is it they want to have revenge on all the men? Well, later in the film, in a sex-club, they also kill women.If you look beside the controversy you can see that this could be a good movie, an evil Thelma and Louise, but the makers are too much focused on the sex and the violence and that makes it nothing more than an exploitation flick. The ending was good, though.  "},{"Title":"Thelma & Louise for grownups","Date":"11 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was not one of the infamous video nasties, but it is nonetheless a nasty video. The sex is raw and the violence is in-your-face, just like the title, which was translated into Rape Me in the US, but is more appropriately F*ck Me. I noted that it was supposedly banned in it's home country, France, and it was certainly banned in other countries like Australia or heavily cut. Do not think for one moment that it was banned for sex or violence. It was banned because of the depiction of men in the film, not a single one with any redeeming social values. It is a hard film to take because all the men in it are pigs.It is based upon a novel by Virginie Despentes who, with Coralie wrote and directed this film. This is a women's film about women's rage. If this is the way women really feel when they are p*ssed, then you better be warned.It open with a rape that leaves nothing to the imagination. There is no doubt about the pain being felt. One of the victims, and another woman who just saw her friend killed, join together in an adventure across France. It becomes more and more violent as they go on. Not cartoonish, like Natural Born Killers, but raw violence; uncaring, unmerciful, and brutal.The sex is real, but it is like nothing you see in porn films. The sex is driven by the women's needs, it shows the vulnerability of men during orgasm, and the men are discarded like used tissues, if they are not killed, when the women have been satisfied.They even have a Thelma and Louise plan to die together by jumping off a cliff. Circumstances do not allow that to happen, and the ending is rather abrupt and somewhat lacking.Men joke about PMS, but if it is anything like the rage depicted by the women who made this film, you better watch out. This rage is nothing to joke about. "},{"Title":"A Hard movie, not for weaks or censors!","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have the luck of watching Baise Moi in the Buenos Aires film festival. Its a movie banned in several places because of it explicit content of sex and violence. Its a crossover between hardcore pornography and gore, something very unusual(another movie in this way is Porno Holocaust by Joe Damato but that movie have the sex and the violence more in a commercial way and the sex scenes looks to be filmed apart from the main movie). In this movie, the use of extreme hardcore and violence help to create a very politically incorrect situation, and thats the best of this movie. The censorship hates this kind of movies, like some part of the society who are weak people and priest-minded idiots. I give this movie a 10 because of its courage. "},{"Title":"Requiem for a Pornstar.","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've seen Baise-Moi on DVD several weeks ago. The movie made also a short run in Adult Theaters here in México City as Viólame! but I don't think it scored high. I enjoy a pretty strong stomach and, with the years passing by, I became more open-minded and tolerant (thank God something good comes also with the aging process...). The movie contains a graphic rape sequence, a few more explicit sex scenes and tons of gore and violence, without being able to deliver a message. Perhaps it was supposed to be just a provocative movie but, the violence in particular, remains almost unexplained and gratuitous and, therefore, it can only be considered pure exploitation. Graphic depiction of violence and sex in movies absolutely don't offend me (on the contrary, if well done and essential to the plot, I surely like it), but I wasn't very impressed by this one. I mostly agreed with the comment posted on IMDb so, I didn't feel any interests in posting another comment, since there was not much else I could say. However, last week, I heard on the radio, while listening to a variety program which deals with music and movies, that on January 28th, Karen Lancaume aka Karen Bach, Nadine, one of the two main characters of this movie, took her own life at age 31. A suicide news note is always a sad note but the suicide of a person who has gained certain notoriety, usually (and unfortunately) stirs-up a process of exploitation based on bad publicity and I wouldn't be surprised at all, if the movie would make another run in theaters and the sales of the DVD would benefit of an important boost. How sad! Poor exploited Karen; she surely was a pretty lady and perhaps even a fine person but, at age 31, in spite of being still a young woman, she already passed prime-time which for an Adult Movie Star (that's what she was whit 28 porn-vids and one main-stream movie, also classified as porn, in her résumé), is just about around that age. The porn industry system is allegedly very cruel and burns-up those girls, who decide to go for it, very quickly. The competition of new young hungry starlets perhaps became unbeatable and unbearable for her or else... We shall never know why she did it; we can only guess she was profoundly unhappy and severely depressed. I wish (and I hope I'm not the only one), she has now finally found the peace and happiness she couldn't find in life. Karen REQUIESCAT IN PACEM! "},{"Title":"Strong stuff!","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Baise-Moi is one of the most shocking movies ever made.The film is truly ugly in its depiction of sex,brutality and rape.The story is simplea rape victim and a hooker join together to trek Paris leaving trail of bloody corpses behind them.The two leads(real porn stars Raffaella Anderson and Karen Lancaume)have graphic sex and they also do a lot of drugs and kill plenty of people in many gory and bizarre ways.The film is extremely violent-the rape scene at the beginning is very ugly and uncompromising.Many viewers sitting with me in the cinema left the theatre offended.This is strong stuff and definitely not for everybody,but it still has some kind of a social impact,so I wouldn't go so far to call it mindless exploitation.It is raw and convincing when when it shows women being abused by men or when it shows women working in the sex trade.Highly recommended.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"If you want a good film watchThelma & Louise, if you want good porn watch Deep Throat","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a fairly mediocre porn film dressed up as art. Extremely violent, and border line hardcore. Stanley Kubrick talked for years about wanting to make a porn film for mainstream audiences, but I doubt even he could have got this past the censors.The plot(which has been likened to Thelma and Louise) concerns two french girls who go on a sex and murder spree after falling foul of a couple of degenerates. They are fairly indiscriminate with thier victims, both male and female. The film basically moves from one set piece to another; sex-murder, sex-murder, and thats it.I know people will say i`m missing the point, that it`s about female empowerment, but I would have thought you could tell that story more effectivly if the film had less T+A. I don`t want to sound xenaphobic, but I wonder if this film would have got past the censor, if it had starred someone such as Tabitha Cash, rather then being a franch art film "},{"Title":"Absolutely, definitely Porn","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Everyone who defends this (needlessly) controversial film likes to say that it's absolutely, definitely not porn. They say this because the film is not meant for masturbation or some other legally defining excuse. Even the filmmakers have cried out, This is not porn! in their own defense.But the thing is&#x85; this movie is totally porn. It gleefully fetishisizes violence, rape, drug use, lesbianism, domestic abuse, sodomy, robbery, gambling, blow jobs, punk-music, revenge, menstruation, patriarchal oppression, suicide and your good old fashioned non-simulated sex. Most of the time the script feels like it's just ticking off boxes on some all inclusive list of kinks. And it's all done for the money shot, baby&#x85; every time. You know why it's porn? It's porn because it shows all of those things in detailed close ups&#x85; but it has nothing to say about any of them.Directed in a classic DIY style and squarely falling into the New French Extremism movement, it was made by two-women. One a former punk turned massage-parlour hostess and the other an ex-porn star. It features two other female porn actresses mass-murdering and fornicating (imdb won't let me use the word I want to use) across France, all in trash aesthetic video and shot in available light. It's a female power fantasy. An act of sexual reclamation that reverses the conversation on gender violence and it's created by actual sex-workers. So that, in and of itself, is interesting&#x85; the actual film, however, is tedious and artificial.At times the movie does seem to show a passing interest in addressing genuine gender-war rage, but that's all thoroughly lost in its own appetite for shock imagery and its desperate need to be offensive. I've read interviews where the filmmakers claim the movie speaks to all kinds of social injustices, from class separation to racism, and I suppose those ingredients are there in the mix, but in the end this movie is really only concerned with being more pornography in a porn saturated world.Although the fact that the movie has been banned in several countries, including France, suggests that it's just the sort of artistic exercise society needs. Sadly. So there's that.If you're into camp, actual on camera sex (Raffaela Anderson is pretty hot) and you don't mind a very intense rape scene (why is the sex so real and the violence so cartoonish in this movie?), I guess it's a pretty intriguing thing to watch. "},{"Title":"Nihilism at its best","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Baise Moi is shocking, no doubt about it. Only in hindsight have I realised how interesting it is as a testimony to human emotions diverging from the sticky norm of main stream American movies. After all we do not live in a world of perfect harmony, and cruelty, irrationality and perversion intertwines with twisted although powerful sentiments of compassion and friendship.One would be hard pressed to argue that the film is speculative in a commercial sense. It is neither compelling as a porn movie nor conceived ever to reach a large audience. On the contrary it brings across male sexuality as nihilist and deprived of emotion. A standpoint which certainly is debatable but on the other hand not necessarily destined as a comment on all male sexuality as such by the women behind the film.I frequently found myself wondering how many films attempt to portray female degradation without telling the full graphic story. Why is it that the viewer's compassion for the female is transformed into anger with the producer as soon as the male actor retracts an erected penis after half fulfilling the rape? This is no more rational than the twisted logic of the films plot.My sentiment is that this film is not provocative in the same may as other commercial pornographic action films (i.e. simply politically incorrect). By adding those few extra shots and comments that shifts the over all impression into the nihilist sphere the producer manages to come across with a film that for most viewers holds little interest simply as a porn or action film. This effect is created by showing us aspects that confuses the viewers and plays with our expectations. One could say that as far as our norms go this is matter out of place, quoting the famous words of anthropologist Margaret Mead. I actually think quite a few male spectators are upset because these women have perverted what could have been a perfectly good porn film. "},{"Title":"this film is not for those who have morals in cinema","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Nobody can call this movie as a good one. Being good is against Baise-Moi's nature i think, nothing can be good for this movie. The movie has many things in common with Haneke's Funny Games. I wont mention Thelma and Louise and Jenkins' Monster like many other people did here. These movies' nature has nothing in common with this movie. You can see some movies together with your friends, however some movies are for you alone. Baise-moi is not entertaining, so one must see it alone. If you have boundaries in your mind, this film is not for you. You may be revolted by the movie when you saw a man is actually raping a woman, because director leaves nothing for your imagination and shows everything. Acting is sometimes poor, but it makes characters a little bit intimate. If you think that there must be no morals in cinema this film is for you. If you are sick of good, handsome guys and beautiful, loving ladies in movies, go and see this movie, because it is real.Erkan Erginci "}{"Title":"Natural born french killers","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of people think this film has been banned in France, it actually wasn't. What happened is that in France the highest restriction you can get for a film is no one under 18 allowed but this restriction hasn't been used in almost 20 years, and because France his known not to be strict on ratings, it was a shock when this movie got the infamous -18 rating.The film in itself is very disturbing, not so much for the porno scenes in it, but more for the violence, for example killing innocent pepole, cops.... This film also has some awfull acting, what do you expect when you have a female Porno director, who cast other porno stars to be the leads in the film.To finish, don't expect to be entertained while watching this film and if you are one of thoese who waited for the video don't watch it with your kids. "},{"Title":"Formidable! A masterclass in extreme film making.","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There is an apocryphal story about an early silent movie showing arailroad train heading towards the screen. The audience allegedlyscreamed and ran for their lives in a panic. I imagine much the same reaction would happen with this film ifthe audience had never seen the likes of Reservoir Dogs and atleast part of a real porn film.Once you recover from the shock however, you will find here aremarkable piece of low-budget filmmaking. To be honest, I wasdistracted by some of the scenes on first viewing and didn't reallyget the plot. But, having seen an interview with the film's directors, Iwatched it again and found it a truly outstanding work. Thestorytelling, editing and acting are first class. Filmed in a fewweeks using only available light, and a mix of DV and film, it is amovie that other (broad-minded) aspiring filmmakers shouldexamine closely.In terms of ground-breaking and boundary-pushing the film ranksalongside Cronenberg's Crash. Where Baise-Moi scores overCronenberg is in how the film manages to create empathy with thetwo protagonists despite the fact that they become amoral,murderous thugs. Part of this is down to the strong sourcematerial (the eponymous novel) but great credit should also go tothe two lead actresses Karen Bach and Rafaella Anderson.Anderson in particular has an air of childish impudence whichmakes you long to find some reason to excuse her violent actions.Is this movie a deconstruction of femininity in a post-feminist worldor simply a nihilistic roller coaster of an action movie? I think itworks on both those levels. What it definitely is not is a porn flickdespite the explicit sex. Put aside your prejudices; take along thesmelling salts and judge for yourself.   "},{"Title":"Not Just porn,  but some good acting","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, I don't know how to call this film.....It is not porn, not drama...It is anything, but it is a great great flim. The acting is good even if Anderson and Bach are hardcore porn actresses, their job in this film is very decent....ok, they will not win an Oscar, but here they do a god job. The story, like the book, is a little predictible but it works.... The first 20 minutes are plenty of strong sex and violence.....it will be hard to see this film if you don't have a tough stomach;But if you like action and explicit sex, this film is for you. Ok, i said this was a good film and it is.....not a masterpiece but enterteining... I give a 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but the book is lightyears better","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After I had finished the book (in one session) I was totally smitten. And one of the first thoughts that occured to me was, damn, this is the stuff good movies are made of, but then I thought, no, you cannot possibly make a movie that does the book justice and get it actually shown on the big screen at the same time. Baise Moi, for whichever reason, was never released in Austria. I have watched it on DVD, an Italian release with a runtime of 75 minutes. I have no idea what cuts have been made but there are a lot of essential scenes missing that were in the book. I'd really like to know what the runtime of the original cut was and if some of these missing scenes have actually been shot or not, specifically, to mention just one,  the scene in the pastry shop where they shoot the toddler. Still, this is a very good movie - if you judge it per se and not in conjunction with the book. I'd probably give it higher credit had I not read the book before. Both leading ladies, Rafaella Anderson and Karen Bach, are excellent and thoroughly convincing in their roles. The music by Varou Jan really kicks. Benoit Chamillard's cinematography with ample use of steady cam takes you on a visually stunning thrill ride that leaves you catching for breath.   Coralie Trinh Thi's direction is very good, too. she lead her principal actresses (and the rest of the cast) to top performances. Still she is to blame for the movie's main shortcomings as she co-wrote the script. I am totally disappointed (maybe my expectations were just too high) by Virginie Despentes' adaption of her own book. Probably her own inner censor took over, or, to phrase it differently cinema as the art of the possible. I voted it a 9.  "},{"Title":"You won't be the same person after having seen this !","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Some films are made to just be provocative. Add some sex sequences and some violence and you get a wave of anger and insult in response of what the director wanted to point out. Baise Moi is a masterpiece which should be seen by consentant adults ready to face reality and who want to live open minded. Yes this film is X rated for adults only but it is not pornographic !!! It is just to tough for young audiences. Baise Moi belongs to these Feature-Realism category where you find Cassavetes, Godard and others. You get in touch with the truth of what these people live, breath and feel. It tells the story (which could be real !) of two women in a world where being a women souds like hell. What about feeling compassion for Serial Killers ? What about understanding how a human being could turn himself into a monster ? What would our life mean if it doesn't worth anything to anybody ? This film shows you what you are not ready to watch and hear. This film connects you with these people frightenning us everyday and against who we protect ourselves without hearing the sound of their sufferings. It's tough, brutal, rough and so true ! Rape yourself and learn ! I want to thank the two directors and the actresses. They are more than gifted and deserve a great future !  "},{"Title":"Glorification of the condemned","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm sick of the open mind argument. I'm generally quite open-minded, but this sort of line is basically made by people who enjoy things that should not be enjoyed. You know what, there is a reason so many people are disgusted by this. And just because someone out there isn't doesn't make it less so. There is, after all, a reason for the existence of the feeling of disgust, and no amount of open mind or pushing the envelope should eliminate that feeling. Otherwise we're no better than senseless living things.Back to the film. Another argument is that this film puts women in the roles normally reserved for men, which may be why men don't like it. But just because it proves revolting for more men than would otherwise doesn't make it great. Maybe men shouldn't be turned on by what's dominating the movie industry, but is the answer for women to do the same? Maybe, if you don't like movies, TV, and entertainment having so much sexual objectification of women, so much violence, don't watch them.And if you're a director, don't make them.Otherwise, some day someone will ask for an open mind when what happened in this movie happen in real life.Heck, some people seem to like it so much. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece, end of story","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Like I said, Baise-Moi is a chef d'oeuvre and there is no need to have a discussion about. But if you want real arguments, I just have to say I never see of my life a story like that, with so much pain in there. Of course, criminal acts like murder are not a good example for youth, but wake up, this is not a silly movie about youth, revenge against society or girl power, it's just a violently superb road-movie about two hopeless young women already dead when they meet each others. A story about friendship. It's us against the world. "},{"Title":"Who said porn stars can't make a film","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"22 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Interestingly enough, THEY CAN'T.This movie tried it's best to rank with other video-nasties. In remembrance of Thriller-A Cruel Picture mixed with the plot of Thelma and Louise, this movie fails to offer any original style at all. Many women state that men can't openly watch this film and that men are closed minded to films like this. Others conclude people don't like this film because it's too explicit. Well let me be the first to say that, unlike the film makers, most human beings are intelligent people, specifically those commenting on this board(other than those that even consider this movie worthwhile). If you don't like explicit material, than most people naturally don't watch it. And if you are new to the genre, you're probably not starting with this film. Therefore we can conclude logically that most people seeing this film have experience with films by Lucio Fulci, Pier Paolo Pasolini, Gasper Noe, Alejandro Jodorosky... The difference, however between the above filmmakers and the makers of this film is that they offer intelligent, thought-out pieces that often work as metaphors of particular events. To say that this film is a metaphor of the way women feel towards a male dominated society is just ignorant.Some people say this film does not have a story, unfortunately this is not true. The film does have a story, a very simple revenge story that seemed to be written by aggrevated 8th graders. The directing in the film is insulting and it insults the other great film makers who spend long hours writing brilliant allegories and then translating through the film medium. This film, if anything, resembles that of a Troma film with explicit sex. The movie is almost laughably bad, trying to achieve a high status through publicity. The violence is, however, well done, and that does give the film some merits. But the inclusion of completely unthought sexual scenes ruins this immediately. It's not like people watching this film have not seen the act of sex before.When a movie goer goes to see a film, specifically one calling itself an art film, they expect to see fresh, thought-provoking material. What we have here is a mess. Unfortunately this movie clarifies that not everyone can make movies. Women who like this film and argue it to be revolutionary are missing the fact that there are good writer/directors out there that touch on women rights much more thoughtfully. Apparently this film is supposed to deliver some sort of message, but in order to voice such a message, you must first demonstrate a level of respectable intelligence that would allow a viewer to value the opinion of the writer/director. This film never comes close to accomplishing any level of respect and clearly the filmmakers lack any knowledge AT ALL in film-making(Other than the effects). If you're going to make a film that is controversial with a message be inventive with your film making, be inventive with your story line, be inventive with your characters, be inventive with your camera shots. DO NOT THINK THAT JUST BECAUSE YOU SHOW TWO PEOPLE REALLY HAVING SEX THAT YOUR FILM DESERVES RESPECT. The message in this film is so ineffectively delivered that I think I have scene porn films that offer more insight into life than this film.Anyways, the only reason I felt compelled to comment on this film is due to the lack of people intelligently commenting on this film as a film. Nobody wants to hear that this film is bad because of the explicit nature and nobody wants to hear it is good on that account either. The moral of the story here is, just because of a film is cutting edge doesn't make it good. Hey look at Island of Death for example, that film was banned all over the place. Or even Cannibal Ferox, which offers nothing but gore. The only problem is, those films are designed to shock and entertain through the shocks, this movie tries to offer a deep message embeded in worthless shocks, just like IOD and CF. What this film is is a PORNO made by ACTRESSES IN THE PORN INDUSTRY with BLOOD, no more, no less. Anymore analysis gives the writers too much credit in life. Pretty much they picked up a camera one day and said, instead of just having sex today, lets simulate rape and call it art. WHO DOES THAT? "},{"Title":"Surprisingly original!","Date":"5 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I like this film because it showed true nature of some parts of French society. Plot was violent and pornographic, but original and adrenaline driven. Acting was excellent, we pay tribute to the deceased actress Karen Lancuame, who was a pornographic actress, but in this film played an excellent role and looked like a real professional actress. Other acting was excellent too.I was impressed with everything, imaginative plot, acting and directing. Camera work is excellent too. Real front runner of the New French Extremity wave of early 2000s.If you are a teen or in early 20s, and you like to watch a film which mixes violence, sex and Thelma and Louise type of one-time-shots-in-life films, this is a film for you.I strongly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Graphic but Interesting","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The listing is Rape Me, but another translation of the title is f**k me, which is interesting given the graphically violent subject matter. In a small town in France, Nadine, a prostitute, and Manu, a drifter who has done some acting in porn, unite and go on a killing spree. Manu and a friend are gang raped by three men. The other girl screams and fights, while Manu just lies back quietly. Later, when her brother finds out what happened, and asks who they are, and she won't tell him, he calls her a slut and she shoots him in the head. Nadine fights with her roommate over the rent, whom she kills before leaving with the rent money. She hooks up with Manu, and they head out on an eventful road trip, which begins with the holdup of a store and the killing of a woman at an ATM. These two take no prisoners. It escalates to a sex club, where they kill everyone in sight. The pair become cause celebres, with the public divided on them. Baise Moi is explicit in its depiction of sex and violence, with a grungy, low budget feel to the final product. Natural lighting was used and the two leads are actually adult film actresses. They are very convincing as amoral fellow travelers. I can assure anyone not easily offended, that this crime drama will not be soon forgotten. "}{"Title":"Every reason to say Its not worth it","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I couldn't figure out if this was porn or an exploitation movie. It should have been more about exploitation. If real sex were to be shown, it should have been about the intimacy between the two people instead of the prostitution, rape and sodomy.Baise-moi is about a lot of things, revolt, sexual violence, lust, rebellion, attack on the rich, the scums, the sleaze, the pervs, the life of slackers, drug addicts and low lives. There are so many things that I just can't put my finger on.When a movie is very confusing in a lot of senses, I don't like it. And this one was pretty muddled up. I can't feel too sorry for these girls (I didn't watch the whole of rape scene, as it was too much) because they do equally repulsive things as what was done to them. The controversy surrounding the film, as well as some outraged right wing and conservative groups trying to ban the film from premiering in France, is actually more interesting than the film itself. I'm really not sure what the directors were attempting to do with the film, either making another Thelma & Louise, but on crack, or showing that pornography is actually a violence towards women, as, both the directors and the lead actresses have experienced, in the porn industry, women are often used as objects of extreme sex, violence and humiliation.Either way, the film really doesn't merit the title of a film that changed the way people thought, it was simply trying to say something about pornography and the violence that comes with it, mixed into an indie film, that was so violent and sexually explicit that it was banned in several countries and changed several censorship titles in France.If you want a better story about nihilism, a lot violence and killings, with a clear message about why they are depicted, watch Natural Born Killers, instead. "},{"Title":"natural porn killers","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The time that this French came out there was a lot said already about it, the leading actresses came straight out the porn business. And the movie should be some kind of soft porn revenge flick. Well, for me it's natural born killers but then made in the rough time of the 42nd street exploitations. It is not bad at all, but the killings aren't that explicit as mentioned. there is still some blood in the movie but what made this film censored are the explicit love/rape scenes. The actresses shown themselves all in the nude and are blowing every guy. The fact that the director was a girl too made this flick an anti macho revenge type of movie. If you are a fan of sleaze and exploitation or grindhouse then you must have this one but there are better explicit ones from the seventies and still OOP. After the movie was made, one of the main actresses made a suicide.... "},{"Title":"just because it is not totally boring does not mean it's actually  any good","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Baise-moi is a movie you might find while rummaging around in your buddy or girlfriend's box of super-secret things. Not even so much a porn closet or drawer, just a place where things that are too horrible and perverse and maybe just personal are stored away from prying eyes. Certainly it's hard to picture many people putting this in their DVD collections right between say Bad News Bears and Batman. But it could be at least considered a real film, not entirely a porno (though there's enough to classify it such and it has been in some countries), which helps to criticize it as something other than just trash or boring masturbatory material. To be fair to the filmmakers (one a feminist and one a porn star, sounds like a joke but it isn't), it should be treated as a serious movie that would only be masturbatory to the sickest f***s this side of the bowery. That doesn't really mean it's any good though, or enlightening much on the human condition or, you know, giving a good story.If there is any story it's all knock-off, like Thelma and Louise re-written by Frank Miller on a lesser day and filmed by a kid who's just got a digital camera and has watched far too many no-budget exploitation movies. It's simply about two women (both also porn stars, which helps to explain why they go for such explicit sex scenes without question), Madine and Manu, who meet one day when one forced the other by gun point to drive her to the ocean, then the two decide to join together to do... whatever, drive, f***, kill, repeat, rinse maybe, reload, quibble, f*** and kill in bigger-numbered capacities. There's is not a very pleasant trip, nor is it entertaining, but it's hard to say if it's really boring in the way that exploitation movies can be when they are at their worst. If nothing else, it's not I Spit on Your Grave, which most of us can be thankful for.It's also shot with some kind of ugly near-yellow tint giving everything a sickened jaundiced look, and acted by porn actresses who barely know two modes to act Manu is giddy in the most sadistic way or just not giving a damn about what happens to her (rape early on) or how many people she kills (which is a lot, nearing Natural Born Killer numbers by the end I take it), while Nadine is more withdrawn, quiet, an occasional smirk but with less of a real drive to be on this pointless trip except as something to do or be. As it stands Baise-moi today doesn't contain that same shoot-you-in-the-face factor of controversy, but it's also of little philosophical or moral justification either. It's a weak statement done up with plenty of pizazz and punk, it's just gruesome enough for the unapologetic intentions it has. Baise-moi settles to be more than its contemporary women-getting-revenge-on-the-run flicks, but it doesn't settle to push any boundaries for those outside of hardcore pulp audiences. It has its reasons to exist, and I never turned it off, and yet what's the point of telling someone else to watch it? I haven't the slightest, except as a super-flawed semi-interesting entry in killing spree X-rated adventures. "},{"Title":"Not a porn but not a great movie either","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't know for you, but when I hear Porn movie, all sort of pictures come to my mind, blow job, close up, anal sex, 3some, gang bang, facial etc....any action starting from soft penis ending in soft penis and of course the cheesiest dialogues ever.So in Baise Moi (I don't know who translated it in US by Rape Me but this is wrong), there is penetration sex, rare close ups, but there is not the show off of all the above action, so I would have to disagree with the people mentioning that it's only Porn.I think some people got offended by seeing penis, it's funny how a naked woman showering or actually even faking a sex scene is art and how a naked man with a hard on is Porn, some people need to get real a bit Another crippling fact for that movie is the translation, I have not managed to get a dubbed copy so I just watched a subtitled copy of it, and god was the translation poor and approximative. Speaking French, I can say that the script (without being amazing), is at times sound, with a few moments traducing the feeling of being lost and without illusion that the two women share.So it's not a great movie, but it goes in the effort to be a sort of a Monsters, True Romance, Natural Born Killers, La Haine and Thelma & Louise....I expected a much worse movie to be honest, and badly supported by a lame translation Enjoy ....or not "},{"Title":"No Highlight Of French Shock-Cinema","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is really hard to rate! On the one hand it makes a good effort to show (sexual) violence committed by women from the perspective of women. On the other hand The movie is pretty pointless. Often said to be kind of a pornographic Natural Born Killers, it definitely doesn't deserve this reputation. While Natural Born Killers was showing the ultra-violence from the perspective of the killers too, it also satirically questioned the role of today's media. In comparison to that Baise Moi seems baseless and unfunny. The movie tells the story of two young women who go on a sexual and violent rampage together, each one for her own reasons and maybe because they want to be cruel to people representing a society that has always been cruel to them. It is hard to tell if the movie's main intention was to change the typical gender roles, or to shock people. Baise Moi is pretty shocking in some scenes, including a rape scene with hardcore elements, but apart from that the movie is a little dull. Furthermore there are so many moments in Baise Moi, where you don't understand the people appearing, because the situations just don't give them a reason for their actions. Baise Moi is a movie with an interesting approach and a new idea, nevertheless, it remains mediocre. If you are about to watch a recent controversial French movie about topics like sexual violence, go for Irréversible instead. "},{"Title":"Very Gritty!!!!","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie has a very gritty feeling. It's like Thelma and Louise on crack. If you like movies in your face, this is it. It is like having sandpaper scratched across your face. These adult stars seem to have a feeling for the content and it shows. It is not hollow and cardboard acting but maybe real -life experiences that the viewer almost feels pain watching. The graphic sex is done in a way that makes it part of the story. I would like to see more movies shot in this manner. It's not porn as much as a graphic novel brought to life with actors leaving everything on the screen. A movie like this could never be done in a mainstream American setting, but it is a fresh, if not disturbing look into the ugly life of the lost soul. "},{"Title":"Watching the Film First Would Help","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm amazed at how many people who review this film make the error of saying that it's a film about two women who go on a crime/sex spree after being violently raped. Anyone going down this path clearly didn't watch the movie (probably skipping from chapter to chapter on the DVD looking for the 'good stuff') or just plain didn't pay attention to what they were watching. True enough, two women get raped, but only one of them goes on the spree. The other one witnesses (more or less) the murder of the person who is probably her only friend. These two meet accidentally after independently experiencing these separate trauma. That's part of the movie's impact. Whether this was an awful movie or a great movie (I fall somewhere in between), it was a powerful movie, not one that anyone could really 'like'.  "},{"Title":"Unpolished and real...","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An apocalypse to the inevitable end death or capture. The rawness and the really simple store amplifies the characters, two born losers. Two victims of poverty and a society where violence and lack of respect for women rules they  are (of course) a hooker and a porn-film actor. This is definitely one of the most violent films I have seen. And the violence is never made to look cool, it looks and feels what violence is ugly, smelly  and disturbing. A bit in the same style as La haine (Hate in the US) but less refined. Not a perfect film but definitely a punch in the face.  "},{"Title":"Exploitation Punk Rock Riot","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not a movie for prudes.  Not a movie for the squeamish.  Certainly not a movie for people who like their films to make sense and for their protagonists to have clear motivations and a full and resolved character arc.SPOILERS (kind of) and I'm male so I could have completely missed the point if so I apologise and await my education.This is punk cinema - nihilistic - take no prisoners - anybody can do this - f*** you if you don't like it.  It is been designed specifically to offend as many people as conceivably possible - its protagonists have no feminist agenda - they are women simply because the filmmakers can get away with more gratuitous sex and violence than if the protagonists were male and this way we get to see Karen Bach posing with guns in her underwear.I put a spoiler alert just to be on the safe side but theres really no point in a synopsis. One girl gets raped (she doesnt mind too much - I can't recall another film where a rape victim shrugs off the attack in the same way and its another example of the reckless disregard of the filmmakers and I bet that p**sed off loads of people) the other is a prostitute at the beck and call of some junkie loser (who looks a little bit like Gary Oldman but isn't) for reasons which aren't defined.  They both kill someone in anger and meet up by chance at the local train station after the last train has left. They kill a woman for her cashpoint card despite only seconds earlier one of the characters saying she has 10,000F to spend (told you it doesnt make any sense) I could go on but won't - watch it and decide for yourself, its only on 77 minutes.And finally - clear up some of the misinformation from earlier comments1. The directors were both women - the screenplay was based on one of the director's novels.2. Manu clearly states that the rape didn't bother her and the reasons why - she snaps because her brother gets angry not because she's been hurt but because his territory has been invaded - uncomfortably probably a typical male response.  Nadine just seems to go along with it cos she's got a bit of a screw loose and she has the hots for Manu, besides its fun and fun is number one.3. The guy with the condom was killed for being a hypocrite - guess we'd best all watch out.4. The literal translation of the title is F*** Me not Rape Me. Aside - how could it be Rape Me - if you're asking then its not rape, right? Always puzzled me on In Utero too.I thought it ruled - its only a movie, right?Oh well, baise moi!   "},{"Title":"Disturbing Viewing","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Two women raped go on a rampage of sex and violence in this quite disturbing French movie.A controversial movie and no surprises as to why, for the first time, British Censors have passed a movie with such violence and graphic sex scenes - a milestone in movie history perhaps?The movie itself is not that bad though long enough at 1hour and 15 minutes and also quite repulsive at times.View it at your own discretion but be warned, it's probably unlike anything you've rented before. "}{"Title":"Tuff, Tuff, Tuff","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not for the faint-hearted. Baise-Moi defies categories--it features pornographic sex scenes and violent shootings, but it won't fit anyone's definition of an erotic thriller. After separately committing murders, two French women join together in a spree of crime and sex. Because both have endured abuse at the hands of men, the movie seems to start as a self-righteous parable--but the women's actions quickly degenerate into amoral, near random killings, with women shot as casually as men. One reviewer described Baise-Moi as Thelma & Louise with actual penetration, but it's actually Thelma & Louise without Hollywood sentiment. By refusing to condemn or justify the protagonists' actions, and by depicting both sex and violence with unglamorous realism, Baise-Moi forces the viewer to respond in the most contradictory and basic ways. You may find the lead characters surprisingly sympathetic. Jarring, unsettling, and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"No publicity is bad publicity","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can see how this film got made, the pitch must have gone something like 'Imagine Thelma and Louise go nympho/psycho and (spoiler alert) then add in the ending from Midnight Cowboy and you've got the plot. Add the cinematic style of Tommy and Pammy/Rodney King tapes, appropriately often bathed in a red light, get it banned from somewhere and we'll have a cult hit.' Malcolm McLaren would be proud!!The point it tries to hang it's tale of birds, booze and bad language on is that films have been churning out pornographic violence for years, but dual standards mean that the same treatment of sex is still taboo. Fair enough, but it's still not a very good film. Perversely very entertaining though, especially when you realise that by the fact you've paid to see it you are doing exactly what the makers intended...making them money ;-)Oh yeah, just a quick point, it wasn't banned in France, some cinemas declined to run it, but we can't let that get in the way of a good story can we!! "},{"Title":"Okay, so it offends.....","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  BAISE MOI (which translates from French into English as F*** Me) is a shot of video tale of women on a rape-murder rampage.  The plot is a little rough to follow, mainly because it seems the film-makers were more concerned on how they were presenting a story, rather than the story itself.   Scenes of rape and wild sex are shown without artful cutaways or creative blocking.  We see actual penetration.  All this, for me, gets rather infantile, much like watching some bratty four year old learn his first curse words. (See, I learned a new word....) Yawn.  The actors and actresses in the sex scenes speak a foriegn language, (subtitles are needed) are in drab settings, and look rather ordinary and shop worn.  If you made the film the exact same way in English, in lucious settings, and with bottle blondes with perfect figures, the same people heralding BAISE-MOI as an art-film, would say, oh it's trash.   "},{"Title":"Forget Porn-- Junk is Junk","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Take Thelma and Louise, more graphic violence, and a little Porno on a shoe-string budget and call it art. Try to do it in America and you'll be dubbed an 'exploiter.' Yet, if you come from France to America it's 'underground, avant-garde, cult, etc...' However, the film is what it is-- unoriginal and not very good (with exception of a few well crafted scenes.) The acting is as good as it gets, but that can't be commended do to the shabby screenplay and overall overtly don't-we-have-balls, pseudo- arty tone thrown at the audience. If you want a film with guts and erotica, check out In the Realm of the Senses instead. If you want to see a homage to exploitation that would've made the likes of Jess Franco and Joe D'amato proud, be my guest. (And prepare to, perhaps, get bored-- cause it's all been done before.) "},{"Title":"on censorship","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't want to say very much about the movie itself here, lots of people have already done that. Of course, I think it is quite brilliant certainly innovative and also very disconcerting. There is violence, sex and generally quite a lot happening, but still the movie refuses to tell any story, teach any morals, elicit compassion, subscribe to any ideology, it doesn't even wish to entertain.What I want to comment on is the advertising line banned in France. This is not entirely correct in its simplicity. France is both more liberal and more bigoted than that. Everything started very well the movie was reviewed by the relevant commission and issued with a certificate 16 by the ministry of culture, Catherine Tasca at that time.  16 is the most grown-up category in France, with the liberal philosophy behind it that you don't need to be 18 to watch something more serious than Disney. The movie was accordingly scheduled by the major cinema circuits. However a few days before the first public showing a private association called Promouvoir, which combines fundamentalist Catholicism with hard-core fascism, brought a complaint against the ministry at the Conseil d'État - a quaint institution, something a little bit like a constitutional court. For once the court acted very quickly and just a few days after the movie had come to the screens - without any public notice as befits an art movie and to modest critical acclaim - it ruled that the movie was probably of pornographic nature. The fascists (Bruno Mégret and Promouvoir) were right and the ministry was wrong. The certification had to be revoked.What now? Some cinema owners representing the liberal France continued to show the movie for some more days, despite the threat of horrendous fines, which gave most people who wanted to watch it a chance to do so. I watched it on the afternoon after the court ruling in an only half full cinema. We can't really say therefore that the eager masses were deprived.But then? There is no 18 certificate in France, the only thing the producer could have done theoretically would have been to apply for an X (porno) certification. A pointless exercise, because normal cinemas are not allowed to show X movies (all a question of taxes and subsidies) and the porn cinema of Paris - despite all the city of love' stuff  there is only one left - well, Baise- moi isn't really for their audience, is it?So Baise-moi was not theoretically banned - the producer would just have needed to apply for that famous X certificate - but given that it was not allowed to be shown with an 16 certificate and that X movies cannot be shown at all because there are no X cinemas, the movie was practically banned.And the end of the story? Well of course Catherine Tasca promised to recreate the 18 certificate, abolished for liberal reasons in the first instance. Just for borderline cases like Baise moi, of course. And acting on this promise the last big cinema circuit, MK2, took the movie off the screens. Well, that was a year ago and France is still waiting for the re-release of Baise-moi on the big screen.  "},{"Title":"A bleak portrait of contemporary France.","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw Baise-Moi, I felt somewhat disoriented and it took me several days to really make sense of it. What I discovered, was that the most memorable thing about Baise-Moi, was not its graphic sex or violence (and there's plenty), but rather this strange meloncholy, intentional or not, that drenches every frame of the picture. Every character in the Baise-Moi is flawed; either they are abusive or they are abused, victims or victimizers, and it's really in the throw-away scenes, like when a drug dealing acquaintance of one of the main characters is savagely beaten in an alleyway, that Baise-Moi is most effective, reminding us of the environment that prompted these women to do what they did.Although the filmmakers have mentioned in interviews that they were just trying to make an exploitation film and had to pull off the intellectual stuff after being threatened with an X rating, it's clear that both women, one of whom has worked in pornography, possess an anger that burns so deep within them that they can't seem to acknowledge it themselves.Ironically, there's even a scene in the film where the two anti-heroes murder a bourgois psychologist for suggesting that they must have been hurt really bad to do what they do. Well, the fact is, they have been hurt, whether they want to admit it or not. A lot of Baise Moi's energy emerges from this crucial point. The only thing that I didn't like about Baise-Moi was that the main characters were women. Although it's widely accepted that it's daring to show women as victimizers, I felt that this device was a bit of a smoke screen. If men were put in the exact same position, (a la I Stand Alone) the film would have been fifteen times more disturbing because it would have been, utterly, utterly senseless, almost to the point of indulgence (see Pasolini's Salo.). The fact that the characters are women, redeem Baise-Moi somewhat, because it's bridging cinematic ground and playing with stereotypes. This sensibility allows Baise Moi's audience to forgive the women a little more than they should.Certainly, Baise-Moi isn't for everyone, but it is a strong reminder that in this world, a little bit of compassion or self-worth goes a long, long way. Ultimately, like Heneke's The Seventh Continent or Gaspar Noe's  Seul Contre Nous, it really ends up asking more questions than it's prepared to answer, but in the end, it's a better film for doing so. "},{"Title":"tries to impress","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you like non-mainstream cinema, this might be interesting for you, since it is a crossbreed of crime thriller and porn. The issue, however, is not the movie itself, but ridiculous attempts to portray it as socio-political commentary. The country of origin is France and has a long artistic and revolutionary tradition, which made this movie suitable for such kind of promotion.As far as philosophy and broader context are concerned, there is only one question about this movie Is there artistic merit in non-simulated sex and violence scenes. With affirmative answer, we imply that in the future even the Hollywood blockbusters should prepare the actors for new artistic challenges. Presumably this would make porn industry obsolete by integrating it in mainstream movie making. I guess i should stop daydreaming here...This is a raw movie or, as the trailer put it, the most extreme thriller you'll ever see legally. "},{"Title":"nasty and cheap, but strangely compelling","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" BM will polarise viewers... it is not a pleasant movie, and has unlikeable characters... it may be compared to recent shockers like romance and 9 songs, but differs vastly in approach and intention...i admit that i may ascribe more importance to scenes that were never intended as anything more than controversial... BM presents an unlikely but acceptable scenario which allows you to draw out what you like... possibly nothing...instead of having careful moments in which characters expound and reflect, BM flings an act in your face, and coolly dismisses it to present the next one...flaw wise, BM has many... the plot is simple, characters have little depth, the acting could justifiably be deemed lacking... the actresses are apparently porn stars... if you feel that automatically disqualifies them from being able to act, the acting will leave you cold... at times it is amateurish, at others organic... the camera work and cinematography is unpolished, at times below TV movie standard... i'm unsure if this was done consciously... accept that this not a work of art visually... some of the scenes are still memorable, however vile... there is plenty of over the top violence and unsimulated sex, which may offend many...some of the film could be typical porn... however, during the sex, the camera does not linger, and shots are brief... the rape scene is grotesque, and the mix of violence and sex is not treated as a fantasy... they simply are and response is your prerogative...another point of contention is whether it is a misguided attempt at feminism... i'm no expert but i didn't think it was about feminism or empowerment at all...BM centres on two unrelated women, both seemingly trapped in poor, sleazy lives and surroundings... manu is bullied by males, and together with a casual friend, she is raped by some men... this scene illustrates, literally, the means with which some men express violence towards women... sex as a weapon... manu takes it like a man and stoically resigns herself, while harbouring her anger at their vile actions... she robs them of their satisfaction...her friend reacts in a way that may be considered typical... she cries, she is beaten (her reaction excites her attackers, although it is not acceptable to say she justifies their actions), she feels shame and violation... she even transfers guilt to her friend, because of manu's blank reaction... this illustrates, to me anyway, the condemnation of women by some fellow women...manu informs her brother of the rape, and without pausing to show concern, he calls for blood... manu is confronted with an immature show of power... this scene is particularly striking as it leads to manu killing her brother... and highlights the cycles of violence and inappropriate reactions...nadine is a prostitute... her character is easier to despise, it seems, because nothing happens to her... she loves a desperate junkie, and lives with a flatmate who judges her, however subtly... this is another interesting example of destructive relationships... nadine is shown with a client... the standard porno action unfolds, but slipped in are shots of nadine looking at the television, showing a sausage being sliced... at the end of scene, her client's face is shown, not the standard money shot... once again the movie uses sex to say some things about porn, and male fragility...in a fit of rage, nadine murders her flatmate... many would say this is unforgivable, and it is an immoral and terrible act... however, one does understand that she has lived through much assumption and moral grandstanding... her fury makes sense in the movie's context...nadine and manu meet and bond in a strange dancing scene... one gets the feeling of girls, not battered women... this moment has been called superfluous, but i disagree... instead of ending in lesbian orgy, it is the only expression of innocence...after manu and nadine kill a random woman for money, all audience sympathy is lost... manu and nadine are baptised in sin... they are locusts, and dispense death or pleasure with indifference...nadine and manu also demonstrate female domination and abuse towards what is perceived as a weak man... they encounter the perennial object of some female scorn, a man who is not confident, sexy or rich... they take him back to their room and he cannot deal with the situation... they kill him for his lack of performance and bad boy attributes... the shallow desires of some (not the majority, but some) women are on display here too...finally they exact a bloody, violent retribution in a sex club, against those who feel excess is a mark of coolness... are these people excited by sex, or by the idea that engaging in unconventional practices makes them somehow special?... manu and nadine seem comfortable with the idea that sex is what it is, and they find the people in the club to be repugnant posers... i never felt like men were on trial on this movie, just attitudes and violence as a whole were being put on display...this is not an easy movie to swallow... i do feel it is more effective then others, like the sentimental, thrill-chasing (BM is rarely sentimental) battle royale or the pretentious romance... i think it's brave for strange reasons, not concerned with feminism, craft, or much else... just being horrible and punk to make us think, if we choose to...i won't claim that BM would be acceptable to everyone's taste, and could certainly understand if it does nothing for you... if i criticised it beyond its technical and script limitations, i would say this... do all sexually explicit movies have to be porn, or present sex in a sad or unhealthy way?... why can't sex on screen ever be healthy, enjoyable and explicit, without degradation?... "},{"Title":"Disappointed...","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was very disappointed with this movie. The movie was nothing more than an over-hyped porno flick. Baise-Moi had potential but the filmmakers frittered it away, focusing on boring porno set pieces that had no real pay off. The gore effects weren't very good and the direction and pace of the movie were tepid at best. With a lack of a theme and the feeling of apadded running time, I was very frustrated and unimpressed with the end results. The only reason I've kept this movie in my collection is the novelty of owning it. Other than that, don't waste your time, effort and money trying to obtain a copy. Stick with I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE.No redeeming qualities, F. "},{"Title":"Thelma & Louise with c** shots","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Baise-Moi is a kind of a road movie. We follow two girls driving around, and they makes some stops to fu** and kill, after that they are driving to next place to do exactly the same. Baise-Moi is like a bad violent road porn movie. And it's all a mess!  "}{"Title":"Terrible sensational garbage","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie shows 2 women on a reckless downward spiral, destroying whatever is unfortunate enough to fall in their path.  Both women and men are treated in a degrading manner and then are killed. Obviously life is not worth very much to these 2 women.  The sex is very graphic at times, however that is not the real problem here.  The problem is that there is no real motive for the way these women behave.  It is not believable that these women would suddenly decide to go on a killing spree.  I have would have more empathy for Freddy Kruger and Jason Vorhees together onscreen than I have for these 2 awful characters. "},{"Title":"Not shocking, but utterly boring","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just the fact that a movie was banned does not make it a movie worth watching. This one definitely is NOT worth anyone's time. If I hadn't known that the movie would only last a bit more than 70 minutes, I would have stopped watching it. And I hardly ever walk away from a movie.The violence and sex may upset some people, especially as unnecessarily explicit and annoyingly repetitive as shown here. But the thing I find most upsetting about this movie is its lame attempt to shock just for cheap publicity.And it is very poorly done. While being visually explicit, the movie does not manage to create any kind of mood. As a viewer you never get to 'know' any of the characters. They are all very one-dimensional, superficial stereotypes. You just don't care about them. At all.Concerning the story and the 'message' (whatever there is of that), you have seen everything before - just much better. This movie looks like a horrible combination of 'Deliverance', 'Thelma and Louise', and 'Clockwork Orange' - with just the worst parts taken from those films.Finally, just because the film was made by women doesn't make it any better. It only proves that women are capable of making lousy movies, too. And boy, did they do a great job at that! "},{"Title":"Amateur night with the camcorder","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  At one point in this slovenly film one of the female protagonists says, `We have no imagination', and this sadly, sums up this entire production which comes across as amateur night with the camcorder, and calculatedly designed to shock the pants off bourgeois society. But, bourgeois society is by now quite unshockable, having seen just about every permutation of human degradation, cruelty and trauma presented on screen many times over already. In any case, although films like FUCK ME, (and let's not be coy about the English translation of the title, otherwise we merely have a form of censorship based on social class), appear on the surface to be `rebellious' and `underground', it's the bourgeois society they pretend to attack and despise that bank-rolls them!I'd eagerly welcome a movie that shocked me with its radicalism and ideas, but take away the studied and carefully stage-managed attempts to `outrage' us, and one is left with... what? Vacuous nonsense about two dysfunctional misfits who don't even have enough wit or soul to strike up a lesbian relationship to fill their otherwise empty and boring hours.A trivial, pretentious and quite unimportant film which has aspirations way, way above the capabilities of the directors and script-writers. It is perhaps worth noting in passing that although the British film censors insisted on just one brief cut of a shot of an erect penis entering a vagina, they allowed a scene in which a revolver is placed in a man's anus and fired. There must be something we can learn from this telling fact, and this at least provided me with the only `idea' this film conveyed to me! "},{"Title":"Incredible what can be done with limited resources","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Absolutely outstanding - a pretty masculine type of film made entirely by women, actresses taken from the underbelly which is the porn industry, crashing straight through the glass ceiling that normally separates the two and SHINING...... extremely convincing but subtle acting, no artificial lighting whatsoever and yet everything looks perfect. Great action, pace, story - just a brilliant film. Of course inevitably certain sections of the general uneducated public aren't going to understand something like this but who really cares about their views? Anyone with any sense can see that this is a towering achievement of pro-involvement cinema. Just a damned shame that people didn't throw a lot more work in the direction of the actress who later killed herself.Absolutely stunning stuff all round. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Oscar-worthy masterpiece","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who has ever felt marginalized or rejected by society can relate to the two protagonists in Baise Moi. Yes, there may be a lot of graphic violence and hardcore sex, but it's supposed to be a gritty, movie about lower-class, disenfranchised women acting out their frustration against bourgeois middle-class European society. Those who criticize the film are probably the same people who worship Quentin Tarantino's flicks (which while entertaining, tend to be more style-over-substance). And contrary to what people may think, it is NOT some Hollywood-manufactured feel-good crap like Thelma & Louise. To compare that cheesy film to Baise Moi is an insult to directors Virginie Despentes and CoRalie Trinh Thi. As one critic said in her review of this film, watching one of the protagonists stick a gun up a guy's butt and pulling the trigger is far more powerful and invigorating than taking a bottle of Prozak. I'm sure there have been times when each of us wishe we could do the same in real life.IMO, this is one film that was robbed of its Oscar nominations. I'd even argue that Baise Moi should have spun off into an ongoing TV series.  "},{"Title":"I doubt anyone could convince me that this has any 'social value' whatsoever... ! (REASONABLY MILD 'SPOILERS' & SNIPPETS OF OFFENSIVE FILM DIALOGUE CONTAINED WITHIN!)","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's Thelma and Louise getting nasty, (in BOTH senses of the phrase!!) but no-one in their right mind could pass this off as a 'womens lib' film with a straight face, and I think you'd have to be straining to discover any 'sociological point' within this orgiastic mess. The 'classy' dialogue (there are no juices left in my c**t for them... ) and blunt sex/grindcore soundtrack betray its lowbrow intentions. Perhaps only because it originated in France would it gain an international release and be allowed into cinemas as 'art'. rather than what it actually is - violent pornography. Fine, if that's what your tastes happen to run to; but don't watch expecting a salient point to be made. If this were British it'd probably be illegal, but because it hails from another shore we're supposed to believe that its needlessly 'graphic' nature says something relevant? Sorry, but no...The laughable thing is, you get the sense that it really DOES want to be taken seriously. There are a couple of scenes that call to mind films like Taxi Driver and NBK in such a shoddy manner that it's actually terrifically insulting to films with loftier purposes than its own (believe me, NOT hard to aspire to!) It's also seriously muddled in its perspective. It wants its 'nihilism' both ways, characters shamelessly admitting that they have no motive one minute, and then bitching about their miserable upbringing the next. This type of frank admission lessens the film's credibility even more, too.So this random violent spree has no catalyst, eh? Then WHY exactly is there a rape depicted early on? Cheap shocks? Perhaps. I wouldn't normally stoop so low as to mention 'titillation'; but when you're dealing with film-makers so desperately devoid of inspiration as the ones who shot this, then I suppose you never know...Injecting material of a tongue-in-cheek nature into this review, since it's more comfortable for me to 'mock' rather than dwell on the sort of deluded minds that might've thought they were contributing something here; I can say it crossed my mind that this was perhaps the logical conclusion of 'girl-power'. The female duo decide when and whom to kill indiscriminately.Haven't the Spice Girls been responsible for enough outrages, without inadvertently inflicting something as vapid as Baise-Moi upon us, as well... ????! 1/10. "},{"Title":"This is what passes for Art these days, is it?","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Baise-moi is the kind of film which, shorn of its 'controversial' content, would never have been heard of - let alone seen - by the vast majority of people. No doubt, there are plenty of people out there who automatically equate 'foreign language' with 'art' (and dually equate 'Hollywood' with 'trash'), who managed to convince themselves that this film is making some sort of sociological or philosophical point, or something. Perhaps even the filmmakers believed that they were making a 'real movie,' although judging from their backgrounds, I have my doubts. In fact, the filmmakers were smart in the sense that, being devoid of any actual talent, they decided to gain their film publicity in the easiest possible way - after all, it doesn't take much effort or creativity to have sex on camera. And this sort of material generates controversy without even trying, and as they say, no publicity is bad publicity. The problem is not the level of sex or violence on display here. It's not even the dire storyline - which plays like Thelma and Louise minus all positive qualities, but with a hefty serving of reverse misogyny thrown in to compensate. It's simply the sheer ineptitude on display during the entirety of its running time (though admittedly its only saving grace - and I use the term lightly - is its reasonably short duration). The script was a non-starter to begin with, and is not redeemed by either the performances or the production values. Of particular note are some embarrassingly awful special effects (the rule of thumb as far as I'm concerned if you don't have the money to do it properly, don't); and some unintentionally hilarious 'cool' scenes with the girls wielding a gun in each hand, in slow-motion, John Woo style.If you want to see some controversial foreign films that are also good - there are plenty of options available, such as Battle Royale or Irréversible. By contrast, this is a prime example of just how bad films can be, if they try hard enough. "},{"Title":"Bad and boring","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I red so much about this movie - scandals etc. Well, then I rent it and after seeing it I was kind of disappointed.The plot is not realistic, the camera style sucks and the actors are as bad as amateure theater actors in their first play. Wow, there is some hardcore sex in it, but it does not work out. You do not get shocked, it is not essential for the movie and so it is useless, since the actors are ugly anyway. The special effects seems like homemade and are not mentionable. Do not look this movie, it is bad and wasted time.  "},{"Title":"Provocative? Perhaps. Thought-provocative? No!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Seldomly have I seen such a shallow movie as Baise Moi. You can just hear the director thinking how can I make a really really bad movie without any storyline, but still get critics to write about my movie just throw in some disturbing rape-scenes. And if you think the director meant well watch the dvd where the rape-scene is visible in the menu all the time. Talk about exploitation! In the end it's got nothing more to offer than a pornflick, no matter what people say about it. Disgustingly bad written, even worse acted, the only positive thing was that it only lasted about 75 minutes. Possibly the worst ever movie (and I've seen some crap)1/10. "},{"Title":"Dreadful film that only obtained popularity through controversy","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First, let me just give a quick hello to all the perverts out there who have heard about it and are now doing some internet research. A quick answer NO - don't bother.This film contains explicit sexual violence. The scene which really created all the controversy was a rape scene that shows the intercourse in the same...... 'detail' that you would get in an x-rated porn film. From a cinematic point of view, the rape scene invariably creates a feeling which is a mixture of hollowness and horror. Unless you are completely depraved, I doubt you will regard this scene as stimulating or a turn on if you get my drift.Beyond this controversial start, there's nothing much there. The story is weak - kinda Thelma and Louise type thing - but delivers no dramatic punches. Instead, there are simply periodic spouts of sexual violence, humiliation and depravity to make up for drab story and absence of character insight. That said, there is one hilarious scene where a guy gets a bullet in his butt!!! This does give the film the shock value it seeks, but strip it back to its bare bones and disregard the overt sexual violence and there's really nothing much worthy left to speak over - story, plot devices, character development, etc... all missing or minimal.All in all, don't bother. Even the 'shocking' aspects of this film do little to actually improve my opinion of it. It's almost like a horror, in that the story is meaningless or pathetic and characters are either type-cast or undeveloped; but it doesn't matter because all you're really seeing the film for is the intermittent gross-out!To those who feel that this film is actually worthy of praise or analysis, get a hair cut and get a real job. This film has virtually no depth, no underlying themes of note and no subtle cinematic devices to dissect and reflect upon.It's just downright.... LOW! "}{"Title":"The Reality Problem","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is an unremarkable film that prompts a remarkable question. What role does reality play in film? The reason for this film to exist is that it shows us `real' sex where most would just simulate it. But the violence is fake, and so are the emotions, both excessively so as if in poor films there is a law that conserves fakery. Would it be a more powerful film if the actors agreed to be actually killed?In general, I'm in favor of fearlessness. Greenaway is my most admired filmmaker. But the art comes first, doesn't it? And then whatever is required, fulfilled to the commitment and ability of the artist. Art where the display of commitment comes first isn't really worth it. Not in my book. It's just religion. "},{"Title":"Nasty","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Is this film supposed to be feminist? Or clever? It's not really. There is a lot of anger there about sex and power. Certainly it's interesting that this downright nasty film about sex and violence is made mostly by women from the porn industry but using the aesthetics of porn. In an interview Anderson recounts asking Despentes if she was her whore now to which the director responded that she could always go and work in a call center if she didn't like it. So I guess that is telling as Despentes criticizes sexual violence and yet abuses her actresses in the same way and actually has apart from a very nasty rape scene scenes in there with might just as well be mainstream porn. Story? Two promiscuous women with different attitudes towards violence and bitter experiences (one is a victim, the other rather a perpetrator herself) team up screwing and killing any man they come across. The violence is mindless and gratuitous, the sex graphic and sometimes vile. The acting is actually pretty good, particularly Bach who plays a character for whom violence is an escape from her boredom. To some point I can see a statement there about the kind of violence women experience in sexual relationships but that's about all there is. A lot of scenes in this film are just disgusting and nasty. The scenes that are well put together are actually all stolen from Michael Winner's 1993 film Dirty Weekend (Bach in lingerie playing with a gun for example). Are the two women supposed to be victims? We may never care. I read the book afterwards to see if I had missed anything- no there is just no substance there. So all in all it's a nasty exploitation flick masqueradeing as a feminist film. "},{"Title":"totally terrible","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I agree with the other negative comments, this film is truly awful. I bought it for 2 reasons, because it was in HMV's recommended foreign films list, and also because it was on sale, however after watching the first 3 chapters I gave up on this film. From the start the acting was atrocious, the photography and directing were not far from diabolical and the plot was non existent. Worst thing is I can't even get rid of the film on ebay as they keep taking down my listing saying that the content is too explicit to sell on there!!! This is not your standard film category at any level, I wouldn't even class it in the cult sector. This is just a new type of porn, where rape is now the 'in' thing. This truly is the worst film I have seen in my life, my advice...don't buy!! in fact....even if it comes on TV for free don't watch it........it would be a serious waste of your time. Verdict...return to sender! "},{"Title":"one dimensional","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the few films I've had to force myself to sit through just in case anything good does actually happen. And it didn't.The link between sex and violence has been done so much better in so many other films and nothing new was shown here.The characters are so one dimensional that this script wouldn't even receive a pass mark at film school. You never feel you understand why the two women do the things they do or why anyone would help them.I watched it because I couldn't believe it could be as bad as the reviews. It really is.Watch `Badlands' with Martin Sheen or `Thelma and Louise' if you want to see this done properly.  "},{"Title":"Unbelievably bad","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When i first heard of this movie it sounded like it was a protest against the exploitation of women and of the sexualisation of society. Why this would require explicit sexual scenes was beyond me, but since such things have been done before in a way that was not a total catastrophe (thinking mostly of Irréversible) i decided to give it a chance.I found this movie to be utter garbage. First of all it's not a protest against exploitation, it IS exploitation. Second the movie lacks all kinds of production values. Rather it looks like what it is, like cheap porn. The violence is explicit and unnecessary. The plot is a joke and the acting bad beyond words. But i guess that is what you get when you make a movie like this one, a movie that requires porn actors in most parts. The point of the movie, if there ever was one, disappears somewhere in the beginning never to be seen again.Personally i find this trend of more and more sexually explicit movies to be tiring more than anything. It contributes nothing to the development of the media and it's most of all just boring and silly to watch. If i want to watch people have sex there is porn available. And if a movie has something to say, it's always managed to say that without using full frontal nudity and explicit sex scenes before. Are directors so depraved of inspiration that they have to use cheap shock-effects like explicit sex-scenes? In that case i think they should rather reevaluate their career than continue to make garbage like this movie. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time.","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I read an article in the NY Times concerning ways in which film makers are pushing the envelope when it comes to sex in mainstream movies.  The writer talked about several films, including Baise Moi.  This particular film had caused quite a controversy in France.  I decided to see what all the hoopla about this film was.  What an utter waste of time and money.  I am not put off by graphic violence or explicit sex, if it is depicted in the context of the story.  What I kept thinking as I watched was that the story was secondary to the sex and violence. I kept waiting for something to happen to change my mind.  It never happened.I could not wait until the end of the film.  It is tasteless.  The production values are terrible.  The best thing I can say about it is that it was only 80 minutes or so.   "},{"Title":"Pointless  violence the great revolt against society?","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie is about women who get raped by punks and then begin a killing rampage across France. They are from non-white origin too, this is supposed to be a ,,candy in the film. You know non-white women kill man, this turns feminists on..but in reality they kill women too, and besides what is the point killing a man you don't know and did you nothing wrong? Is this ,,revenge on the bourgeois society? The punks who raped the women were also ,,rebells. It is a revenge only on human values, because they exist, and some people are just to unexperienced to understand the importance of these values. The french director woman intended this movie to make people disturbed. This what she think to be art. It is pity that art finally reached this end, to exist only for haunting and annoying people while claiming to revolting against ,,oppressor- bad -white -patriarchist-christian society. This revolt thing could be a joke. Acting is bad, as the pictures -because of the small budget claimed the director. But there is no plot also. The absence of moral and normality, and the popular french (de Sade-type) s/m doesn't justify the making of this movie. People used to say about this movie it's so real. No. It isn't real at all. I wonder if any actress in the film no anything about firing weapons, real firefights or real (and no porn-movie) violence. It is not a revolt...If it is, it a revolt only against taste. "},{"Title":"Base","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Baise Moi is the story of two women, Manu and Nadine (played by porn stars) who hit the road to take out their aggression on unsuspecting men (and sometimes women), in what could be described as Thelma and Louise with hardcore sex scenes. Okay, this could be an appealing combination for many audiences but what really strikes you about Baise Moi is its utter ineptitude and ugliness.Directed by two women; Virginie Despentes and Coralie Trinh Thi (based on ex-prostitute Despente's novel), the film does evoke a substantial feel of female rage and bitterness towards men, although having the two leads kill innocents does leave a nasty taste in the mouth and detracts from the film's message. The director's have tried hard to make a shocking and provocative film here, but the use of hardcore acts merely as a distraction from what is trying to be said. Men will see this film because of the sex, not because of any feminist issues that may arise through the narrative. But maybe that's the whole point of Baise Moi - to feed men's weakness for sex whilst simultaneously castrating them with images of mutilation and death. I'm sure Freud would have had a field day with it, but he probably would have had better things to do.Porn stars Raffaela Anderson and Karen Bach act to the best of their ability, pulling off (excuse the pun) some of the more emotional scenes satisfactorily, but you just can't help thinking that they are just playing at being 'proper' actresses. But it is also this element of amateurism that gives the film a well-needed dose of charm, something it is severely lacking. For all its good intentions and bravery, Baise Moi manages to alienate the viewer with its slap-dash style and repulsive characters whilst also being just brave enough to earn itself a few merit points.With all the controversy that surrounds it, Baise Moi does indeed live up to its shocking nature. There is a close-up penetration shot during the opening rape scene (cut from UK prints), several blow jobs, a gun being inserted in a man's arse and fired and hardcore sex aplenty, but most shocking of all is the fact that a film so poorly made has been merited as such a classic in some quarters. Okay, so it's 'cutting edge' to incorporate sexual penetration into a mainstream film, but Baise Moi is about as mainstream as your holiday videos, and shot on the same format. Stick with Thelma and Louise - if you also want hardcore sex - go and get some, the two don't mix. "},{"Title":"How this junk got onto the festival circuit is a mystery to me!","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You know how bad porn movie acting is? Well, this is porn movie acting, minus the lighting, and I should say minus the plot too. At least in a porn movie you know what motivates the characters. Here even that is missing. I am baffled how they managed to get into film festivals with this piece of junk. If you think porn is groundbreaking then this movie is groundbreaking. And I should add that I am not faint of heart, and in fact will take a thought-provoking, even harrowing film any day over mainstream Hollywood pap (that's why I picked this at the video store in the first place), but trust me, you don't want to see this. There is simply nothing worth watching in this movie. "},{"Title":"The power of controversy","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Right. Take away the gratuitous sex, show the sex in a way that is not designed to make people recoil in disgust, edit it in a way that make the audience aware that they are just about to have sex, are having sex or are being raped without going into vivid detail and what are you left with?! NOTHING! just a violent poor example of feminism I have never seen. When my film studies lecturer compared this to LOTR for some reason, and declared it better! I almost lost my voice arguing with her, obviously 2 totally different films but still..I ramble...wtf is up with this film, there are no positive aspects; 1. Acting- poor, even though I don't speak french I know this 2. Direction, Mise en scene, editing, location, sound, cinematography. etc.- Substandard, below par, just plain poor, could be shot with a *beep* Philip's camera from 10 years ago, from my back garden with some randoms off the street and still be better.3. Message- not powerful, a very simple message with no depth and full of pretentious nonsense about 'girl power'.May all trace of the film be burnt, re-burnt, the ashes put into a plastic pot, melted, sculpted into a figure shape then burnt again and thrown into a volcano, then if it becomes possible at any time, have the volcano destroyed (maybe by Godzilla? or mechagodzilla?) Sorry to rant, I just plain hate this film. "}{"Title":"a piece of talking doo doo would be more entertaining","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" well...well..well lets just say that Iwill never have that hour or so of my life back! but... so there was this one part that really blew..ooo wait..wait..that was the whole movie. this is just a guess but I think this was some wealthy..upper class..rich..poor attempt at well..what were they trying to attempt.. ruin a perfectly healthy plot with actors that carried the weight of a dying pig fetus. lets just say the one positive thing I got from this film was the confidence to make film. If your an aspiring film maker and you think your work will never get played..Guess again. anything held next to this tragic attempt would look like gold among rusting copper!My spelling has taken a turn for the worse after watching this movie. I think this film is the one thing in my life that isn't an illegal substance that has caused me significant brain damage. You know how after passing a car wreck you don't turn away even though you know you should? This is the one time that you should actually turn away. A period in a sink? A gun up an anus? Good lord. Every word out of the actresses mouths was a curse word. No subtlety in the dialogue whatsoever! These actresses had all the emotional range of porno actresses, and their sex scenes were the least arousing I have ever experienced. My penis not only remained limp, it grew downward. The fact that someone actually financed this heaping pile of bloody vomit, and that Time Magazine listed it as one of its top ten European movies of 2000, my God. I am rendered speechless. Someone please kill the Time Magazine film critic. Screw Flanders, Screw Flanders, Screw Flanders. "},{"Title":"Just avoid this movie","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Please don't follow my example by wasting your time watching this movie. Although the description to the movie seemed interesting, the movie itself doesn't live up to it. The story hardly makes any sense, it's just all designed to put in as much reason-less sex and violence as possible. I got the impression the movie is just trying really hard to cause some scandal that would help it sell. The visual quality of the movie is also awful. The images are constantly overlaid with white noise, simply because they used a bad camera in the dark. The characters are totally overdone. The movie basically is trying to tell you that everybody is a reckless selfish bastard and those who aren't are just losers. Of course some people think like that, but even for those people the way these movie characters act would be far too extreme and unrealistic. The dialogs and the acting do not feel real. Ever watched a crappy soap series and wondered how they could make it so bad. This movie is worse. The only positive thing I can say about this movie is, that the makers dared to show more skin than any Hollywood movie would ever dare. It's nice to see such courage in independent film makes, but in this case you're better off watching porn.Seriously, however tempting it is. Please, please save your valuable life time and don't watch this movie. "},{"Title":"A bit too much...","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have never actually seen this movie before now in 2015, although I understand that it apparently did inspire a heap of other movies. So it was with some expectations and anticipation that I actually sat down to watch it.First of all, I will say that the story was actually good and the characters equally so. And the two women lead talents were doing really nice jobs with their given characters.That being said, then the potentially great movie was really butchered by the explicit sex scenes. It was just too much and too nasty. It was so tacky and sleazy. Director Virginie Despentes really massacred the movie with this adult contents.If this movie had been without the explicit sex scenes, then the movie would have received a seven out of ten stars rating from me. But given the sleazy level of the movie then I am compelled to rating it a mediocre five out of ten stars only.The DVD does come with a warning stating 'be warned - this film contains vivid scenes'. A warning that indeed should be taken to heart before watching the movie. "},{"Title":"Sacré bleu!!!","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Mixing extreme violence with hardcore sex, Baise-moi is a taboo busting piece of French cinema that exists purely to shock. And shock it does! Following the exploits of hooker Nadine (Karen Bach) and rape victim Manu (Raffaëla Anderson), two man-hating killers on the run, this movie, directed by and starring real porn stars, delivers moment after moment that one doesn't usually find in films that have been passed by the BBFC (albeit with 12s of cuts) and released legitimately on UK DVD.Beginning with a harrowing and explicit scene depicting the rape of Manu (and her junkie pal), the film starts as it means to go on&#x97;by unflinchingly showing everything, however seedy or violent. As the film progresses viewers are treated to more full-on sex, some nasty killings (innocent victims are killed for fun), and a gob-smacking finale in which our modern day Bonnie and Clyde (or should that be Bonnie and Bonnie?) enter a sex-club, guns ablazing.Baise-moi is PURE exploitation. As far as I could see, the extreme content has no sub-text or hidden message; it is simply there for the purpose of entertaining viewers who like to watch films that push the boundaries. Some people may have a problem with this kind of entertainment, and if so, they should stay well away. I, however, was mightily impressed by this unpretentious piece of dangerous movie-making and recommend it to anyone wanting to try something a little less 'safe' than the usual fare offered at your local video store. "},{"Title":"Deserving of better, but still not perfect...","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Perhaps rather undeserving of being labelled one of the most controversial and vivid movies of all time, Baise Moi is perhaps most challenging in its' depiction of a seductive immorality, than in any particular vividness of imagery. (Altohugh it does have distinctly adult moments, with a rather alarming regularity.) This is one of those rare films which courts sensationalism, and mines it for all the perverse pleasure our characters take from being as far removed from humanity as is possible to depict. Like A Clockwork Orange, Baise Moi is rather uncomfortable watching, although I can't help thinking a less explicit version could still have told the same story, and, in so doing, doubtless have attracted a far wider audience, and may not be wreathed in notoriety. Because a lot of the most successful moments in this disturbing thrill ride, are those when the power of suggestion is at its' strongest. Violence is depicted with the usual blood and thunder, but there is definitely a conscious attempt to mask some of the more extreme moments - such as our protagonists delightfully stomping, droog style, a man to death after he has suffered a particularly unpleasant and humiliating fate.The point here, is that this is indeed a very graphic film, but if the same effort had been made to mask the sex in this movie, that is made for the violence, the whole thing may have been more palatable. As it is, it's difficult to sincerely recommend this movie to someone else, because it's little short of pornography in places. This, it seems to be, need not have been the case. Spring Breakers, by Harmony Korine, deals with a similar subject - disaffected, over-sexualised, bored girls going on a voyage of pointless, emotionless violence - but is far more successful because it knows exactly what it is doing, and is careful in its' depiction of both sex and violence, and is a truly scary movie. Instead, Baise-Moi is a frustrating experience, because, not only is its' depiction of sex rather striking, it is also rather unnecessary in the telling of this story, especially in its' rather single-minded obsession with oral sex. This rather makes our protagonists seem a lot less believable, because there is little empowering about this particular practise. Instead, the violence is shocking, and powerful, and the sex just seems like someone felt the need to put as much sex as possible in the movie to get it to sell. Which it doesn't need, because parts of this movie shine in unique ways.At its' best, this movie seems to recall La Haine, five years previously, and far better constructed, in its' depiction of ennui amongst seedy, borderline criminal cases. Nadine and Manu drift around in a truly horrific world, in which things have become so bad, that they have all but lost their grip on reality. The subsequent road trip which they go on, is as each for purpose, for glamour, and for kicks. In a particularly harrowing scene, Nadine even finds that rape has lost its' power to shock her.The relationship between Nadine and Manu is tender, and fresh They hang about lethargically, debating the life they are undertaking, before exploding into a fresh act of violence. NAdine discusses their lack of good lines during their kills, in a rather postmodern sequence which is at once chilling, funny and mesmerising. Both girls give stunningly good performances, and their friendship seems so realistic, yet strange, that it helps carry us through about twenty minutes of solid sex scenes. A more established director would have devoted far more time to their relationship, because, when they are together, these two really, really shine, but instead, they are given a few scenes together, and largely are relegated to standard interactions with other infinitely less interesting characters. The sudden frazzling out of their desires is disappointing, yet totally in character These are two characters who, from the first time we meet htem, are combating suicidal urges, from sheer boredom, and their clinical discussions about how they are going to go out big are again stunning and clever.The climax is rather unsatisfying, in that it delivers a decidedly unremarkable ending to a unique story. It does little to really address the realities of these characters, instead providing a simple closure on the lives of these fictional characters. Which is a shame, as the film has courted allegory from start to finish, and raised some dangerous points. Its' rather a chapter 21 case (Clockwork Orange reference), of closure for closure's sake. But ultimately, although frustrating in its' pandering to lower common denominators, this is a vivid film in that it is morally complex in its black-for -white world view. It is still powerful, altohugh its' power to shock is rather muted by its' tendency towards stylised sexual violence. Disappointing, and tricky to watch more than once, but still a valuable movie in its' depiction of a genuine human evil. "},{"Title":"Someone's gotta make the crazy films!","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you are a fan of 'extreme' cinema, especially of the French variety, chances are you've already heard of or seen 'Baise Moi', and if you're not, then it probably won't be too high on your list of films to see, if it is at all. Hopefully you know what to expect at least!BM is somewhat like 'Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer', but with a pair of seemingly psychologically 'normal' women, who one day lose it and commit murder on impulse, happen to bump into one another before going postal for a few days before it all unravels tragically at the end.What BM offers that most 'extreme' films don't, is a large proportion of the cast and directors being from the pornographic industry, and of course, actual unsimulated sex scenes. That and the the fact that women are ones committing reckless acts of murder, often in brutal and creative ways, with the sex and the violence interspersed evenly and casually throughout, does serve to earn the film its controversial reputation.A common criticism is the loose storytelling, and yes, the first few scenes are unusual, and very random, snippets of street/bar scenes, conversations, yet all tinged with a sense of menace. Tension between man and woman is palpable from early on, before any of the characters are properly introduced.The first lead is Nadine, a lady of the night, played by the stunning (and sadly departed) Karen Lancaume, demure and polite in public, super casual at home, where she constantly fends off her bickering housemate. The second is Manu (Rafaella Anderson), younger and gutsier, and actually more believable as a killer or a criminal than Nadine.The manner of their meeting and subsequent bonding is somewhat rushed and artificial. Probably not what the directors wanted to focus on, in preference for getting to the action as soon as possible.The violence will satisfy most extremophiles, it is more of the gritty and realistic variety than the cartoonish gore Kill Bill variety. However, I never truly bought Nadine as a sadistic killer the way I did with Manu. Manu just seems like a dangerous street kid capable of anything, with Nadine it feels she is more just coming along for the ride, and is too jaded about life to care or take much pleasure in the brutality. Her speaking and mannerisms are too sedate and measured, even aloof; I am thinking her first mainstream role should not have been as radical as this. BM finishes with Manu killed, and Nadine forced to deal with her loss, whom she mourns as she would a sister (after only having met her a few days prior). So, not even after so much carnage does she lose her ability to feel, or love, she is finally presented as a tragic character, not a monster. And perhaps, after being used to seeing psychopaths commit these acts on our screens, Nadine's 'human' story adds to BM being so hard to stomach for the censors, given the monstrous acts she previously committed.I know of no other film as violent with frequent unsimulated sex scenes, especially not ones where the murderers and participants in said sex scenes are one and the same! Given that the film is now 13 years old, in the world of extreme, that has to count for something! "},{"Title":"&#x84;Death Wish meets &#x84;Thelma and Louise meets Porn","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Baise-moi isn't the first film to combine un-simulated sex with elements of non-porn movies, actors and a real storyline. To mind come the infamous Caligula, various exploitation pictures from the 70's and 80's, or Larry Clarks ill-fated Ken Park, to name but a few.However, unlike the two movies mentioned above, who utilized explicit sex-scenes; Baise-moi comes across more as a porn-film that tries to disguise itself as a feminist's thriller. The basic story &#x96; two rape-victims go on a revenge-rampage &#x96; is simple, without much depth and the hardcore scenes seem randomly thrown in, for the sake of effect and scandal, rather than helping the films progress.Antagonists Karen Bach and Raffaela Anderson definitely both can't live up to the skills of Geena Davis or Susan Sarandon; at no time able to disguise what they in reality are porn-actresses. Same goes for the rest of the cast crew, who cannot deny the genre they've originated from (and, without doubt, will return to after this excursion into real film). I dare say that, in the times before straight-to-video (now internet) porn, there have been porn-productions, like the Josefina Mutzenbacher-films, that featured better actors and more solid story lines.It's unlikely that fans of feminist revenge-thrillers will be very interested in a film containing un-simulated sex scenes; for jaded gorehounds there is too little of that and people who're into cheap porn, well, those will know where to find that on the world wide web (or will forward during the cheap dialog and action scenes). Hence, the intended audience for this film escapes me.If you're looking for fresh, innovative or experimental thrillers with a shock-factor, I recommend the original Funny Games or Man Bites Dog; this film I can only give a sleazy 3 points from 10 and heart-felt 'je t'encule'. "},{"Title":"Rape film that really caters for the love to shock viewers.","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Baise Moi is a sloppy messy product of revenge. It's as though the writers got really pi...d off one day and from anger, decided to write this ultra violent shock tale, and basically that's just what it is. The acting and especially blood is poor. We have two girls who undergo a horrible rape/intercourse, some sexual violence shed. This is the instigator for a murderous spree of men, who they first pick up and have sex with, one near the end who they rob, gets it right in the buttock, anal entry plus. This is just a movie to be shocked and get off on. It was an indulging view when I saw it back in 2002, before it's banning. It's end, I found distasteful, the way one of the woman victims was spoken to by the law. This could be an anti rape movie or one demonstrative of women's rights. You be the judge. Not for the easily offended. "},{"Title":"Good movie.  Some problems, and NOT for everyone!","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I finally sat down to watch this movie. I was expecting just a mess of a film. However, I was greatly surprised by it. It is definitely not for everyone. It relies on Abel Ferrera for its story, no doubt. What struck me was the gritty portrayal of a France that is usually unseen (albeit a fictionalized one) in French cinema. It is not the lighthearted Amelie or others of the ilk. No one is really likable. French society is not ideal. The two leads are not professional (except in the porn business), and their acting shows that, but their characters are not supposed to have any more depth than they do. Many of the victims are sleazy, and I, as a viewer, do not know whether to root for the antiheroes or not. That is the directors' strength in the movie, and precisely their point. These women are empowered feminists (as is one of the directors) and show their anger at not only men, but the industry that creates a male-dominated and desexualizes women in a male-oriented way. Just look at how the female victim at the ATM looks! Look at how the women at the sex club are enjoying themselves! Look at how the men force the women into pleasing them or how they attempt to control them from doing what they want to do to feel pleasure (whether it is sexual or, in the case of the protagonists, killing). This movie is a critique on society. The two women had enough and, like Michael Douglas in Falling Down, go on a cross-country killing spree just for a release from reality and to control it at the same time. There are many hardcore sex acts, and the film is not in the same vein as Cafe Flesh, but, like that film, it swerves from sex acts to a normal storyline. Again, NOT for everyone, so don't go out and rush to rent. I wish it were a bit better with acting and film stock, but it's hardly worth the 4.4 that IMDb shows it having! I give it 7 of 10. E. "},{"Title":"Amateur Filmmaking","Date":"18 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I will admit that I read the other reviews before I saw this film. Now I will try to be objective. This is NOT a revenge movie. Anyone calling it that has not seen it. True, one of the women has been raped, but she doesn't seem to care, nor does she want revenge. The other woman who joins her simply wants excitement. If you have to compare this to an American film, try Natural Born Killers. That is closer in tone and theme than Thelma & Louise because there is nothing to like about these characters. They are cold-blooded, merciless killers who go on a rampage and enjoy murdering and having sex. Sometimes they kill the people they have sex with; other times they don't. But the bottom line is that this is truly bad filmmaking. It looks like something made by a pair of high school dropouts with no idea what the point of their film is. It is shot on video (not film), features adult film actresses, unrealistic violence, and has no impact. About half-way through, you may ask yourself why it was made. It really goes nowhere. Even if was a revenge film, it still wouldn't have been any good, because of the poor acting, poor production value and the fact that the first-time directors just haven't sharpened their talent yet. Who is the target audience for this? A porno audience? The horror film audience? It doesn't hit the mark in either genre. Who cares about the explicit sex and violence if it's so poorly made that you can't take it seriously? That is definitely the case with Baise-moi. "}{"Title":"A poor film, but not because it shows sex and violence","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Let me start of by saying that Sex and violence and the relationship between them are integral to the human experience and are both older than history itself, and I'm more than prepared to watch a film that engages in those themes. Baise-Moi does try to explore those ideas, but it falls far short of that task for a number of reasons 1) The Characters The two leads of the film, Nadine and Manu to their credit aren't badly performed at all. I was able to see a relationship that transcended that of a sexual nature and was filled with a genuine affection - you can see that once they had become bonded they almost became a single entity, functioning as two parts of one whole never in conflict with each other but with the world around them.The problem is that the characters lose sympathy from the audience through their actions, and It's not because they commit horrendous acts of violence or engage in sexual activity with strangers. It is possible to see characters do such things and still root for them - one need only consider characters such as Tony Soprano to accept that. But the actions of Nadine and Manu seem arbitrary. They'll have sex with some people, and kill others and its rarely clear why. In fact towards the end of the film the enter a sex club and massacre an entire room of people who are exploring and engaging in sex in a consensual manner even though these people are doing exactly what Nadine and Manu have spent their time doing. I struggled to understand what their ideology was - there didn't seem to be any clear rules or logic that could be applied to what they were doing. As an audience we don't always have to sympathize with a character, but if we can't empathize with them then their choices end up being unbelievable and we lose all stake in the film.2) The Plot. The main problem with the plot is that the film doesn't really have one and it lacks proper structure. We have a first act where we are introduced to the main characters and witness their first meeting and a end goal is set up - that of meeting another character in Vosges to help them in some kind of border smuggling enterprise, the details of which are never really made clear. Thus we enter the second act and are given the impression that this is to be a road film - a journey into the darkest corners of human interaction where all inhibitions are banished as the character's race, almost eagerly towards self destruction.We do see Nadine and Manu engage in sex and murder in an almost decadent fashion, and we see them reflect on the nature of their partnership. But there is no sense of a journey here. The films goes from one scene to another with no sense of progression. The characters seem relatively unchanged from their first act of murder and it doesn't feel as if they are really physically journeying anywhere either. It almost feels as if they're just driving around randomly - there is no sense of an overall plot progression here at all. Characters are randomly introduced and dispatched without forwarding the overall plot in any real sense.3) The Cinematography I don't know a lot about camera work or cinematography so I won't go on about it at length but from a lay-man's point of view it felt pretty weak. Obviously this is a low budget film that had to make do with what could be afforded and I totally accept that. But the camera work constantly felt to me as if it was neglecting to play to the strengths of being able to use a hand-held camera to get a sense of realism. It always felt like the director was trying to use the camera as if it was a big budget high quality one. Unfortunately the low quality nature of the shots makes the film feel like a pale amateur imitator of other films. To sum up then, the reason Baise-Moi fails as a film for me isn't the explicit or shocking nature of the film. The makers of this film clearly decided that they wanted to be unflinching in their examination of the darker recesses of human society and I see that as a legitimate attempt to create a piece of art. Also the acting, while not award winning is for the most part isn't at all terrible and the two leads carry the film well as much as is possible. The problem lies ultimately with the script - which lacks a coherent 3 act structure. It feels as if the writer started out trying to set up a story-line with a first act that introduces the main characters and gives them an end goal and sets up a story about a journey. But then just got bored and decided to craft a series of scenes that pay homage to other road films that explore sex and violence, but failed to understand what made those films work. The end result comes off as amateurish and hackneyed and makes it look as if the film was made purely for shock value rather than to explore explicit themes in an unflinching manner.Ultimately the films attempts to explore sex and violence in an explicit manner but fails as a piece of art. In doing so it hands those who would try to censor artful expression an example that furthers their goal rather than contradicts it. 3/10. "},{"Title":"film made by former adult film stars which doesn't say much","Date":"14 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" there was a lot of hype and media attention when this film was released largely due to the fact that the films boasts it banned form its own country. the film was written, directed and stars former adult performers and shows actual penetration scenes. i recently saw on e-bay a copy of this movie which is no longer in circulation is going for one hundred dollars. but that does not mean by any standards that this is a good film. yes, there is extreme graphic scenes of violence and sex but nothing else. i feel that the scenes are just put there to shock and titillate the audience as that is all the film has going for it. by the conclusion, one doesn't care what happens to the characters as they continue their journey on a murderous and violent rampage at those who have done them wrong in the past. i can understand the need for violence and sex if it is essential to the plot but not for gratuitous reasons. it seems the writer had nothing to say ten minutes into the movie and decided that the abundance of nudity, gun-play and random murders would keep the audience's interest. enough said. "},{"Title":"Watership Down was more shocking!","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" So this film was meant to be a shocking tale of revenge, hey? I had read several reviews of this film where viewers were disgusted etc, yet I was merely bored. It started off good enough with a promise of some edgy drama. The rape scene was violent but not over the top so I was expecting something good; instead it just drifted into aimless sex. Really seeing oral sex, naked ladies and groaning doesn't shock me - but it doesn't make for a good film, either. There is a scene where one of the ladies menstruates into a bath, which I guess was meant to shock, but being female, periods really don't offend me. I found that scene pointless and purely aimed at scaring male viewers. The ending was very lame and very predictable. Years ago as a child, I 1st watched Watership Down and I still find that film to be haunting now - in fact, I think that U certificate film is more controversial than this was! Avoid Baise Moi. "},{"Title":"Great Date Movie","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Transgressive has been an in word for some time now. In movies it usually comes down to sex and violence with pretensions. It's hard to know which was more laughable, the pretensions of the film makers (I believe they think really this is art) or the outraged response of respectable film critics. At base Baise-Moi is exploitation (and very base indeed). As that it actually works brilliantly. Filmed with anarchic enthusiasm - code for amateurism - this harks back to such (non) classics as I Spit On Your Grave. The sex is real but yet oddly false in that porn movie way. The violence is done very badly and looks ridiculous. Why non-simulated sex and phony looking violence is more offensive than the Hollywood formula of phony sex and real looking violence is beyond me. Detractors will point to the nihilism of the piece, but when did Pulp Fiction or Kill Bill offer anything else (Oh I forgot - clever dialogue excuses everything). Acting is as you would expect from porn actresses, but oddly they seem to have more fun than the mannered gurning that passes for great acting in so many films (think D Day-Lewis in There Will Be Blood). Despite it all, taken as a video nasty this is fine, taken as art it is the most stupid film since Walerian Borowczyk's La Bete, as an indicator of the hypocrisy of film critics it approaches genius. "},{"Title":"Thelma and Louise gone wrong!","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This picture depicts the story of a two young women who meet up after going through some very traumatic episodes (rape, murder, beatings etc).They then go on a robbery and killing spree and have lots of sex in the meantime. This is Thelma and Louise gone wrong. In the end I found that this was quite a watchable film with snappy fast paced dialogue. The two ladies end up becoming quite psychotic as their morals go down the drain as they become addicted to their downward spiral of depravity.This film asks some important questions of society and how people end up going insane due to nasty things happening to them and it does not make you feel sympathy for the characters.The plot is nothing new but the realism in the way it's shown might be too disturbing for some viewers. Overall a decent flick but maybe a more eclectic soundtrack would have been better - lots of french punky music every 5 minutes was a bit much.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Don't be too quick on the auto-revulsion, chaps!","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Baise-MoiI rented this film because my local said, 'you no use ATM unless total purchase eight dollar or more.' Fair enough. I grabbed Baise-Moi and the tepid if enjoyable, Last Kiss.Let's stay with this pairing. First of all &#133; Comes the premise, 'literature must be larger than life.' So said some dude that my English Prof quoted. I was quick to point out that Steinbeck's works were equal to, or perhaps smaller than life. Anyway, my point Last Kiss is an example of reality being skewed by whatever filter fiction is supposed to place in front of real life whereas Baise-Moi for all its faults and critics, is in some way 'real life,' and as such is worth watching, or &#150; 'worth the ride,' to quote an Ontario, Canada review. Two slutty French women on the fringes of a supposedly non-employing French society are violently raped. Ultimately, the duo goes on a murderous binge of high-octane sex and violent revenge. One dies, the other is going to get life in the slam.These women, true, are far from paragons, but their compassion is evidenced when one risks her neck to try and save a young French Immigrant from a fearful beating. The same girl says to a junkie bartender-friend, that men like him are only satisfied, only 'fully alive' she mocks, when they are hitting someone. Both the comment and the compassionate have been are overlooked, in most reviews. Pity. That the two, post traumatic rape are completely transformed by this event is either overlooked, or rape is dismissed in negative reviews as too inconsequential to justify the ensuing killing spree. Excuse me! How's that? Two young women have just been raped in the most brutal fashion imaginable and it's not possible that they would go on to kill ten or so people, (even if some are women)? There's no possible 1-to-1 correlation? Nah &#150; just as fired post office officials and picked-on high school nerds never react violently. Never happens. Impossible &#150; Run this crap out of town at the end of a bayonet. OF COURSE THERE'S A CORRELATION!As the two gals cast as the victims are themselves, well-known porn stars, it must be said that the sexual emphasis is (duh) almost exclusively on female pleasure. And that the sex is very hot. ( I don't watch porn and was pretty tired when I slapped this puppy in; it fairly arrested my attention.) I notice that even the film's most vehement critics concede that the sex scenes are powerful. The reason I don't watch porn is because what I've seen is boring &#150; this sex is not. Clichéd or otherwise; could this be the reason the film's detractors seem to be mostly male? While it is nonsense to suggest that women aren't often in control bedrooms across the world, it seems as if male film critics &#150; as opposed to males generally, don't dig that? Such is life. As Baise-Moi is so short and so deliberately obvious, let me quickly address the downside and spend a bit more on the good and then you film lover, you must be the judge, jury and executioner.I don't like the look of many of the scenes especially the night scenes; whatever digital rig was used just isn't up to it. I also felt that there was a glaring and not always favorable contrast between the dramatic skills of the protagonists, those of; Mme. Karen Lancaume were so far ahead of Mme. Raffaëla Anderson's, that at times, the latter is purely superfluous. I do agree emphatically with whatever review said that just because the actresses in Baise-Moi don't emote a great deal, (other than murdering and crazed sex, of course) that doesn't equal bad acting. The acting is of a good standard, however, Raffaela Anderson's acting did on several occasions fall on the wrong side of 'natural,' and into the realm of 'apparently very limited.' (Or, untrained, more charitably.) Finally the end was a bit of bust, as I am still not sure that Anderson was saved from suicide by a last possible moment arrest by the gendarmes. I really disliked the fact that while the sex was unbridled, the violence was the toned-down at points, almost to the bloodless levels of Pulp Fiction, which simply doesn't work in this thing. If the intention is to show what some women really want from sex, then in such a vehicle, the monstrous nature of most REAL violence, (I once had a County Coroner for a room mate and I can confirm that in its awfulness real violent death is probably beyond worst imaginings) we need the real deal.What I did like about the film was the nausea, the stink, the fear that only reality can connote. I also found (duh!) the brutal rape quite sufficient to both, launch such a revenge, as well as become the pretext by which losers like these could lose all moral grip. It was also a clever, if obvious touch to show Lancaume trying to stop the beating of an innocent as it 'proves' that, prior to being raped she was a different person. (Folks, from far flimsier grounds was the film industry born and sustained; I mean come on &#150; spare me the mock horrifics, and idiotic, 'unmotivated killing spree,' jazz. Brutal rape is motivation enough.)I liked the depiction of the seedy but undeniably exciting pick-ups beloved of the French. I mean, picking up random strangers to party &#150; and then some - is the French Character, and the movie has xeroxed that character. I loved much of Kern Lancaume's acting- whatever grand critics might have of it. I liked the soundtrack. I liked what I saw as the film's occasional humor; surely the makers of Baise-Moi knew that revenge murder in a 'F**k Club' was going to yes, sound both funny and fishy and I think that strong humorous intent was at play. I mean the proprietor (shortly before being gunned down) said, 'this is a f**k club not a mosque' and it was funny.Finally, however, while it is doubtful that Baise-Moi will ever be what most general audiences pine for, it's unflinching depiction of death, particularly in the final scene was arresting. (Though I wish, in light of their respective skills, the scene was reversed and Ms. Lancaume and not Ms. Anderson honored the other by attempting suicide.) Say what you will about this film, or about the justness of Anderson being forced to end her life in return for innocents slaughtered, this final scene has an incredible, fearsome power. I was recently mis-diagnosed with a potentially fatal illness and Anderson's final stock taking, the resignation to death, a waste of life and the eternal nature of death, was very powerful &#150; and trust me, realistic. &#133; Above all the sadness that follows resignation to &#150; for better or worse &#150; the final fear that haunts us all. Which curiously, is probably this film's raison d'etre.  "},{"Title":"Shocking and Brutal.","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I feel I have to comment on this movie for one reason and one reason only. This is without doubt the most sexually explicit and graphically violent mainstream film I have ever seen in my life.With sex scenes on par with your real hardcore porn movies, featuring penetrative sex, mouth to genital contact and ejaculation images and violence so bloody as to be disturbing and sickening, I have to question the purpose of this film from beginning to end.Don't get me wrong I enjoyed the film very much and it was well acted throughout, but I can't help but feel that the boundaries were extended a tad too much. Some might call it gritty realism which indeed it is, but others may argue with equal justification that this is nothing more than gratuitous sex and violence for gratuitous sex and violence sake in order to shock and appall to purposely course the controversy surrounding it in an effort to boost it's ratings.I am not a prude, and enjoy erotica as much as the next person, but when you are faced with a rape scene so harrowing and disturbing you start to feel that your almost watching some sort of snuff movie.Although the sex scenes are the factor which stand out most the violence plays a key role although it is not explained fully why they decide to commit such senseless acts of murder.As far as I could make out, they did it purely for kicks and thoroughly enjoyed it too. Again violence for violence sake.Many people have likened this film to a sort of Thelma and Louise gone bad, but it is directed in such a way that apart from the two main characters and their circumstances the comparisons end.In Thelma and Louise, you sympathize with them and end up rooting them on and you overlook their crimes because you know they are really good people at heart. With this film however, their perversity and love of killing fails in every way to get me on their side and I spent most of the movie looking forward to the day these two homicidal maniacs are caught and punished.There have been many films depicting murder and rape. In the days of the Hayes office, rape only had to be suggested to have got the message across. Did we really have to be subjected to that nightmare inducing depravity to convince us of what was going on? I think not.All they have done is to turn our attentions away from what is at heart a very good story. In years to come people are not going to remember Baise-moi as a true life saga with a riveting plot, they will remember it solely as a controversial exploitation of excessively pornographic smut.  "},{"Title":"Without Artifice","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    This author saw `Baise-Moi' at an art-house in Kansas City, a town far more independent-film friendly than might be expected.  But that doesn't mean attendance at this particular viewing was high.  On the contrary, for the only time ever the author noted that the exact demographic of single 50+ year old men (perhaps six of us) was in attendance.  Spaced twenty or so seats apart, it is to be presumed we preferred to watch &#150; alone.  This gave a heightened impression that what we were watching was normally observed privately.  According to the director of `Baise-Moi', the film is `a blood soaked road movie, but human, without artifice'.  Her synopsis is right on the mark, but she neglects to mention the extremely gritty look and feel of that road trip. Curious as to what the hype of the film hitting town might yield, it was determined this was surely not a film which one would need to see on the big screen.  Much of the footage could be pieced together from pay-per-membership sites on the Internet, allowing much more private study of the capers Manu (Raffaella Anderson) and Nadine (Karen Bach) pull off.   Spurred by a rape in the early part of the film, the pair set off on a killing/sex spree across the country (France).  If this is be a testament to feminists throwing off their man-shackles than we get the point early and often.  And only that point, since no other plot points were in evidence.  Suffice it to say there is no artifice, nor art, in `Baise-Moi'.  It would be interesting to poll the other audience members, but we are all safely back in our mother's basements.     "},{"Title":"Not exactly feminist revenge but drift into anomie & violence","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although perhaps the two women, Nadine (Karen Bach) and Manu (Rafaëlla Anderson) have reason to be disgusted with the world, and with men particularly, their story doesn't follow clear causal lines. They drift into their cross-country killing spree. True, early in the film Manu and a friend are raped in an extremely brutal, vivid, explicit scene, but unlike her friend, Manu is neither anguished nor shaken, just somewhat disgusted. She shoots her brother (friend?) when he gets angry on her behalf, swears he'll kill the bastards, but his words drift from anger into blame when he says she doesn't seem troubled enough by the rape. And Nadine sees her junkie friend killed. She runs into Manu by coincidence, and they stay together. The line of consequences is extremely blurry; there's more drift into mayhem, robbery and sex and killing, than in Thelma and Louise, to which this film is inevitably compared. If the movie works, it works not because of any 'see what the bastards drove me to' plotline, but precisely because they drift into the easy routine of shooting people. Not people they're angry at. Just people who happen to be there. Is it more shocking to see women blow people away than to see men do it--the usual film fare? There's a lot of very explicit sex, during which the women are in complete control, sure of getting their pleasure. Sometimes there's a mutual frisson as they watch each other having sex, and there are signs of homoerotic intimacy, but no love scenes between them. Their drive for sexual fulfillment sometimes works, and sometimes not, usually because it's so indiscriminate. Some of their partners are sexy, but others are hopeless dweebs. Then it leads to loathing, and loathing to killing. They also kill to get money and cars and food. There's no joy in killing for them, though they do enjoy the role of outlaws. Nor is there any epic rage, no feminist wrath-just lethal annoyance. It's not really a revenge film at all. Then there are some moments when the actresses have real electricity and sweetness, which makes the mix all the more perplexing. They marvel how long they've survived, and talk idly about making the jump without the bungee cord. It all ends badly, of course, with one dying, and the other, just as she's getting ready to die, arrested by dozens of angry men.  "},{"Title":"Slightly gauche, generally unfocused effort. Great Concept.","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In both mainstream cinema and pornography, sexuality is mutilated several times over until at last it's a big mac fit for consumption. Baise-moi approaches sexuality with a startling but ironically healthier and more interesting perspective.The rape scene exemplifies this conceptual strength. What's most interesting about it is that it's not nearly as disturbing as you'd presume it to be. Most films with graphic rape scenes exploit the traditional mutilated sexual dialetic given to us by mainstream cinema/porn/commercialized culture (eg irreversable). In contrast the intial rape scene in Baise-moi serves as a preface rather than an anchor point to establish character motivation. Our heroine's nearly impassive expression throughout the scene betrays more boredom than devestation.There are worse things they could have done, they could have killed usSuch a great setup.Sadly, from there the film declines. Instead of exploring sexuality regardless of taboos, or capturing the mindless mechanics of sexuality in the context of the characters progression, the film seems to wander about aimlessly tossing in graphic sex and violence without any real coherence or meaning.With a deft director and a little more vision, this film could have been remarkable. As it stands, it's simply unusual. "}{"Title":"it was okay","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i was really skeptical about seeing this one after all the bad reviews it got, but it reallyy wasn't that horrible. sure it could've had more of a point, but come on people! this isn't exactly oscar material.if you're bored on a saturday night and looking a nice fix of good some old fashioned mindless ultra violence, i highly recommend it. but if you're looking for a movie with a deep plot and character development, you might wanna stay far away from this one.  "},{"Title":"Not So Good","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When Baise-Moi hit theatres in my country two years ago everybody was talking about it and indeed caused a lot of controversy. They had to change the translation to get this film premiered. Baise Moi does not mean F*** me it means Rape Me. As for the film I never saw it in the movies I cought it on television and I was not that impressed. The film was violent and theres a lot of extremely explicit sex scenes but when you take that out you have absolutely nothing. The script is terribly written, the plot is bad, the acting is bad. It is shot on digital cameras to be more realistic but it is so unrealistic it is not even funny. There are so many things wrong with this film. First of all the two women were annoying and indeed not very likeable. I did feel anything for them in the beginning of the film and I was glad how the film ended. Also they shoot people on the middle of the streets and it seems nobody is noticing it and there is not a police anywhere in the neighbourhood. Baise Moi is certainly not for everyone, it is gritty, sometimes ugly and not for faint-hearted people however if you are expecting a total shockfest and you have seen really shocking films you probably be a bit provocked by it but not really that much offended. 4/10.  "},{"Title":"Nice try","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  * SPOILERS *OK, I see the point of this movie, at least I think to see it. Shocking, provoking, disturbing, against taboos, politically UNcorrect, without bells and whistles like so many pulp or I'm-a-great-filmmaker movies. Well, nice try... but, in my opinion, an overall failure. There are very good moments, like the rape scene, the rage-and-hate killing of the friendly guy being robbed at home, the unexpected flash-death of one of the girls, the prosaic ending (compare it to Thelma&Louise super-emotional climax ending, for example). The problem is that they're just moments, spots in an otherwise flat movie. Overall, I didn't really care about the girls and what happened to them. I didn't felt emotionally involved.It could have been a great movie, but for me it is not. I give it 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Porn, guns and f*ked up people","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you have Porn, guns and f*ked up people around you, you`ll might become like the 2 young women in this movie. The first, Manu, is drinking some beers with a friend, also a girl, in a park, when all of a sudden they get kidnapped. The next moment they`re being raped. Embittered and dissapointed in people she becomes indifferent and, in the first place, mad at her brother. He should be the first who has to pay for it. He didn`t even ask her how she was or felt after what had happened. Walking at night along the railway station she walks in to Nadine. Nadine just got one of her best friends, a drug addict, shot. The 2 girls talk some and start a ride with Manu`s brothers car. At that moment the real killing and f*king starts.Don`t be shocked, it`s also supposed to be funny !! "},{"Title":"I would not have watched this if there hadn't been so much fuss about it in the feuilletons","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The beginning could have been so disturbing... had there not been the explicit shot of a violent penetration, penis into vagina, in, out. An absolutely superfluous picture that destroys the horrific character of this rape scene. Just for the cheap effect of explicit showing. Yet the shown incident of penetration is not nearly important as the physical and psychic abasement of the victim. A face speaks more of it than a penetrating penis ever could. But it is getting confusing just now. One victim shoots her brother and enjoys killing since. She teams up with a girl constantly smoking pot, hanging around. That one makes her living by occasional prostitution and loves masturbating to porn. She just killed her landlady in a quarrel. A woman is next in line because of her credit card. From now on there is killing without restraint. In most cases, not without having had sex with the male victims. You have not seen that much d*** sucking in any cinema - except for Blue Movies. (it was absolutely amazing watching this film in German cinemas ... totally uncut, immediately after its release ... we would never have bet on that). Those pornographic parts weren't the big problem if they lead the film anywhere. Yet they do not make it better. There is no logic dramaturgy, e.g. so that both women have their revenge on men in (ab)using them sexually and killing them afterwards. Sometimes they get it on and do not kill (probably, sex was o.k. and the man a bastard not that big), sometimes a playmate bites the dust or there is execution at once and no sex at all. The range of possibilities exhausts in occasional murders of women (why? They did not abuse those killer babes.). Just because they have money or happen to be present in a sex club giving some guy a blow job.A flick without rhyme or reason. Half consisting of real pornography (both main female characters are part of the porn biz), half consisting of violence, but lacking any stringent plot, not to mention logic. The authors seem to have watched to much  `Thelma & Louise', `Pulp Fiction', `Natural Born Killers' and diverse pornos. After, they decided to be able to do the same. Unfortunately, they were mistaken. This flick is nothing, not one of the things he wants to or that he could have been accusation of sexual exploitation, porno, action flick, gangster ballad. Setzen, Sex!first stated in Legacy 1/012 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Rough as guts but I liked it","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The graphic violence reminded me of the cartoon violence of Pulp Fiction. The taboo-breaking graphic sex was of a cartoon nature too. Deliberately mechanical it had very little to do with sex as most would understand it. This sets it apart from pornography which by definition intends to titilate. In this regard Baise Moi does not fit into the porn category. It certainly has faults. Stylistically it does resemble a bad porn movie, but I tend to think that was the intention. Unlike many of the reviewers, I liked the acting and found the central characters essentially likeable in a strangely uneasy way which was essential for the movie to work.Like a rough cut Clockwork Orange this one may take on a cult status as an allegory for the clash between straight & bent, under-society & over society and particularly male & female.  "},{"Title":"Too much ado about nothing","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It was first released in France as a PG-16 movie for a few days before being changed to PG-18 (only porn movies get this rating in France, ultra-violent or horror movies are only PG-16, kids stuff like Resident Evil, Blade 2 are PG-12) as the only condition to remain in theaters. It was never banned in France as so many people think (the video release can also be found in most shops and not in the adult section).Anyway, it's all the complaints from right extremists and religious bigots in the country which made a lot of publicity for this film. If no one had paid any attention to it, it would have been long forgotten because it is in fact very amateurish with bad acting and cheap effects. Yes there's gore, explicit sex and ultra violence but it is very badly filmed.Still worth watching for some rarely seen in other movies violence scenes (for example, one of the 2 girls stick her gun into a guy's butt and pulls the trigger).I rate it 5/10 mostly because it somehow managed to be much more famous than it should ever have been.  "},{"Title":"a moral message hidden in a grainy messy rampage","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First thing first, this film is banned in Australia for all i know, but funny how the fact that the banning of such films is what makes its viewing-count high, just like the Ten commandments (~_^ )... well anyway with little effort i finally get to purchase the uncut DVD version of this stuff (77 minutes).For people who keep on saying this as an excuse for a pornographic material hiding itself as an arthouse piece, actually i wouldnt 100% agree, well it is a known fact that the director is a porn actress,as also for the two main lead character, despite never read the novel (and thus unable to do the usual  ooooohh-such-a-suckie-adaptation ) i'm sure that this Film (or video?) couldn't be too far fetched. By the way , i have to say that the opening scene really starts brilliantly if not misleading, a close up frame of one of the heroine, in an anxiety nervous look, covered in crimson red lighting, as if potraying a woman on the verge of explosion, after that it goes down the slope albeit still manages to shackle....So..as the film went on with its graphic viewing of penetration act and those usual hardcore porn cut footages, complete with some bad pre-millenium type of techno dance tracks, i tried to grasp the hidden message that unfortunately burried so deep inside this big chaotic smegma mess.And at the end i come to the conclusion that the film tries to tell a dystopic france where dudes ain't nothing but rapist woman beating pigs if not sleaze balls just looking for a quickie ,and women, they play the unfortunate part of not giving a damn yet still battered to pulp , physicially or emotionally ....and it just happens that this time the subject have reaches to exploit these two heroines that have nothing to lose, plus they are marginalized characters, being one is a part time prostitute full time pothead, and the other is a small time pornstar street wise type of tomboy who inside her heart cursed the world for what it is.Now, like i said , the message was presented badly (occasional vague acting by amateurs,bad music,holes that occur in the logic of the characters, and many more) which is what makes this film bad for me , although the shock value did give a little hint , these two women whos probably all their lifetime have been screwed by Men or by society in general , one couldnt help to think that in this film, Smith and Wessons, Glocks ,even high heel shoes acts as a metaphorical symbol of the Phallic, which the heronines used to screw back the society that have been screwing them (an obvious methapor close to literally screwing the society back example is the one at the orgy club , performed to the final unfortunate grunting victim) The continuous act of degrading woman also presented occasionally here however one that strikes me most is probably the one in the final scene, performed by the law system itself, alas, only verbally suggested.I considered myself as an experimentalist,to see this film for what it is, i dont bear any grudge or feeling cheated, considering that this is a directing debut from a porn actress, which obviously shows in the repetitive albeit not enoughly dehumanized sex scenes, however i get the nihilistic message , sorta, and i don't regret  purchasing this film either, just for reference sake, that the cinema industry is having a clash of reconstructing the limitation of provocative materials, how far is too far really?PS for lots of reason, one would like to watch this only with an open mind,contains openly act of penetration, fellatio that occurs in your usual X rated pornography,some uncomfortable scenes involving female bodily functions,lots of close up execution style head shots,bodily fluids and organic matters whether from intercourse and violence also appears for a few times.2.2 outta 5+2.2 for a valiant brave effort from Colarie Trinh and co to make this film knowing that theres going to be some amount of controversy, and for the accountable nihilistic subject that is probably frighteningly close to reality.-3.8 for a valiant effort from Colarie Trinh and co to make this film based on the knowledge that it is going to sell because they know people like controversial stuff despite it could be covered with 80% smut footage, and also for a crummy presentation. "},{"Title":"Not a bad attempt at all","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Now here's a movie which you don't see everyday. Well, I don't watch movies like these everyday to be precise. Anyway let's cut to the chase, I'll keep it brief.For me to say that the movie is about 2 woman going completely potty and abusing/killing men in their path, wouldn't be a sufficient description. True, this is the basic for almost the whole movie but for me it's also about the (unusual?) friendship between Nadine and Manu that keeps growing during the entire movie. The way those two hooked up was very interesting to see and it was even more interesting that they decided to 'live a little' in the way they do. I see it as an attempt for both woman to escape from their normal, dull and weird lives. Sometimes I even thought about Natural Born Killers, which resembles this film for a tiny bit. Not too much though, and that's a good thing. Baise Moi doesn't need any resemblance with NBK, the movie itself is quite good enough.The movie is filmed in a good way. You really get that excitement that the characters are experiencing and I really liked it that there are some comfortable silences in a lot of scenes. It really adds to the dramatic stuff going on.This wasn't a bad movie at all, you just have to look at the deeper meaning of it all. It maybe takes a couple of times to pick it up, but  it's worth it if you do. A firm 6,5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Whats the point of this?","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went in to Baise-Moi thinking i would be seeing a very arty movie that some politician didn't want me to see.I was wrong.This is not art, it is porn, and not even good porn at that, i'm not against hardcore porn at all, lest we forget i am a man and i was once a teenager with access to the internet, i have seen my fair share of dirty films, but this just has no point, the plot is two girls have bad things happen to them and go on a rampage of sex and violence, only the sex has no point to it and the violence doesn't fit in either. The acting is bad, but not even porn star bad, it was 'i am a manequin that has been brought to life' bad. I can't warn you enough about this film, and not for the reasons that everyone else does. Overall, bad filmmaking all around 3/10 "}{"Title":"Beware of this film.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For some reason, this film's reviewers always fall into three categories those who hated the film, and vilify it completely; those who liked it, or understood its message, and those who hated the film, vilified it, and then went on to vilify those who liked it, stating that we are somehow sick in the head. Well, I am certainly not sick in the head. Nor am I somehow pro-rape!This film is shocking, twisted, nihilistic, brutal, uncompromising, and brilliant. Yes, it's grainy, and the acting is only adequate at best, but for sheer rawness, it can't be bettered. The plot is well-known, so I won't repeat it here. Despite the very, very explicit content, I genuinely believed that the film said something, both about sexualised violence as entertainment, and as s critique on French society.If you want to be titilated, or turned-on, then this is NOT the film for you. Nor is it a film for the shockable. Even those of you with strong stomachs, may still find some of what you see, very bleak and distressing. Despite this, I think that that is exactly what makes the film so good. If the violence and sex weren't depicted so unrestrained and graphically, then this would be no different to any number of cheap, Hollywood, direct-to-video pot-boilers. As such, it would be repugnant and very offensive to women. But it isn't. This is a film that will make you think about who you are, why you are watching this film, and what you want out of life. It will also make intelligent men squirm with horror, and think about the way they treat women in society.The two lead women do not discriminate against their victims. Male, female, young, or old it doesn't matter to them. And these two women, are just every day, run-of-the-mill people. People you or I could cross paths with, at any time.Like Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer, the film is only rubbish to those who don't understand it, or don't want to understand it. It is only erotic to those who get turned-on by the slightest sight of nudity. It should only be banned, by those who don't approve of the way the women treat the men. But for viewers who look beyond the seedy, hardcore pornographic sequences, will see a shocking statement being made. Whether you choose to see that statement, is another matter.Superb drama, and a real one-of-a-kind experience, that no real fan of intelligent, sophisticated foreign film should miss. "},{"Title":"Written one week before it's blanket-ban in Australia","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There can be no doubt about it, Baise-Moi (F*** Me) is one hell of a controversial film, as it depicts explicit sex of the type normally only found in X-rated films, yet it is currently screening in Australia despite having been banned in over 20 countries, including it's homeland &#150; the normally permissive France. Based on the award winning book of the same name, writer Virginie Despentes has teamed up with &#145;adult film-maker' Coralie Trinh Thi to bring to life the story of two women on a sex and murder spree throughout France. Let's dispense with the obsessive argument about censorship, shall we? Unlikely as Baise-Moi's &#145;R' rating may seem, the fact remains that the film should only be seen by adults, just as it would be if it had the more appropriate &#145;X' rating. The chances of anybody &#145;accidentally' walking into this film are slim, so anybody who has gone to see it and is offended probably went so that they could be. Instead, let's talk about it from an artistic merit point of view. Baise-Moi is not the first film to go into this territory &#150; in recent years there has been films such as Catherine Breillat's Romance and Cedric Khan's L'Ennui, both of which depicted sexual acts just as explicitly. Where Baise-Moi delves into different territory is by adding a dimension of Tarantino styled violence in a would-be &#145;Thelma and Louise Go Crazy In Paris' sort of theme. The two heroines of the piece are Nadine and Manu &#150; Nadine is a sex-worker and Manu is a sometimes porn actress. The two meet shortly after Manu has been violently (and graphically) raped, committed a murder and then proceeds to kidnap Nadine because she knows how to drive the getaway car. Nadine has recently just witnessed the murder of her junkie boyfriend, and being in an extremely French nihilistic sort of mood, befriends Manu as the two of them ride a highway to hell, with plenty of gratuitous sex and violence along the way. One of the supposedly redeeming features of this film is that the sex and violence is perpetrated by these two women, something we would apparently find less shocking if these acts of violence were perpetrated against them. While this may be true to some extent, the graphic portrayal of these acts would no doubt be just as shocking no matter who was doing what to whom. If the justification of this is that violence and demeaning sex acts directed at women in modern cinema are not only more common, but sanitised to make them more acceptable &#150; it's a point of view that the audience must find for themselves. The use of real sex in cinema in recent art-house films has been to create a sense of gritty realism, to strip it of it's sanitised notions of romance and pave the way for a &#145;warts and all' examination of human sexuality &#150; or at least, that's one of the more popular justifications. If this is in fact the rescuing artistic merit of films such as L'Ennui and Romance, it can't really be applied to Baise-Moi in the same way. If realism is the goal, what of the large amounts of simulated violence in the film? OK, so it's a lot easier to ask your actors to get penetrated by a penis rather than a speeding bullet, but hey, you can just throw integrity right out the window, unless of course integrity is what you were planning on using to defend your artistic creation. Furthermore, if we are to believe that the two women are rebelling against the violence perpetrated against women in general and against sex workers in particular, why is it that the two lead roles are played by bona-fide porn stars? Did they have some political agenda of their own to promote? In all likelihood, no &#150; it probably just seemed like a good, adrenaline pumping exercise in violent fantasy. They were probably right &#150; because it certainly isn't art. "},{"Title":"Unnecessary violence","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When watching this film last week, I was both amazed by its content and the fact that it didn't cause much of a rumpus. When Idiots was released in Britain some years ago, much was made of the fact that it contained the first erect penis in a widely-distributed feature film.Baise-Moi had many erect penises and many scenes of extreme violence. As a keen cinema-goer I like to think that I have become desensitised to on-screen killings, graphic sex etc. However, nothing could prepare me for this. The rape scene is incredibly harrowing -- I couldn't look at the screen towards the end -- and serves no apparent dramatic purpose.The same could be said of the rest of the film it serves no dramatic purpose the characters are one-dimensional and you never really understand why they have gone to such extreme lengths.I think there is a stong case that erect penises should be allowed in main-stream films. In some situations, they can be an important part of the plot. However, in this film, the like violence, they were simply gratuitious.A total waste of time. "},{"Title":"'thank heaven for little girls...'","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  wow! this is one strong french movie! i think this is one of the most enjoyable, graphic and stimulating french pieces i've seen in ages! it's a bit shaky acting wise and shot annoyingly with limited cinematic expertise but stylish enough regardless. boy those two leading actresses are well tasty! i think theres an enormous amount of joy to be had watching some foul males get their just deserts (i.e. gunshots to the head, up the ar...er you know what i mean!). this is an ideal feast that should work a treat if you'd ever like to show your girlfriend in order to get her in the mood. tre' bien! "},{"Title":"Rough Sex, Raw Pictures","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A tough and sexy ride if you like your thrills rough and cheap. Whatever feminist agenda the makers might wish to expound here is (literally) shot to pieces the moment these characters shoot an innocent women at a cash machine. This ain't Thelma and Louise. Hell, this isn't even Straw Dogs. This is rough-house porn-ploitation with some half-decent performances and a (nearly) non-existent plot. Forget subtext, shut down your brain and you'll find much to enjoy here.  Extreme, yet somehow, rather likeable. Not so sure that's what the makers intended but I applaud their effort. Entertaining. "},{"Title":"Not pleasant","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've got a number of observations to make, in no particular order1. I would hardly have thought of seeing this film if not for the (rather raucous) efforts of those seeking to ban it.  I can't see why any film should be banned (assuming it's not snuff, real-life rape, etc...) so I was pretty intrigued.  I don't like it when people have opinions about things they don't know anything about.  Therefore, to have an opinion, I had to see the film and see what all the fuss was about.2. 48 of the 50 people in the cinema - including myself - were male.  I counted.  That's 98%.  A vast majority was by himself, and middle-aged.  I reckon there are certain, distinct types of people who will see a film like this (a) those in for a good old fashioned perv; (b) those in for a good old-fashioned perv under the pretext that they're there for academic reasons - this is probably me; (c) those who believe the film should be banned and want to see the film so that people take their opinions seriously; (d) people without like controversy; (e) women who go with their husbands; (f) extreme female liberationists; (g) people who have to see it because it's their job; (h) people who absolutely don't want to see it for moral reasons but cave in under peer pressure.  I've probably missed a few out but that's the general demographic.3. Behind all the vivid sex and violence was a distinct women's lib sentiment the film is based on a book written by the director, who is female, and who wanted to make a statement along the lines of this film is mainly for women, but just you watch, lots of men will try to get it banned because of their hangups.  True to an extent, but certainly the audience, now that the media has jumped on the bandwagon, is going to be predominantly male.  As soon as people hear that there is real life sex in a film, men will come in droves and not particularly care about any hidden message, whereas the women, who the film is aimed at, won't even bother most of the time.  For this reason, the director has failed in her attempt to make a film just for women.4. Without doubt, this film - and probably the book which preceeded it - is controversial for the sake of being controversial.  No-one would attempt to include closeup scenes of penetration in today's society without wanting to offend, or at least be intentionally unconventional.  Trouble is, the vast majority of films/books/plays/etc which are designed simply to churn up controversy (despite the director's so-called real intentions) are critical and, to an extent, commercial failures.  If the film could have somehow incorporated the graphic scenes into the context of a plausible story - and let's face it, it simply can't be done, not when the scenes are of such a graphic nature - then it may have been almost acceptable.  Let's not forget that a sex scene even fifty years ago - that's maybe a generation and a half - was defined as having two people on a bed without feet on the floor.5. If this had been classified as porn, and I had been viewing it with mates on a home VCR, the non-sex bits would have probably been fast-forwarded and the graphic penetration scenes paused (or at least slo-mo'd).  It's amazing how different it is when you're in a theatre with a bunch of other people you don't know, many of them much older than yourself, a couple of them middle-aged women.  I'm not sure if I was actually offended myself, or embarrassed for the others.6. Maybe it was a bit of both.  I can't actually work out how it passed the OFLC - it had (or had) very strict rules about violence and sex scenes. Basically, if the sex scenes were simulated, then they were ok; if it was the real thing, then the scenes had to be omitted for release.  Any sexual violence was not to be tolerated except in very discreet ways which were essential to the story.7. Remember the thin, largely subjective line between soft-core porn and mainstream hollywood film?  It's been shattered.  This isn't even Non-Violent Erotica, which I think is banned in South Australia.  It's Violent Erotica, which I thought was banned in Australia full-stop.8. Having said that, it's still good the film wasn't banned.  I think it's important that people see things like this, and make up their own minds as to whether it is acceptable or not.  The people who bring up crazy arguments like, well, if it even makes one person out of 1000 go out and commit rape, then it should be banned.  I think if you followed that argument through, then we'd still be sitting around watching movies like THE SOUND OF MUSIC, which was a good movie, but there's only so much of it you can take.  Then again, does it have to be this violent?  I think I'll have to think about whether i'm a democrat, or part-socialist, or just confused.  I agree with some governmental intervention, but not to the extent of banning films, unless they contain snuff scenes, or scenes of real-life torture &c for exploitation purposes.  Documentaries, however, might be a different thing altogether...9.  All in all, the film was essentially crap.  Between the essentially needless violence and sex, there wasn't actually much plot, and it didn't differ too much from your average porno except that it contained violence, which I hadn't actually seen before in a porno film.10.  Is this going to be the future of filmmaking?  Probably not immediately.  I don't think it's an all too successful experiment, and i think, like most passing crazes, it will be a passing craze.  In 50 to 100 years, however, who can say? "},{"Title":"Mixed emotions... (spoiler ahead!)","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For those of you that are looking for a hard-core pornography flick, go look elsewhere. For those that are looking for an extreme, if somewhat over-the top, road movie, this is a good choice.I wasn't all that shocked by the sexual explicit content of this movie, save for the (gruesomely realistic) rape-scene at the beginning. I found the extreme violence a lot more shocking. It is quite obvious that the producers of this movie where unable to hire conventional actors, resorting to XXX-actors instead. Quite a pity, if I might say so, as the plot sometimes isn't all that convincing already and the marginal acting only make matters worse. Some of the dialogues are horrifyingly (almost ridiculously) bad, presumably due to the above mentioned fact that the actresses come form the hard-core pornography world.All this, however, is made up for by the great acting in other parts of the movie. As badly done as the aftermath of the notorious rape-scene, the rest of the movie is actually a lot better and quite a shocker, too! I can't really explain, but the movie left me feeling quite shaky and shocked. I really think people must go and see for themselves.But only if you've got an open mind! "},{"Title":"make up your own mind","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this film primarily because of the storm of protest brewing in Australia over its classification, and whether or not it will be given an X rating - thereby banned. While it does not belong to a film genre I  see much of at the moment, I used to regularly haunt the Valhalla while it was the independent film centre of Sydney and saw many cult films - compared to which this is neither the tamest or wildest example.As an adult, I desire no more of a film regulatory framework than to accurately inform me of the existence of things like sex and violence and the levels thereof. On a personal level, I would also like some indication of execrable acting as I find that more offputting than sexual or violent content. However, I suppose that one can't have a perfect system. What I *don't* want is a censorship regime. This film to an extent rises and falls on the marketing which is applied to it. Unfortunately the distributor was advertising the film as being banned in France which is not correct - it has *never* been banned in France. This marketing tool certainly gave the moral majority (the bulk of whom I would assume have not actually seen the movie) an excuse to call for a ban. Of course, the allegation also increases film receipts by provoking the curious (such as me) to attend a screening. Another case in point is the title which can also be translated into English as Kiss Me - that's just not as provoking as Rape Me. There's nothing like a good controversy surrounding a film to create a box-office success.I've read the comparisons between Baise-Moi and Natural Born Killers and I agree that there is a general confluence of themes. The Thelma and Louise comparison is also reasonable on a limited level. I disagree with comments that the either the sex or the violence in Baise-Moi is gratuitous. Both are often the only expressions of power available to those society has trodden into the ground. They are honestly depicted, with a raw savagery that comes when a lifetime of frustration explodes into action.  "},{"Title":"This is an unusual film.  Not porn though many reviewers are calling it that.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie and it was interesting to me.  It was a little gut-wrenching in places and I would only recommend it to the most jaded and die-hard of viewers.  Though there are sexual elements which are usually associated with pornography, I find that these only heighten the viewers sense of discomfort, as the sex scenes are realistic instead of tittalating much as in the movie Caligula and in a Clockwork Orange.  The actresses are beautiful but this is downplayed.  However, it really is the scenes surrounding the sex which keep the movie from being lumped into the adult movie/porn category.  If you watch this to see porn, you will be sorely disappointed.  I would compare the movie to several better movies as it is a sadistic mixture though still fairly original.  It is reminiscent of I Spit on Your Grave,The Last House on the Left, Natural Born Killers, and ,of course, it will be compared to Thelma and Louis. It is dismal and hopeless like Combat Shock and Requiem for a Dream.  It isn't as good as any of those films but if you like your movies depressing, unusual and gritty, then you may find some satisfaction in this one.  I give it a 6.  This is the way Tim Vigil's FAUST should have been filmed. "},{"Title":"Interesting and dangerous possible spoiler ahead","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had heard of this film by reputation & got a chance to see it. the subject matter was interesting but the way it was filmed was disapointing in a few respects. It looked as though it was shot on high definition video when it should have been shot on film. This becomes obvious (to me) in the violent footage. also, the actresses' although game to project their characters don't quite do it but, for one I enjoyed the energy & pace of the film. It also did not flinch when portraying the action of the film. The film also had a certain revolutionary devil may care attitude which is so missing from most films on offer and reminds me of some 70's films that broke new ground then. Is it art or exploitation ? a bit of both me thinks but, I'm glad someone wrote & directed it. Recommended "}{"Title":"A Hybrid of Porn and Film","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Looking over other IMDB reviews, I am struck by the negative criticisms of the movie.  Yes, this is a bad movie.  Then again, there are many bad movies out there.  This fact alone does not excuse Baise-Moi from being a bad movie, which on many level it is.  However, Baise-Moi is an interesting movie that I think others should have the opportunity to view it because it blurs the boundary of film and pornography.  No, this certainly is no porn art; nor is Baise-Moi a filmic art.  Yet, Baise-Moi opens the door to a new exciting genre a hybrid of pornography and art.Some reviews seem to imply that if a film has real sex scenes, it should be on the level of art (i.e. art-house film); and this is where Baise-Moi fails in their argument.  Thus, I argue that a film which includes real sex does not necessarily mean it is an art film.  It can be art.  Then again, it can fail miserably.  Baise-Moi is not an art film.  Still, Baise-Moi should be seen because it opens possibilities of a new genre in film.Furthermore, there is a political edge in Baise-Moi. The film is a direct response to a male-dominated reality.  The viewer witnesses sexual and violent acts committed by women.  Of course, sex and violence are sex and violence, independent of the gender of their agents.  But it is more political when the agents of these acts are female if the viewer takes into consideration of the history of these acts  men are usually the perpetrators of these sexual and violent acts and women, their victims or subjects.  This is even more powerful when the sex acts depicted on the screen are real, and the writer and directors of the film are female.I do hope this movie establishes a new ground and inspires other filmmakers to explore this new film genre.  And I do recommend this film. Of course, I don't recommend viewing Baise-Moi with the family.  I give the film a 7 1/2. "},{"Title":"Experiment in Adult themes","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have mixed feelings about this movie. I like the idea. and I even like the players. I can't make up my mind whether this is porn or action or even drama. The story is about two woman who go some place and end up with a lot of dead people behind them. It's very violent but no more than we are use to in any Swarzzenegger movie and actually less gory than most action movies these days. The porn is not that exciting and never seems to have that intention, so for that part it either succeeds in graphically us what we all ready know without getting turned on by it. As a drama it never accomplishes character likeability or motivation, identification or even pity, it's not that you don't care, you just never get to know or understand what's going on.As a whole it fails to entertain you or even make you think about it's subject. It's not a moral film about woman rights or lib. It's not about our violent society, it's not about.... well it's about two woman on a killing spree. The experiment I like, as well as the mix of different adult themes. It's not as bad as most critics make it out to be, but it'll never have cult status for that it's just not good enough or for that matter bad enough. "},{"Title":"Shoddy production values","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is presented so poorly, it is hard to rate effectively. Shot on digital video, quality is just awful. It's like a home movie except not quite so professional. I thought the 'acting' was good and didn't find the sex/violence out of place for the subject matter. It had a 'Blair Witch' kind of feel with the hand held camera work. Framing seemed off with the result the screen was overfilled. I'm not sure if this was due to post production cropping or what. The story was not too good with some of the actions appearing misplaced based on how the characters were presented.Had the story been tighter and the production values significantly improved, this could have been a landmark movie. As it is, it's just another 'art house flick'.  "},{"Title":"contrived,","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers - This movie was made with the thought process, what can I do to offend and how can I get my main characters into a scene which would allow that to happen. For example, two female killers are needed for whatever reason, and as a result we get that pathetic scene in which the future killers unite in friendship and share a heartfelt embrace. Another example is the sex bar. They have no reason to go there. In fact, it's the only murders that take place with no decipherable motive at all. The makers just thought it'd be cool and offensive to show a bunch of naked people get wasted. Note, I was not offended by the movie per say, just the moronic way in which it was done. Offense mixed with a good script could make for a nice important film. Instead we get this. It seriously is redundant pointless garbage. There is nothing new even. The movie just gets excessive with things already done. They could have at least got a sexier lead killer to give me something to watch. I mean, come on, I don't want to see the daughter from Roseanne naked.   "},{"Title":"xxxploitation","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I viewed this movie a couple hours a go at the local art theatre. I went because of the hype this movie recieved and the notion of mixing pornography with a real film interests me. Well this movie niether has the imagination or the balls to make a inspired exploitaion movie despite its graphic nature. The sex is not unusual; the characters are not unusual; the typical torture-stomp to death-rape scenes are done in pretty usual fashion-except more graphic. The film doesn't really succeed as a legit film either because it's a very familiar idea that's not very well executed because we don't really feel for the female characters-also it rambles. Also it has this handycam look (and make) to make the film feel more real. The film only feels real because of this crutch-theres not very many believeable moments. For a road movie; I understand this they have a free form stucture but the events and characters that inhabit must be inspired. But it was entertaining on a level-not the level it wishes you to take it but as a easy freewheeling xxxplotation movie that would be good with a rowdy crowd and a few beers. For a real movie on this subject see Leaving Las Vegas for good work out of this type of explotaion-rent a Russ Myer ( Beyond the Valley of the Dolls) movie and to see a great Pornographic/ Legit film hybrid-keep waiting "},{"Title":"Enjoyable exuberant trash!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Did anybody take this film seriously? It's more like a Russ Meyer film than anything else, comparing it to the rigorous intent of Catherine Breillat is ludicrous. It's lurid, energetic, and pretty damned enjoyable. A few scenes are ludicrous, some astonishing, most enjoyable. The leads are good in their roles as thrill-seeking females on the lam. They bring up sexism, patriarchy, and whatnot as possible motives but in such a half-assed way it's clear they're not really examining things very seriously. Fun and surprisingly hot, much better than the tedium of porn. This film had some velocity and energy, that's enough for me to be pleased... "},{"Title":"laughing and killing, so banal","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hard to comment on this one. It's not unwatchable it has a certain energy, forward motion. It is not staggeringly awful like Makavejev's Sweet Movie (my vote for worst film of all time), it just doesn't provide any motivation for the characters' actions. Manu and Nadine don't know enough to be rebels or revolutionaries, they just learn to associate orgasm with firearms, in a sort of Pavlov reaction.Nadine's roommate who yells at her for eating all the food in the fridge, smoking her weed and watching porn videos all day has probably the best assessment of her capabilities. "},{"Title":"Condom Wearers Beware!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Motivations are important. It's not the end-all and be-all of the movie for me, but they have to be there. And they have to make some sort of sense. One character strangles her roommate because she nags her too much. Another character is raped by two men, and meekly takes it, but when her brother swears to avenge her, she shoots him in the head. Huh? These two women meet in the most poorly scripted and contrived scene in the movie and, shortly afterwards, begin a crime spree, which involves screwing and/or killing men (with the occasional female victim here and there). The sex scenes (hardcore though they were) were either boring, or got a few giggles from the group I was with. The violent scenes were poorly staged as well, with the immediate aftermath, not the actual &#145;act of' usually being shown. The `theme' of this movie All Men are garbage&#133;at least after you've had sex with them. I'm sorry, but `Base Moi' adds nothing significant to the Natural Born Killers On The Run genre except the French language.  "},{"Title":"By no means a 'classic' Rape/Revenge film.","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After all the controversy surrounding this low budget French film, I was left somewhat disappointed by what I saw. Yes it was violent, yes it was graphic in it's portrayal of sexual intercourse (hardcore in fact), and yes it was in-your-face. However, what unfolded during its meager 77 minute running time seemed, well, somewhat pointless. It is a film which seemingly advertises its message with all the subtlety of a Chevy commercial - watch out guys, chicks are getting their own back!!!The film owes a great debt to other rape/revenge 'classics' of the exploitation genre such as I Spit on Your Grave and Ms.45 (aka Angel of Vengeance). The lead character is brutally raped/beaten, then exacts her revenge on the perpetrators (I Spit..) or men in general (Ms.45), throw in a Thelma and Louise 'buddy' element and hardcore pornography, and what you're left with is Baize-Moi. Obvious enough, but the female killers of Baize-Moi tend to kill indiscriminately, with both women and seemingly innocent men (although the film would suggest no male is innocent neither on screen nor in the audience) falling prey to Manu's and Nadine's increasingly violent killing spree. This lack of purpose to the heroines' cause only serves to highlight a lack of purpose to the film itself.Similarly, the scenes of graphic sex seem to lose their power as the film progresses. Whilst shots of penetration during the rape scene achieve a disconcerting effect, highlighting the violation being witnessed by the audience, further 'pornographic' elements become seemingly pointless. Scenes of graphic sexual encounters are constructed not to emphasize the acts themselves, thus increasing their intensity, but to provide moments of pornography for pornography's sake. Sexual positions occasionally are achieved not in any naturalistic sense, but as 'poses' for the camera to achieve maximum 'coverage' of the act. Of course the juxtaposition of the these scenes with the scenes of violence which follow serve to highlight the film makers' 'feminist' agenda so you're enjoying this 'pornography' guys? Now watch this! Feel uncomfortable? Good? Couple this with the obviousness of male orientated Action flick references (one heroine's comment after a scene of violence where are the funny lines?. The John Woo style gunplay in the final shootout scene, and the posturing in front of a mirror with huge phallic gun a la Travis Bickle), and what we end up with is a film made seemingly, by two women who have attended a night class in Feminist Films 101. For all it's problems however, at least this film makes a refreshing change from the only alternative the Hollywood 'no brainers' that we are subjected to every summer. By no means a classic exercise in feminist film making, it's still worth a look for anyone seriously interested in film.  "},{"Title":"Ummmm....","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie for the same reason most people will probably see it...I was curious.  I wanted to see what all the fuss was about.  It was pretty much what I expected....lots of sex and lots of violence.  Stuff like this doesn't bother me, but it got a little pointless after a while.  Not to say it was a horrible movie, but at times it felt like Hey, lets see what else we can do to stir up some controversy.  I'm kind of disappointed I paid $8.50 to see this.  I'd say wait until it comes out on video.  The cinematography was decent, the acting fairly poor, and the plot was so-so.  "}{"Title":"A poor man's Thelma & Louise with realistic sex and graphic violence.","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I wish that I hadn't wasted my time, but then I would still be curious about this movie, so it's only a waste of time in retrospect. Baise Moi is a very low budget film with amateur directing, mediocre to decent acting and a horrific (almost absurd) script. It was banned in France because of the violence. But the violence, though graphic in nature is nothing compared to what American audiences have come to expect. No exploding heads or limbs severed with chain saws. A very realistic rape scene with full male erection and female genitalia visible is done so quickly that it is actually somewhat arousing. But the subsequent sexual encounters are cold and stiff (no pun intended) and just don't work. In fact, all of the sex and violence occur so quickly that the audience really doesn't have the time to react. The vaginal penetration scenes push the American envelope, although they do add incredible realism. The blood and guts probably pushed the limits in France but are relatively tame by our standards. You hear a shot, you see a dead body. I viewed the movie in San Francisco during the International Film Festival and the audience was primarily mixed couples. "},{"Title":"a joyride of violent/sexual excess","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie from two French woman filmakers is a hardcore feminist version of a Road movie. In contrary to THELMA & LOUISE where the trip is an escape out of a depressing bourgoise lifestyle, the world of BAISE-MOI is almost without any social standards. Life as portrait in BAISE-MOI means a daily struggle for survival, rape and mutual exploitation determine everyday life. Ingenious is the excess the two female protagonists are looking for which transgresses into realm of the absurd. Male show off is rewarded with deadly bullets even up the ass. As the film progresses nobody suspects the two to reach any destination but total eclipse. For me as a male viewer it was a partly unpleasant experience but altogether a radical joyride into the world of the dominant female. "},{"Title":"Controversial and disturbing","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's easy to see why this movie is at the center of so much controversy. Its sexual content and its extreme violence surely made a few people walk out of its screening. The story is about two French girls who meet and go on a really special «Tour de France». They're on a killing spree and nobody seems to be safe from their new found libido (using a gun as to eliminate somebody else's life). In between those killings, sex, and plenty of it. It's the hard-core version of Thelma & Louise. But at the end, you have the feeling that the movie could have been better. It would have been nice to know a little bit more why those two girls find satisfaction in killing. Yes, one has been raped (explicitly depicted at the beginning of the movie) and the other is a prostitute with her own problems, but what is it that draw them together. That's not entirely clear. Still, it's a good movie and it's about time that someone crossed the line of certain taboos. "},{"Title":"Mountain out of a molehill","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A movie about a French girl who gets raped by street hoodlums. The rape scene itself is shot in all it's gory detail with all the male and female organs and their interactions clearly visible to the camera. In a fit of rage, the victim grabs her friend's (or was it brother ?) gun, shoots him and runs off with the weapon. She meets this prostitute who has just seen her pimp shot down, they team up, and make off towards Paris. A series of crazy, meaningless and wild killings follow, the girls seem to enjoy every murder more than the one before. One poor guy gets shot in the ****hole. There are good doses of sex thrown in between the numerous killings.The movie is not the most violent I have seen, I would say Saving Private Ryan probably had more violence in it. If violence is what you are looking for, then there are lots of other movies out there. And if it's sex you are out for, then I would suggest one of those XXX ones.I went to see the movie because of all the hype the media was giving it. The movie itself is no big deal, just a lot of violence and sex shot with something like a hand-held camera. I was surprised this movie had a 15 year age limit in Sweden, if 15 year-olds can watch this movie, they should be able to watch XXX movies too.  "},{"Title":"Pure bullsh....","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Movies like Man Bites Dog or Natural Born Killers were intelligent films. Created by intelligent people. They delivered a message. They showed us a mirror so we can see the reality that this movies want to show us in a third-person perspective. Baise Moi is just a piece of sh..! The female director didn't spend a second to get some intelligent elements in to the movie or the story. Maybe she just hasn't the skill. The two actresses showing us a very poor performance (otherwise there isn't anything to do but having sex and killing people). Really! You need NO acting skills to give a better performance! Instead of creating a violent psychological intelligent drama the director put in more violence, more sex, more violence and more sex! Violence sells! The movie was a success and was positive mentioned even in some very respectable papers. I don't know why! Maybe because you can make every piece of crap into an outstanding masterpiece if you just want to.When you look at a Kitano movie you see violence. When you GET INTO a Kitano movie you discover a masterpiece. Baise Moi is the exact opposite of that!Don't watch it! It's a waste of time! Even I could do better movies with a handheld camera, gallons of fake-blood, some blank guns and two BAAAAAAAAD actresses! I have no problems with violence. I have no problems with sex. They wanted to make money and we (including ME) are so dumb and give it to them! They thought we were dumb enough... well, they're right! "},{"Title":"disturbing and not all that good","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie featured IMO a very good plot and rather good action, but the most important part about it is spirit and they way it's conveyed to the viewers - that is why the characters do what they do and what the feel or what they feel like. The events depicted are very real, logical and could easily happen. On the downside, this movie contained a bit too much sex, which is not the bad thing, bad thing is that sex is shot in a very pornographic manner (I assume purposely), which makes film somewhat unrealistic... (hey I'm 21y.o. male and I'm saying there was too much sex?) and perhaps somewhat lame acting during action (as in shooting, riding someone over) parts of the film. Anyway the aftertaste of the movie is DISTURBING right like this, in capitals. "},{"Title":"A disturbing movie!","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Naturally, while watching this movie Ridley Scott's Thelma and Louise comes to mind. However, Baise-moi seems to me truer because you actually get to see explicitly what is done to these women before they decide to take revenge. Moreover, in following them on their journey you realize that they act just like the monsters that originally tortured them. The victims become the killers. A disturbing movie! "},{"Title":"porn or not a porn - that is the question","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was quite amazed to run into this movie in our regular cinema, because it does have some explicit sex scenes. But I tend to think that this is not a porn movie. For one thing, the actresses develop a real personality, for the other, the senseless violence does not really arise erotic feelings. Though, the strong violence and sex is not what makes this film unique. Reservoir Dogs is no better for the violent part, and any porn movie shows more dicks in action than this one. The actual novelty is the mix I had never seen a film that combines a real action plot with pornographic elements in such a matter of course. So, I liked the idea, but I had wished for a little less blood. I give 6/10. "},{"Title":"Great Entertainment - for those who want to see Sex & Violence...","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ... but don't expect much storyline or sophisticated characters. Some will probably try to justify this movie by interpreting it as a artistic expression of social criticism. But hey - it's just a politically incorrect movie that is fun to watch if you missed a combination of pornographic content with explicit, senseless violence for a long time. Too bad movies like this are usually censored...  "},{"Title":"Not bad but unconvincing","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I see a lot of similarities to Thelma and Louise, only that Baise-Moi is much more extreme on all accounts. That is not bad in itself, but if the characters behave in such a pronounced way, the motivation should be really sound. And for both main characters, I never quite understood their motivation. As far as I know, the book was written by a woman with a similar background as the protagonists and my simple guess is that the rage stems from the experiences made under these circumstances. Who am I to say that such an outburst is unjustified, being male and never having had to live this? But on screen, I was never convinced, the characters stayed strange and artificial on their violent joyride.As an idea the movie is however quite good, like Thelma and Louise already was a good idea. The older one is just much more sophisticated, and balanced ;-) "}{"Title":"ok","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ok, but the mindless violence was getting repetitive. Film makers were unable to bring any deeper angle to the story. Characters remained shallow and surprising, thus lacking credibility. The beginning was ok and seemed realistic. Graphic sex scenes were quite interesting. Senseless violence just was senseless violence without any justification for it. "},{"Title":"Pornographic, for sure, but more than a mere porno flick","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I caught a packed showing of this ultra-controversial film (literally, f*ck me in French) at this year's Toronto International Film Festival.  It's almost moot to review it, given the unlikelihood that anybody in North America reading this is ever going to be seeing it.  It was rejected for a formal film classification in France, being labeled as porno.  And aside from the festival, it's already been banned everywhere in Canada except for Quebec City and Montreal.  America?  Forget it.The story is about two prostitutes who live and work on some pretty mean streets in France.  Their already hard lives hit rock bottom when they are abducted and violently gang raped by some thugs.  (Think that the rape scene in Jodie Foster's THE ACCUSED was excessively graphic?  In comparison to this scene, that one was a model of restraint.)  The younger one exacts vengeance in her own way, and acquires some money and a car in the process. She has to get out of town, but can't drive.  The other one can, and they team up Thelma & Louise-style for what turns out to be a very violent odyssey to the north shore of France.Essentially, it's a highway to hell killing spree movie, with the women using their wiles and seductiveness to destroy and rob men (occasionally women) and keep themselves living comfortably on the road..  They come to realize that a dragnet is closing in on them and that things can only end badly, but they frankly don't care, living only for the thrill of the moment until the final act.So IS it pornographic?  A resounding YES!  None of that soft-focus computer-generated virtual nudity here ... the sex is raw and genuine, with no organ or orifice left unexposed.  The cast (including the two leads) is comprised almost entirely of  porno actors (instead of just one, as in last year's controversial French festival entry, ROMANCE).  And there's an act of violence against a man late in the film that you've NEVER seen in any movie before ... we're talking a *major* ouch! here.But the movie also definitely DOES contain a storyline, character development, and production values -- elements traditionally lacking from what are thought of as porno films in America.  And it's SURE not the kind of film that porno patrons are looking for.  (I PITY any guy who ever brings this film to a bachelor party!)  It certainly held the interest of the two sold-out auditoriums where it was shown on the festival's opening weekend, and only a couple of people walked out.  There was applause for the two female co-directors following the show.  Porno elements aside, this definitely dose have some artistic legitimacy.  There's excellent Euro music accompaniment to some of the sex scenes as well ... I wouldn't mind owning the soundtrack album to this movie at all.If nothing else, this film nicely undermines Roger Ebert's never-ending crusade for an A (for 'adult') category in the MPAA film rating system to sit between R and NC-17 (porno).  Jack Valenti once offered to implement this system, provided Ebert and his employers were willing to indemnify the MPAA against lawsuits from producers whose films were labeled as porno. Ebert called this offer horsefeathers, saying that porno films don't get submitted for a rating anyway.  I was curious at the time as to why he didn't simply ACCEPT the offer, since, by his own reasoning, there was zero risk.BAISE-MOI provides the answer.  He couldn't accept it because there most certainly IS a gray area between artistic legitimacy and porno.  Ebert's always pointed to France as having a workable film rating system, but BAISE-MOI -- which WAS submitted for consideration -- exceeded even the most restrictive category and was banned, despite having enough artistic legitimacy to play at a film festival as prestigious as Toronto's.  If this film will stop his constant whining on this issue once and for all, we can all be grateful that it was made.  "},{"Title":"what's the big deal??","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  baise moi is a film that certainly doesn't hold back it's punches - it features hardcore sex with blood splattering violence. yet that said, it is no more violent then the majority of shoot 'em up films from hollywood, and the sex scenes are not as graphic as your average porn film. unfortunately though for baise moi, the fact that they combine the two gets them banned from nearly every country in the world (only switzerland and holland are showing the film in a wide release).the story is a simple variation of thelma & louise with an added dash of man bites dog and your basic european fuck film. it's shot dogma style (digital video blown up to 35mm) without the ridiculous self-imposed rules, and the acting is honest and raw with the majority of the cast coming from the porn industry (go figure).in terms of outrageous behaviour the characters are no more violent or sexual then those in natural born killers. if you're an average adult there is nothing in this film you haven't seen before. so the question is why is this film being banned from so many countries? why do censor boards choose to treat us adults like children, deciding what we should or shouldn't see?in years to come baise moi will be considered the grandmother of films that choose to push the boundaries of sex and violence (although at that time such movies will be considered normal). let's just hope we don't have to wait 25 years to see this film in our neighbourhood movie theatre where it rightly belongs - with an r-rating of course. "},{"Title":"hard core sex & violence as they really are","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  shocking, disgusting, turning on the best way to have an opinion on this movie is to see it. it's quite experimental sometimes but it asks one of the main questions of the 21th century film making which is the place of sex ?  "},{"Title":"The passionately violent, explicitly fornicating and ultimately tragic tale of two French prostitutes.","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A well-acted, deeply emotional experience that avoids sexual stereotypes aggressively while jumping genre conventions at breakneck speed. Pulls no punches in portraying the underbelly of modern urban existence by combining raw violence, hardcore sex and a strongfelt psychological drama. Probably the most successful attempt so far at fitting hardcore images into what would otherwise be described as independent mainstream cinema. A Thelma & Louise for the Generation XXX. "},{"Title":"not shocking, just boring.","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am so disappointed to have spent my time watching Baise Moi. It is such garbage. The film looks as if it has been made by some inexperienced and deluded film students desperate to shock audiences to gain controversial attention. That might work if the film was creditable in any way. The plot is weak, the acting is appalling, the editing and cinematography terrible and the sex scenes and violence do not add to the film's overall effect in any way. It all looks cheap and it did not shock me, it bored me. If you want to see graphic sex I'd advise you simply rent Jenna Jameson's latest offerings and if you want graphic violence I'm sure you'd be better off with a Tarantino or Rodriguez flick...if you want a good film then just look anywhere else but Baise Moi. Absolute pretentious drivel. "},{"Title":"a beautiful and thought provoking picture about friendship, love and loss","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I saw Baise Moi I went in with an open mind, I was of course interested by the mixed reviews, but I had no expectations. When I left the film I felt like I had just woken from a deep sleep, I felt like my eyes had been opened to something new. From the shocking start (rape scene) to the Thelma and Louise planned ending I felt like the two directors were trying to find a new and entertaining way to depict the sometimes tired and boring buddy, road movie. The use of explicit sex gave the film something that made it seem more real than Hollywood, it also made the characters more flawed and realistic. the nihilistic path they take is as much about the kinship they find in one and other as it is about the way they fit into society, for me it didn't seem to be a revenge movie, although there are clear elements that would suggest it is. A little difficult to watch in parts but generally a very moving, heart warming tale of friendship. "},{"Title":"Predictable, horrible etc.","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It could've been a better movie, if it got rid of those explicit scenes, better sfx and with better actresses. Now, it is just a horrible predictable feminist flick, made (in)famous by adding pornographic scenes which had little or nothing to do with the movie.The shots were in the same quality as the famous pizza delivery guy movies, music was horrible etc. It wanted to be a Pulp Fiction of some kind, but turned out to be a bad version of a raped Thelma & Louise-story, no pun intended.Bad music, bad actresses, bad script, bad porn etc. Not worth watching, Ken Park has more potential than this movie. "},{"Title":"Not so ground-breaking","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" While it's true that the movie is somewhat interesting, the execution leaves a lot to be desired (much like Blood Orgy of the Leather Girls, I Spit on Your Grave, and Born in Flames, all superior). I don't think it's not porn, but porn is in the eye of the beholder if it functions as porn for somebody, who am I to say that he/she is wrong? I was rather puzzled by the statement in Winkimation's generally thoughtful review (Such a Shame) that for once we actually see men's faces when they come. A few years ago I did occasional freelance reviews for an adult mag and I recall seeing plenty of men's faces when they came. I think this is probably more common when the film features on of the few male porn stars (and especially when that male is the director). Though I unsurprisingly can't refer to any specific titles, I know that there are some instances in Ron Jeremy's, uh, work. I also don't know that I'd agree that a man is necessarily showing vulnerability in his face when coming. "},{"Title":"Thelma & Louise go hardcore! But provocation doesn't equal quality ...","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well, how to make a movie as provocative as possible? This cartoonishly straight shocker tries by having two low-life Paris women (one prostitute, one recently raped ex-porn actress, no less) lash out and go on a national sex-and-killing spree- of men in particular. Very short running time gives you a hint of the experimental nature of this violently hardcore Thelma & Louise- but it's done completely without irony or contemplation for any possible feminist message... And since we don't get very close to the protagonists, the violence actually feels muted and numbing- and maybe that's a good thing. As a liberal advocate of freedom of expression, I always welcome when the serious movie industry dares to contain full-on sex scenes. But the question is Does it work for the movie as a whole? Is it any good? Here, not very, although we're given a new meaning to the phrase a shot in the ass! 3 out of 10 from Ozjeppe "}{"Title":"a number of notable scenes","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" **Spoilers** This movie gains momentum after its two female leads, independently, commit rather unlikely murders. The two leads then meet by chance and embark on a spree of robbery (that affords them money and freedom), and murder and sex (that affords them fulfillment) -- in a sense redressing the balance of their lives. The movie is very controversial for its explicit sex, both before they meet -- when one gets raped, and the other is shown going through the sexual motions with a male client -- and after, when each has sex for her own pleasure, and with freedom and control in place. Of course, the power they gain together can only last until the police force catches them.The graphic sex is used to convey the contrast in their lives before and after they empowered themselves, and I applaud the directors for their boldness here, because it makes the movie work, and in fact seem plausible. A soft core approach would have seemed lame. To me, this was a watchable movie (after the women meet) -- made with panache -- with a number of notable scenes that will be remembered. "},{"Title":"Whores kill","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What did you wait from this film? A lot of sex with some horny heroines perhaps, but what you got was just raw presentation of sex and brutish mistreatment of people. All 'action' scenes are just disgusting, for these whores kill those men they have sex with and they will commit their crime on the moment their victims are most vulnerable.The two women have nothing more left than their lives. Their bodies have been prostituted. They have suffered from it all - rape, violence, humiliation, enslavement but finally they have their revenge. If you are looking for deeper meaning for the film, you'll never find it. All this is just as shallow as pornography is, except that this time it's all reversed. No one surely enjoys this film and if it's of any help it was also meant to be that way. It's all a very unpleasant viewing but it may serve as some kind of therapy to those people who hate pornography. "},{"Title":"It's about time!","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Those of you who decry the sex and violence of any film should probably not write reviews of those films. One thing I've noticed about your type is that you can't get past the fact that there's sex and violence in the movie, and you can't see the picture for what it is. It's like a person who doesn't like country music reviewing a Hank Williams album. I just have to believe you knew what you were getting yourselves into when you went to see Baise-Moi, so get off the pulpit. In case anyone has forgotten, this movie was taken from a book. It is telling a very brutal story, so how could the film NOT be brutal? This is the type of film that I can only hope will eventually be made here in the States, and allowed to be released. I love that it is so stark and bold in it's story-telling. The graphic scenes, having been shot under natural lighting, have a certain realism to them that Hollywood just can't duplicate. It brings to mind another French film, Irreversilble, with an equally disturbing and unflinching rape and murder scene. Americans have a problem seeing on film the things that they perpetrate against themselves. Even Tarantino violence has a certain amount of staged look to it. This movie forces you to watch things that make you uncomfortable; in a way that it really might look if it were to happen to you. I say Bravo to this team of filmmakers for bringing this to the screen. "},{"Title":"When bad girls go even worse","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Baise-moi is sort of a Thelma and Louise to 100, but actually it's not even that close. Two girls, Nadine (Karen Lancaume) and Manu (Raffaëla Anderson) get raped and after that they decide to start a rampage towards everyone. They have sex and kill people. They liberate them selves from the society of laws.Baise-moi is supposedly trying to be a feminist movie, about women who take control, but it's quite apparent, that the movie quite far away from that goal.There also is, besides violence, hard core sex scenes on the film, and by that I mean the scenes show penetration (the two girls in main roles are porn actresses of a sorts), but the film still isn't porn as such, as it isn't exactly arousing.Direction is amateurish, which probably is the biggest flaw in the movie, as it doesn't drag the viewer in the world Nadine and Manu, even though the women act very nicely. It's hard to say what exactly this movie tries to be. It's just scenes of meaningless violence and sex after another.Hard to recommend to anyone, as the style is too serious to be taken as a mass insult comedy, too sick to be regular porn and too badly directed to be taken as a real movie. "},{"Title":"Why is it OK for women to make films like this, and they get released basically uncut, but its not OK for men?","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First off, the only reason this got 5 stars out of me is that it is pretty groundbreaking. That doesn't stop it from being one of the worst, sleazest films I've ever seen. And thats saying something believe me.Unlikable characters go on a crime spree and have lots of sex and one of them dies........... big deal. This film contains hardcore sex and very graphic depictions of rape and abuse, the women behind this are artists. Thats why it's SO important (notice the sarcasm here). Its like that eternal question of why its OK for men to sleep around and become studs but women who do the same are branded sluts, I want to see I Spit On Your Grave released uncut.Unlikable characters, everyones a scumbag - what a wonderful world it really is. "},{"Title":"All About Sex and Killing","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Another French film with absurdity. Baise-Moi(F*ck Me) tells the story of two young women who come together to kill and f*ck. One of them is a porn star who escapes from her community after being raped and killing her boyfriend. Second one is a hooker who kills her flatmate and sees her boyfriend being shot dead. After those incidents they meet at a tube station(both misses the last train)then the whole thing starts. They find a bound and come very close. They abuse men sexually, take drugs, drive around the country and have lots of sex. Thats all about Baise-Moi really. We can see that they have no mercy for their victims. They even kill a woman for her money. Both actresses are real porn stars in France that affects the movie in two different ways. They look so comfortable in sex scenes, nonetheless, they can't make the whole film worth watching as ,to me, the film does not require no further ability of acting than that. It is a version of Thelma and Louise on a different level. I could recommend you loads of things to do instead of watching Baise-Moi. So, bother to watch if you wanna see a pointless, kinky film. * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Fury, The name is Woman","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Baise-Moi or  Kiss Me is the story of an unlikely pair of discarded women who live life as mundane as anyone else. Yet their world is soon shattered by a gang rape which not only activates their pent-up frustrations and seething rage, but also shatters the bounds of taste and acceptability. What limits the film industry has establish, this dark film tears open with such graphic and violent scenes as to leave the viewer gasping for breath. Using actual porn actresses for their heroes, directors Virginie Despentes and Coralie, within the context of their film, are able to integrate actual, factual sex scenes, which border on the pornographic. As a result, they unleash such explosive and virulent power which explodes with such rampant destruction as to illicit either excitement or revulsion in every viewer. In the context as Natural Born Killers and Thalma and Louise, Baise-Moi establishes for itself a true classical niche in the expanding genre of dramatic films. "},{"Title":"Naughty French girls&#133;big deal!","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I never really understood the controversy and hype this movie caused. Especially in French and the neighboring countries (in Belgium, where I am located, for example), Baise-Moi was announced as THE most shocking and THE most thought-provoking social drama you could ever experience. Yeah right! It might be a little shocking, maybe (how often do you see someone getting shot up the arse?), but the weak and pointless plot surely didn't cause me to think much. Baise-Moi is another one of those blame everything that goes wrong on society-films and they're generally not very convincing. About 99% of the people functions perfectly well in this society so why would you blame this exact same society for the vile and hopeless acts of two deranged nymph-girls? The two main characters and their miserable lives are introduced separately and in flashes. Nadine just killed her roommate; Manu shot her brother and the two meet in an abandoned train-station, late at night. They decide to travel around France together, leaving a trail of sex and blood behind wherever they made a stop. Although we're constantly exposed to pornography and violence, this film is very boring to sit through. Like the girls are indicating themselves all the time, the dialogues are lame and the people they run into (and kill&#133;) are very uninteresting. If people want to make porno movies, that's fine by me, but please don't pretend that it's art-house film-making. If you leave out the swearing and the hip camera-work, all there is to see is (not so) arousing pornography. Cool soundtrack, though! "},{"Title":"A Disappointing Movie","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I knew this movie was controversial. I knew this movie contained images and scenes that were disgusting and horrifying, and not seen in cinema outside of pornographic films. I knew all this. Yet I accepted it, and I thought that the reason this movie received such bad reviews was that the amount of violence and sex seemed pointless and unjustified artistically.The bad reviews and excessive commentary about the graphic sex and violence in this movie drove me to see the film. I am all for pointless sex and violence in film. As long as it is cinematic ally done. It doesn't need to have a moral or a meaning as long as it is cinematic ally done. After watching, I realized that the reviews were justified, and there is nothing redeemable about this film. It tries to shock, and yet it did not even live up to the hype even in this way.The film looks like it a low-budget, poorly shot made for French t.v. film in the 80s. Even the hairstyle look like the 80s. I'm not talking retro, cool stylistic 80s. I'm talking about the production values of 25 years ago. The rape scene did not even shock as much as it could have, there was no emotional investment in the characters when they were raped, there was absolutely no drama in it. I felt more shocked, and I ashamedly admit thrilled, in other less graphic scenes of that kind. It did not illicit any type of emotion at all. It was just poorly done.I watched this film to see a reviled piece of cinema which was a mix between Irreversible and Thelma and Louise. But instead I got a boring, semi-pornographic flick with the production and sytle of a made for french t.v. film in 1985. The only cool part of the movie was the title sequence, the trailer, and the soundtrack.Two stars. "},{"Title":"Shocking?","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Baise Moi, is a movie, that is meant to shock, not in a lame ass Hollywood way. The rape scenes are depicted in a brutal graphic way. Hollywood fails to achieve this on a regular basis. This is definitely, not meant to glamorize rape, if anything, this would be a deterrent. Another example would be to watch Irreversible another french film. For the naysayers, that dismiss this film as trash, are usually too conservative, to think that a movie with this kind of violence, and porn, initiated by women, should be on a regular movie shelf, and not behind a wall at the back of the store. There are many flaws to Baise Moi, including some campy dialouge, but overall this a film to be seen for anyone who has an open mind. "}{"Title":"'Utter garbage'?","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well, let me say this; Mattias Petersson. You stated, basically, that porn is just porn and a movie is just a movie, but have you ever thought that the two combined as one may actually result in something worthy of a positive opinion, rather than just described in such a negatively biased manner as 'utter garbage'? Only being a 3rd year media / film student, I don't have that much experience over many people in the industry, but that doesn't mean that I don't know what I am talking about. Take this example; I don't agree with many special effects used in some of the modern films we now see, but that is because nowadays, people (as a generalisation) go to see a film for the effects. Whereas, in the many decades past, people used to see them for mental stimulation, where the story was the focal point of the film, with plot twists and so forth. Inbetween these two periods was the meeting of modern technology and film, in such classics as 'Tron', where the story and CGI worked in harmony with each other. I may be straying from the point, but all I am trying to say is that Baise Moi may be just like that meeting point of technology and narrative. The 'porn' seen in Baise Moi may benefit the story and vice versa, playing upon our visual and mental stimulation, so we react to it in a way that we could never experience with a purely narrative-based, or a visually-based movie. I find the story to be clever and emotive, and the 'pornographic' portions of it not particularly entertaining to watch, but essential to the movement of the movie.I think this movie has a well planned mixture of both visual and mental aspects, which make this film, in all fairness not a great film, but just a good film, which is both sometimes entertaining and stimulating at the same time.Phill "},{"Title":"Just not very good.","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This isn't a good movie. Plain and simple. Take out the hardcore sex scenes and what you have is a mediocre plot, average acting (at best), plodding direction, and dull dialogue. Add in the grot and you've got mediocre plot, average acting, plodding direction, dull dialogue, with lashings of hardcore porn. Trouble is the porn's nothing special either. So it's not a good movie, and nor is it a good porno. It fails on both counts. They can say that women made this movie and they were intending to do this with it, and that with it, etc. But talk's cheap, the end result is what counts, and what we have here is a mediocre movie with some sex thrown in for shock value to try and con you into wasting your time watching it. One of those movies where you'd rather have the time you spent watching it back. "},{"Title":"Porno Queens take on making movies","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As a young female , I have to agree with the guys that say this movie is nothing but porn. Good Porn, but a bad movie. If this movie had an XXX rating I would've been impressed with the attempt to add a story line. But it wasn't a porn movie trying to be a real movie , it was a horribly made real movie that actually had real sex in it.The movie took an old storyline and tried to make it art by adding useless ,but unrealistic violence and real but fantastical sex scenes.My boyfriend and I rented this movie not knowing that the actors were porn stars or anything. We didn't know the movie had real sex scenes in it, Yet After seeing the first 10 minutes we both said to each other that the two female actors were acting on a Porn Movie level. And that's why I didn't like the movie. Sure the sex scenes shocked the h*ll out of me,but only because I wasn't expecting it.What really disturbed me was the fact that the creators did very little to raise the quality of the movie beyond that of a standard porno film. Here's the bottom line. Porn movies deal with extreme fantasy not reality. This film continued in that premise of having extremely contrived fantastical scenes, including the rape scenes and most of the murders. Very rarely do I like mainstream movies over art films, but Both Thelma and Louis and Monster did a far superior job of telling exactly the same story.And if you want to watch films that explore realistic sexual psyche without buying into the porno fantasy line, then rent The Piano Teacher, Secretary, She's Gotta Have it, or my favorite Looking for Mr. Goodbar. "},{"Title":"Pseudo intellectual directors like this shouldn't get support... Cheap and trashy.","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Translated in Spanish as Violame (Rape Me) makes the audience think about an art erotic movie or as an exploitative trash. I had the chance to watch the unrated version of this crap and you can see where I'm going...HUGE SPOILERS Don't be fooled by the hype that this movie created. It has happened before like in 70's horror movies. There's nothing new in this movie; just a bunch of disturbing scenes including rape and violence. After the first (and most important scene) you know that you're sitting through a BAD movie. This is un welcomed exploitation. The opening rape scene (which gives the title to the movie) is not as disturbing as you may think. Okay, let me get straight that ANY raping scene is disturbing, sick, uncomfortable, but in this movie it's not that disturbing mainly because of it's minimal production values, terrible direction and mediocre acting.The rape scene was just an excuse to display women revenge in a pathetical way. Manu seemed to be very calmed while being raped; in fact, she cooperated to make things not that difficult. You can't carry the whole movie on a scene with such terrible elements. OK the movie is not directed for all audiences but still if you're going to display extreme violence the least you can do is consider the production value.The following scenes are pathetic excuses to portray sex and violence scenes. After the raping scene there's an un called for explicit sex scene. That's where I lost interest in this so called art film.The ending is totally predictable but doesn't solve anything. There's no plot or conclusion. This is a huge mess. Baise Moi or Violame or whatever is a terrible movie. It's cheap and trashy. Not even disturbing or shocking for fans of exploitation. Please AVOID THIS ONE. This should please NOBODY! Not fans of erotic thrillers, gorehounds, or fans of this pseudo intellectual trashes.2/10. I can't think of something good. I'm mad for wasting 80 mins. of my life on this crap. Bury it! "},{"Title":"Snuff porn masquerading as feminist art.","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This tawdry little pornographic home movie shot on digital video features two female protagonists who come across as Thelma and Louise (of the eponymous 1991 film) morphing into the archetypes for Mickey and Mallory of Natural Born Killers (1994). With a screenplay that could have been written by Andrea Dworkin, Baise Moi depicts the sex/crime/murder spree of our heroines as they emulate the 'black widow' style of fornication, often killing their partners after copulation. What fun! Unfortunately, it lacks any of the aesthetic appeal of Ridley Scott's Thelma and Louise, any of the crazy but mesmerizing extravagance of Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers, or even any of the mordant wit of Remy Belvaux's Man Bites Dog (1992). It seems to be very much a film made by angry women, featuring angry women, with a target audience of other angry women, particularly of the man-hating-radical-lesbian-feminist variety. Veteran 'adult film' actress Karen Lancaume does have some nice moments in the role of Nadine. At one point, while wearing fetching lingerie, she does a Travis Bickle imitation with gun and mirror that is both chilling and amusing. Alas, these moments are few and far between. I think I'd prefer to view some of the films starring co-writer/co-director Coralie. Who could resist watching such titles as Pure Anal and Cunt Sucking Sluts 5?The DVD notes for Baise Moi indicated that this film had actually been banned in France (Oh my!). But I'm of the opinion this wasn't directly due to its extreme sex and violence. Rather, I think it was done to prevent a national crisis. In this film, every guy who pulls his pants down has an organ at least nine inches long (the minimum length requirement for any decent pornographic movie). Given that every Frenchman considers himself the world's greatest lover (or so I'm told by a female friend of mine who lived in France for a time), one can only imagine the ego-deflating horror endured by male members (no pun intended) of French audiences as they are forced to compare their own physical manhood to this parade of centaurs, one after the other. An epidemic of depression would sweep the country. Work stoppages would ensue. The government would collapse, perhaps even French society itself (mon Dieu!). Clearly, such a possibility couldn't be allowed. Vive la France! Rating 4/10. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Baise Moi (Kiss Me) tells of two young women who go on a killing and f**king spree. So, there's lots of killing and some graphic sex (penetration, oral, etc.). Add to those two elements a pretty awful production with color shifts, graininess, lousy editing, poor effects,  etc.; unbelievable characterizations; and other problems to numerous to mention here and you have your basic porn flick. Worst of all, there isn't enough sex for it to be good porn and too little story for it to be anything else. Conclusion? Don't waste your time. (D) "},{"Title":"Mad, bad and dangerous to know","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although the usual, if intellectually lazy, comparison is to Thelma and Louise, Baise Moi is actually closer in tone and character to Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers. With its jazzed cinematography (probably due in part to working around the limitations of digital video), extreme sex and violence and druggy nihilism, the protagonists very closely resemble Stone's (or rather Quentin Tarantino's) characters Micky and Maude in their travels thru a nightmare America. It's crudely edited and one wonders what is hidden or lost in some of the more drastic cuts, but it's definitely worth watching. On one of those nights when you're feeling jumpy and world weary, put it on your list with another wildly violent and controversial film, Man Bites Dog. "},{"Title":"The French get nasty","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Basie Moi is a tough, no holds barred take on the nihilistic cinema of violence of the mid-late 90's.  Like the bombastic Natural Born Killers or downright dreary Fun it follows the killing spree of a couple of people who spiral out of control and into a world of murder and brutality.The director eschews the half baked psychology and satire that so bogged down NBK but does add a critique of film - most notably in a scene where the two girls bemoan the fact that they don't have the witty dialogue that frequently accompanies murders in mainstream Hollywood films.  Its this witty dialogue accompanying violence in Hollywood films that makes the murders so digestible to the viewer. Here the killings are brutal and sudden. But, if this all sounds like an achingly serious piece of film it has to be added that it is at times funny in a very bleak way.On top of all of this there is the added audience divider of the graphic sex scenes.  If you are shocked by sex scenes you will definitely need to avoid this but if you can be adult about what you are watching it adds to the gritty envelope pushing nature of this fascinating piece of world cinema.  Effectively this is Natural Born Killers with a feminist slant and without the LOOK AT ME....PLEASE direction and dim witted pontificating.  Short, sharp and brutal but worth a look for the adventurous viewer. "},{"Title":"speculated realism","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  there is something about the new european cinema tendencies towards realism which i deeply dislike.Let´s make it clear its not the realism in itself (crude flesh, unedited sounds, etc) that bothers me at this movie, it´s the way realism is speculatively used to achieve a pitty goal.It is clear to me that the script in itself could have lead to a, maybe, above the average road-movie, for sure tough realistic scenes could have found their place into the emotional fiber of the story and a sensitive director could have focused more on introspection than on explications. But, unfortunately, the message i received from the badly acted scenes and from the dramatical attempts of various characters too look typical and couldn´t-care-less-realistical, from the embarrassing clichés (a particular scene of the two main characters dancing in the hotel room reminded me so much of south-american soap-operas that i still wonder how i could resist the temptation to use the fire-exit right then), the message, i was saying, was that maybe a not-so-inspired team of directors was only trying to push away just one more boudary, to step over just one more tabu, and doing this not as a means to some artistic end, but making it an aim in itself. And that is sad and offending.Moreover, the scenes of a pornographic nature were most probably intended to increase the emotions, by transmiting a sort of disgust for a sex-exploitive man-dominated society, but in my case they only worked for inducing the feeling that i am watching a sort of unfortunate hybrid species of a movie profoundly, a pornographic movie is only a succession of uninteresting badly acted non-sexual scenes (very often in real time) meant only to link the one sexual act with another (simplest explanation even pornography fans get bored to watch 90 minutes of hard-core sex, but then, neither they are really interested to follow a presumtive epical line, nor are the producers interested to go into such trouble/expenses to come out with one), in the same way, baise moi is just a succession of embarrassing wish-to-be-realistic-but-also-wish-to-be-associated-with-women-victimising- porno-industry-sex-scenes, meant to link different scenes of a pathetic non-depth, dabatably acted and emotionally main-streamed. Everything under the protective umbrella of a militant realism. "},{"Title":"Top ten reseaon why you shouldn't see this movie...","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Someone offered me today this movie in DVD, the next thing I'm going to do is trading it for another one. However here is the top ten reasons why you shouldn't see it.1- The movie has been shot in video 2- The movie has not point 3- The movie is 77 min long 4- The movie is just about sex and violence (you better rent either a porno or a popcorn movie) 5- The movie is uncoherent 6- There's only porn actor or bad actor in it. 7- The movie is about two girls that shoot guy so you better watch or rewatch Thelma and Louise 8- You'd better wash your hardwood floor with a toothbrush than seeing this movie (You would not waste your time) 9- Because if you do so you are encouraging Despentes to make another book/movie and that would be either bad for literature and for movie industry 10- Make up one on your own it would be just as good as mineHowever I want to highlight a point, Karen Bach A.K.A Karen Lancaume is really good at acting. She's a porn actress but might be as well a regular actress. She's really good looking, she has charisma and she puts feelings through her acting. I hope she's going to make more regular movies, and no lame porn flick like Baise-Moi. Rafaëlla Anderson is not bad, but I didn't like her performance. Maybe it's her character I don't know.However if you still wanna watch this movie. Wait until you could watch it for free.  "}{"Title":"A good film, better than all recent 007 flicks & mickey blue eyes","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Time Out didnt really like it.....I think they just assumed that the raunch was displayed for cheap thrills, but the the 2 leads were exciting to watch.  the acting was good, and REALLY good for porn stars (not that i've ever seen a porn of course, but from what i hear)....anyway...BEST SCENE Girl pukes on guy while felating him.  ( "},{"Title":"I want for me two girls like them","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I went to watch this movie with my ten years old kid. We have ate two apple pies and we can´t understand well that where are going. When we get out, I said Oh, yes, this is a quite strong movie. Quite exciting, but strong movie. Don´t tell mum you have watched it, and then my clever kid answered Don´t worry that. If I had two girls like them, I would don´t worry about my parents. My child was right. This is not only a strong movie, it´s also dangerous. It´s only pornography and it must been forbidden. Kids are thinking about these girls, and forgot parents, Gods and cheerleaders. For this, I only give it eight points.  "},{"Title":"One Of The Worst French X-rated Porno Movies.","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Baise Moi or Fu.k Me In English Is one of the worst pornographic French movies I have ever seen.2 real porno stars and horny female whores act in this crappy movie.The script and acting is totally disastrous.Those dirty porno whores don't know how to act,but they know how to sexually arouse men by blowing them and getting unlimited oral and anal pleasure.For porno fans I advise them to rent or buy an adult DVD and not waste their time and money in seeing a disgusting porno French movie that deserves to receive many awards for Worst porno movie,worst direction and worst acting.I am not surprised why the majority of movie fans and critics abhorred Baise Moi. Even individuals who are addicted to pornography and sex will not enjoy this trash French porno movie. "},{"Title":"An Explicit Waste of Time","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Former prostitute Virginie Despentes and former porn actress Coralie Trinh Thi co-directed this pedestrian crime thriller about two women on the rampage who have no qualms about killing anybody who gets in their way. Comparisons between this trash and Ridley Scott's acclaimed Thelma and Louise are inevitable, but Baise-Moi lacks virtually anything and everything that a good movie needs. Two ruthless thugs rape two women in a garage, and these two unfortunate girls, Nadine (Karen Lancaume) and Manu (Raffaëla Anderson), obtain guns and then launch a shooting spree. They rob a woman at an ATM and riddle several men. Most of the men and women that they murder don't deserve their fate. A lot has been written about the explicit sex scenes in this movie. Actually, you could probably find a much more explicit example of this kind of pornography. The two female directors do show penetration, but they don't show much of anything on the girls. Breast shots are held to an absolute minimum. The film contains no vestiges of humor. Nadine likes to rip the nylons that she wears before she has sex. These two are not only unsavory but also unsympathetic. The performances are forgettable. About the only scene that strikes an interesting note occurs early when one girl cries and struggles against the advances of one rapist and gains the attention of the other rapist. When the two rapists switch girls, Nadine neither cries nor struggles, and the rapist turns her loose. Perhaps there is a veiled message. The pornography takes up a minor percentage of the action. The dialogue--even in subtitles--is just as forgettable. Clocking in at 77 minutes, Baise-moi is mercifully brief. For the record, Nadine dies when she tries to hold up a store, and Manu is captured by the authorities as she contemplates suicide. No matter what you read about this superficial saga, you are wasting your time with his potentially interesting epic lensed from the perspective of the porn industry.. "},{"Title":"Poor","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Baise-Moi (2000) 1/2 (out of 4) Two women, one prostitute and the other a gang rape victim, hit the streets killing and screwing anyone they can. The title translates to Fuck Me and this film hit theaters with a storm of controversy but what I don't get is how this thing was considered art. I've seen hundreds of exploitation films and this thing here is pretty much pure trash and a lot cheaper than some of the most controversy films from the horror/exploitation genre. At least those films have some sort of story while this one here is pure amateur hour. I respect what the film was going for but the direction and acting is just so bad and the film tries to make up with it by using hardcore sex. "},{"Title":"Torture Porn. With real full penetration.","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oh let's see... where should I start? 2 women get raped, and one of them gets together with another angry women that kills her roommate, so they hit the road in a car to go kill people. Along the way they have sex with men (real sex, not simulated acting sex, with full penetration and oral involved). Sometimes they kill them. Sometimes they don't. Sometimes they kill innocent people. Sometimes they... well you get the picture. Sorry, but, regardless of all the comments that say it's not, this IS a porn. It may only be a diet porn, you know, just one calorie, but it's still a porn. Let's borrow a detail from good Ol' WikiPornography or porn is, in its broadest state, the explicit representation of the human body or sexual activity with the goal of sexual arousal and/or sexual relief. It is similar to erotica, which is the use of sexually-arousing imagery for mainly artistic purposes.Now, I realize that some may have a different view on what porn is, but in the end, and I DO mean IN the END, these chicks are having sex. Did I mention that there is penetration, REAL penetration, plus lots of oral sex, and even a semen scene? And blood. Did that get you yet?Of course, this movie was banned in a few countries for scenes like this. And it was a bit violent, though certainly low budget violence. It's torture porn which is influenced by the splatter genre. As the two women continue on their road trip, they shoot, bite, and sodomize for the sake of killing. Comparisons to the movie Thelma and Louise is ridiculous beyond belief because the characters don't have any depth, the script is junk and any resemblance to a good plot is just an imaginary hallucination. I also see some comments that state that Prudish Americans and British telling you that it is shocking and garbage and so on. Please. We prudish Americans and Brits brought you way better shocks, and the rest of the world knows it. Clockwork Orange, anyone? And who do you think brought grind-house cinemas, exploitation and slasher flicks to the table?So why give this movie anything more then a 1? Well because the main actresses, Lancaume and Anderson, really get into the parts. They are both real porn actresses, so making a film like this should be a snap. But they make it seem TOO easy. The loving looks on their faces with happy glee after they just finished offing someone is almost worth a see. Oh, and did I tell you that this movie has REAL full penetration sex? This is a TORTURE PORN movie, but those that glorify it calling it the best nihilistic event ever have not seen enough movies. Watch Doom Generation(1995)instead. You get all the sex and violence, plus a decent script and a rather bizarre ending that really grabs you. Otherwise, if you want to see a movie like this just for the real penetration scenes, rent a REAL porn. Duh. "},{"Title":"Not a pretty film, but a good story.","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I happened to see the 2nd half of Baise-moi on a movie channel one night when I couldn't sleep. Somewhat intrigued, I rented the DVD a few months later to see the first half of the film.Much I'm sure to some people's annoyance, I thought that it was a much better film than many give it credit for. Having seen the first 20 minutes (which went a long way towards explaining the carnage that followed), I'm now relatively clear about why it was banned in France - nothing to do with the explicit sex and not remarkably graphic violence, and everything to do with the image it leaves of the French under-class.I have no problem with graphic sex in a film so long as it has a role to play in the storyline. I must say that in this regard, what one sees in Baise-moi has a great deal more to do with the story than similarly graphic though rather less 'grubby' scenes featured in '9 Songs'.I suspect there is a degree of artistic snobbery behind much of the criticism of Baise-moi. I've seen films that cost a lot more and featured household names in the main roles that left me completely....emotion and opinion-less.Baise-moi suffers a bit due to being shot on what appears to be video and using all natural light. The acting isn't great, but I've seen worse. The editing is also a bit slipshod and there are some scenes in it that are probably not needed.But I'm willing to set these things aside because I think it's a really good story and one that, had it been given the full treatment (budget, craft, lighting, script editing, among others) would have been one of the most talked about films of recent years - and for the right reasons. "},{"Title":"Why was this film made?","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If France is really like this then we've truly found hell on earth. Violence, Drugs and prostitution are normal parts of life in this unnamed town. The stripped down production values help to project the grit, filth and claustrophobia of this urban nightmare. Greasy pimps look that much more repulsive in a grainy hand-held shot. Despentes paints a horrific picture of life for Manu and Nadine. We see Nadine performing a sex act as a prostitute and Manu is raped within the first 15 minutes of the opening credits.The rape scene is horrendous but what separates this scene from others is that there are hardcore penetration shots. The hand-held camera going uncomfortably close to a penis violating a woman is undoubtedly troubling to anyone, and with the toothless and bloody mouth of the victim screaming, it truly is one of the most intrusive and powerful rape scenes you will ever see.The BBFC have decided to ignore the multitudinous graphic erection and penetration shots and pass this film as an 18. If standard pornography is R18 certificate and has to be purchased in registered sex shops, then why is Baise- Moi available in our theatres and soon on the high street? Which opens up a massive debate about porn and art. Logic would decree that in order for this specialist treatment from the BBFC Baise-Moi must be making a serious artistic contribution.Defending the right to include hardcore shots is the aforementioned rape scene, but the prosecution against is the rest of the film. From the moment the rape scene ends Baise-Moi is void of any artistic, moral or sociological merit. The film loses all credibility when Manu and Nadine simultaneously their respective flatmates. These killings are given little or no emotive reason, and are so poorly executed that it becomes laughable; Nadine kills her flatmate by dry-humping her!There is a lot of debate about the artistic merit of Baise-Moi, and there's no doubt that the rape scene is powerful, but it is not backed up by any other substance in the film. Despentes seems to think that the rape scene will be enough to keep this film afloat and forgot to write anything else in the story that could evoke any interest. Our Thelma and Louise characters shag, steal and kill their way around France. Violating and humiliating men as they go, oh wait I get it now! They're treating men like they have been treated by men! It is an obsolete point that is hiding behind an excuse of trying to provoke debate and controversy. Feminism takes us much damage from these characters as matriarchal values.The message is mixed, at times Baise-Moi plays like a crime buddy movie, but then at others it's trying to be a Nihilistic attempt to portray meaninglessness. How can it be meaningless as well as encapsulating the power of femininity and female friendship?None of these points can be taken seriously though as the performances from Bach and Anderson are so blatantly amateur as to detract from any immersion into the non-existent plot.One scene of dramatic worth and a lot of hardcore sex is not enough to make this art. "},{"Title":"Something else","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is for people who are OK with images of explicit sex, and psychotic violence. I am giving it a 10 not because it is flawless, but because it has the courage to do something different without being boring. It mixes violence with explicit sex, and that is not what we usually see in the movies. But why not? I believe a movie can be a romantic comedy with explicit sex, or a drama with explicit sex. This here is a crime drama, with some humor, and explicit sex, and that is OK.Some people want movies to be like textbooks always a clear message of humanism or something. Well, art is not always that pretty. In this movie, you see women that are in a way victims of an unbalanced society, yes. But they are not that nice, and soon they are psychotic, and seem to be enjoying their madness. Maybe that's not politically correct, but when people go crazy, they sometimes look evil from the outside. What can you do? This movie is not strong on solutions, and it does seem to enjoy being mean. That's fine art does not always have to provide people with explanations and solutions.This one here is just trying to tell a story of poverty, madness and violence without patronizing the poor or insane. And without avoiding to show sex, and even rape, in a way closer to reality. Good show! "},{"Title":"watching it was a quite nice evening","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I (male) watched this movie on the first night my new flatmate (female) moved in. We both enjoyed watching the movie we both heard this and that about. Though it might sound strange to watch a movie with x-rated sex with a new flatmate we were enjoying it.The Movie at whole has a quite nice ambiance. I still remember it. And that's what makes me watch certain movies again and again (e.g. Pitch Black). After all this movie will be some sort of classic as Deep Throat though Baise Moi has much more to enjoy and much more complexity. Despite the fact that not everybody likes porn it is honorable to see porn-oriented actors widen up to different types of genres though not being shamed of their background and most of all their Skills.I would like to see any of the protesters act in a pornographic scene while leaving some performance to watch... ;-) I mean doing pornography needs lots of talent to makes the audience enjoy it, right?But still, i don't find this movie that much pornographic. It is more like a type of movie i would like to see more. Why is it necessary to cut the scene just because the actors/actresses are going to have sex (from the perspective of the story)? Sex is a wonderful thing which nobody needs to taboo.That's my opinion - have Fun. "}{"Title":"Not shocking, but shocking.","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The sex and violence in this film is not shocking, what is shocking is that a film this poor could get so much hype.There is very little to the film with regards to plot but there is a flimsy back-story where a young woman is gang raped (though she is entirely submissive throughout the &#145;ordeal', making it more pathetic and contemptible than the infamous Straw Dogs rape) and shoots her brother when he shows anger at the rapists rather than sorrow for her.  Exactly why she wants his sorrow isn't made clear as she seems to look on the episode as water off a ducks back.  Her friend and fellow victim shows a more realistic reaction (though rest assured that non of the acting ever reaches the dizzy heights of believable) but the film never conveys for a second the horror of rape (see Irreversible). Running parallel to this `story' another woman murders her flat-mate, apparently because she was tired of being nagged about smoking too much weed, watching too much porn, and having friends who spill coffee.  It is never explained why she couldn't take a more suitable (sane) course of action like moving out, so we are left to presume she is off her nut.  She goes to meet an old buddy (the coffee spiller) who is also killed, apparently we don't need to know by who, or why, but the last thing she promised him she would do is go to France and meet a friend (a drug deal I think, I'm not watching it again to make sure). This is the point where the film goes downhill, it's hard to believe, but it actually gets worse.  You might be able to stomach the clumsy set-up of the first 20 minutes if they did something with it, but scenes become more and more embarrassing.  The meeting between the two women, for example, and their agreement to become outlaws is cringe worthy.  Crammed into a few minutes the actors blurt out their pasts to each other and are then on the road, they've never met, but within a day they're shooting the skull out of a woman in order to pilfer her bankcard. The last hour is a series of set pieces where the road buddies either kill or have sex or both.  None of these scenes are excessively violent or pornographic, as others suggest, and soon become tiresome.  The film doesn't move an inch between the first and last attack, which left me quite bored and meant I didn't care whether they got away with it or not.Avoid this film at all costs, certainly don't make the same mistake as a friend of mine and actually buy it.  If you must see it, borrow it or download it and hopefully the writer/director won't get to make another.1/10 (that 1 is for the mercy shown in keeping it short) "},{"Title":"What the hell is going on in France? Spoilers!","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   I saw this film about three months before I ended up seeing the infamous 'Irreversible.' Since they are both French, they sought of stick out in my mind together. However Gasper Noe's 'Irreversible' is much better and actually has something to say. What the hell is wrong with France? These films are released and then I hear that gang rape amongst French youth is on the increase in the ghetto areas. Are there too many people working at the post office or what? I thought French people lazed around reading Sartre and drinking red wine. Not brutalizing each other so badly that they will be traumatised for the rest of their lives!   When I went to see this, the idiot ticket vendor would not sell the damn ticket to me because he was Christian and believed that I would be condemning myself to hell by watching this film. They also looked at me as if I was forcing the female person I was with to see it! I was not! GROAN!!! Also why do Christian politicians insist on banning films? Both Ken Park and Baise Moi were banned and then released. This then had the effect that everyone 18+ in Auckland came out and saw the two films. In fact Ken Park was probably more popular than Attack of the Clones here! 'Baise Moi' is really bad. It is shocking but that does not make a good film.  It seems like a porn director wanted to make a bad Tarantino knock off. It is paint by numbers Tarantino, but without any of Tarantino's talent. The acting is bad and the story weak. It is exploitation and well...it's violent porn essentially. I mean Russ Meyer made films that mixed sex and violence but his films were way more entertaining. The whole film looks like a bad home movie. It seems like the people involved just wanted to make some easy money by shocking everybody. What irritates me about films like these is that they try and attempt to present themselves in a sought of arty-indy veneer. This way it gives the film more street credibility. One reviewer here states this is punk rock film making. No, this is just very bad film making. This is certainly not 'art.'  The fact that it was made by two women just adds a kind of Annabel Chong self loathing to the whole exercise. I mean it is a film that literally goes from one violent/sexual scene to another. The characters are psychotic and well...jaded beyond belief. But with the constant bombardment of violent images, this just jades the viewer as well. For example after having being delivered a horrible scene of rape. The two women go and stomp a guy to death for being a 'condom dickhead,' yawn... I mean 'Henry, Portrait of a Serial killer' got its point across much more effectively. The serial killer at the bottom of society, travels around the country killing because he has nothing else. It was also not glorified porn. The viewer knows that this is cheap exploitation when the murders get more and more grand. By the end of the film you observe them taking out a whole swingers club! Then one of the woman puts a gun to a guys chocolate starfish and pulls the trigger! I almost hid under my seat when this happened! It also seems that this is an attempt by the film makers to offend people and thereby causing more people to see it. They  probably made the scene thinking, 'man heaps of people are going to come out and see it for this.' What troubles me is that if this was made by men there probably would have been a bigger outcry. But because it was made by women it probably went under the radar a little more. Is there a double standard out there? Also one of the main characters looks shockingly like Darlene from that old sitcom Roseanne. Is this what she is doing now? If it is then please somebody get her some decent work!     Finally I found this film to be puerile, juvenile and as dumb as a box of hair. The film is extremely annoying and like a little kid that swears for attention it should just be ignored. I give 2 out of 10. The extra point goes to the fact that I was actually on a date when I saw this and it was the girls idea. Maybe I have a strange sense of humor but I found the whole situation quite funny. Obviously she was horrified and it really made me feel like Travis from 'Taxi Driver!' This is not a date film!      "},{"Title":"brilliant time piece","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is absolutely a icon of this era, will only be valued after aprox. ten years. Watching this movie is indeed deeply shocking and the best sign is that, you feel like you you have only been watching for ten minutes!!!! "},{"Title":"I see what all the hype was about,but I didn't like the movie.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie with the expectations that it was going to be really unique and great,but what I experienced was a bad B-movie. I had heard that it had some rough sex scenes and lots of violence,and that was for the most true exept it was so badly done.I must admit that the first rape scene was kind of disturbing with the women who was raped and you could see blood dripping from here face and also the penetration.In all the other violent scenes you could clearly see that it was a B-movie that couldnt aford red paint that looked like blood. I think this movie was only made to provoke and shock,because it is a bad piece off film making.I dont think anyone will see it as anything besides garbage.It has no story or atmosphere and we dont feel for any of the characters. If you want to see this movie for the sex scenes,then dont bother,because it is filmed badly.Go rent a porn movie instead,it might even have a better story.And if you are watching it because of the violence,I have to say that I have seen movies that are way sicker.The only reason to see this movie,is to see something new,you might call it a bad porn movie with a story. "},{"Title":"I was curious to see it again...","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This time around I admire everyone in Baise Moi, from the grip to the director. I'm inspired by its strength, by breaking all the rules & at the same time giving us a compelling story felt skin deep. I can say with confidence that if you miss this film, you will miss a moment in your life that could change your outlook in film, art, and society thru emotionally defeated eyes. Its not an anti-Hollywood movie and its not an indie, its better. "},{"Title":"The Underground's Underground","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the things I love about Rape Me is the advertising, the girl in red lens holding a gun at you, the Warning and Banned in France. That girl is Nadine, an elegant young prostitute, who comes home from work to a roommate that's upsetting her. In the city, Manu gets kidnapped and with her friend get forced on, at home she gets upset with someone close. Destiny meets at the train station, becoming friends when its late and closed. A car in France, and with a taken ATM, a trail of blood is left. Nadine at moments, emotionally tells us why she's doing this, its heartbreaking but her anger is real, and her cruelness is a polar opposite of what she displays. Manu is younger, cute, wild and dangerous, she's amusing to see, in fascination you remember the film Fun. The sex is sex, it looks healthy on screen, but its the plot that your mind is fixed, your thinking, what's going to happen to the girls? Your wondering about Nadine and Manu, sometimes blankly for its a film creating a new genre or a film with such an ending that you have to turn to the director and wonder of the future. "},{"Title":"Could've been a contender","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" People will come to this film for different reasons. Some will be intrigued by the tales of extremism and will view it as a kind of cinematic equivalent of eating an habanero pepper. Some will be in it strictly for the sex scenes. Myself, I was drawn to it because of the supposed feminist content. Supposed being the key word. Because there are female leads and a rape scene, I suppose it's reasonable that some people come to that conclusion, but it's the incorrect one. First, a short word on content. I don't normally watch porno, so the sex stuff was shocking in the sense that I wasn't expecting quite that level of graphicness. Let me just say, the word 'tasteful' has no place here. It didn't traumatize me for life, I'm just telling this to let readers know who might be wondering-you will be in for a full-on hardcore porn film with an extended plot line.I find it hard to believe that even the most extreme strains of feminism could find anything of value here. Not only do these women kill men who, within the logic of the plot line, could be construed as 'deserving it', but they kill women who did nothing more than cross their path. One of the women kills her roommate because she dared to suggest she should keep up with her roommate responsibilities. They both kill a woman going to an ATM. And an indiscriminate bloodbath occurs at a sex club. The rape scene is confusing because while it could be pointed to as a trigger, the woman raped seems almost nonchalant about it. Denial? Something going on below the surface? Perhaps. But that's a realm of subtlety the film doesn't seem to have much of. I guess if you're being extremely generous, you could say the women are simply a product of a crazy society that treats women like crap and now that society is getting its just desserts, and here's how it would play out. But it seems more like a cover. A thin veneer of integrity placed by the makers to display nihilism. Because that is what it's about-nihilism. Life is a crazy meaningless escapade, so get your kicks any way you can.There are many other shortcomings to the movie. I just didn't find it believable these women would suddenly start killing, be so good at it, and find it all so irrelevant. And what are the apartment walls in France made of-ten inches of lead? No one could hear gunshots and beatings going on? And the streets are always deserted except for the hapless victims? I suppose these logical failings also apply to ninety percent of the typical Hollywood action movies, but I had to mention it.This film is a disappointment, it could have been something of a modern day exploration of forces shaping the lowest of the lower class, women, and I don't mind debauchery if it has a point. This didn't. I just felt manipulated. Two stars for trying something different, and for at least not boring me. "},{"Title":"Bravo, Bravo!","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I wasn't fortunate enough to find this film at the local multiplex and instead had to wait for the DVD release, shame, because it is simply brilliant! Instead of shying around the topics of prostitution and rape like so many Hollywood productions, this film shoves it right in your face to deconstruct any imagined 'glamour', leaving a nasty taste in the mouth. The initial sex scenes are mundane, devoid of any eroticism, and the gang rape scene creates a genuine sense of menace that is hard to watch.This film sets out to distress the viewer and is able to use this to create real empathy with the female characters despite their actions later in the film. Put simply, Baise Moi does what it says on the tin and tests the boundaries of audiences taste but I would recommend it to anyone looking for a genuine gritty modern classic. Bravo! "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The most overrated, and under-delivering movie that I have seen. If gratuitous violence, and bland character development is OK by you, then this is great.Boring, predictable delivery.The film could have been so much more, but the producers have obviously gone for shock value over quality.If only the director had focused on the real problems facing those in the movie, instead of glorifying pure hatred, then the film would have broken some real ground.Poor cinema, poor movie making........Unless you are French speaking, and very open to art type movies, this movie will be a joke. "},{"Title":"Falling open-legged between two stools","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" French cinema used to have a reputation in the socially backward UK for being essentially about two people in a room having sex. In reality it was far more likely to be about two people in a room talking about having sex, but that didn't stop British distributors marketing the work of our more enlightened cousins as inherently dirty.Well, that was then. Now, the marketing geniuses behind Irreversible, Romance and Baise Moi have decided it would be great if French cinema really was about two people in a room having sex.This is all very perplexing&#133; Baise Moi is essentially the younger, more disturbed suck and f*ck sister to Ridley Scott's Thelma and Louise. This is Art you know you seem to hear the director saying. Well, possibly. It's certainly an achievement; getting general release permission for a hardcore film past the most scissor-happy censors in Europe. But art? Erm, no.All of that said, the film could have been worse. The acting is actually rather good, considering the fact that &#150; although having a huge body of films behind them &#150; the stars are more usually credited as performers than actors. The rape scene at the beginning is one of the most harrowing (and I suspect realistic) on film. There is nothing remotely romantic or titillating about it. The message about how a bleak, mean life invokes nihilism is not new but it is well made, and at least the film tries to have a message.Perhaps, if there is a virtue to the graphic sex, it is that it stops the audience having to engage their imagination. May be the sheer mindlessness and pointlessness is the point. But far too much of the film ends up as mere exhibition, and therefore falls firmly between the stools of art and pornography, probably pleasing neither camp. "}{"Title":"Hmmmm....","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A pathetic attempt to shock in the kind of arty way that makes indie cinema a joke. Right, we've got little money, let's hire women who are not adverse to having sex on film and (wait for it) lets make them have sex on film!This will REALLY make people talk, the more pretentious the language, the more tickets/DVDs/seats we can sell!!! Better still, lets say that if anyone doesn't like it, they are missing the point! They can't SEE our vision! They must be stupid or lack creativity! That will make MORE people see what we have done. I refuse to believe Baise-Moi, in all of its self praise for the 'bravery' to communicate the gratuitous nature of the subject actually makes a difference or a point. I bought this film. I suggest you watch Thelma & Louise instead. At least that has a good script. Baise-Moi is a blatant tribute to tripe. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Bad art, bad porn...","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film doesn't even have anything to say about the only thing which makes it different -- the use of real sex acts rather than simulated ones.My advice is if you want to see a film that has something to say, well, even Thoroughly Modern Millie has more intellectual depth than this travesty, so go watch that instead. And if you want to see real sex, save yourself the trouble of having to ignore iffy subtitles and just rent a porno video.I'm a fan of French movies, but this one is just nasty and empty.  "},{"Title":"Puh-lease","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Made by juveniles.  Made for juveniles.  A one trick pony of graphic sex and violence for its own sake.Not shocking, just stupid.Not worth the time I've spent to type this, actually.Oooops.  I've been told to add six more lines to my review.  More time wasted on this shlock.  Ok, here goes....  The actresses are ugly and untalented.  The film is amateurish and pointless and everyone involved is in need of psychiatric counseling as they have obvious anger and exhibitionism issues.  Is that enough? "},{"Title":"Hardcore","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This Film is worth watching!!Of course you can watch this movie on a level where you rate acting and scenery, but this is the wrong approach to baise moi.Its a film about alienation with in western societies and individuals, who have nothing more to loose. They both try to cope with a situation, we all would try to arrange with. But they brake out and go as far as you can. So try to look at it as a play of thoughts and the question What happens if...?Its a imagination and shows everybody's dark side of the self and well made. Its like Hundstage by F. Seidel. Hard to watch but quite good and lets you think... "},{"Title":"Erotic yes , violent  oh yes, a movie  no way","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  To make a long story short, the best thing about this movie is the hype. Filmed like a week-end movie, with no characters depth, this movie is a negative view of life too much stereotyped and superficial to really be of any interest. Violent scenes are too expressive and free and apart from the visual shock you really don't care about them. As for the sexual scenes, although very explicit they lack the power and sensuality of a true movie like The Lover (Jean-Jaques Annaud) or (although less artistic) of a simple Basic Instinct.I would qualify it as a intellectual adult movie which fails on both the erotic and psychological sides.An insult to cinematography.And just in case you were wondering, even the DVD release is of poor quality. "},{"Title":"shocking...ly bad","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  well now, where to begin...this is a film that is trading on its shocking content. and after having seen the film then you can understand why. because once you remove the very explicit, unfaked sex and the really bad violence and gore (bad, as in it looked like someones home video. you know what i mean 'throw some more tomato sauce on there to make it look scary...no, the one with chunks in') then you are left with the script and the story.really bad dialogue. no, i mean really, really bad dialogue. pointless dialogue. no characterisation. no empathy (although that of course is the point), everyone was repellant. it all just seemed to go nowhere and say nothing. were the girls really fighting back against all those evil men?***Spoiler alert***this is a really bad film....oh, maybe that isnt that much of a spoiler then. maybe the raped one was, but the other? well who knows, and frankly who the hell cares either***end of spoiler***i am all in favour of films that try to go further and i hate censorship so i couldnt agree with anyone that this film should be banned. because you see, there is really no need to give it the oxygen it needs by giving it such publicity. in a year or two (a year?! who am i trying to kid), well, maybe in a month or two (a month?! who am i trying to kid...etc etc) then this film will be all but forgotten.there should be shocking films. i have no desire for all films to be products of the disney corporation or a hollywood that is scared of far-right religious extremists. and indeed if you look back at many shocking films then in time re-evaluation has lifted the likes of 'clockwork orange' and 'psycho' to the classic status that they deserved. but i'm afraid that Despentes and Coralie Trinh Thi are in little danger of being mistaken for Alfred Hitchcock or Stanley Kubrick. "},{"Title":"load of old b''''x!!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  To say that this film is serious and original is completely misguiding, it is as original as a Helen Clark (PM of New Zealand) painting. This film gains one mark for getting such a poor movie made and distributed. The plot is similar to Thelma and Louise with a splattering of Natural Born Killers. The acting is worse than Royston Vasey amateur dramatic society. The direction and photography no more than a B grade porn movie. Really, this film is a load of old B....X!!    "},{"Title":"Plays like a porn movie with delusions of grandeur","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Move over Mary Reilly, back off Battlefield Earth, not even DestinyTurns On The Radio can hold a candle to this dog. This is quitedefinitely the worst film I have ever seen.Incredibly violent and full of graphic pornography (some guys outthere are now probably asking what more could you want) that arethe cause of the controversy that surrounds Baise-Moi (literaltranslation Rape Me) will no doubt draw some people in.Controversy always draws a crowd, and that will help this film - it'sthe only thing that can.Playing like a porn movie with delusions of grandeur, or a badSpanish soap opera but in French there is nothing good you cansay of this film. The story (sub-Natural Born Killers but with twowomen on a trail of murder and sex) is practically non-existent andcompletely irrelevant to the aim of the film, which is to get a pornmovie into arthouse cinemas. The acting is at the level of thepeople in the junior school play who had to be included justbecause everybody else was in it. The direction is lazy andamateurish and the editing laughable and confused. The score iskitch, irritating and too apparent.I cannot bring myself to waste any more of my time contemplatingthe awfulness of this movie. I tend this review just as a warning toother potential viewers who may get sucked in by the controversyand see the film as a curiosity. If you want to see a French filmthere are hundreds (let's face it - all of them) better, if you wantarthouse dito. The only reason to see this is if you want to see aporn film and pretend it is a legitimate cultural viewing because itis playing in an arthouse theatre.Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"piece of crap","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not enough awful things could possibly be said for this execrable piece of sh-  hey, porn is porn.  It's ok to be audacious and push the envelope, but give us characters we can relate to.  Violence perpetrated against men for no good reason is just the same as violence against women.  Doesn't make us want to side with these women for degrading and murdering their male victims -- just because.  People are dying.  The dialogue has to be up to it. Woo-hoo!  You go, girl.  Whatever..This movie is rotten, to its core.  Go rent I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE, if you need to see senseless immoral behavior.  It would be cheaper on the wallet.  "},{"Title":"Violence and sex feast with no discernible purpose","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The line between art and trash is a very, very thin one, but in my mind, there is no question to which side Baise-Moi stands on. The movie lacks a central theme and a reasonable plot. The plot, as it is, seems to be nothing but a vehicle for hardcore sex and violence. The intertwined scenes of sexual and violent acts have no purpose, no rationale, and at best a very flimsy justification.If the director/writers had a message to convey to their audience, I regret to say they have failed miserably. "}{"Title":"What garbage!","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing this film at the moviefestival here in Stockholm I feel I have an obligation to tell people not to waste there time with this garbage. The actors were dreadful, the film lacked in timing and commitment. I hope they banned this film in France for being rotten to the core! "},{"Title":"I wasn't offended by it, i just thought it sucked","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Many movies like this are misunderstood. They are critically bashed and banned by the evil annoying right violating censors, when really they are great films for example, Ken Park, Salo, In the Releam of Senses and Caligula. But this just wasn't one of those films.This film has no subtext, a shite plot, poor cinematography and bad acting. I hated it. Many stupid people would walk away offended by this and some stupid people would walk out thinking it's art. I did neither of those. I just thought it was a femme fatal exploitation movie. It's really isn't worth watching. I just saw it because it was banned and I hate when films are banned.It's not even that arousing. "},{"Title":"Boring and Perverted...","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There are gratuitous sex scenes a plenty in this boring, tedious excuse for an art film - which it most certainly is not. Baise Moi is nothing more than a cheap (and trashy) porn flick with a (very weak) story line.Now, don't get me wrong. I'm not one of those Pornography is wrong do gooder's but (and trust me on this one) there are much better art films out there and there are much better skin flicks out there too.But where does that leave Baise Moi? It's not a real porn flick and it's nowhere near an art flick. It leaves it in the second rate crap category. That's Baise Moi to a tee.Do yourself a favor and leave Baise Moi on the bottom shelf of the video store, where it truly belongs.1 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"For those who thought Gigli was the worst movie ever made...","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, it is true. I have now seen a movie that makes Gigli look deep and meaningful. Some reviews I have seen described this piece of trash as a film about female sexual rage or empowerment. That is nonsense. There is nothing empowering about this movie and the rage demonstrated has nothing to do with being female.The synopsis of this movie at netflix describes Manu as being a hardened young waif and Nadine as a tough-skinned prostitute who sells her body but refuses to give up her soul. Not only are those descriptions misleading, they're entirely inaccurate. The hardened young waif is actually a girl from a bad neighborhood who's involved with all manner of crooked people and who's starred in apparently more than one cheap porn flick. The tough-skinned prostitute seems to be a sex addict who just found a way to make money from her habit. As for refusing to give up her soul, it doesn't seem she had one to begin with. The two of them meet by chance, Nadine recognizes Manu as the star of some of her favorite porn flicks and the two embark on a killing spree along the lines of Natural Born Killers, but without the plot, killing just about anything that moves and getting their ya-yas off in the process. Fine. Just don't try to convince me there was anything deep or philosophical behind it.As for female sexual rage or female sexual empowerment I would have to say that was done way better in Thelma & Louise, Dispara (a.k.a. Outrage) with Antonio Banderas (bonus), or even I Spit on Your Grave, which even though it seems a tad like an expoloitation film, at least makes some sense as far as the resulting murders. I read that this movie was banned in France. I can see why. I'd have banned it too. Not because of the hard-core porn scenes or the excessive and senseless violence (I am American after all and don't we just love our senseless violence to death...) but because it was BAD! An embarrassment to French cinema, maybe. Certainly an embarrassment to filmmakers everywhere. Oh, and the video quality itself was so grainy on the dvd I rented that it made me wanna check my cable connection, despite the fact that I was fully aware that I was watching a dvd. Don't even get me started on the music chosen for the soundtrack.If you decide to see this film and end up bashing your dvd player into dust with a Louisville Slugger, don't say I didn't warn you. There is not a negative enough to express how I feel about this movie. "},{"Title":"So ridiculous that it hurts!","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Take excessive violence, add a some hardcore porn scenes and French alternative rock music and what you´ve got is a hip and provoking movie, a shocking and disturbing portrait of generation X... STOP -  because this formula doesn´t work always!!! Baise moi! (Fuck me!) wants to be a piece of modern art, but it´s only a little stupid flick with a nearly nonexisting plot, surface characters and nutty dialogues! The film is shot with a hand-held camera and the amateur illumination and the shady set decoration convey you every time that feeling to be in a real porn movie. The special scenes including close-ups of sexual practices were just added to break another taboo, but they make this film looking more and more cheap, scruffy and repulsive. Serious provocations make you think about possible deplorable states of affairs, but Baise moi! is only pure showmanship without any message! Nevertheless this movie is very boring the scanty 75 minutes (German version) seemed to last for an eternity... (1/10) "},{"Title":"The Emperor has no clothes, Baise-moi has no redeeming features","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Spoiler Warning there's no plot to this film as such, but the following review does mention events that happen during the film.First of all, Baise-moi is a terrible film. I wouldn't recommend anyone waste 77 minutes of their life viewing this because it's lifeless, pointless and (beyond a certain yuk factor) ultimately very boring.Yes, it's true that it's shocking at a certain level to see the sex and violence that appear in this film, but there's no depth to that shock, there's nothing to provoke an emotional response because it's almost impossible to believe the events are linked to reality. We have no sympathy or even empathy with the characters in the film so at the emotional level we feel nothing.In a way, this is the art-house cinema world's equivalent of those Hollywood blockbusters which rely entirely on special effects and spend no time at all on plot or characterisations. Baise-moi relies entirely on predictably shocking situations and is plot less and character-free. Who are these people being murdered, and who are these people doing the shooting? And why is this happening? None of these questions are answered, so all you're left with are some uninspired and unoriginal visuals.Baise-moi does for sexuality and violence what Jurassic Park did for the ethics of cloning absolutely nothing. It's a cheap ride which exploits serious issues without ever taking those issues seriously. Rape is supposedly central to the film, but the emotional side of rape is ignored because the emotions of everyone involved are ignored. We have no idea what motivates anyone or what affects anyone on a personal level , because the script, acting and directing never address any of these areas. Worst of all, arguably the most horrific impact of rape, its mental scars, are completely glossed over. Rape in this film seems to be an entirely physical act, when in reality the motivation is often more to do with power and instilling a submissive mindset in the victim.You'll find some people claiming the film is about a rape victim taking the fight to the rapists, but that's just a total lie. This film consists of a series of random murders of absolutely anyone without any pattern however twisted men, women, rapists, non-rapists, pimps, prostitutes, complete strangers, anyone, almost all with no provocation whatsoever.You also get the feeling that if this film had been made by an American man instead of a French woman, no film festival or TV channel would have touched this with a barge pole. It's a sad state of affairs where the quality of art is pre-judged not by its contents but by the gender and nationality of its creator. Didn't any of them dare to say The Emperor Has No Clothes when they saw the preview tapes?In fact it's interesting to note that most of the people defending this film seem to display snobbery towards anyone who didn't like it.The Snobs imply that anyone who criticises Baise-moi must automatically be against all art films in general. They seem to think an attack on Baise-moi is an attack on art itself.Not so, and that kind of attitude is identical to and just as misguided as George W. Bush's You're either with us or against us philosophy.Anyone who has ever experienced the poetry of William McGonagall or the cinema of Ed Wood knows that an inflated opinion of one's own artistic abilities is no substitute for actual artistic abilities. McGonagall and Wood both had an absolute belief that they were creating high art which people would take seriously, yet they both failed to ever do this even once in their lifetimes. There is poor quality stuff out there as well as good quality, and it is completely okay to say some art is worthless while still being a fan of art in general.Baise-moi is worthless not because it's controversial, not because it's explicit, not because it's violent. All those things can and regularly do form part of some of history's greatest films. But not in Baise-moi.Baise-moi is worthless purely because it doesn't make you think in any way whatsoever. The only possible things you might appreciate are all superficial, and there is no depth to reach by scratching the surface. The surface is all there is, and it's a pretty ugly surface too.Maybe its worst crime is that it makes it slightly harder for other directors, directors with talent, to tackle similar themes. Baise-moi is a gift to every conservative who thinks art-house films are worthless exploitative trash masquerading as art, because, well, that's exactly what Baise-moi is.I love art films, and I have zero problem with them using any imagery or any themes whatsoever as long as they manage to make me think. This film doesn't do that at all, it just bored me. I don't want to ban it, I just want to warn people that their money and time will be wasted if they try and view this film. You'll get as much intellectual stimulation from watching a Chuck Norris film.So what went wrong in Baise-moi? I'm guessing the directors (who have never directed anything before or since) thought that simply showing a series of events was enough to make a good film. In fact good films do more than this, they show a interesting characters, or events, or imagery, or sometimes all of these things. There's always something to get hold of in good films, something to analyse or follow in your mind, but there's absolutely nothing here, nothing at all.There is no entertainment in Baise-moi, no thought, no emotion, just posturing of the worst kind. If cinema has gotten to the point where controversy alone is equated with intelligence and bravery, then there's no hope for intelligence and bravery in film-making any more, stereotypes will have triumphed over talent. "},{"Title":"A really good story","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's a low budget movie and at first seems rubbish, which I suspect has meant many people gave up too early and underrated it. As the film develops the cheapness of the production only reinforces the harsh, unglamorous lives of the characters portrayed so don't be put off in the first few minutes as it really warms up! There is a degree of misandry in the casual violence inflicted against various men. However, I found myself cheering these acts on and rooting for the girls. The portrayal of sex is unusually explicit and I found this refreshing, far tamer than actual porn but still real(it helps to know the 2 main characters were transitioning from actual careers in porn!). It was refreshing also because the film was written by women and so women were not the victims of violence but revelled in being instigators. There was a definite edge to the disassociative personalities of the 2 women, who offered little reaction to their killings other than joy and I found this a good portrayal of sociopathy. The women did have redeeming features and some level of justification for their heinous acts. It was certainly a window on evil, but why should that always be about evil men? This caught me by surprise and I highly recommend this movie if you like sex and violence. If you have disdain for the likes of Rambo forget it! "},{"Title":"art as it should be DIRTY","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Baise-Moi follows the story of Nadine (played by Karen Lancaume) and Manu (Raffaëla Anderson) who are gang raped by a group of men, this vicious act is the catalyst for a full fledged femme- fatel revenge trip of sex and violence.Baise-Moi is one of the most sexually explicit film to come out since Deep Throat, the film contains sexual activates all involve actual sexual intercourse being shown. The sex in the film is placed to create a cutting edge feel to the film and to try to create a film that is real. fans of John Waters early movies such as Pink Flamingos will feel a particular nostalgia and may even see this film as it truly should be seen as a transgressive cult film that has its tongue firmly in- check (pun intended).However on a technical level the film is severely flawed the cinematographic is simple and bland ,however this adds to the raw and brutal land scape the film creates. Other amateurish parts of the film include the some of the effects in respects to the action orientated sequences of the film ,where the actresses who are surprisingly very competent barring mind they have only acted in hard core pornography, come across as clunky and badly directed. This may lead to people coming away disappointed with the film and carry around the notion of emptiness and that the film is one dimensional. In regards to the acting the cast does a suppressing convincing job, especially the two main leads who portray these cold but loving women who enjoy killing and shagging there way thought France. This add to the notion that Baise-Moi has more of a parallel existences with John Waters band of misfits, most notably Divine. The violence is shot with no style and bring to mind the latter works of lucio Fluci, in terms of the technical side this proves that the tow directors are not the most artistically driven in terms of having an atheistically pleasing film. However on the other hand the film verity approach does add to interesting themes of the world falling apart, however the films overall action does make theses theme slightly frivolous in there overall impact and by the end of the film they have completely fallen out. Overall the film is flawed in respects of the technical accomplishment, but still manages to create an unforgettable film, that has hit the nail on the head in terms of pressing the right buttons and using the gimmick of real sex and saving itself from being a middle of the road copy of Thelma & Louise "},{"Title":"cinema lovers avoid","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As an open-minded American I'm mildly offended by the comments of some of the non-Americans... that we judge the film harshly for violence and / or excessive sexual content. Some of us do, but not all Americans are in the main-stream (I generally won't associate with those).I myself watch more than my share of porn so as Americans go I'm far from 'prudish'. The acting in Baise-Moi was slightly better than the average 'porn', but the sex was not. The storyline was also pretty weak... weaker than most porn even (consider that for a moment). In this day and age (even in Europe) the events of the film would simply not be remotely feasible (my landlord assures me of this, and he's lived in Belgium for years now).If you like watching mediocre acting and cheesy, low-budget violence then you might enjoy at least certain scenes within the film. The early rape scene was particularly harsh, and will put off many. If you're 'hot' for one of the two female leads then perhaps their graphic on-screen sexuality will be something you care to view.Anyone else, including traditional pornography watchers, can safely avoid even a Netflix viewing of this. If you want violence, pick up a Saw film or Midnight Meat Train. If you're after graphic sex just acquire for some good, honest pornography.Most can safely skip this 'feature'. "},{"Title":"So crude that the sex and violence isn't even shocking!","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I watched this last night and spent the whole film waiting for the story and characters to reach a more interesting and thought provoking level. Everything in this movie feels like it's been built from very cheap ideas, as if the director has said Ok, we like sex, we like violence, we like clichés and we like to shock, let's build a story around that'.The thing is that the scenes and emotions behind all these ideas are barely explored at all, and so we get scene after scene of rather emotionless sex, which sets up scene after scene of extremely dull male characters getting murdered by the two female leads. The violence is certainly graphic, but when you don't feel any kind of emotion toward either the victims nor the murderers, it's a really unsatisfying experience.The two female leads Nadine and Manu, are utterly unconvincing, they do not appear scary, threatening, tortured, they barely seem friends. One of the most interesting parts of the film is when a soon-to-be victim tries to talk to Nadine, trying to establish what it is they've been through to drive them to this point. But without even looking slightly vulnerable from this emotional probing, she just shoots him after the cheesiest I'm not going to kill you - she is overdone one-liner of the film! There are so many scenes which seem to serve no other purpose than to show some violence, and to push the two leads in to meeting and forming the dullest on-screen chemistry of the whole film. Nadine has a great chemistry with her junkie friend Francis, but as soon as this is established he's shot for no relevant reason. Manu's brother seems interesting, equally loving and ashamed of his younger sister,but of course she shoots him because he pisses her off a little bit, despite how much she seems to also love him.The film feels like it prides itself on controversy, and that it relies on this alone to carry it. Yet it fails to shock because you feel no attachment and more importantly no belief in the characters and events that are occurring. Only the prudish will find this film shocking, those that are uncomfortable seeing any full frontal nudity or gore.For the rest of us who have seen sex and violence, there are plenty of films out there that will provide far more emotional stimulation and exploration than this waste of time! "}{"Title":"Forgettable","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I watched this film after I got on a, 'Let's watch some controversial movies' stint...*yawn* Look, we get it - oh the depravity...taking power back, going crazy, rampage, carnage, nothingness and throw in some Kierkegaard - still not that great of a movie.The plot is non-existent, the dialog is freaking horrible (even w/ the subs), the direction is lame and the timing is blah at best. Movies should either be memorable b/c they are good or memorable b/c they shock, or both. This movie is neither. As far as being good, it's OK at best. As far as shocking - unsimulated sex acts, rape scenes, and girl-power w/ guns...wew - all of these have been done before and w/ actual affect. This movie tries to be different and edgy, but comes off just as a B-class would-be porn flick. And it shouldn't even be considered porn b/c we get it that it's not actually porn going on...well, at least that's what they would want us to believe.Watch it once to have seen it and then throw it away, it's mediocre at best. "},{"Title":"It's a Hard Core Life...","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Last years tragic suicide of actress Karen Bach at the age of 31 served as, perhaps, an inevitable endgame to the media shadowplay that rendered Biase Moi one of the most powerful and controversial films ever made.Outraging international audiences with its release in June 2000 Baise Moi did that rare thing which musicians and artists once seemed to do on a regular basis, that is, become a social issue and push the parameters of the status quo to boiling point. Elvis did it and was seen as a communist plot, Breton did it and was accused of anarchy and Stravinsky's Rite of Spring had 1913 Parisians rioting in the streets. But now that the entertainment industry has finally perfected the art of all-out homogenisation; creative endeavour, with very few exceptions, continues to flounder behind the zeitgeist. Baise Moi seized it and buried it in its own blood.Based on the novel by ex-prostitute Virginie Despentes, who co-directed the film with Coralie Trinh Thi, Baise Moi tells the story of two young women runaways who race each other to oblivion and mean to take anyone who gets in their face with them. The two leads are played convincingly by ex porn stars Raffaella Anderson and the aforementioned Karen Bach. If you can imagine Thelma and Louise on a PCP comedown, you're nearly on the money. This is essential viewing but bare in mind that few profound experiences are happy ones and watching Baise Moi is a perfect example of what this means. This is real and unashamed punk cinema, and to see it on the shelves of HMV in the '3 for £20' bin must have definitely given a fair few casual punters a bit a jolt once they'd settled in with a bottle of Merlot for a Sunday evening viewing. Believe &#150; as far as commercially available films go &#150; this should carry a government health warning. It barely helps that this is a female led production and thus avoids the cheap and easy 'female exploitation' charges as it graphically depicts those staples of the cinematic experience, sex and violence, at a level rarely seen in mainstream cinema.Baise Moi is the result of a specifically female rage and although Karen Bach's sad exit was not a direct result of having made this film, the road she walked was a dark one - and when you make that journey there will be casualties. "},{"Title":"Make your own mind up","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm glad I watched this film before reading many of the negative comments about it here. I'm also glad my enjoyment of this film didn't have the chance to be influenced by so many people who didn't like it. If so many of you want 'the answers' spelt out to you and don't like to see things 'red in tooth and claw', go and watch 'The Sound of Music' or 'Mary Poppins'! Surely the idea of a film like this is to make you think. Who knows, maybe you will come up with 'the answer' yourself. Yes, the film is disturbing. Yes, it contains very strong sex and violence.So does real life. "},{"Title":"an infamous cult film","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I first saw the cover of the DVD I knew this was going to be a crappy movie that really tried to be the most violent movie ever made but after a few minutes watching it i realized I was wrong. The acting is not really good I admit but the porn star actors really showed their emotions and it was still very believable! The sex scenes also had a reason. Sounds strange, but you'll learn the personality of the characters with these scenes and why shouldn't you want to see all the parts with the penis and vagina and everything? besides, the characters think that's what sex is all about.The camera work was amazing too! never seen anything like it! example when nadine (or was it manu?) gets killed it all happens so fast I hardly realized that she was shot. Just like in real life if you ever witnessed something like it. there is so much more to say about this brilliant movie but I really loved it. Mark my words this movie is going to be copied a lot!! "},{"Title":"Underwhelming, easy watching","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The great taboo-breaker? Whoop doopdy doo. Rather than shocking, Baise-moi is highly uninteresting. It is already late of its time we have already seen all this sex and violence, and there's nothing new here. Don't expect an art film, expect a teen film, based on Virginie Despentes' teen novel. Perhaps it could be thought an achievement of some sort that this porn movie has slipped into mainstream, back where Deepthroat once slipped out. Perhaps it is a sign of the culture porn movies are being accepted as movies, although grudgingly.Nevertheless, the film's cinematic merits are akin to a typical porn movie, with the addition of non-typically bloody violence. Bloody, really, because I don't think I saw a single bit of gore amid the ketchup bursting all over the sets. It's not really very realistic, and not particularly detailed either. The film's porn actors can't act, which wouldn't really be needed either with the poor script and poor base material, the novel. While some would-be niche art aficionados tell to seek for the movie's reasons and motivations deeper, but the story arch simply has no depth. Every turn of the story is as simple as possible, and its developments show either a profound lack of writing skills or a deliberate simulation of talentlessness.What's there to like? What's there to hate? Nothing. With the exception of the rape scene, this film is light as feather. No point, no reason, not even underneath a seemingly meaningless cover. It's hard to say that there's anything wrong with this movie, because there simply isn't anything here. "},{"Title":"What genre is this?","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Here's the story about two girls that starts a trip to destruction killing and fuc----g every person on the way, one is raped so she kills her brother and run with his money, the other is just a whore.The people that make this movie try too hard to shock that honestly I'm not shock with this film, they just try too hard, in fact is kinda funny. I'm not sure of one thing of this film. Is this porn, art, or just crap? I think is all of that, but then again I'm not really sure.PORN both actresses are french porn stars, but why make such a bloody porn movie. ART if it isn't porn it have to be art 'cause this isn't very commercial. JUST CRAP bad characters, stupid plot, well non-existent plot and pointless sex scenes.Maybe this is a movie made to shock with explicit sex salvage killings and rapes scenes.Its impressive in how many places I find this film, I saw it in TV, in a famous movie rental, even in a movie theater in Chile.Overall, some people may find it hot, another boring, another shocking (yes I know, I have write shock a lot of times), or art. But finally you can't see something that isn't there; this isn't very hot, who wants to watch somebody shot in the arse between sex scenes. Boring? Hardcore action and sex is boring to you? Shocking; Bully is shocking, not this. Art; I know that art can be complicated to really understand it, but this is too simple, or is so simple that is complicated and becomes profound art. I don't think so. "},{"Title":"Best script for a porno...","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The more you F***, the less you THINK, the better you SLEEP. ---ManuFrom a pornographic point of view, this is possibly one of the best-written scripts ever in the adult film industry, with plot and motives. After separately committing murders, two French women (one porno star, another a prostitute) join forces in a spree of crime and sex. Both have endured abuse at the hands of men, and they seek to revenge against the society that has done them wrong, shooting at both men and women randomly.But from a non-porno viewpoint, it's one of the worst film ever. I can't stop asking, were all the explicit sex scenes necessary? They could have achieved the same chilling effects without real penetration (as in The Accused). "},{"Title":"Less Haste","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cum now, Cum nowTo much Haste not enough brevity brothers. I actually quite enjoyed this film (does that make me sick). I quite enjoyed Alien which is about male rape (does that make me sick).Firstly, we must remember that the director and both actresses are former porn stars, so what we may see as shocking and the like is everyday stuff to them. So just because they make a film depicting their lives we call it wrong. And i actually think that the porn film style really twists your perspective - it makes you realize how much genre effects how you judge things.Secondly, its actually quite a rigorously intellectual film. Don't believe me, its all about duality... the first girl represents the body, she gets raped the second girl represents the mind, Godart her friend is killed (godart/god).So with an abused body and no moral authority the story really starts...But you know what really, really, makes me think this is a film of value is the fact its so womanly.I'm a man, by the way, and what i can't stand is feminism thats all lardy dar, womens lib and its alright to say no. Like they never read the female eunuch, Its alright to say Yes, Yes, Yes.This film has something to say on the subject-and i have to admit that i walked away from this film feeling like i understood a womans world more. And what feminist film ever did that? "},{"Title":"What you'd expect from a film called F##k Me","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  #SPOILERS WITHIN# Well, it seems evident that the makers of this film were on a mission to be shocking. Especially from the title anyway. In places they achieve this. The rape scene is extremely uncomfortable viewing and i found myself feeling sick. After that point in the film, it all became a bit less shocking. They left themselves nowhere to go after a rape scene after all.After the pair had killed two members of the public and had sex with various strangers, it all became a bit mundane. The film was not very good at all and the main character's sex/killing romp bored me.Above all else, the worst thing in this film was a highly unusual, and completely pointless dancing scene. see the film, you'll know what i mean.dom  "},{"Title":"Rape me?","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First of all, I don't understand why the title is so badly translated.  Baise-moi means f*ck me and not much else, and translating it as rape me I think makes the movie worse by giving it another direction (since there is a rape scene in the movie after all).  Not that it isn't bad to begin with.  I was actually disappointed (yes, I was hoping for a difference).  I was hoping that a female pornish movie would have more taste than this, but it's just as bad as though it were filmed by a man.  I still do think that this movie fulfills more male than female fantasies.  So although there was a lot of sex it wasn't interesting.  If you are familiar with French TV, this movie is equivalent to a Canal + movie on a Saturday night (although this has less sex, but it's the same type of sex and sex shots, give or take degrees of intensity).  But I have to say, that even in terms of a sex movie this was a let down.  Since Nadine and Manu are so into sex as a thing in itself, why didn't they sleep together when they were bored and had nothing to do?  It might have given the movie some dimension.  I'm surprised though how everyone is taking time to write about this movie although all the reviews are bad. I'm also surprised that it was released worldwide, it really does not deserve all that attention.  And I don't think we can blame it solely on the script; it's bad direction (had Tarantino been given the script he would have made something very different).  It was a flat movie, with horrible dialogs (and performances) and a trashy soundtrack.  "}{"Title":"Interesting but Flawed, but what do you Expect.","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I knew what Base Moi involved and I would be lying if I said I didn't like a little bit of nudity in a film, but this film had a whole load of booty and much more.   This is the first film of it's type to get a release in theatres and all the more worse for it as it doesn't really do anything to make it original apart from a quite realistic rape scene which goes through you more than shock you.  I think the performances from are not that bad actually, they've just got a terrible camera crew behind them and a not to good director either.  The story is not that bad actually and at times has some interesting points but that doesn't make any better than I suppose it could have been.  Before I saw it I checked on the comments page of IMDB to see what people had thought of it and it wasn't so good, but usually before I watch a film I just come up with my own idea of what it is like and I was dying to love this film but I just couldn't as it made me feel so uneasy and not many films have that affect on me.  So if you are intrigued by this and think you maybe about to watch a underground classic, then please think again as it is nothing than a cheap look at a grotty porn film with no real point to it.  Cheap camera work and cheap acting mostly throughout make this one of the bad French films I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Just really bad","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I only heard about Baise Moi because some Australian bureaucrats got together and decided to ban it. Another movie they banned recently, Ken Park, turned out to be pretty good - it was as if Ron Jeremy and David Fincher had collaborated on American Beauty 2. On the one hand I was mystified as to why they would ban it, but on the other hand I was glad they did because otherwise I probably would never have heard of it.This film, however, is just terrible. Everything about it is just.. cheap? From the script to the music to the lighting to the 'acting', essentially every element of the movie was just really tacky. I wish they hadn't banned it, if only because left out of the media spotlight this movie would have just flushed away and I wouldn't have wasted 70 minutes seeing what all the fuss was about.Doesn't even deserve 3/10, let alone it's current rating of 5.2. "},{"Title":"A film that captures the true essence of the term Garbage!","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My brain kept screaming save your money save your money as I entered the theater to view this pitifull specimen of useless filmatic garbage!  Cheap thrills, porno nonsense, brutal murder and a general atmosphere of faux decadence unraveled on screen as two totally unreasitic women go on an unexplainable spree of sexual and homicidal rampage. The film appeared to be attempting to say something but was so out of touch with reality that any message it was trying to convey was lost by the amaturish performances and silly posturing of the film's characters! Shot on tape or film that made it look like a cheap peep show one reeler, the overall effect of this movie was that of disgust and revulsion.  If this is the best that the Germans and French can do together it is just as well that they did not accompany us on our recent Iraq adventure! "},{"Title":"Disgusting, sickening, uninteresting...","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't quite know what initially drew me to rent this film. Perhaps it's because a  lot of the French films I've seen (not that I've seen loads, mind) have been good.  It certainly wasn't because I knew the title translated to 'F*** me' (I'm not that  shallow!).This is a tale about a prostitute and a recently-raped woman who join forces and  go on a wild sex-followed-by-brutal-murder spree across the country. And that's  about it...The film has perhaps every conceivable swear-word in its English subtitles, and  the violence factor is high. But it's the sex scenes that really leave the sourest  taste in the mouth. Anyone thinking that American films were explicit will get a  shock with the sort of things you experience here...But the most disturbing thing is why they even bothered to make the film. The  chances are you've probably made more interesting home videos yourself --and ones you wouldn't object to showing your grandparents...Don't believe the hype...this is plain trash. Steer well clear of this one. "},{"Title":"Way too much hype about an interesting B movie...","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why this movie is so shocking to everyone is beyond me. If you have seen a fair amount of  B movies since 1965 you probably have seen parts of this film many times over. The twist (if you can call it that) is that there is some porn sprinkled along the way to keep what would otherwise be a run of the mill second feature crime drama interesting.The women are attractive. The cut away violence is more gratuitous than graphic. The sex is what holds the whole thing together. Take that out and what have you got? A been there, done that road crime picture.It's worth a watch. Interesting? Yes. Sexy. Yes. Shocking? Only if you have not seen work by auteur directors like Cronenberg, Lynch and the like.Its a cheap thrill. There are worse things.. "},{"Title":"smut","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a bit puzzled as to how this got marketed as an arthouse movie in the US. In my opinion it's not much more than porn. I suppose it touches on some topics which are generally left untouched in porn, but basically it's just a film full of gratuitous sex scenes. The graphic nature of the sex scenes didn't even seem necessary. And despite the real sex scenes the violence in the shooting scenes is depicted in a very corny and fake manner. There's no depth to the characters.One question the film did raise for me was why I even had a desire to see such a movie, especially one called Rape Me ? I guess I was curious about how far things would be taken, but I was expecting something with more substance and I didn't think it would just be porn. I have to say I was a bit affected by the film, but I think that's mostly because I felt like I just watched some sort of snuff movie when I wish I hadn't. "},{"Title":"An absolute pile of dung","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is truly abysmal, BUT if you want to see a decent French film about violence and prostitution, get 'L'Appat' out on video which is far better and more intriguing.  This film is based on a real story, the main female protagonist of which is just about now eligible for parole after having served over 10 years in jail for her dark deeds. "},{"Title":"Exploitation for the new millenium...","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Some time ago I wrote a really bad review about this film... Well, my opinion has changed Baise-moi is neither art nor garbage - it´s EXPLOITATION! And it´s nothing else what films like Cannibal Holocaust, I spit on your grave or Caligula did more than twenty years ago to shock and to provoke with explicit scenes of sex and violence. The only opposite is that Baise-moi was shot in a decade when nearly nobody thought this kind of film would be possible. Don´t expect a sense or a message or take this film too serious in any way, because it´s nothing else but exploitation for the new millenium... "},{"Title":"Definitely Worth a Look","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed BAISE MOI. I enjoy all manner of rape/revenge exploit flicks and this one was another decent one to add to the collection. It wasn't quite as graphic as I thought it would be from all the hype surrounding this film, but it still had some pretty good moments. The graphic sex scenes are pretty short and unarousing, and there's not very many of them. The violence can be brutal at points, but is not very gory. The way the film was shot and acted made the scenes come off almost comically, which is probably a good thing. Otherwise, this may have been a very dark and depressing film (that I probably still would have enjoyed...). I hope that with all the hype that BAISE MOI received, and being that this film has been relatively successful despite, or maybe because of, the over-the-top sex and violence, that other underground filmmakers will have the balls (so to speak) to step up and make more confrontational, explicit films for the growing underground market. Good film - Recommended 8/10 "},{"Title":"Baise moi?  Baise toi!","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  BAISE-MOI is a lurid, immoral, heartless piece of work that cannot even be called a movie. Movies (both good and bad) have a point, or at least a point of view. BAISE-MOI, while not as unwatchable as, say, I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE, is just as cruel and reprehensible. There is a way to make a blood-soaked serial killer saga which has something to say (see NATURAL BORN KILLERS). But whoever made this pornocopia is just as immoral as the characters in it. Is this movie trying to say something about sexism, or female empowerment? If so, what? Beats me.Unlike Mickey and Mallory Knox, these two women are insane, and therefore have no characteristics one can identify with. They're just a pair of vile, murderous whores who blow away everyone in their path just because a couple of men screwed them over. Graphic sex and buckets of blood have never been so distasteful and meaningless. Seeing BAISE-MOI and IRREVERSIBLE and back to back proves that style and approach mean everything. A good movie can be made about any subject. It can contain rape, graphic sex and extreme violence, as long as they're justified by the material and the director has a moral viewpoint about them. The rape in IRREVERSIBLE concentrates on the woman's emotional torture; the one in BAISE-MOI literally focuses on the physical penetration. The difference is clear. IRREVERSIBLE has something to say about rage and revenge. BAISE-MOI does not.  "}{"Title":"Wow. This film should not have existed.","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is about two female killers going on a tour to kill random men they meet.Wow, Baise-moi just became the worst film of all time in my list. The plot is crazy, pointless and unnecessary. The whole film is full of violence and sex, and I am sure no sane parents would want to show this film to their children. I don't understand what people get out of by making this film, or watching this film. Maybe someone somewhere has their perverted desires fulfilled. There is simply no excuse or reasons for the existence of this perverted and depraved piece of work.The only consolation I offer myself is that I watched it on fast forward, so that I have not wasted as much time. "},{"Title":"Perfect example of right-wing rubbish.","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are many ethical problems with this movie. I feel that Virginie Despentes has used every kind of exploitation going to make a stack of cash. They mention the book if you can be bothered to watch the extras. One thing that stands out in the movie from the book is the killing of a child in the novel. Because of the exploit nature, Virginie Despentes leaves out this part as she attempts to manipulate the audience into feeling some kind of empathy for these two fascist characters. This is right-wing woman at their best. They do not emancipate themselves, they remain stuck. Virginie Despentes view of freedom comes from the penetration of the penis. The two characters begin by having penetrative sex, one is raped the other masturbates to porn. From this we are supposed to believe that they find freedom. However, they continue to be penetrated as the movie progresses and they apparently feel more freedom, insane right-wing rubbish. It is obvious that Karen Lancaume is a porn star, as the sex is porn, the camera degrades this further. I would not ban this film, as the French did, we need crap like this. However, if you want porn stick to porn. Or, even better read Pornography Men Possessing Women, or a real challenge, read Intercourse both by Andrea Dworkin. "},{"Title":"my girlfriend liked it more than I did...","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ...which is a surprise, since she hates porn.  I think my girlfriend was especially impressed that women were behind the making of the movie.  I'm glad the French didn't give it an X rating.  My girlfriend wouldn't have come to the sex theater with me to see it.  Though I noticed some other reviewers were down on the acting of the two main actresses, this is one of the things we thought good about the movie.  When confronted with very natural acting, some seem to think no acting is present at all.  I was also pleased to see that the (apparently) video format didn't ruin the draw of the film.  Better than Thelma and Louise, I think, lacking all that Hollywood candification, as found in the recent Hannibal.  I'd like to see a reality film that's not so pessimistic, though.  But, I guess, reality films get their stigma from not being purely entertaining, and optimism would be entertaining.  Main criticism what's the point?  With reality films (also Harmonie Korine stuff), part of the point seems often to be the lack of point in life or that some people don't have it so good (pessimistic points).  Point taken, but I still secretly believe that What Women Want, even with it's nearly impenetrable candy shell, was more memorable, made me think more, believe it or not, than Rape Me.   "},{"Title":"excellent well acted film","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Two women end up as serial killers in a raw uncut version of thelma and louise.The acting is amazing and you can connect to the characters and still feel empathy even though they are horrendous killers.It shows the vulnerability of women in society and the supremacy of men and how they take advantage of women.This is however flipped on to it's head in this film.It's really refreshing seeing the male in a vulnerable position physically,sexually and emotionally.I suspect the reason this has partly got such a low rating is because most men couldn't handle the contents of the film i.e 2 powerful women taking control of the male.It also shows men in a sexually pornographic vulnerable position.Another reason why a lot of men would feel uncomfortable with this film.Well done to the directors for being so raw with a well written and well acted film.It's really not for the faint hearted as some of the scenes are extremely graphic. "},{"Title":"Lucky 7 for this movie","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think this movie is good. I gave this a lucky 7 vote because I think this movie is wonderful. It would be terrific if this movie would be English dubbed.You must understand this because I do not understand the french language. I think the English dubbed version should have no obscenities for any reason.I would suggest that Hollywood should make this movie English dubbed like they did that for other movies such as Iron Monkey; Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon and Das Boot to name a few. If there is a DVD includes the English dubbed version and the original European french language, let me know if that comes out soon. "},{"Title":"Hotter than most modern porn films","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Hotter than most modern porn films, and more violent than most films ever. LOTS of EXPLICIT sex and violence. Not nearly as graphic as Irreversible, though. Not for everyone, to be sure.Decent enough story carried by all the explicit nudity (male and female). Shows penetration, condoms, and anal invasion with a firearm.Both actresses are enough to please everyone. One with medium breasts, the other very skinny.Mix up Thelma and Louise (which this is much better, by the way), Kalifornia, and Young Guns, you might have this.Walt D in LV . 5-19-06 mywife at cox.net "},{"Title":"Crap movies don't generate, as of this point, 172 responses...","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" One thing this film is not, and displays no aspiration to be a porn flick. Those movies are devoted to people getting off on sex. Not the case here. One thing Baise-moi clearly does accomplish though, is to impact everyone viewing it, including the many establishing a veneer of disinterest or disdain.The leads may be standing in for populations. With an impulse relatively no more powerful than that motivating the two women, whole groups devolve into similarly murderous binges on national levels. People are uncomfortable contemplating the paper thin wedge separating humanity from casually enthusiastic slaughter. And because their sex games stem from the same self-interested, hardly conscious urge to gratification, the acts of violence and coitus portrayed interleave in a manner connecting them beyond juxtaposition. In that way the whole film may be seen as a pornographic meditation, considering pornography in its definition as exciting not sexual, but emotional energy.I won't propose to explain the filmmaker's intentions, I don't know what they were. The movie certainly wasn't artful, but it has a power. It is a buddy movie, and I am attracted to the leads -- particularly the late Karen Lancaume's performance -- though like the movie, neither character was awfully deep. But any movie able to get itself kicked out of Australia must be worth watching I thought so... "},{"Title":"Why everybody loves Thelma and Louise, is there any difference in the main concept?","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Although I keep up with the French cinema, I didn't know this movie. I came across it in a DVD store in London and I bought it because I was curious and also it was on discount. I must say that I was predetermined that I wouldn't like it because a friend told me that the actresses are actually porno stars and the movie is brutal and tough. However I decided to give it a try. It wasn't that bad, OK the director overdid it a little with the sex scenes but it was a movie with a strong sense of reality. Why everybody loves Thelma and Louise, is there any difference in the main concept? I think no. The characters in baise-moi are real and more close to how things are in the real world. The heroines in that movie are not falling with their car in the Grand Canyon. I believe that a rate of 4,3 is not right for this movie. It deserves at least a 6 if not a 7.I want to dedicate this comment to one of the actresses, her suicide the 28th of January 2005 is an indication that the characters couldn't be more real. "},{"Title":"This movie is so-so","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I rented this in hopes of a true no hold barred art flick. Instead its Thelma and Louise with hard core porn scenes. I didn't find the story to be too compelling, and if its porn you're after you would do better just buying a hardcore film. The one BIG positive I saw in this film was the performance of Karen Lancaume. When she was on the screen it seemed she really was that character. I was going to predict a bright future for her in mainstream (I'm not kidding.. HELL of an acting job)but I just read she committed suicide. Such a shame. She also was the only actress in the film that was a pure beauty in my opinion. Too bad. Not worth seeking out but if it lands in your lap one day, worth a view if you are completely bored. "},{"Title":"Bore-moi","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  How disappointing. A french film trying so hard to be tarantino/oliver stonesque and failing dismally. None of the class and fun of either. Just a miserable trek through the misery of France's underclass. Life is hard for many people and life in the deprived French Suburbs is particularly rough. For a much better view see the stunning and truly excellent La Haine. This is silly and also managed to put me right off sex for a good three days. "}{"Title":"One of the 5 worst films ever made","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Baise Moi is clumsy, badly made, poorly acted and lacks any production values. It is an utterly pointless and unconvincing film (video?) that lacks suspense, plot development or character motivation. The result is a budget soft-porn movie with delusions of mediocrity. Little wonder that none of the male characters could get a convincing hard-on. Virginie Despentes couldn't direct traffic. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious film.","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, let me be the first to say that I'm all for feminism--women need to be on an equal status as men.  Let me also be the first to say that Baise Moi is one of the most offending films to feminism in a long time.Two women are victimized by some sleazy men, and therefore decide to unleash their inner fury on the entire male population, not to mention a few unsuspecting women. And these two women are clearly very psychotic...society has pushed them to their bitter ends, they will strike back at the norms!  Blah blah blah blah...One man is killed because he wishes to wear a condom before intercourse...one man is killed because he accidentally supposes the man is interested in the gun, not the woman...one man is killed because he's wearing a business suit...all in brutal, painfully-corny slow motion capture which does nothing more than say, Hey look, everyone, doesn't this blood look real?  Can't this actor spit a whole lotta blood out of his mouth? Huh?  Huh?  Cool, right, guys?The film, which seems to be trying to portray some message of female sexual violence, really just succeeds in being one of the most purile, poorly-acted, immature movie creations of late.  The witty dialouge that does exist is wasted on these actors, and, in the end, they do nothing more than come off as smirking porn-rejects...um...It's sad that groups of college intellectuals are going to try to decipher this piece of junk, simply because it's an indie film...it's just a bad snuff-film, nothing more.And what purpose does a close-up scene involving a girl menstruating in front of the camera prove exactly?  That there's still some film frontier waiting to be crossed?  Well, you shocked us all girls, nice job, terrible film.Breaking new envelopes, setting the course of feminism back, and killing brain cells, ultimately, you'll be laughing more than anything.  I mean, how is a man kicked to death for being a condom dickhead by two coked-up ex-prostitutes NOT ridiculous? "},{"Title":"Much ado about nothing...","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the reviews I read from the DVD of this film compared it with Showgirls (unflatteringly towards the latter, of course). Sadly, Showgirls was an entertaining film in the sense of its own ridiculousness. Baise-moi brings many adjectives to mind when describing it, but entertaining sure as hell wasn't one of them.To call it a feminist film is like calling The Texas Chainsaw Massacre a film that puts forth the cause for the mentally ill, in that it goes way too far to fit its own description. You can bet there will be plenty of borderline-disturbed young men who will be packing steel and possibly even inflicting retribution in advance after seeing this film. Not that this is necessarily the fault of the film, but in today's climate of letting the abused turn into the abuser, it isn't helping anything.There certainly isn't a plot to speak of. All there is to this film are a string of explicit sex, rape, and violence sequences, loosely strung together by the two protagonists' journey to meet with one of their friends. Along the way, they proceed to unleash seven times what they have been put through early on in the piece. Any pretense of sympathy for them quickly disappears because what starts as a series of confused, hurt revenge killings soon dissolves into a psychotic frenzy of random violence with motives one would expect to find in a Friday The 13th film.So in a nutshell, what we have here is a pornographic film pretending to be art-house and claiming righteous motives. It fails because it tries to make a statement and falls into the trap of being no better than the things it is trying to make a statement against. If the director's intention was to make a film that stated how much nicer it will be if we make up for a couple of thousand years worth of Christian oppression by allowing women of all walks to maim and kill men at will with no visible motive whatsoever, then they succeeded. However, in succeeding with that, they also utterly fail at having anything relevant to say. They fail at making the lead characters anything other than spokespeople for wife-beaters, and they fail at entertaining anyone. In the end, they just utterly fail.Ironically, had the OFLC just allowed this film to be released in Australia without any of the nonsense of allowing it to be screened then suddenly banning it, it would have died a very quick, embarassing death here because people would have seen it for what it is. A piece of exploitative crap hiding behind the banner of political correctness. Zero out of ten from me. "},{"Title":"Wake up","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was definately a wake up call to how women may react to being constantly demeaned. Although not exactly pleasant to watch, it has a message. It reminded me a little of Thelma and Louise, but with explicit sex and overly gratuitous violence. Watch at your own risk! "},{"Title":"A Feminist Mistresspiece","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Shame on those women who have labelled 'Baise Moi' as misogynistic porn. This movie is the hardest hitting feminist statement ever committed to film. While many 'feminist' directors tend to go for soft edge, sugar coated tales which deal with emotions, nurturing and bonding, thus compounding all the stereotypes regarding women, Baise Moi goes for the jugular &#x96; that women placed in adverse circumstances can be every bit as vicious and ruthless as their male oppressors. Coralie may have a bit to learn as a director, but her rawness actually adds to the electric experience of watching this movie. I had read mixed reviews but left feeling both angry and uplifted at the same time. Angry because the film shows the kind of exploitation faced by women every day, but uplifted because of the sheer force these sisters use to satisfy their own desire for sexual and physical freedom from men and society in general. Both leads embark on their crime spree after murdering somebody close to them. Manu shoots her brother after he is unsympathetic after she has been raped, while Nadine beats her repressed flatmate to death. In both cases our heroines reject in the strongest possible terms the attempts of their victims to condemn their lifestyles. Much of the accusations that Baise &#x96;Moi is not a feminist piece come from Manu & Nadine's first murder as a couple. They kill a wealthy looking woman in order to steal money. I reject this argument because this wealthy woman with her designer clothes and jewellery is like many women part of the problem. Across the road from her are two women in need of help, but she ignores them as she withdraws cash she has obviously come by as a willing and subservient pawn of patriarchy. Are male heroes expected to be so noble when they pursue their goals? &#x96; of course not. The couple subsequently commit more murders for the hell of it, including the brutal beating to death of a guy who employs them for sex, then announces he wants a condom. Some have asked why he deserved to die as he was not aggressive to the women and I give two reasons. Firstly he aimed to exploit their bodies for money and secondly he implied they were dirty, diseased and unclean. More killings follow, including a couple of cops, a criminal businessman and the male and female patrons of a swingers bar. It is interesting to note which men they encounter survive &#x96; these are men they choose to have sex with on their terms, who don't try to dirty the proceedings by owning the women by offering money and let the women gratify themselves sexually. There is a message for all men here. My only gripe about this movie is that we do not see the women become lovers. I am sure that Coralie could have given audiences a far more realistic picture of how women really make love to counter the male porn industry stereotypes with their soft focus lighting, big haired synthetic moaning Barbie dolls and wailing saxophone music. Showing the women reject men as an option when considering a deeper relationship would have made this film a 10. Regarding the sex content, it is explicit and though lesbians do not particularly want to see throbbing penises, it is obvious the sequences were shot with women in mind. Coralie concentrates on female pain and humiliation during the rape scene and female pleasure during the later sex sequences. For those who dismiss this movie as porn, I suggest they look at the definition of pornography in any dictionary. True porn is produced to elicit an erotic arousal rather than an aesthetic or intellectual response. Bearing this in mind anyone can see that Baise Moi, though containing scenes which are explicit is NOT pornographic. Baise Moi makes the viewer if she is really watching think and feel, not grope for the Kleenex like most male viewers probably hoped.All in all this is a must see for all women who are truly liberated. This is a revenge movie with a difference. "},{"Title":"My last review was not approved","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'll try again, because this movie proves once and for all--- cinema is not art. Nor is photography, Andy! Blacklist me. Actors and Actresses... don't exist in my world. Thelma and Louise revisited. (but which came first? I think it was Thelma &Louise.) Porn is no longer a viable medium. Feminism is more often than not misogyny in film. Boys enjoy humiliation... and then btches get it in the end. Vachelettres would like to show U the other side of Romance & Love... maybe you'll get it, maybe not. I don't care. I wrote it for myself. If only Rape Me would've been made without commercial consideration and included no rape porn etc... Am I an uptight Ol Fogy? Yes I am. I still believe in God, Romance, Human Values, LOVE (Lou Reed remains relevant... will always remain relevant). "},{"Title":"Faux nihilism","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie has been compared to Thelma and Louise, Nikita and Natural Born Killers. What rot.We meet a bunch of young, French low lifes. A prostitute, a junkie, a drug dealer, a couple of street thugs, etc. Funnily enough, all the men are brutish, unkempt and ugly, but the women are really good looking and appealing.The music alternates between bad jazz and bad rock.Two women are slapped around by a gang and raped. The filmmakers take the pains to give us a couple of explicit hydraulic close-ups, but it's brief, grainy and shot in a dark room. Why bother? Two women bond and kill a guy who pisses them off. Then they hit the road and start killing indiscriminately. They are alienated women rebeling against polite society, you see.The filmmakers want to say, We are French and we show the nasty truth about society. But the film says, We are French and we make pretentious claptrap containing gratuitous porn. "}]