[{"Title":"All's I know is... it's right on the mark!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"37 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've been expressing my distaste of so many gay-themed films to so many friends about how the films portray the men as stereotypical, young, pretty, and FABulous. And worse yet, always throwing in the obligatory drag queen. With the current trend of fantasy lesbianism, the gals are hot and act like everyday people but the gay males are kept in a lower level of being effeminate and weak.  This of course is because heterosexual males only feel safe if the gay men aren't portrayed as masculine (that's why so many of the straight guys are terrified of Cruising, seeking comfort in the delusions of The Man Show and Howard Stern).All Over The Guy is a film that breaks the barriers and focuses on issues of intimacy and finding ways to communicate -- and it's a big shame it didn't get the major distribution it deserves as it is right on the mark and so much more enjoyable than the endless line of circuit boy romances being released.  Yes, there is a LOT of bickering and arguing going on between all the characters in this film, and that may become tiresome and turn some viewers off.  But when you really listen to what they say, understand their backgrounds, and realize that this is the kind of thing that really does occur between friends everyday, it makes for fascinating entertainment. The dialogue is sharp and quick and not in the campy way, but in the way that friends who know each other can convey in codes and gestures without a lot of extra narration. This film is chock full of HONEST dialogue. I know some will compare this to an R-rated type of Will & Grace, but the big difference here is the characters in All Over The Guy are very real and have much more dimension than the sitcom offers.  It doesn't dwell on stereotypes for laughs, and even in a speach by Richard Ruccolo about the film In & Out was one the TRUEST things I've ever heard about Hollywood and how mainstream gay films are so horrible. His character Tom is actually a bit rough around the edges and is refreshing because he's not portrayed as a youth obsessed club type.  Dan Bucatinsky's character of Eli may be well groomed, but he isn't snapping his fingers and saying girlfriend ...these guys are just regular men, and it is comforting to know that someone out there knows the truth that many gay men are just as average as most people. Besides, Eli loved Planet Of The Apes memorabilia and that's a nice change from the usual cliched obsessions .  I have always thought Adam Goldberg was a cool actor, and his involvement as Jackie's love interest was wonderful, as was Sasha Alexander as Jackie -- I sure wish I had her as a friend!  Good moments from Christina Ricci, and Doris Roberts was perfect (wow, can she cuss too!). I just wish Lisa Kudrow was given a little more to do!  Joana Kerns was a nice surprise and as always, I WORSHIP the ground Andrea Martin walks on, she's one of the funniest women around.It's one of the only films I've seen that touches on issues that I've been trying to get so many people to understand how so many assume gay men are only looking for quick sex and that when you get two guys together, it is assumed that one certain type of sexual act will occur.  All Over The Guy discusses definitions of sex and the importance of intimacy and it's refreshing to see it handled in a manner that doesn't come across as preaching.For me, I was extremely impressed by the choice of music.  Instead of diva tunes from Cher and others like that (gawd, we don't all listen to Streisand or the latest flavor of the month Destiny's Child type group), there are very good rock songs by David Gray, The Jayhawks, Matthew Sweet and others that help keep the story grounded in reality.  Even the club-type Future Love tune during one scene was more akin to a B-52's song than the fluff that saturates Queer As Folk's soundtrack.It gives me great hope when I see a breakthrough film like All Over The Guy. It's for everyone, as this is not exclusively a gay film.  I just hope that other film makers will see this one and learn that you don't have to make a flamboyant dragfest or youth worship type of film in order to involve a gay element.  This is impressive filmmaking and funny, funny stuff!And don't forget about Joan Van Ark in Not Without My Nosejob (wink wink)! "},{"Title":"Classic love story","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"28 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought about doing this review long ago (and actually started it at one point), but, well, you know how it is... but I just happened to catch the first hour when I went home at lunch, so here goes.All Over the Guy is, ultimately, a classic boy meets boy, boy falls in love with boy, boy loses boy, boy gets boy back.  In short, the kind of movie I wished for most of my younger life.  It is -- yes, let's just say it and get it over with -- sweet.  And that's nothing to be ashamed of.First, a disclaimer -- I have worked with both Rich Ruccolo and Don Roos (I haven't seen either in years)... but that makes my love of this film all the more amazing.  I find it difficult to watch films of actors I have worked with because it's hard to separate the character from the person I know. Rich succeeded in making me forget the actor and concentrate on the character of Tom.  Tom is at once vulnerable and supremely sexy; you're not sure whether you want to hug him like a teddy bear or throw him down and get wild with him.Dan Bucatinsky's Eli is perhaps not the polar opposite of Tom he appears to be.  Tom almost physically runs from relationships while Eli backs away apologizing the whole time.  They both embody the whole kaleidoscope of feelings that most of us have when we meet someone who interests us -- mostly, of course, fear.  Fear of falling in love, or of not falling in love.  Fear our feelings won't be returned, or that they will.Personally, I see an enormous amount of chemistry between Tom and Eli. Look at the scene in the flea market, the interaction of their eyes, the body language... here are two guys who are fighting what they're feeling every step of the way (oh, and by the way, Eli is much more forgiving that I would be about the smoking).The rest of the cast is superb as well, including some great cameo roles. Most of all, the characters of Brett and Jackie are very funny in a superb role reversal -- instead of the ubiquitous second-banana gay best friends, we have second-banana straight best friends.The only problem I have with the film is the same problem I have with straight versions of this kind of story.  How likely is it that people who appear to have such different interests and such volatile emotions will stay together... not to mention Tom's penchant for alcoholism.  But then in Pretty Woman I just couldn't shake the feeling that this rich guy wouldn't stay with a prostitute long whether she looked like Julia Roberts or not.Gay cinema has, thankfully, branched out from the early Oh my God I'm gay I hate myself I can't let anyone find out films like Doing Time On Maple Drive.  There is a place for gay cinema in every genre.  And this film is in a definite class by itself in its genre.Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Hey, it worked for me!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, I wonder if it had been about two male/female couples (as the play it was based on was), would All Over the Guy have gotten such a critical reception?  More likely it would've been seen as an honorable, at times sparkling, addition to the screen tradition of romantic comedies -- which is what I think it is.  Sure, the characters are wildly neurotic and frequently annoying; so are people in real life, especially when they're in love.  Is it distracting that Richard Ruccolo (who does indeed give an exquisitely tuned performance) is so good-looking?  Actually, I thought it was necessary; Tom is so screwed up that we need the physical beauty to help relate to him.  Do the women steal the movie?  Well, with the likes of Andrea Martin, Lisa Kudrow, Christina Ricci and Doris Roberts in support, what do you think -- and how can you lose, especially since Dan Bucatinsky's script is so frequently sharp?Forget the nay-sayers and see this one.  It's a very good romantic comedy, at times maybe even a great one.  "},{"Title":"Very sympathetic and well-made but...","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Very nice, easy-going and consistently charming. And still ,looking back, I find it hard to find that something special to remember from the movie. There is simply not very much to make it stand out from every other `romantic comedy' except the fact that the story is about two men! The performances are nicely turned and Ruccolo is charming in his part, as is Doris Roberts, who ultimately makes the biggest impression even though she is only on-screen for about 15 minutes. For a gay-themed movie, there is quite a large budget at work here (at least it looks that way) and that certainly is a nice change from all the grainy, blown-up indy-movies that is too common when the subject is homosexuality. And it has a script that is witty and sympathetic towards its characters, gay or straight, with some hilarious comedy from Eli's psychologist parents as portrayed by Martin and Abatemarco. But nothing new is on display here. Eli, as portrayed by Dan Bucatinsky, comes over as somewhat annoying, even though he should be the most sympathetic of the two main protagonists, mainly because he is unnatural in his wittisisms and one-liners. These lines are penned by Bucatinsky himself, by the way, and while they often are very funny, sometimes they come over as too contrived. And I couldn't escape a certain feeling of shallowness. The movie constantly touches on an interesting issue or storyline, but chickens out before anything goes too far away from the mainstream (as in the story about Tom's parents and his sister, alcoholism). And the biggest damage is done from the fact that nothing very special happens. The plot must have been written on the back of a stamp because basically Tom meet Eli, walks out of Eli, comes back to Eli and so on. But what am I complaining of? It still is nice to see a movie with gay characters acting as normal people. It is sweet, good-natured and watchable. Just not very memorable.  "},{"Title":"Good addition to a growing genre.","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film last evening at its premier in Boston at our Museum of Fine Arts. It is a well told story, set in a gay context. It is entertaining and has guts to it. It is a good addition to a growing genre of films, which deal with human issues about relationships in a gay/lesbian/bisexual context. The film's writer/leading actor, Dan Bucatinsky, was at the screening. He explained that the film is actually a screenplay version of his own play, which was produced in Los Angeles. The original play was not written in a gay context. The translation works and, as Bucatinsky shared at the screening, it actually expands his work in ways that he found quite fulfilling as a writer/actor. The film's pallet is much lighter than the recent Urbania, but its themes are just as powerfully portrayed. It is not as goofy as The Opposite of Sex (written by this film's Executive Producer, Don Roos), but it has a lot of great laughs. The acting is evenly engaging, with cameo appearances by well known actors. I have intentionally omitted a plot summary. This is a project of love on a small budget. I think anyone who reads this comment can be guaranteed a good film and should go an see it to experience its warmth, humor and intelligence about people in love.     "},{"Title":"Lovely, joyful film for both gay and straight","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't think I have ever seen a lovelier film than this.  It is a complex and wonderful story of 4 friends, and it includes a seldom-seen-in-films friendship between a straight man and a gay man which was very real and very wonderful to see.The romance between the straight characters is less interesting than that of the two gay men, however, because the two gay men come from such different worlds  one is an alcoholic WASP with alcoholic parents and the other is the son of hyper-analytical Jewish psychiatrists.  The road to romance for the men is more difficult, but ultimately more rewarding and beautiful to see.  All of the characters are likeable and interesting people.  It is a great date movie... a terrific feel-good movie.  Everyone leaves the theatre feeling good at the end of this one.  My thanks to all involved in making this lovely film.  We need more like it. "},{"Title":"You think, because we f****ed, that makes us a we.........","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This has gotta be one of the most under-rated and under-known US-made gay movies out there (well, maybe not under-rated since nearly 75% of the comments here award a 7- to 10-Star rating). But how could it have gotten by without having kicked up more dust?Each time I watch it I enjoy it more, each time I watch it I appreciate it more. It becomes like picking up and studying a finely crafted object; it suddenly hits you hey, there're no seams here, no rough joints; its finish is wonderfully even. How'd they do this? And then you think Well, Goldberg and Alexander......sure, they've been around for awhile and are truly spot-on here, but.....Bucatinsky...who is this guy??!!?? (only the one who crafted/wrote this play-to-movie, of course).....and Ruccolo...wow...where'd all this acting depth come from of a sudden? And however in the world did one apparently straight guy actor playing against one apparently gay guy actor get this so right? Well, the answer has to be, of course, that they understood if it's about love, it doesn't matter whether 2 guys, or guy and gal, or 2 gals are the focus. These actors obviously came to realize that, and so it became easy for them to act that. (Not something that two other guys, named Ennis & Jack, were ever fortunate enough to learn in time, eh?).Well, on to a bit of what this movie's all about. A pure romantic comedy this is NOT.........perhaps, more correctly, it's a dramedy. After all, how many mainstream gay movies have you seen in which a character utters such descriptively jarring words (see title of this comment, above) after a sexual act that's earlier taken place? Yes, this movie's for real and is very much a real life movie. Just stop to think about it---that when you've had Eli's and, particularly, Tom's kinds of childhood---well, you'll then have a great deal to overcome in adult life, whether it be a heterosexual or homosexual one. And if you, dear reader, haven't grown up in a household where alcohol has been a parental drug of choice, then don't presume to judge Tom's behavior in this movie. Most realistically, Ruccolo has made Tom a direct product of his parent's relationship. In this dramedy Ruccolo gives us an especially intense performance which is actually easy to see, if you will only carefully watch his scenes the telling facial expressions and eye movement; his body-set when he, for example, moves to stand against Eli in one scene, or to unobtrusively cup Eli's hands in another; even his movement of jaw muscles (did someone think his role through, or not!) His end-of-film, wedding kitchen tirade (Hey!!!!!........) is more than enough to almost scare and stop any viewer short, as it certainly does Eli in that scene. This guy is one hell of an actor......why haven't we since seen a lot more of him? (The curse of playing a gay role, the hex of giving us such an intense guy-on-guy bedroom scene; is there such a jinx as this?) Yet it is in Eli's control freak behavior that lies Tom's salvation. For, of all the inappropriate things Eli's shrink parents (and they're marvelously performed) have given him that they shouldn't have, it's his capacity for being understanding (which they also bequeathed) that will in the end save Tom......and Eli, himself, for that matter. And Bucatinsky is just great at showing us a little bit of ourselves (or, perhaps, a lot) in his skillful portrayal. If you're reading reviews for a movie such as this, then please accept my recommendation to make it a part of any DVD collection you may have.....it's more than worthy of repeated viewings.......you'll catch so much more each time that you do.PS--Oh, oh.........almost forgot to give you your Possible Spoiler, so here goes. At movie's end we find our struggling duo sitting and conversing in a garden, when all of a sudden you can see in their eyes and faces---as if the proverbial light bulb's been turned on---each one realizing that they have in the other what they've been needing and wanting all along. What a great heart-swelling moment for us, eh?PPS--You're missing out on a really good insider's comment on this movie if you haven't read the one by keithla43 (from Culver City, CA), posted at this site on 20 May 2003, under the comment title, Classic love story. **** "},{"Title":"Pleasant, gay romantic comedy","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Eli (Dan Bucatinsky) and Tom (beautiful Richard Ruccolo) are both gay and attracted to each other but while Eli wants a firm commitment, Tom is afraid.  The movie chronicles their on-again, off-again relationship and the effects on their family and friends.  There's nothing new or ground-breaking here--just a very pleasant, occasionally hilarious story.  The leads are attractive, there's a very strong supporting cast (Doris Roberts, Sasha Alexander, Christina Ricci and Lisa Kudrow in a great cameo) and it's all well-done.  Sometimes the characters get a little whiny (Eli especially) and do real stupid things (Eli again) but the film works regardless.  There's also a straight couple thrown in for the straight people in the audience. So, nothing great, but pleasant. "},{"Title":"A sweet and funny film","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw this movie on video and was instantly struck by how sweet and original this film was. It did not show the ever constant gay teen that wants to commit suicide because his parents don't understand him him, or the gay man that is dying of AIDS, nor does it have drag queens and leather daddies. It shows two ordinary men who fall in love and are trying to sort out their own dysfunctional backgrounds in order to try and have a relationship. It just so happens that these two men are gay. The hetrosexual relationship is perfectly mirrored with their own gay one, the four leads are perfect and I loved Doris Roberts as the straight talking STD clinic worker. I just hope that there are more films like this in the future. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!!!!","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie last night for the second time, and I got to say that I really enjoyed it.  Like a lot of reviewers have said here, it's nice to see two gay men viewed in the true representation of their lives.  I mean come on, who really wants to be like their parents.  These two guys came together and brought so much garbage with them that they couldn't see each other and the love that they had for each other.I really don't have that much to say about this film, except that I truly enjoyed it and I would watch it again anytime.  Oh and by the by, I've seen Richard Ruccolo on the street once, and trust me, he is that handsome, in every sense of the word.Rent It!!!!!! You won't be sorry. "}{"Title":"He gets it just right!","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is much more than it seems.  True to Dan Bucatinsky's vision, it showcases many of the emotional states that any coming together relationship must travel through.  That's what really got me, especially the second time around.  I could be watching any couple of any gender, any race, any age. I loved that.  It showed me myself at various times of my own life.  The actors know what they are talking about and we pick up the tiny changes of facial expressions that demonstrate this.  The photography is complementary and inventive.  We see the first kiss over the shoulder; the vodka falling into oversized martini glasses.  Ya gotta watch it more than once and you'll catch all this.  Kudos to the director, Julie Davis, the well chosen cast (beautiful and funny) and to Dan for everything else.  I wish you all great success from here on in! (Dan Vassar, wow!) "},{"Title":"Be smart and go watch this movie right now!","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The characters are so full of life that in the end of the movie we have that urge to know what happened in the day after. That's how embracing this movie is. People will always be people when the subject is relationship. No matter each ones' preferences are. This movie definitely should become a sitcom. A good one, by the way. The dialogs and scenes edition are so full of rhythm that we barely blink an eye. Chemistry is the best word to define the exuberance of acting that the actors and actresses provided to us. A fun movie. Total entertainment with no aggression to the intelligence of people with good sense. Can a movie be more like LIFE itself than this one? Still waiting. "},{"Title":"Too much pensées","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have seen what has been written before (that terrible review...), and I feel the need to say that All Over the Guy is not a terrible movie. It's actually very sweet and gentle in portraying two gay characters with issues. Not that it's a wonderful film but I didn't find it disturbing, and I found it somehow pleasant to watch; of course it's a bit to light-headed sometimes but there's nothing bad about it. And yes, I think it is witty sometimes (and mind you, I read the English authors, I have a doctorate in English literature!!!) For those who wish to watch something better Id recommend Suddenly, last summer; Paragraph 175; Oranges are not the only fruit. GREAT SOUNDTRACK ESPECIALLY David GRAY'S _PLEASE FORGIVE ME_. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I truly enjoyed this movie. I didn't find it trite or overdone at all.Dan Bucatinsky is excellent as the fussy half of the duo. Richard Ruccolo is talented and gives a great performance. I've met couples like this! The fact that the simple act of just getting together is so difficult for them is the primary thread that runs throughout the movie. It's about compatibility - why and why not. An excellent exploration of that theme!The one thing the producers should have budgeted for was a continuity person. Dan Buchatinsky also wrote the film, and when one of his characters repeats a line that they never heard in the movie previously (because it was said to someone else, and this person wasn't there), it really sticks out. I'm not awfully picky about this sort of thing, but it was noticeable in a couple places and made me stop and say - hey, how could she have known that?This was the only minor flaw I found. Rent this one (I bought it, to support the people who produced it) and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Great story line!","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" i was reading all the other comments in that web page, i have got to say well different people different views. The movie itself is worth talking about yet it didn't really got the exposure needed. The acting was excellent and i think Richard did a very good job so as all the other casts of the movie. The sex was good but not the main reason why this movie is watchable (is there such a word?) Love is what draws me to the movie. The relationship between the guys and their friends are so similar to my life and i was so glad that at least some people will get to know my life a little bit not that anyone would care to. i love escaping into the movie and this is one i often let myself escape into. They should make more movies like this. "},{"Title":"This is a wonderful film and I highly reccomend it","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie and hired by chance off the new release section of our video shop.  I can watch this movie over and over again and it leaves you with a warm feeling inside.Sadly I don't agree at all with movieman-151's description of the movie, but maybe that's because I'm not a gay man or a man at all, for that matter.I liked the fact that two people who at first don't seem to connect or mesh at all can find love - just like in the real world.  People in relationships don't stay that way because they are the same, it is the difference in people that attracts you to them - otherwise I suggest you go out and get yourself a clone. Movieman-151, it's people who don't believe that two people like Tom and Eli in this movie can get together are the kind of people that create these stereotypes and prevent non-clones from getting together.Eli was wonderfully witty and says all the things you wish you had come up with in retrospect.  I didn't think of him as a neurotic homosexual, I saw him as a neurotic Jew.  It comes with the territory, sexuality has nothing to do with it.How can you say that Richard Ruccolo is too distracting because he's not the leading man?  That's the whole point of the bloody movie!  The story would have been complete sap if it had been played the other way around as you suggested.I thought it wasn't a movie about gay politics, it was a movie about gay relationships without being sappy like The Sum of Us.  It is a wonderful movie about people who find each other when they least expect it.  There is no preaching about gay rights, it's a relaxed, well written movie that leaves you with a warm glow.  "},{"Title":"Good Job","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's like Eli says it in the movie why do all gay-movies have to be about sex, not about love? I share that opinion and that's why I didn't feel too much for the movie before I saw it. I thought another 1h30 of gay-sex. But if you're looking for that, this movie ain't your cup of tea. This movie is really about love (and commitment), that was quite refreshing to me.  I think Eli and Tom (I don't know their real names) made a great couple, so did Jack and Brett.  Maybe it all seemed a little bit too perfect, but don't we all want to see the live from its brightest side.  "},{"Title":"An unusually thoughtful romantic comedy","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie. I accidentally tuned into it on HBO over the weekend, and I couldn't believe how much it moved me. As some other people have said, I don't quite understand why it received so much hostility in some reviews. It's so long overdue in Hollywood to portray people as more than just a caricature of their sexual orientation. And this movie runs rings around most of the romantic comedies I've ever seen. I just identified so much with the characters and their struggles. Richard Ruccolo really does a remarkable job in portraying the tortured Tom character. I don't understand why he doesn't get more parts because he's one of the few sitcom actors I've ever seen totally embody a part so entirely different from the one that made him well known. I just hope he gets more opportunities in the near future as he's utterly gorgeous as well as extremely talented. As for Dan Bucatinsky, I'm incredibly impressed with his dual role as writer and lead actor. Some people say they can't understand why hunky Tom would go for attractive but nerdy Eli, but I think it's clear they both seek the complementary qualities the other has (Tom's ability to be spontaneous and fun and Eli's intelligence and love) not to mention a mutual understanding of growing up with crazy parents. "},{"Title":"I liked it...","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm seeing a lot of heavy criticism of this movie, but I liked it.  In fact I thought it was pretty darn good (hell, my boyfriend even liked it, and he hates romances of any sort).  It had some very interesting cinematography (at this time notice I am, at 17, a horrible speller and quite aware of it) at points and overall left me with a warm, fuzzy feeling.  The actors all did wonderful jobs.  I think some people are reading waaaaaaaay too much into the movie though.  I've seen movies far less clever hailed wonderful (pick a Meg Ryan movie...any Meg Ryan movie).  Why are people so harsh about this flick?  I mean, not everything has to be about making a statement...it's just a cute, very entertaining movie.  "},{"Title":"Sweet, honest, romantic gay comedy with a happy ending.","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie.  Finally a movie with gay characters that are normal. Eli and Tom are flawed enough to be believable without being psychotic. They meet on a blind date, break up, get back together, break up... They fumble along with the help of their best friends Brett and Jackie.Dan Bucatinsky wrote and stars in the film as Eli, a slightly neurotic column writer.  His performance is twitchy and charming.  Richard Ruccolo has beefed up nicely from his Two Guys and a Pizza Parlor days.  Ruccolo plays Eli's love interest Tom woodenly and seems to be hung over the whole film.  Worse, there doesn't seem to be any real chemistry between him and Eli.  However, there is chemistry between Tom and Jackie and between Brett and Eli.Sasha Alexander is at her best as the Jewish American Princess Jackie, Tom's best friend.  Adam Goldberg as Brett is unflappably droll as the furniture salesman who has a snappy comeback to anything.Doris Roberts very nearly steals the show as Esther, the receptionist at the clinic.  She counsels Eli on love while fielding telephone calls and discussing safe sex.The editing is crisp, cutting back and forth between the main characters to tell the story.  The movie contains some crisp, very funny dialog.  The best scenes are between the best friends.The final scene between Tom and Eli didn't really work for me.  It comes across as preachy and condescending but when the quartet is reunited, the chemistry and wit return the movie just in time for a happy ending.  "}{"Title":"An all out comic romance that makes you laugh and even cry!","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It might be strange to see comments from a straight female on something that involves gay romance, but hey, life's full of surprises.  Eli and Tom are so great together and I couldn't wait to see how it ended.  The contradiction between their relationship and the relationship of Brett and Jackie makes the film an all out blast. Fantastic, from a fan of romances with a gay twist. "},{"Title":"The movie is surprisingly on!","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just purchased the movie on DVD to add to my library after watching it a couple of times on cable. I liked it even more after watching the interviews of the director, writer, and actors. Dan Bucatinsky is very talented and hope to see much more of his work. I thought the character development of Dan and Tom was both heartbreaking and humorous. The main characters are nicely complemented by an excellent supporting cast especially Andrea Martin and Doris Roberts.   "},{"Title":"Great movie for the expanding Gay/Lesbian genre of movies","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie at least really doesn't play around with the gay stereotypes too much. I have seen some films that have went over the top with the stereotyping i.e. Kiss Me, Guido. I know how the mannerisms are inside the Gay/Lesbian culture, but still a film can be funny and not go over the top.All Over The Guy does just this and gives you a healthy dose of laughter. This film reminds me of the movie, The Opposite of Sex. I give All Over The Guy two thumbs up for showing gays in a positive light. I recommend both movies to anyone gay or straight.  "},{"Title":"Witty romantic comedy","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the better gay-themed romantic comedies of recent years and hip enough to make fun of bigger-budget attempts to appease the gay market, like In & Out (which I also love).  The main cast is largely unknown to me by name, tho' I've seen the four leads in various quality TV and indie films before.  They're supported by first-rate players like Doris Roberts as a wise clinic receptionist, Christina Ricci as the hero's sassy kid sister, and, in a bit which recalls her ditsy waitress on Mad About You, Lisa Kudrow as a dim-witted actress.  Lots of great one-liners and a realistically played-out rocky romance between the two young men, each with unhappy upbringings and their respective moms played by vets Andrea Martin & Joanna Kerns.  Even the soundtrack works without being too intrusive, featuring stars like Matthew Sweet & Lyle Lovett. "},{"Title":"Great dialogue.","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Dan Bucatinsky's writing is witty, fast paced, and intelligent. There are some wonderful comic turns, and clearly the cast had good chemistry and was devoted to the project. Plus, the director makes the most out of a small budget; it's a visually literate film even though it's essentially a theatrical piece. I can't wait to see what they all do next. Bucatinsky's career in particular should be fun to watch.  "},{"Title":"Best Gay interest film I have ever seen!!!!","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen a lot of gay interest films, but this takes the cake.  I left the couch feeling all warm and fuzzy inside, with the realization that while the search may not be easy, and the guy not perfect, he is out there....somewhere.The film is acted to perfection, with the exception of the uber eccentric acting of Adam Goldberg, though he wasn't as overbearing as he has been in the past.  Richard Ruccolo's acting was the shining star of this piece. Though going in to the movie I knew he was straight, I really appreciated his style in portraying a gay man who may not fit into the stereotypical mold.  Bravo to one of my favorite actors!This is not a first date movie---you will scare him off too soon!  This is more like a movie to watch right around the time you are thinking about taking a relationship to the next level....to allow you both to see acceptance, with flaws.  I highly recommend this movie, and for the first time, I have given this movie a TEN! "},{"Title":"Better conceptually than cinematically.","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  All Over the Guy is a better movie for what it isn't than for what it is. What it is is a fairly standard romantic comedy. The dialogue is sometimes brilliant, but the plot lacks structure. There are at least three pointless montages backed with music far more poignant and less cliched than the actual images, and one can't help but conclude that they were concocted to fill out the script.On the other hand, the handling of the central gay relationship in the movie is refreshingly free of gay stereotypes. Oh, there are plenty of romantic comedy stereotypes, but I can hardly overemphasize how important this was to me as a gay man in viewing the film. Finally, a movie about a gay relationship that doesn't include any disco music, not a single gay bar scene, no quirky nelly girlfriend, and where blatant emotional disregard for one's sexual partners is actually seen as a problem rather than an ambivalently accepted community standard. Of course, the cynic in me says that it's just because the gay relationship was adapted from a straight relationship in the play, but at the risk of horrifying my peers, I'd say maybe more screenwriters should use that technique when writing gay relationships. All's I know is that the result was that the romance felt closer to my own experience, and consequently more sympathetic and more true than 99% of the tarted up, histrionically dramatic gay relationships in popular media. "},{"Title":"Reality Check","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the most realistic love story based on a gay male realitionship I have ever seen.  BRAVO!  Finally, someone in managment dropped the stereo-types and let two guys have the same akwardness that plagues heterosexuals. A truly touching love story for any open minded human. Two thumbs up!! "},{"Title":"A Terrific Crowd-Pleasing Gay Comedy","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  ALL OVER THE GUY (AOTG) is one of the better, funnier and more crowd-pleasing independent titles to be released via an American distributor in 2001.  As a film festival programmer who's viewed more than 300 submitted movies in the past year, AOTG ranks up there with the best of them in the gay comedy genre, and which should appeal to the majority of straight movie-goers, too.  It's a feel-good date movie, well-directed and exceptionally well-acted (particularly Richard Rucollo, in a role that's a far departure from his former TWO GUYS AND A GIRL TV-Series persona), which deserves to become a break-out hit during its theatrical run.  Featuring guest cameos by Lisa Kudrow, Christina Ricci and Doris Roberts, AOTG is foremost a comedic love story between two twenty-something men in search of the one.  And more impressively, a film whose light tone, upbeat score and clever one-liners are a welcome departure from this year's crop of brooding and complex gay issues movies which are currently circulating the cineplexes and festivals.  Make no mistake This film is pure entertainment for entertainment's sake, much in the same vein as I THINK I DO, RELAX...IT'S JUST SEX and BIG EDEN.  And sometimes, if it's this well done, there's absolutely nothing wrong with that. "},{"Title":"Masochistic Freak Show SPOILER","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Why would a person go back to a person, who kicks them in the teeth, not once, not twice, but over and over again.This film teaches us that in order to find love we must accept abuse (not just forgive it, but fully accept it). Gosh! No wonder my first relationship only lasted ten years. I obviously wasn't embracing my inner masochist.As Bucatinsky's writing debut, there are many wonderful aspects to this film; however, in order to justify the reunion of Eli and Tom, more character development would have been helpful. We are never acquainted with Eli's masochism, in fact, we are led to believe that he is not a masochist, although Tom's psycho-emotional sadism is highly evident. "}{"Title":"Great Gen-X romantic comedy!","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had never heard the name Dan Bucatinsky before seeing this film, but I will look for it now.  He adapted his play for the screen and got this film made with participation from some of the best comic actors (although Lisa Kudrow's scene is somewhat pointless).  As an actor, I just loved him as Eli.  He portrayed just the right levels of angst and confidence in different parts of the film.  I wonder why I have not seen more of him and Sasha Alexander (who plays the hilarious best friend of the other man, who is less likable but well-acted).  Doris Roberts is wonderful, and gives a lot to the role of a character who's primary function is to sit and listen.Julie Davis's skilled direction sets the tone for this film, and she keeps things light mostly.  (According to IMDb user comments, she seems to have done much better directing this film than the ones she herself wrote.)  For this film, that is fine, but the subject of alcoholism is not really dealt with in too much depth, and that character's parents are not given enough screen time to give real insight into their relationship with their kids (or lack thereof).  Other than that, Davis is very skilled in putting the scenes together in such a way that the film flows nicely.  We also get just enough of all the supporting players.  Best scene  Andrea Martin cursing out the television when a certain movie she has issues with comes on.You may or may not believe these two men will stay together, but the journey each one makes is worth coming along for the ride.P.S.  For all the references making fun of Eli's psycho-babbly touchy-feely embarassing parents, they seem to have raised a great brother and sister who support each other and get along well, so maybe this film is more of an endorsement of hippie parenting than Dan thinks! "},{"Title":"The Pits...Sets Your Teeth on Edge","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Of all the recent gay indie films, this is hands down the worst.  It's not amateurish, like some of them (Broadway Damage for example), but it's far more annoying than other, less polished efforts.  The problem is lead actor and writer Dan Bucatinsky.  Someone must have told him he can write and has charm...Bad Idea!!!  He portrays an obsessive priss by simpling being one, and you wind up hating him.  The distance a better actor could lend the role is totally missing.And the writing is atrocious, lots of cutesy arguments that are supposed to tell us something about the characters but really just waste time. Wait till you get to the scene where the two boys (and that's what they seem like, boys, not men) argue over Fuzzy Wuzzy was a bear.  The clever dialogue makes you grind your teeth it's so numbling banal and self-congratulatory.The film also brings in a straight couple to try to balance things.  Their story is as flatly written as a daytime soap, and far less compelling. The whole thing plays out like a laughless gay sitcom pilot boring people, limp dialogue and some embarassing big scenes at the end to try and whip up your interest.I was astonished that people like Don Roos and Doris Roberts were associated with this film that reeks of a vanity project.  Then someone told me that Roos and Bucatinsky are partners.  Hey, that's very sweet, but it doesn't justify infliciting this tripe on an unsuspecting audience.This claptrap is about one notch above the amateur gay sitcoms you can see on West Hollywood cable access.  Beware!!  Rent Trick instead.  THAT was a good movie...this thing should have a bell attached to it so you can hear it coming and cross to the other side of the road!! "},{"Title":"Not ground breaking but refreshing","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK...this movie wont change the world but it IS nice to see a movie that had a slightly different view of the gay world.  We all had our share of problems growing up, but we all werent forunate enough to have Andrea Martin as our mother flashing Barbie's privates at us when we we 10. "},{"Title":"No chemistry","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was a truly awful film--I found myself actually yelling at my tv a couple times.  One or both of the gay male leads was miscast;  there was absolutely no chemistry between them and Richard Ruccolo looked like he'd rather be kissing a dog.  The movie covers their long and tortured courtship, highlighting each break-up and make-up, but not developing the reasons in-between in any detail.  These reasons would make for some interesting characters, not the fight or the make-up scene in bed (lame even if you liked the movie).Andrea Martin and Adam Goldberg shine as their characters, but it doesn't make the film worth renting. Save your money. "},{"Title":"wit, fun, heart","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  the movie teems with them.i give most of the credit to dan bucatinsky, who wrote, co-producedand starred in this movie. his writing was just so hilarious, andsensitive, and compelling. it's a love story. those who don't like romantic comedies may notlike it, but to those of us who do, this is one of the best i've seen. isupposed it mattered that the men were gorgeous. it didn't matterthat the couple was gay--i felt the love, the giddiness, the humor,the pain. loved it!oh and by the way, this movie's got the most heartrending kissingscenes i've ever seen. "},{"Title":"One of the few good movies of the Summer of 2001","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How did this movie get maid and released? It has characterdevelopment, no car crashes, dinosaurs or Aliens to bring in thebig bucks. Wonderful movie about normal people who, straight and gay, theirfriendships, relationships and their lives. This has been a really bad Summer for movies and the goodmovies worth watching are far and few between. I liked the characters, I liked the witty dialoge and the Actors werevery enjoyable. Lisa Kudrow shows up in a bit part, Doris Robertsand Andrea Martin (one of my favorites) and Christina Ricci. Theyare all supporting to the main characters.Check this one out.  A good movie to help wash out the taste of allthose empty Blockbusters of the Summer. "},{"Title":"Mostly okay, with two big flaws","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is okay - more good than bad - but it has a couple of huge flaws.First, the attraction between Eli (Dan Bucatinsky) and Tom (Richard Ruccolo) is completely unbelievable. There's obviously no real chemistry between the two actors (since Ruccolo is straight), and they're not talented enough to conjure it up out of acting skill alone. Since that relationship is the heart of the movie, its total lack of believable passion is a very serious flaw.Better casting of either (especially Tom) or both roles could have solved it. (Ruccolo looks too much like Renée Zellweger to be sexy anyway, and his shaved chest is a big turn-off.)Second, when Tom, the self-proclaimed martini expert, makes one for Eli, he uses vodka. Now, I know there are idiots in the world who actually do make a drink with vodka which they call a martini, but that doesn't make it a martini. A martini is made with gin, not vodka. Using vodka to make a martini is like using Crisco to make butter cookies you can call the result butter cookies, but that doesn't make them butter cookies.What this movie has going for it are a mostly entertaining and intelligent screenplay (only occasionally irritating and stupid - like the Gone with the Wind bit on the first date, and a few similar times when an only marginally entertaining joke is dragged out way too long; Tom blowing vermouth fumes into the martini is another clunker); a dynamite comic performance by snarky Adam Goldberg just being snarky Adam Goldberg; a solid performance by Sasha Alexander as the female glue that holds the three male flakes together; and a good enough performance by Bucatinsky to make Eli believable as a person if not as a lover - but even that is more Ruccolo's fault than his. Brief cameos by Doris Roberts and Lisa Kudrow are bonus treats. "},{"Title":"A gem of a film!","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie with a little reserve. Generally, standard Hollywood films (like the mentioned In & Out, which is a great movie don't get me wrong) about gay couples are very cliché. I tend to prefer the more realistic indies. But this one had grit, and heart, and even tenderness. It expertly delves into the craziness of relationships, gay and straight, and how we can screw ourselves right out of love if we aren't careful. I tend to rate movies with school grades. Anything below a B- isn't in my collection. This movie deserves a solid A. I'd give it 8.5 if the numeric scale for ranking on this site had halves, because sometimes you just need a half. I recommend this movie to gay and straight folk alike, to anyone who has ever sought and fought (inside and out) for love. We've all had relationships that made us question our own role in the demise. The what ifs that never were. Not everyone gets a happy ending, no matter how much we want it. And there are also those relationships that we have and cherish, that almost never were. And on that note, watch this film. I think you're gonna like it. "},{"Title":"Pretty Believable","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" While I'm not saying this movie is realistic (I don't think most movies are) I will say I found it emotionally honest. This movie is rare in another sense. It involves people who know how to use wit. Very few movies show people who are consciously funny and even fewer pull it off. ALL OVER THE GUY surprised me. I was expecting a feel-good film with some slapstick, but what I got was a comedy with some thought. It is closer to a feel-good film than high drama, but it's not a lie, which most feel-good films are. The acting would lift any script, but the script is really good anyway. The DVD I saw had a commentary track with the director, the writer/star and the editor and, as with the movie itself, the commentary track gave me a chance to listen to people who know how to make a point. "},{"Title":"Excellent story and well written screen play","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was moved to comment on this unusually poignant story. The main characters are so well and naturally drawn and so well played, I felt as if I knew them personally by the end of the movie. From the very beginning, the dialogue is clever, but there is more than cleverness - there is real talent in the writing and an authenticity I found haunting. There was also real plausibility within the comedy's plot; even the more unlikely twists and turns are believable. It's the writing of Dan Bucantinsky (not just his on-screen character) that made me want to see more of his work. This is a really good, heart-warming effort, with wonderful acting from each of the four main characters. "}{"Title":"Refreshing but forgettable","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is about the rough and eventful journey of two couples until they find love.One striking thing about this film is the production. The sets, the costumes and the scenes are just like a big budget movie. It is impressive that they got a nice budget for a gay film! Another striking thing is that there are two big mainstream stars in the move Lisa Kudrow and Christina Ricci. Lisa Kudrow's role is small and dispensible, which is a pity as it is not everyday that a mainstream star agrees to star in a gay film. Christina Ricci's role is more substantial, but still dispensible. I particularly applaud Ricci because it is not the first time she stars in a gay related film that I watched, the other being The Laramie Project.The plot itself is quite complex, with the main story with two small side plots about the two main characters telling their story to other people. A typical romantic comedy has a join-split-join setting, and yet in this film there are more split and joins that I almost lost track.It is a refreshing film, entertaining and fun. However, it is forgettable and does not leave a big impression in viewers' hearts. "},{"Title":"This is my favorite gay movie ever","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Okay what can I say I relate to this movie. Sweet neurotic nice guy meets damaged bad boy. And guy gets guy at the end. My heart swoons. I am a big goofy romantic what can I say. Finally a movie where the gay characters are not the best friend or stylish confidant to the lovelorn female character.The cast it perfect. Good performances by everyone in the cast.Only regret is that is would have been nice for the stripper to have been interested in Eli rather than Tom. I would really have liked Tom to have been jealous and seen that Eli is just as hot in his own neurotic way. "},{"Title":"A charming little film","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a story about Eli and Tom, who met, fell in love, discovered that they have issues with each other, thus setting up the standard will-they-or-won't-they-live-happily-ever-after romantic comedy scenario, except that in this case it is about two men. There are many things to recommend this film, a good script, the reasonably good acting (for the most part, not sure about Dan Bucatinsky), characters that you might care about, the gentle comedy, but above all, a good heart.A number of things fail this movie however. The main thing being that Dan Bucatinsky is not convincing as a romantic lead, a wiser writer would not have cast himself as the lead. While it is obvious that for Eli it is love at first sight (or rather when he first looked into Tom's eyes), it's hard to tell what Tom sees in Eli. There is a good reason why the leads in romantic films are generally attractive people (and Richard Ruccolo is good looking), and it is to stop us asking this awkward question. The direction is somewhat patchy, with some strange changes of tone - for example, after the Tom's AA meeting and what seems to be setting up of a possible rape scene but which is then quickly dropped and then just some vague reference to getting beaten (why is the scene there anyway if the director is afraid of dealing with its full ramifications?).I love, however, the last scenes between them, touching and beautifully done. Overall, it is, if we can ignore the fact that it is also that rare thing of a romantic comedy film about two men, an above average film.Just one last word - to the guy who threw in a gratuitous comment about Brokeback Mountain, we don't know if Jack was murdered, it is all in Ennis' imagination and set out to be deliberately ambiguous. I do wish IMDb has a policy of disallowing from reviewing those who do not have the cognitive and reasoning capabilities better than those of a fly. "},{"Title":"Brains and Beauty... and Beauty","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Richard Ruccolo is remarkable- hot and engaging and intelligent and brittle attractive and unlikable and totally human and recognizable in this film. And that pretty much describes the film as well. It takes something special to get me to watch any movie more than once. I've watched this one, in parts or in total, a half dozen times. I start because I really like watching Ruccolo and then stay because the supporting cast is as good as you'll find in any major studio romantic comedy (including a hoot-out-loud cameo by Lisa Kudrow) and the script is much, much smarter than most. Actually, I'm watching the movie as I write this and I have to stop and pay more attention because it's better than I remembered. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" All I want to say about this movie is that thank god a movie with a happy ending. It's refreshing a movie like that, because almost all the gay movies are or stereotyped or tragic.It's a funny comedy about two men quite so different sometimes, but with some nice connection that grows with time - in fact one is the opposite of the other but at the same time not just in this order -really nice actors, nice quotes, fun to watch, to cry. An ordinary story that could be lived by me or you and with not so perfect people, people like us.I hope to see more like this because positive vibrations are never too much.So watch it! and buy it, it deserves to be kept forever.cheers "},{"Title":"A Must See for a gay audience","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I find it amusing as to how many different people saw something different in this movie. Perhaps I'm a sucker for a romantic comedy, especially between two men, but this movie isn't a gay movie. It is all about relationships. Yes, dysfunctional ones. Are there any other kind? I found the movie to be very believable and actually know people who could be these characters. The dialogue is very witty and I actually found myself laughing out loud on occasion and also well up with a tear as well. It is difficult for a movie to make someone both laugh and cry. I found myself not just identifying with these characters, but rooting for them. The movie shows the changing culture in the gay community as well, as we move from one night stands to buying matching night stands for the bedroom that we share with the one we love. I think the real story of this movie is that none of us know what we're really looking for until we actually find it. Watch this movie. If you're gay, it's a must see and if you're straight, it's a great chick flick. I loved it!! "},{"Title":"At first I didn't like it...","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Then I thought about this movie. Here's what I liked two men can be openly gay and live perfectly normal and happy lives without being gay bashed like in every other movie ever made about gay men (the only time one gets beaten up, well sort of, is Tom in the bathroom after the AA meeting); gay men don't have to flame or act like women, because they aren't, they are men and happen to like other men; gay men live lives not so different than straight people, with ups and downs, romantically and otherwise; and the movie didn't have the perfectly clichéd ending most movies have in this genre, that love wins out. Sure, in the end they settled their differences, they talked about their feelings and broke down boundaries. They kissed in the end, they danced, and they got together, but they weren't what either wanted, they were what they needed. They didn't get along because they didn't want to, then they got along because they wanted to, in spite of their differences, not in ignorance, but because they acknowledged their own and each others faults to find each other. Ninety-nine percent of people, gay or straight, go out looking for a Prince Charming or Damsel in Distress, which they will never find. Someone once said to me people should be patient, because when the right person comes along, they'll fall right in your lap. That's kind of what happened here, that both Tom and Eli had preconceived notions about love and their perfect match, and they discovered it didn't matter what they wanted before, because they found maybe what they needed, and discovered the perfect person is a myth, because no one is perfect, and we'll never find what we dream of. We find what we need, and we fall into each others laps. And the filmmakers never said it would work out, but if it did it would be great, if not we know that whatever happens, things would turn out okay. All this, and I haven't even brought up the psychological issues of the characters, particularly Tom, that though not thoroughly explored, are realistic and thought provoking. And what a way to think, that maybe we can be happy if we're not married to our dream man/woman, in the house with the white picket fence, but perfectly happy with friends, family, and the things in life that can be just as important as love.More importantly, I found that this movie was really realistic in portraying gay men. Most movies show the flamers, just one facet of gay society. The fact is gay men and women are all around us, working regular jobs. They are normal people, just like you, and they don't have to act different or be different because they aren't different. Not in any way that's important anyway. So I raise my glass to Tom and Eli, and say accordingly I thought this movie was excellent, and I give it a rating of ten stars. Rock on! PS-- Not sure if there are any spoilers here, but thought I'd check the box anyway, just in case. "},{"Title":"So it's not gay rocket science","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What a refreshing movie this is! What I mean by that is here is a movie about gay men that contains people I want to meet, that I would want to be friends with. Eli and Tom are two men that are thrown together due to the fact that their respective (straight) best friends would like to build on their meet cute. And how cute are these best friends? They are also portrayed as refreshingly normal, unlike other gay themed movies I have seen that shoehorn straight people into the movie in order to try to get mass appeal but only end up embarrassing those straight people who would want to see the movie. But I digress, The movie starts with the audience meeting two men. Eli, who is off to the AIDS test clinic, and Tom, who is off to an AA meeting. As each are at there respective appointments, the past is presented to show their relationship. The men don't get a meet cute, but their respective best friends do, in a furniture store where they bond over a buttercup love seat. The two then decide to use their respective gay best friends, supposedly to get them together, but actually to further their own budding romance. What an awkward first date the men have! Eli hopes his date doesn't smoke, so of course when we see them together that's what Tom does best. That and drink Absolute martinis. From there it is one awkward meeting for them after the other, both fighting an attraction they both will admit only to themselves. The families of each man are dysfunctional. I actually was far more embarrassed by Eli's, a couple of doctors who subject their small children to uncomfortable games about their feelings and only use dolls to get the kids comfortable with using correct medical terms for sexual organs. Christina Ricci gives a wonderful performance as Eli's seeming normal sister. Our meeting of Tom's parents is uncomfortable for completely different reasons, though probably much more common to many of us. The parents who suffocate themselves over what their dysfunctional lives have foisted on their children. At the wedding of the straight friends, the men finally realize what they mean to each other. I have probably left out a lot, but I think I am a little too emotionally attracted to this movie to be objective. By the time the men are dancing together and the closing song, I'm Gonna Make You Love Me by the Jayhawks started playing, I was actually cheering through my tears. No, this may not be a great movie, but it is one I will turn to again and again, to meet and spend time with comfortable old friends. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie gets an excellent rating from me because there is attention paid to real character development -- great screenplay. Equal attention has been paid to the characters themselves by actors who understand what they're talking about, and who convey that understanding believably -- the honesty is refreshing. One cannot know the extent to which the director was very detailed in getting the performances that she wanted or whether she fundamentally trusted her actors' intelligence to come through; with this cast and with this screenplay, I'd bet the latter. One so wishes for more movies that treat these themes as intelligently and as engagingly as this one does. One grows so weary of wading through movies with cardboard characters, actors, dialogue, and situations. This movie, though, was a pleasure. My thanks to one and all for having given it. "},{"Title":"Awesome Gay Romantic Comedy","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really loved this movie! I just loved the way the characters Tom and Eli interacted together as well as the way their friends worked to set them up. I could really relate to the frustration and, at times anger, that Eli was going through trying to figure out the mixed messages that Tom was sending him. It was great seeing one of the characters who was having problems coming to terms with his own wish/need for lasting love grapple with his demons and finally allow himself to reach out and touch some real happiness. At the end of the movie I was in tears. This movie has it all comedy, tragedy, and a heart-wrenching resolution. Every gay person and and their straight friend(s) should see this movie! "}{"Title":"May I kick the alcoholic in the butt?","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I believe I dated Tom (the character in the movie) for about three weeks in 1990. I believe I dropped his alcoholic butt after he made a pass at the man in the movie theater (of course they went to the bathroom), and after he introduced me to his friend as another friend. I really wanted to kick Eli in the rear for even talking to this alcoholic jerk after he's calling and telling him how sorry he is for sleeping with his umpteenth man of the hour. However, I am a man of fantasy, and there is nothing that makes a movie work better than some good ole endings with zero reality. And this show delivers a great ending and makes you feel good about Tom & Eli (haven't seen my Tom since '90, he's probably still drinking and sleeping with a different man every night). Doris Roberts and Andrea Martin make the show completely hilarious. The alternate ending wasn't as good as the original EXCEPT it may give a reason why Eli would stay with alcoholic Tom. "},{"Title":"WoW! Funny and entertaining!","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is really fun and entertaining. Two best roles are played by Richard Ruccolo as Tom and Doris Roberts as Esther. Tom struggles through every emotion he has to better understand himself. Esther is the receptionist at a local heath clinic. I was amazed at Doris Robets ability to be so faul mouthed. She was really hilarious. I like how this work shows a cross section of gay-straight life. We need more films like this to allow American society to better understand gay life.  I also like the concept of a bride having a Man-of-Honor to stand up for here at a wedding. I hope you enjoy the film as much as I did. I highly recommend this film! "},{"Title":"Witty dialogue; mixed acting","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Why does everyone have to demand nouvelle cinematic cuisine with some daring twist or surprise ending rather than simply enjoy a fairly straight-forward serio-comedic mini-pastiche?  I loved the screen play, though the acting of Tom (Richard Ruccolo) detracted (clearly a straight guy trying to act gay after seeing Russell Crowe in the Sum of Us one too many times; except that Russell Crowe has that special talent so difficult to duplicate).  With that one exception, all the acting is note-perfect and I found the movie overall very entertaining.   "},{"Title":"Read this review!  I think I nailed it...","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've been searching and waiting patiently for the perfect gay film to come along.  Something with a real plot and real characters.  Something that doesn't pander to the straight audience, but doesn't play exclusively to gays.  Something with bite AND a heart.  Julie Davis' `All Over the Guy' comes close. so close.  And then tanks.The story in brief while shopping in a furniture store, Jackie (Sasha Alexander) meets furniture designer/salesman Brett (Adam Goldberg).  The sparks are instant.  After realizing that they both have a gay male best friend, they decide to fix the two of them up.  The first date of Eli (Dan Bucatinsky) and Tom (Richard Ruccolo) goes down in flames, but on a second meeting something ignites.  But Tom's alcohol fueled insecurities and Eli's need for order makes their ensuing relationship rocky.  Essentially, they just can't seem to get it together.  Will true love prevail?Look, I really, REALLY wanted to love this film.  In the end, I liked it a lot, but it missed that being-a-classic benchmark by a good distance. Here's whyThere aren't many films with opinions are widely and clearly polarized as those regarding `All Over the Guy.'  That's a nice way of saying you either loved it or hated it.  Me, I can understand both points of view. if you aren't into snappy, overly-glib, `Friends'-like dialogue you are going to definitely hate this film.  I happen to love that sort of stuff.  Okay, call me shallow, but the movie made me laugh out loud on several occasions. (Example. BRETT `Be there or be square.'  ELI `I hate that expression. Even when I'm there, I'm square, so where's the incentive?')  Overall, I thought the dialogue was sharp, and the juxtaposition of a gay relationship against a straight one was handled nicely.I also really liked the acting in this film.  All of the supporting characters do a nice job bringing in a level of quirkiness to their small parts (I mean, c'mon. how funny was Andrea Martin as Eli's analysis-obsessed mom?), and the four leads handle what they're given with tenacity and appeal.Likewise, the first three-quarters of this film are structured well and interesting.  I hate to say it, but it really drew me in.  The non-linear storyline doesn't feel choppy or forced.  So what went wrong?  Why does that final quarter of the film take such an incredible nosedive?The primary blame has to be placed on the character of Tom.  As much as the filmmakers try to make this Eli's story, the crux of the action centers around Tom's behavior when faced with a potentially fulfilling relationship. We're asked to believe that Tom is a nasty drunk, and his addiction is why he endlessly treats poor Eli like a yo-yo.  And although we never really see Tom even remotely plastered, we can see that he's overflowing with anger and bile.What the script doesn't do is completely justify Tom's wild swings from wanting to be near Eli to harshly and nastily (really nastily) pushing him away.  And it all reflects poorly on the character of Eli, who never truly tells Tom to get lost.  I wanted so badly for someone to just level this jerk. when it does sort-of happen at the film's climax, Tom's reaction is to DEFEND himself.  What is all this saying?  `Oh, poor damaged me. my lousy upbringing gives me the right to treat others like ca-ca.'  Sorry, I don't buy it.Similarly, I don't buy Tom's seemingly happy-go-lucky decision to end up at AA.  The fact that alcoholism is simply wrecking his life is woefully unexplored.  Most of all, that angle of the story completely lacks any grit and bite.  Alcoholism is ugly.  It's a disease that can kill, just like AIDS or cancer or any other unpleasant illness.  Here, it's handled like a plot device, giving it sufferers a reason to be verbally cruel, and nothing else.Please note that I can't blame Richard Ruccolo for any of his character's failings.  He does an amazing job with what the script gives him.  He plays his winning smile and boyish good looks to the best of their ability. Likewise, his control onscreen is superb. he's one of the rare breed of actors who can flash a single facial expression and it says pages worth of words.  (Just imagine Keanu Reeves in the part and you'll see the complete opposite of what I'm talking about.)Nonetheless, I was exhausted with the on-again-off-again nature of Tom and Eli's relationship by the end of this film.  And as much as Tom has something of an excuse for his yo-yo-like behavior, Eli doesn't have one for not just telling him to shove-off.  We're asked to believe that it's because he sees something greater in Tom, but by the final quarter of the film it looks more like Eli hasn't an ounce of self-respect.  The ending seems entirely forced; any two everyday gay men in Los Angeles would have called it quits long, long before these two.It's too bad, because there was so much in this movie that I really enjoyed. I'd love to see this group try again with something meatier.  How about this explore the alcoholism angle with depth and sincerity by adapting Augusten Burrough's hilarious, self-deprecating book `Dry' into a film? And please cast Rich Ruccolo in the lead!  "},{"Title":"a good date movie","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I caught the last hour of this movie with my boyfriend and we enjoyed it so much. It was funny and cute. A fun movie to watch with a loved one or a group of friends. I would definatly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just saw this film on HBO and came here to buy it.  An incredible endearing film.  Funny, poignant, and I thought a great film that just happens to have two gay characters.  Hats off to Richard for such an excellent performance given he is not gay.  "},{"Title":"Real Life should be this good.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie twice in 24 hours. Granted my boyfriend was talking during the first viewing but I was genuinely enchanted with this film. It was great to see a movie with a gay plotline with good production values. The acting and direction were both excellent. Finally a movie that I can identify with. "},{"Title":"Very real, great acting, well worth seeing","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, despite preconceptions that I wouldn't.  The two male leads were perfectly cast, and played their parts very well- Richard Ruccolo as Tom was exceptional (easily in the Oscar class), he manages to get all his character's angst and fear of intimacy perfectly, without once overplaying it. Whilst I enjoyed 'Big Eden' and 'I Think I Do' more, I think this is a better film.  Its not a fair comparison, as the other two films, 'Big Eden' in particular, are not realism in the way that this film is.  This is a totally believable story of two men's fight to overcome the damage done by parents etc. and it works on many levels.  I've met several guys like Tom in real life, and many like Eli, so it makes a pleasant change to see some believable characters in a gay film instead of all pumped up muscle boys and prissy queens.  Its good to see gay men being portrayed as normal, screwed up people, with the same problems as everyone else.  On that level, this and the other two films mentioned above go a long way to address the damage done by films such as 'In and Out' (criticised very eloquently in this film) and the 'Bird Cage'.This is a great film, go see it, I guarantee you'll enjoy it- besides, you shouldn't miss out on Doris Roberts using the 'f' word and other strong language, as a caring receptionist at the clap clinic. "},{"Title":"A wonderful insight into the dynamics of gay relationships","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had ordered the DVD of All Over The Guy' on the strength of Richard Ruccolo. I loved him in '2guys and a girl' and was eager to see him in another role. Richard really breaks out of the sitcom mould in this movie - his characterisation of a chain smoking, heavy drinking masculine gay man is nothing short of breathtaking. The film itself is wonderful. It really delves into the difficulties of gay relationships in todays' society and how hard it is to meet 'Mr Right'. The onscreen dynamic between Dan Bucatinsky and Richard Ruccolo is excellent - you really are drawn into the complexities of their relationship. A special note should be made of the DVD. Unlike many smaller budget, indi films, this one is packed with features that will have you glued to the screen for hours. A wonderful movie that I wholeheartedly recommend. "},{"Title":"A Great Tortured Love Story","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a fun-torturous love story of 2 imperfect people who, despite themselves overcome their emotional difficulties to find each other and realize that they ARE worth the love they feel.  I recommend this to everyone.   Of course there is that Grace type (like that of Will & Grace) to add some humor and her own style of insight. "}{"Title":"One very good thing","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although the film is nothing special in the totality of the movie world, it is somewhat special in using a gay theme for a more or less traditional romantic comedy. The best thing about it is Richard Ruccolo's amazing performance as Tom. His every look, expression, and mood is right on the mark. One of the best portrayals I have seen... and I don't say that lightly. "},{"Title":"Ahhh...enjoyed it a lot","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's always nice to see a gay movie that's just fun and doesn't take itself too seriously.  The audience at the Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras film festival found this movie very funny.  There was a lot of laughter in the cinema.  The four leads were great and it was interesting to read that the original play was not gay-related.  But the film, with its new gay theme, works extremely well.  There are lots of cameos, with Doris Roberts being the stand-out.  As much as I love Lisa Kudrow in 'Friends', why is it that she's always playing these ditzy characters?????? "},{"Title":"Nice little film","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Thought this was a good little film.  I found it just through browsing at the video store; hadn't heard any buzz about (unlike the upcoming Big Eden). The two leads were very believable & sympathetic, despite their idiosyncrasies.  About the only criticism I have is with Tom he seems fairly stable & fit (even considering his commitment problems) for an alcoholic. Still, that was a minor concern compared to the overall portrayals.  The two supporting leads played off their best friends very well, too.  I liked this movie enough to buy a copy, something I rarely do anymore. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest depictions of real-life yet recorded","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I recommend this movie for anyone who is gay, who has ever known someone who is gay, for anyone who is married, or has ever known someone who is married, for everyone who has ever fallen in love (in spite of their greatest efforts to avoid it) or has ever known anyone who has fallen in love. It's easy to point out flaws in any film, but on this one I choose to point out the strengths. In my opinion, these characters (to whom almost all of us can relate - in one way or another) give an accurate depiction of the challenges that we all face as we travel down our paths known as life. If any person, regardless of gender or orientation, can not see some of the mistakes they have made - as all of us humans do - in the lives we see here, then they are blind to not only their own plight, but also to their very existence. I can not recommend this movie more highly, and have already done so, to just about everyone I know, regardless of their gender, age, political affiliation or sexual orientation.  "},{"Title":"Sitcom Territory","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is handsomely produced, but the script seems like just an excuse for a lot of one-liners.  I like movies with glib, funny dialogue, but this script is a far cry from All About Eve.  It's more like a sophisticated sitcom, with better jokes and a lot of curse words (although I don't know anyone in real life who uses f**k as much as these people did.)  I was puzzled as to why the two gay male characters were attracted to each other in the first place and why they kept going back to each other.  Their getting together at the end seemed forced, just to have a happy ending.  The movie Trick, released two years ago, was made on a shoe string, but it had more romance and charm than this. "},{"Title":"Sweet film. Good first effort.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this film. Sort of a Woody Allen with a gay slant for the first half and then some pretty serious issues in the second. I think the writer/star accurately caught a lot of the angst associated withe relationship beginnings. It's a small film so it does have some technical/logistical problems but I find it easier to ignore flaws when there's a lot of effort put in by both the technical and acting teams.I was really surprised by Richard Ruccalo's performance. He captured and projected a lot of the inner demons that some people possess and it didn't come off as hoaky or contrived.A good first film and I look forward to more from this new writer/actor.See it. "},{"Title":"High production values and appealing characters, but too many cliches","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was very impressed by the quality of this film. The  cinematography, lighting, and makeup are well above par for thegay-themed romantic comedy genre.  One review poster heresuggested this genre is now glutted, but with only one big featureevery summer, I would hardly call that a glut. Despite theoutstanding production values, I'm not as enthusiastic about thefilm as past summer hits of the genre such as Trick, DefyingGravity, Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss, and Broken Heart'sClub. All of those films had the good sense to avoid two of themost weary gay story line cliches fear of AIDS and dysfunctionalfamilies. And as other's have noted, the script is peppered withthese other threadbare icons of the lifestyle. The movie alsosuffers from the unhappy trend to score with popular music ratherthan traditional orchestral movie music.  Can you imagine a filmlike JAWS or Star Wars with pop-rock music? Laughable.Despite its many weaknesses, I found the films characters likableand the odd couple paring provided enough dramatic tension tokeep it interesting. Also on the plus side, we were spared theobligatory drag queen scenes that tend to pop up in these films.And a happy ending for the gay characters is another trend I hopewill stick for films that follow. "},{"Title":"Don't know why people voted it so low!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe the votes are so low for this! I just saw it as part of a film festival and it was my favorite showing of the whole weekend! Both love stories are very sweet and there are some hilarious moments and cameos! I can't wait for the actual release to see it again! "},{"Title":"A side-splitting, hysterical, moving, fantastic romantic comedy!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw All Over the Guy at it's Los Angeles premiere, on the closing night of Outfest last week and I loved it.  It was the first time I watched an independent film which happened to be a romantic comedy, which happened to have two gay men as it's subjects, which happened to have all the humor, heart and Hollywood romance of a big-budget, studio romantic comedy... except with a much smarter, funnier script.  I think this film will go down in history as being able to tell a story with gay characters and straight characters while bringing itself into the mainstream.  This film can be enjoyed by the Bridget Jones audience and the Queer as Folk audience alike! Don't miss it!!! "},{"Title":"Touched my ticklebone and my heart.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  All Over the Guy is a smart romantic comedy about two people who are all wrong for each other. Their flawed personalities provide both the dramatic conflict for the story and something to give weight to an otherwise lighthearted vehicle for witty repartee. The fact that the opposite numbers are both men is almost incidental, but the movie takes advantage of the gay angle to sharpen the comic edge. Especially funny and endearing is the relationship between one of the gay protagonists and his straight but askew roommate. The one sex scene is not graphic; however, some heterosexuals may be uncomfortable with the man-on-man displays of affection.The movie was smartly written, brimming over with bring-down-the-house laugh lines, heartwarming without getting anywhere near sentimentality. A great date flick if one is gay--maybe even if not. "}{"Title":"If you liked The Opposite of Sex...","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  you'll love All Over The Guy.  I recently saw this at the 2001 Philadelphia International Gay and Lesbian Film Festival and really enjoyed it.  It has the same dialogue and feeling as The Opposite Of Sex, whose writer Don Roos produced this film.  While most boy-meets-girl (or in this case boy-meets-boy) feature characters who wind up falling head over heels with each other and completing each other entirely, this film shows a relationship that evolves very much like one in the real world -- complete with mixed signals, missed opportunities and people struggling with various issues.  I recommend it highly for both straight and gay audiences. "},{"Title":"Meeting the main actors of the movie in Ft. Worth, TX","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was excellent.  My mother started a film festival in Ft. Worth called Q-cinema.  Along with friends of hers they have been going strong for 3 years.  They get these movies ahead of time for the Gay and Lesbian community to go out to the movies.  My wife and I had the opportunity to see this movie last night in Sundance Square.  The two special guests were Dan and of course Richard.  They have to be the nicest two gentlemen (that are in the spotlight) that I have ever had the opportunity to meet.  I would recommend that if you haven't had the chance to see this movie yet that you take the opportunity to go see it.  You will find it very entertaining.....even if you are not gay, like my wife and I.  "},{"Title":"not too heavy, not too light; serious yet very funny","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, it's a boy meets boy story, but there is intelligent, thoughtful and sometimes wildly funny writing at work here, very well-interpreted by the actors.  The guys' story is paralleled by that of their straight friends, who set them up to meet each other in a very awkward blind date.  As their interest in each other grows, each man's brand of habitual behavior constantly threatens to derail the relationship and send it into oblivion. Much humor is derived from Eli's family and their wacky ways, and Tom's attitudes are partly explained by the depiction of his stifled, loveless parents.  Even so, both men are at times very annoying in their bullheaded commitment to their own point of view.All the major characters are devoid of the typical stereotypes which so often plague this genre of film.  There's plenty of music to like, too, and the direction, editing and script keep the pace moving at a good clip, so there's little opportunity for letting yourself get distracted.  "},{"Title":"Cliched storyline overcome by great acting and dialogue","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Another in the welcome trend of gay-themed romantic comedies, although the genre, gay or straight, rarely has anything new to offer.  This movie  is another contrived and cliched-ending fluff piece but it succeeds better than most with great supporting acting and snappy, one-liner filled dialogue. The two main actors are good, especially Richard Ruccolo from Two Guys and a Girl, but the standout performance comes from Sasha Alexander as the best friend.  Rarely have I seen a more sparkling, scene-stealing face and performance than this...she's as natural an actress as one could hope to cast in their film.  The dialogue comes a little too fast at times...your laughing and Adam Goldberg's much too fast delivery covers much of the terrific script, but the movie is worth your ticket price for the large cameo performances by Lisa Kudrow and especially Doris Roberts as the STD clinic receptionist.  Hearing one of our best comedic stateswomen unload a barage of 4 letter words has never been funnier, and many have tried and failed. "},{"Title":"REALLY GOOD!","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  During my High school summer break i saw the name All over the guy so as i read the short bio on the movie it really doesn't say that it is about a GAY couple, just a couple. so as i continued to watch t i figured it out.Its basically about a guy that is very player like and would rather be in love with a man that trys to kill him, then to be in love with a man that loves him, and one day he meets a man that falls in love with him and when he does the player cant take it anymore and trys to ignore him. The guy that fell in love with the player goes through self-denial. FINALLY the player realizes that he needs to settle down and go with some one that loves him. Anyways this movie is incredible and the BEST gay film i ever saw! i highly recommend it!@ you will Cry, Laugh, all that good stuff...its on of those movies where you actually feel like the plot is real and you are hoping and wishing for the character.  "},{"Title":"So sappy it's hard to watch","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After seeing so many good films at Outfest this year, I don't know why they chose to end with such a loser. It's the sappiest gay film I've seen in recent memory, and is so predictable (yet ridiculous) that it's painful. I couldn't wait for it to end, and ran out the second it was over. Maybe it says something for the film that I stayed until the end, though I could've left halfway through and known the whole story. "},{"Title":"Better than Brokeback","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Congrats Dan. This movie was so much better than Brokeback. Just caught it on HBO and it made me sad that i never heard of this movie but could not get away from Brokeback which was only popular because of our obsession with hunky straight male celebrity representing us. What was the big revolution with Brokeback? It was just another tired Hollywood love story. The characters in All over the Guy were masculine, funny, complex and more realistic. And no one is mentioning how the Brokeback movie had the lead character murdered, just like gay films have been doing since the beginning. check it out. I have never written into one of these before but had to applaud the film for out shinning the BB crap that has stolen way to much praise this past year. Pewy "},{"Title":"Pleasant, but average","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a fairly pleasant film.  It's not shockingly bad, but it's not fantastic either - it's middle of the road.  There are some funny one-liners, but overall the film is instantly forgettable.  Some of the characters are not overly convincing, and some of the cameos (esp Lisa Kudrow) seem to be a bit forced & unnecessary.  Watch it only if you have nothing else to do - but, remember that this is not one of the best films of it's kind - it's just really average. "},{"Title":"More Gay PR.","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the kind of movie where half an hour is killed portraying the absolutely typical start of a relationship because the filmmakers can't resist inserting more swishpans and fades (exactly where you expect them) that felt right, because they've seen them so much and they've become unconscious of how unoriginal they are. In real life if you told this story you'd just say I met a guy through this girl, and be done in about 4 seconds but the writers cannot reign in their desire to embroider every scene with cutesy. The cutesyness takes over. The female best friend's scene in which she berates Lisa Kudrow for the enjoyment of superior-minded viewers is brutal, not funny. I could barely continue after this inept, harsh intrusion got plastered onto this slight movie. It's a strange mix. The plot is flimsy but the characters are at least as insecure and flawed as those you'd meet in a real gay bar.This script must have appealed to Don Roos because it overexplains, over sets things up, and over-resolves things, just like his movies do. Writer Dan B is absolutely terrified of letting two lines go by without one being a punchline, and his talent is just not up to that speed.At least as one-sided and phony as the gay movies mocked in the script. I dream of gay characters in the future free from the influence of Will & Grace, but for now let's neurotically pretend we're all adorable. "},{"Title":"Boring plot and characters","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Very disappointing movie.  Character development is almost non-existent, making it difficult for a viewer to care about any of them.  In addition, the characters don't evolve, making their random behavior changes quite baffling the two gay characters meet and dislike each other.  Then, they like each other.  Later, they hate each other.  Later still, they really like each other again.  Sure, lots of relationships go through those phases, but, in order to make it interesting, the characters have to evolve in at least some way to justify such radical changes in their feelings.  In this movie, sadly, they do not.  On top of this, most of the acting is quite stilted and the screenplay is full of unrealistic lines and dialogues, some of which make it seem more like a theatrical play captured (poorly) on film. "}{"Title":"Disposables Galore","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's a bit of a strange experience seeing a film in which most of the lines are thrown away.  Characters speak as if their utterances are after thoughts rather than main points. Sentence ends are dropped, as matter-of-fact references are pitched.  Nothing much substantial's offered, just small talk quips and jibes. The script sort of glides along secondary tracks, with after thoughts dominating discourses.  Likewise the editing keeps right in step, jumping and juxtaposing, skipping and surfing--seldom allowing the viewer to glimpse its core. We must settle for a super hip confection, long on style and short on substance.  "},{"Title":"will have your gag reflexes working overtime","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Dan Bucatinsky and Richard Ruccolo are cute and hunky respectively. That's really all the movie has going for itself unless you really enjoy hearing mindless dysfunctional West Hollywood types whine out endless banal sitcom lines. "},{"Title":"Bad film! Baaad film!","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Screenwriter should have followed the Gay Screenwriter's Mantra Just because it's gay, does not make it good.  Just because it's gay, does not make it good.  The characters played like cardboard cutouts, devoid of wit or a whiff of realism.  The story was dull.  The movie also continuously bashes In & Out, which, while it was a bit dull and played on stereotypes for humor, was ten times funnier and more clever than this film.  The only interesting characters were those of Lisa Kudrow, Christina Ricci, and the woman from Everyone Loves Raymond and Angie, but they were only on screen for about 5 minutes combined.  I have read that he plans on making this a TV sitcom.  I can only pray that my cable goes out on the one day it will air so I don't happen upon it. "},{"Title":"All About the Girls","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has gotten a lot of praise for its wit, but I'm lost on that--I found it to be full of very writerly dialogue (everyone has the same sense of 'gay diva' humor, people give long-winded speeches a la Dixie Carter and everyone seems to be doing one-liners all the time) and cookie-cutter situations. The lead is miscast (I know, I know, he wrote it...) and unappealing, the hunk has charm to burn but can't convince as a teacher let alone as a drunk. What's interesting about this very by-the-numbers gay romantic comedy (a genre that is now glutted) are the supporting performances. Adam Goldberg is a lot of fun and brings a palpable sense of professional experience to the film, but what ROCKS are the girls. The fag hag sticks out like Megan Mulally on WILL & GRACE and Andrea Martin is HUH-LAR-I-OUS. The film got a 5 out of 10 from me, but I'd still say to go see it just for her precious few scenes. The funniest thing out there is her performance as a bizarre psycho(logist) mother. But to get that, you have to put up with a weird chronology (where the gay story seems to crawl and the straights are getting married), lame jokes about Lifetime Television for Women & Gays and a lot of watchable and harmless but familiar fluff.  "},{"Title":"Bland and unbelievable","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There should be a law passed that says the United States can't make gay films. Leave that task to Great Britain and the rest of Europe. While this film wasn't the worst film ever made-I didn't turn it off-it's really lackluster. I'm surprised at the number of glowing reviews here but it seems like most of reviewers liked it for political reasons, like they appreciate this kind of film was made and support that idea. The central problem for me was i didn't believe for a second the 2 gay leads would be together, specifically that Ruccolo would give Bucatinski the time of day. The only realistic scene in the film is the disastrous 1st date between the 2. The rest of the film where they fight, reconcile, argue, make up, fight and fall in love, only made sense when I discovered that Bucatinski wrote it. He would have you believe Ruccolo's choices were limited strictly to abusive losers or himself. I just didn't care. "},{"Title":"What the hell is happening?","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Are you kidding me?  I've read the external reviews as well as the user comments and I'm truly shocked.  Seeing words like brilliant, breakthrough, and intelligent used to describe this movie is as discouraging as realizing  that Pauline Kael is no longer around to provide us with a delicious rant against trash like this.  Now I like my trash as much as the next guy, but trash that takes itself seriously is insulting and deserving of criticism.   For the record, I whooped when some poor soul actually wrote that this film breaks barriers.  Now, this movie isn't offensive,low class trash like One Night at McCool's but it comes close in it's own way.  After a string of neutered, mall-friendly, mainstream coddling movies like this, Broken Hearts Club, Kiss Me Guido, Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss, etc.(Note I did not mention In&Out but more on that later) I ask how much more are we supposed to take?  Accepting that these films are (God help us) positive, politically correct representations lowers the bar and makes one no better than those who made Jackass number one at the box office and keep the Star Wars series alive and thriving. The plot and characters have been discussed at length in other reviews and there's nothing new I could add.  Except this  Adam Goldberg was not the most annoying thing about it.  His mumbling, neurotic mannerisms are always his own and never his characters and I would like to add that Woody Allen has been doing this act for over 40 years but Mr. Goldberg was not the worst thing.  I'm not sure what was really.  The montages in which the filmmaker's attempted to capture the characters melancolia while elevator music played was a hoot.  By the time the infamous Fuzzy Wuzzy argument hit the screen, I wanted to as well.  Come to think of it, there's nothing in this movie that hasn't been said a million times before, only with more intelligence and wit.  Which brings me to the In&Out slam.  Paul Rudnick is a gifted, funny writer, a sort of David Sedaris without the bitter edge and even though his Jeffrey is dated and In&Out is innocuous (like Romy & Michelle, Trick, or 9 to 5) his style, humor, and intelligence far surpass Dan Bucatinsky's sitcom observations and setups.  If this is based on his life, good for him.  He turned his pain into a movie and got it made. Cheers!  However, it's a bad movie.  Bland characters, jaw droppingly bad dialogue, pointless cameos, actors who chose the wrong profession, it's all here and waiting to be rented.  One reviewer commented on the music saying it was refreshing not to hear Cher or music like those mainstream gay movies.  I would like to point out that while it's true the musical selection doesn't necessarily play that game, it does something worse.  It caters to mainstream America not just it's gay culture.  These songs try to give off a universal feeling and all that crap.  Oh how I long for the good 'ol days when we were portrayed as serial killers and flamboyant queens.If it's wit you're looking for then read Oscar Wilde or The Rise and Fall of Gay Culture.  If you want to rent something, check out Tales from the City, Parting Glances, or Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? and pretend all four leads are men.  If you want to see what true love really is then get a copy of The Brink of Summer's End-if no one knows about Paul Monette, you should.  If the thought of leaving your house is inconceivable, get cable and start watching Six Feet Under.  A Reminder this was just my opinion.  Have a Happy Thanksgiving. "},{"Title":"Worst Gay Movie Of All Time!","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Easily the worst gay movie ever - totally off putting characters that you don't want to spend ten minutes with let alone two hours. Zero chemistry & lots of really bad dialogue. Human beings do not talk about Fuzzy Wuzzy and grown people do not spend their time looking for dolls to play with. Well OK they do but then they are not really grown up - are they?  "}]