[{"Title":"Give this film another chance . . .","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"47 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film last summer in the theaters and while it didn't do much for me at the time, something in it stayed with me.  I rented it again and watched it twice more and am now convinced it is a terrific film.A lot has been said about Swinton's portrayal of a frustrated housewife and she is brilliant, she carries the film with a head-on intensity.But the screenplay should also be lauded.  Yes, this is straight out of 1940's noir, but it all works.A lot has been said about the sex and sexuality switch of Swinton's son, but it works perfectly.  One might ask . . . why doesn't she ask her son about the body before she dumps it?  But that would involve TALKING to her son about his sexuality.  She'd rather bury the evidence, than ever admit to herself that her son is gay.Over the course of the film, Swinton begins to understand her son better, she realizes that everyone has their secrets and desires.  Her son also realizes the worry he has put his mother through.  The last shot, of mother and son huddled together on the bed is of two strong-willed people finally understanding each other as equals.  It's a wonderfully telling moment.Be sure to watch this film more than once . . . it can be taken on many levels.james "},{"Title":"Victims of love","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Taking care of others often involves self-sacrifice, and mothers of most feather will put themselves in harm's way to shield their young. In the THE DEEP END, a modern retelling of Max Ophuls' 1946 thriller THE RECKLESS MOMENT, Margaret Hall is a mother of three willing to do whatever it takes to keep her family safe from the irrational forces that follow her teenage son home one night from a nightclub of ill repute. But mom, played with stoic intensity by Tilda Swinton, quickly learns that heroism doesn't fit on a calendar already packed with soccer practices, trumpet lessons and visits to the grocery store.Superficially the story concerns a vicious run of bad luck. Noirish events are set in motion when Margaret tries to cover up the accidental death of her son's unsavory friend (Josh Lucas as a spookily playful predator). The next day a man with a dice tattoo on his neck knocks on her door and demands $50,000 to suppress a videotape linking her son to the death, which police have ruled a homicide. The dramatic heart of the film concerns Margaret's dealings with the blackmailer, cagily played by Goran Visnjic, ER's Slavic heartthrob in a less soapy but perversely related role. Mr. Visnjic is credible though never quite menacing as a predator in awe of, and ultimately vulnerable to, his tender prey.Taken at this level THE DEEP END, luminously shot in the gambling resort of Lake Tahoe, is an eerie joy ride that leans heavily on coincidence to tangle then unknot its plot. But the presence of Tilda Swinton indicates that more is going on here than melodrama.  Ms. Swinton is a brilliant post-feminist actress whose work sheds light on paradoxes of femininity and female power. Her earlier films include ORLANDO, in which she explored androgyny and immortality, and FEMALE PERVERSIONS, a Freudian critique of the feminist myth of having it all.  In THE DEEP END, Ms. Swinton's nuanced performance comments on  motherhood as a source of both power and vulnerability.  A woman may be willing to do anything for her son, as Margaret Hall clearly is, yet still be constrained by a glass ceiling of caregiving attachments that  prevent her from achieving man-style success.  In cinema, the latter typically means blowing the villains' brains out, something Margaret Hall might consider doing if she weren't so busy taking care of her kids and aging father-in-law.Throughout the film Margaret tries but is unable to reach her husband, a Navy officer on an aircraft carrier somewhere in the mid-Atlantic. His unavailability is more than an inconvenience. Attempting to negotiate with the blackmailers, Margaret finds herself hamstrung when the bank refuses a critical withdrawal without her husband's say-so. Mr. Hall's conspicuous absence and his infirm father's burdensome presence amplify Margaret's predicament, showing how hollow the conventions of marriage and machismo can be. The fact that both men are soldiers, society's designated heroes, is no accident. They defend motherhood in the abstract while remaining blind to a real mother's needs.Margaret Hall is Ms. Swinton's most reluctant feminist character to date, a woman whose maternal ferocity the family setting renders moot and who must ultimately rely on the kindness of strangers. Her performance transforms THE DEEP END from a good summer thriller to a dramatic critique of the politics of caregiving. "},{"Title":"Effective Character Study","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  	The myriad effects of the natural instincts of a mother are at the heart of this film, which explores the positive aspects, as well as the inherent flaws of those same instincts.  The ways in which an ordinary person will react under extraordinary circumstances often produces results that are most inexplicable; and when it's a mother responding to a situation in which her son is involved, the results may, in fact, be absolutely incomprehensible.  And in such cases, decisions made quickly in the shadows of the subjective are often revealed as unconscionable in the cold light of objectivity, a scenario examined by writers/directors Scott McGehee and David Siegel, in their tension laced drama, `The Deep End,' starring Tilda Swinton.	Margaret Hall (Swinton) lives with her family in a picturesque lakeside home in Tahoe City, Nevada; but her life is about to become less than that offered by her distinctive surroundings.  Her husband is away at sea on an extended tour of duty, and the care and responsibility of raising their three children has fallen to her.  And all is not well.  Her seventeen-year-old son, Beau (Jonathan Tucker), an aspiring musician who hopes to garner a scholarship to study music at college, has become involved with a man, Darby Reese (Josh Lucas) who owns a bar, The Deep End; and once she is aware of it, it's a situation of no little concern for a mother. 	For her son's welfare, Margaret knows that this relationship-- whatever the context-- must end, and she goes to Reese, insisting that he leave her son alone.  There is some question as to whether or not he agrees, but regardless, late that night he shows up at Margaret's home, where he entices Beau to come outside with him.  Things go badly, and by the next morning, Margaret is embroiled in a situation beyond her wildest nightmares.  Blinded by fear and concern for Beau, she does something out of character for any rational person, yet within the parameters established by the unconditional love of a mother for her son.  It's an act that brings more bad news to her doorstep, in the form of a man named Alek Spera (Goran Visnjic).  And it's the beginning of a series of events that will take her into places darker than any she has ever known.	McGehee and Siegel adapted their screenplay from the novel `The Blank Wall,' by Elisabeth Sanxay Holding, and it's a taut thriller, to be sure; but it is so singular of purpose that it decidedly becomes more of a character study that focuses on Margaret, and the effects of that natural bond between mother and son that provides the catalyst for her motivation and the impetus of her actions.  It's a story that clearly illustrates how even the most discerning individual (and most especially a mother) will abandon reason in the heat of the moment, giving way to the most primitive and basic instincts for survival that are inherently a part of the human condition.  And though MeGehee and Siegel maintain the tension of the situation throughout the film, it does wear a bit thin along the way, and at least one pivotal element of the plot is questionable, and strains the credibility of the overall story.  The real interest of the film, however, is the study of what the mother/son relationship is really all about, and how affecting it can be, especially under extreme circumstances.	What really makes the film work, though, and what maintains interest, is the performance by Tilda Swinton as Margaret.  And it's quite a feat, given the fact that the emotional boundaries she is given to explore are somewhat limited, as the conflict begins even as the film begins, and Margaret is driven on and presented in an emotional state that gives her very little latitude in which to operate.  To her credit, however, Swinton finds all of the variables one could expect in what is basically a lone emotion, which encompasses concern and apprehension, and she conveys them admirably; it is, in fact, what keeps the film afloat.  Her portrayal of Margaret is subtle, concise and introspective, and most importantly, comes across quite naturally; all of which makes her character and her actions-- which on the surface and in the cold light of day may seem questionable-- convincing. 	As Alek, Goran Visnjic gives a solid performance, though it somewhat lacks the kind of emotional depth that could have made this character more than what it is.  Whether it is the way the character was written, or the way it was acted, there is an ambivalence to Alek that makes him less than believable.  He looks good on the surface, and Visnjic does have some nice touches, but he doesn't tap into the absolute credibility that he needs.  And it makes one aspect of the film seem a little too pat, as if the character is there merely as a means to an end, to help the story along and tidy up the resolution.  It's a minor weakness, not worthy of blame; suffice to say that something apparently was missed in the translation of the material from page to screen.  In retrospect, Visnjic does a good job with what he is given to work with.	In a smaller, but pivotal role, Josh Lucas gives a good performance as Reese, creating a character that is repugnantly smarmy, a guy whose influence over one's son would be any mother's nightmare.  Lucas does exceptionally well in this regard, and with comparatively little screen time; he uses his time well, however, as it is the nature of his character more than anything else that gives credence to Margaret's actions.   	The supporting cast includes Peter Donat (Jack), Raymond J. Barry (Carlie), Tamara Hope (Paige) and Jordan Dorrance (Dylan).  As a thriller, this one has merit; but viewed as a character study/drama, `The Deep End' is even more engrossing.  It's flawed, but it's still smart, thought provoking entertainment-- the magic of the movies.  7/10.	      "},{"Title":"Very Suspenseful And Original","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"30 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  THE DEEP END is an original and suspenseful thriller, pitting a mother, played by Tilda Swinton, against a blackmailer, played by Goran Visnjic.  It's the relationship between the two that drives this movie, as Visnjic's character begins to change because of the decency and honesty he encounters in Swinton's character.  I gave this 8 out of 10 instead of 9 out of 10 because the ending is somewhat predictable, it's like something from a 1930's big Hollywood studio film.  Nevertheless, a compelling script and convincing performances from all the actors make this worth seeing.8/10 "},{"Title":"Dad Can't Find Out!","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Once I had finished watching The Deep End I had to look at the Netflix packaging to find out what year it was made because I couldn't believe that in the year 2001 an entire suspense melodrama could be mounted on the lone homophobic premise, Dad Can't Find Out!This tale of a Mad-Mom (as in insane) who goes to great lengths to prevent the world from finding out that *gasp* her 17 year-old son is gay (she can't even say the word!) is like a perverse remake of the 1950's Loretta Young feature Cause for Alarm! in which an average housewife does numerous stupid things trying to conceal a death she had nothing to do with.Here the wonderful Tilda Swinton (a good deal less wonderful here) plays a mom whose protectiveness of her near-adult son borders on the psychotic. Indeed, as the film progressed and she acted wackier and wackier, I was sure that it would come out that she is unwholesomely possessive of her son. Sonny boy (sullen and closed-mouthed) is carrying on with a much older man and mom interferes in a way that even a 13 year old would find mortifying, much less a 17 year old. She operates under the assumption that her gay son has been seduced and lured into contact with this man, but from what we see, he is just a young man who has fallen in with a bad crowd and is drawn to an older guy. A creepy guy albeit, but when we later find out how absent the father is and would not understand his son's gayness no matter what, then subtext kicks in and you start to imagine that Sonny boy is drawn to bad boys and inappropriate partners for a reason. Mom, however is hearing none of this. Even when said son wrecks a car drunk driving with his lover, the mom convinces herself that it is the sole fault of the 30 year-old man, not her son who was actually behind the wheel. Her son seems troubled and she seems like a reactionary nut, but is this what the film focuses on? No. The film has the creepy older gay guy accidentally die on their property and mom spends the entire film covering it up because she thinks in some way her son is involved. Since this family is severely screwed up (to me, that is, the filmmakers seem to think this affluent family of non-communicative, isolated individuals is worth protecting from scary gamblin', screwin' and blackmailin' homosexuals) she never actually asks the son what happened, calls the police, or even wonders how she could think her son capable of murder. The son mourns his ex lover for about ten minutes and never loses much sleep over the possibility that he may have been the last one to see him alive. No, everything is a whirlwind of dance classes, music lessons, baseball games and laundry for this bunch. Who has time to talk?After a series of plot contrivances too ridiculous to recount (among them an empathetic blackmailer who doesn't have the heart for the job...oh yeah, there are lots of those around), an alarming amount of people pay with their lives for the sole purpose of keeping Sonny boy's big, dark secret from daddy and maintaining the privileged class status quo. Oh, brother! Much of the stupidity that preceded it would have been forgivable if at the end there was perhaps an awareness on the mother's part that the distasteful acts she engaged in were not equal to what she thought she was protecting the problem was not that her son was gay, nor that he rebelliously got mixed up with a guy almost twice his age, the problem was that her son's father would not understand and that she raised her son in an environment where who he was was not as important as what he appeared to be to others. She was less concerned with his lying, underage drinking and hanging out with guys with possible mob ties than she was with his being gay and outed. What are the biggest moral transgressions here?The Deep End is so woefully shallow and is content to sacrifice psychological depth for artificially earned suspense.I can't remember when I've been so put off by the unintended offensiveness of a film's premise. Loathed it. "},{"Title":"I don't have time for you blackmailing me, I have to do dishes and take my son to basketball practice","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Deep End is a psychological thriller about a kid, Beau, who apparently killed his boyfriend (Reese) and about his caring mother Margaret covering up the deed. Margaret, who lives with his son and her other kids in a house on Tahoe lake, wanted Reese to stay away from his son. After Margaret heard the boys fight earlier on, she finds the dead body and without ever talking to Beau about it, she disposes the body in broad daylight using her boat's anchor to weigh the body down in the water. She wants to protect her son. Many reviewers complained about the fact that she should have at least spoke to Beau about it but I find this not unrealistic and like this use of unconditional love. The movie takes a promising start.Back to the plot A few days later a guy (Alek) shows up at their house and blackmails Margaret. He wants her to pay $50.000 and threatens to hand a videotape to the police who have found Reese's body in the meantime. The tape shows Beau and Reese having sex. Maragret tries to somehow get the $50.000. Now comes the part of the movie that I found really annoying and stupid. She cannot tell her children anything about the blackmail so she has to keep doing her maternal duties while she desperately tries to get the money. Margaret explains to Alex why she does not have the money yet and their dialog is really laughable Margaret Hall We don't have the money. Alek 'Al' Spera You have to get the money. Is that not clear enough? MH It's $50,000. It is not the kind of thing that everyone can just go out and get. Alek Have you spoken with your husband? M He can't be reached. He's on a carrier somewhere in the nor - This is truly none of your business. Alek What about the old man? Well, you have to try harder. M Try harder? Alek I don't think you're really trying. M Really? Alek Yes. Margaret Hall Well, maybe you should explain really trying to me, Mr. Spera. Tell me - how would you be really trying if you were me? But you're not me, are you? You don't have my petty concerns to clutter your life and keep you from trying. You don't have three kids to feed, or worry about the future of a 17-year-old boy who nearly got himself killed driving back from some kind of a nightclub with his 30-year-old friend sitting drunk in the seat beside him. No, these are not your concerns. I see that. But perhaps you're right, Mr. Spera. Perhaps I could be trying a little harder. Maybe sometime tomorrow between dropping Dylan at baseball practice and picking up my father-in-law from the hospital, I might find a way to try a little harder. Maybe I should take a page from your book go to the track, find a card game. Maybe I should blackmail someone. Or maybe you have another idea. I mean, maybe you have a better idea of how I might try a little harder to find this $50,000 you've come here to steal from me. Alek You're right. I'm not you. I don't - This is only a business opportunity. That's all.Just the typical conversation between blackmailer and the person whom he blackmails. Happens all the time. But Alek turns out to actually be a really nice guy and the two fall in love. Alek does not want his part of the money anymore and tries to convince his boss to give Margaret more time to get the boss' $25.000. This turn is laughably ridiculous. Him falling for her is really unrealistic. There really is not a lot of tension and the police is underused. They never show up at her house again after they briefly asked if she knew anything about an anchor. She says their boat has no anchor; the cops leave.In the end, Alek sacrifices himself by driving off a cliff as he is driving with his boss. Magaret who was following the two takes the videotape out of the wrecked car and as she is reaching for it her lips touch Alek's lips. Alek and his boss die. It turns out that Beau did not know anything about Reese's death which turned out to have been an accident. Beau and Reese had an argument outside Beau's house. Beau told Reese to leave and went back inside before drunken Reese fell into an anchor and died. Seems like a missed opportunity as the story really has some potential.** 5.0/10 ** "},{"Title":"Don't bury bodies in shallow water","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERSSpoilers sure, but what's to spoil?  The critics, no doubt parched for anything resembling a movie of substance these days, have collectively gone off the deep end, hook line and sinker, for this piece of unmitigated garbage.  This is surely among the worst serious movies ever made, marred at every turn by inexplicable emotional reactions, ludicrous plot turns, bad acting, and bafflingly amateurish ineptitude. The plot can be summarized as follows, tongue only slightly in cheek  Kid has preposterous sexual relationship with a disgusting slimy smarmy creep, creep gets in fist fight with kid, during fight creep manages to hurl himself lung first upon an anchor in Lake Tahoe without kid knowing it, super soccer Mom discovers body the next day and calmly totes it in her little power boat out into the middle of Lake Tahoe in order to bury it in 2 feet deep water (soccer Mom has a screw loose), Mom comes back an hour later to do a striptease and dive to get keys out of corpse's pocket, handsome stranger comes to blackmail Mom, Mom irons sheets drops kids off at tennis and runs around trying to raise $50,000 to pay blackmail, Mom never has more than a 2 second conversation with son, son is an uncommunicative jerk who seemingly has no relationship at all with Mom, Mom hocks jewelry, irritating sit-com father-in-law has a heart attack, handsome stranger performs CPR, handsome stranger looks at family picture while Mom is at hospital and falls in love with her, Mom joins traveling Mariachi band and travels naked throughout Portugal to raise cash, handsome stranger gets in fight with partner in crime and kills him, then dies in car crash in his get-away car, Mom frantically discovers this and smears her love all over his bloody forehead, kid watches the whole thing bemused, and they all live happily ever after. Sounds like a classic, eh?  This compelling and organic plot line had a significant portion of the audience in giggling fits throughout.  Some of the dialog is so lame, you can't wait for more of the characters to find some absurd way to off themselves, perhaps wishing you could do the same to whoever talked you into seeing this disgusting and degrading trash.  "},{"Title":"Very effective performances and a strong first act eventually lose their power. *** (out of four)","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  THE DEEP END / (2001) *** (out of four)By Blake French  Lake Tahoe, the tenth deepest lake in the world, is a long, cold body of clear, turquoise water thriving at 6,000 feet in the Sierra Nevada Mountain Range. Isolated by snow-covered mountain tops, ponderosa pines, and upper class wood homes, this is the perfect backdrop for The Deep End.The Deep End captures some of this harrowing atmosphere, but I wanted even more. The photography, by Giles Nuttgens, won the coveted Best Cinematography Award at the Sundance Film Festival this year for its unflinching look at images of Lake Tahoe awash in moral tensions. The camera cuts through aquariums, dripping water faucets, bursting water bottles, and of course, across and beneath the lake's surface. On a photographic level, this is one great movie.Writers/directors Scott McGehee and David Siegel found their inspiration for The Deep End from the little known 1940's novel The Blank Wall by Elisabeth Sanxay Holding. The Ladies Home Journal first published an abridged version of the story. It became so popular that the writer eventually made it into a novel. According to the film's press notes, even Alfred Hitchcook was impressed as evident when he chose the book for his classic anthology My Favorites in Suspense-1959. Holding's novel was the only full length feature book of fiction included on that list. McGehee and Siegel previously worked on the independent film Suture. In their day, stories like these were very subversive because they asked questions about the nature of families, about the limits of communication, and the loneliness of personal sacrifice, says Siegel of Holding's story. We wanted to bring those same elements in a contemporary setting with characters that would be sympathetic and believable to people today.Holding certainly did have an innate understanding that true suspense emerges not just from violence and mystery, but also from the fabric of everyday life. The Deep End examines a housewife named Margaret (Tilda Swinton) who protects her gay teenage son (Jonathan Tucker) by covering up the death of his lover (Josh Lucas). Did her son kill this person? Someone might know the truth behind this act of violence, but silence has a very high price tag. A very involving introduction and first act suffer after the diabolical murder plot takes a downhill spiral into a different set of events. Alek Spera (Gordan Visnijc), who needs money for his boss (Raymond J. Berry), creates a blackmail scheme. The film goes downhill from here, but the overall product is far from boring. That's largely because of the beautiful performances. Tilda Swinton, seen opposite Leonardo DiCaprio in 1999's The Beach, leads the cast with a powerhouse performance. Swinton paints a vivid, intriguing portrait of domestic serenity, peaceful ordinariness, and motherhood's merciful nature. She can move the audience with utter silence; her eyes exclude intelligence, instinct, and compassion. She completes what the movie leaves unfinished, including her character's adherence to routine and complete loss of moral compass. Gordon Visnjic (Dr. Luka Kovac on ER.) with his dark, brooding physique, creates a shadowy nature for his character. His motives remain a mystery; we never know why he does what he does. It lets the audience guess-but we do not have much to guess with. The film does not complete his character. He's one of the most interesting characters here, but Visnjic needs more to chew on. The filmmakers comment about the hidden romantic feelings between Margaret and Alek. It's the kind of romance I miss in movies. It's not explicit and it is not necessarily even realized, but it is there in a haunting, melancholic way, says Visnjic. Where? We never really grasp these potentially fascinating plot points because the movie never examines these emotions. This is the kind of material that would have taken The Deep End to another level of interest.  "},{"Title":"Avoid.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Contains Spoilers!!! The short version Poorly written, poorly performed.I would like to say this movie is horrible. But it's not the kind of horrible where you get up thinking well, they tried really hard to write a good script, just too ambitious. It's the kind of horrible where you think man, they really weren't trying.Tilda Swinton is poorly cast and not convincing at all as the mother. The film seems to need to overstate things to the audience, such as when Swinton disposes of the body in broad daylight, the screenplay felt the need to show a helicopter-shot panoramic view of the area, to quell the yeah, right, like she could do that in broad daylight feelings you're having. The film also insults your intelligence in other ways, such as dressing Swinton in black and handing her a cigarette in the scene where you find out her sinister intentions. The story is decent, but it seems like the cinematic devices used in the screenplay are straight out of the 1930's.The characters in the film behave in excessively stupid ways. For example, why did she wait until the morning to dispose of the body? Why did she not question her son about the incident before disturbing the crime scene? Police are a non-factor, in fact no authority speaks to a member of the cast until 3/4 of the way through, when the sheriff's officer asks Swinton about the anchor. She says their boat doesn't have an anchor, and he simply accepts it and the police never enter the plot again; apparently not having looked around the houses at the lake at all to discover the broken board, as well as the blood the body would have certainly left in the boat.Earlier in the film, after Swinton drives the dead man's Corvette to another location, (how did the keyless entry still work after the car keys had been submerged for some length of time?), she wipes the steering wheel 'clean' of her prints - neglecting other obvious places like the door handle, the shifter, the radio buttons which she adjusts, and other things she would have certainly touched on the interior of the vehicle.These are just a few examples; there aren't really any gaping holes in the plot, just a small number of examples where the characters behaved in excessively careless or irrational ways, but frequently enough to interrupt your acceptance of the rest of the plot. The story itself is not awful, the acting is serviceable but not at all above average, but the script sank this one from the beginning. "},{"Title":"A melodrama that worked for me","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It appears that either this movie works for you or doesn't. It worked for me for several reasons, not the least being the great performance by Tilda Swinton as Margaret, an upper-middle-class mother with an obsessive desire to protect her son. Swinton projects the image of a woman who can handle any situation; blackmail, the revelation of her son's sexual orientation, the notion that her son may be a murderer, taking care of her aging father-in-law, and running the family are all in a day's work. I was drawn into the story by the beautiful photography, the captivating music, and the plot twists. For whatever reason I did not dwell on plot holes but simply allowed myself to be absorbed. And, if you accept Margaret's almost pathologically obsessive devotion to her family, then most of what happens hangs together.I found the unexpected relationship that develops between Margaret and the blackmailer to be interesting. The experience is more transformative for him than for her. I also like the way the tables were turned on the relationship between Margaret and her spoiled son. In the beginning his behavior was confusing to Margaret and he was not willing to talk about it and in the end Margaret's behavior was mysterious to her son and she was not willing to talk about it.It was only the contrived ending that bothered me. "}{"Title":"Too much control!","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Who came up with the summary, spirals out of control?  Margaret, is, if anything, too much in control!  One waits throughout the movie for her control to break.  Who put her in charge of her son's destiny?  Why is she willing, even at the moment she speaks the truth in all but this one respect, to specify HERSELF as the one responsible for her son's lover's death?  She'll do anything to help him go on to college as a music major, but she won't be able to shield him always from the consequences of his own bad judgment.   And perhaps her horrified expression as she watches the video reflects this realization as much as it does her visceral horror at the activity taking place.   He is the one who is spiraling out of control--HER control.   She is trying, presumably at her husband's behest before he shipped out, to make & keep the world safe for her family.   But their domestic tranquility is built on a foundation of corruption--that of nearby Reno & its gambling enterprises & related criminal activities.  Perhaps at the end when she breaks down & weeps, she is finally letting go of her sense of control, along with her innocence, which has been compromised much more deeply than that of her son. "},{"Title":"Intriguing  (spoilers)","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the more realistic films I've seen recently.  I don't know that a mother would actually go that far if she truly believed her son had killed someone, but then again, as a mother I have to wonder how far would I go?.  But the realism is enough to hold your attention, even without the surprises, action and twists we've become so accustomed to from most Hollywood movies.  The acting in this movie is wonderful, and so much of it is done without words.  I particularly liked the way it ended, with so many misconceptions and unanswered questions for the characters.  It seemed much more real that the usual ending tying up all loose ends, because in reality life is full of loose ends. "},{"Title":"Swinton rocks in a true twisted thriller!","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is like a great term paper it flows like fire-water from a heated pitcher. I bought it on a caprice, only to rivet myself to the screen unexpectedly. Tilda Swinton is absolutely flawless (not to mention Visnjic) in a very strange tale about a mother's endless desire to protect. Not that I consider it a true flaw, but I would have liked for Margaret to tell Beau exactly why things had been so screwy and deadly for the past two days. The opportunity arises at the very end but she decides not. For me, I certainly would have explained to a seventeen-year-old boy that if he screws around with derelicts in seedy closets, people die. It's sort of an important part of growing up. However, directors McGehee and Siegel decide to omit that part. While the film is a must for thrill-seekers, I really felt that the boy should have been let in on the sticky, lethal web his juvenile lust did spin. BUT TILDA ROCKS! Just like this movie. "},{"Title":"Just Terrific!!!!!!","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"24 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I cannot believe the negative remarks about this movie.  I thought this movie was excellent.  The majority of complaints on this board, are more about the lighting, sound and technical crap that regular people who go to the movies just don't look for.  You go to a movie to get lost for a couple of hours and enjoy yourself.  If your going to the movies only for the technical side of the movie, then why go at all.This movie showed the extent that a mother would go through to protect her son and her family.  This lady totally went above and beyond everything to protect her son from the truth, which he never found out.The only real problem I had with this movie was that the word Gay was never said.  Not once.  Unless my hearing left me when it was said.  It was referenced and even a little sex was shown, but the word was never said.Other than that, I enjoyed this movie completely.  Just Terrific!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A remarkably bad film","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If you can get through the first twenty minutes you can probably get through the rest.Margaret goes to a gay bar in Reno and tells 30 year old Darby to stop seeing her 17 year old son Beau, goes back home to Lake Tahoe, tells Beau to stop seeing Darby, hears noises outside, finds Darby dead on the lake shore, heaves him into her boat, covers him with a tarpaulin, rows him to a distant but fortunately shallow part of the lake, tips him in, rows back, hides the tarp in the trash can, notices his car, rows back to the body, strips to her vest and knickers (not a pretty sight), dives into the icy water, retrieves his car keys with one swift and skillful movement, rows back, drives the car to a hotel car park, dumps it, and jogs back home to get the children off to school. What a woman! So of course, when Al turns up the next day and wants $50,000 for a tape of Beau being rogered by Darby, she doesn't bat an eyelid, she spends all day trying to raise a loan and, when that doesn't work, ropes Al in to do CPR on her father in law, who by a curious coincidence has just gone into cardiac arrest in the living room.Why doesn't she call the police, who are investigating the disappearance and murder of Darby? Well, from what we see of the local police, they wouldn't notice if Lake Tahoe disappeared.This is a truly remarkable film in the way it combines a ridiculous plot, appalling dialogue, atrocious acting and a director's style totally lacking in tension or excitement. The scene where Margaret asks Al how he expects her to find the $50,000 while cooking, cleaning and getting the kids to school is a masterpiece of unintentional hilarity. Everyone involved in making this rubbish should be banned from film-making for at least ten years, and preferably for life. "},{"Title":"NeoNoir","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I'm becoming interested in Tilda Swinton, now that I have seen her in several  experimental roles. She has a focus that charms. It is not the kind of acting that I value  most - what I look for is folded acting where several layers are simultaneously  presented Brando, Sean Penn, PS Hoffman, Julianne Moore, Kate Winslet, CateBlanchette.Tilda is of a different class, Nicholson, Streep... Those who project less by annotation  than projection. An ordinary actor works with just a few tricks and parts of their body.  Tilda's approach is to inhabit a smaller self inside and project onto the back of her face.  The concentration must be extraordinary - in some of her projects (`Orlando,' `Ada')  she stares right at the camera and clearly right at us.A noir film could only be made in a small period which is now long gone, so when one is  remade, it needs to have some distance - just the sort of thing Tilda can do. The  original was smack in the middle of noir notions a grinding, capricious fate that bobbles  characters about. This one needed to have a different center, one where a character can  create her own fate to some extent.Its a risk and even in the best case bears little reward. But it is interesting to see that the  people behind this project understood what Tilda could do, and supported her in doing  it.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Great performance in the tradition of Olivia deHavilland.","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There's much to recommend about this film, but it's hard to focus on anything other than Tilda Swinton's magnificent strength-in-sublety performance. She should have at least TIED with Halle Berry for the 2001 Oscar, let alone not be nominated. No more supporting roles for this leading lady. Obviously, even if her character had a copy of that Worst Case Scenario handbook, I don't think she'd have found a chapter dealingwith this! Goran Visjnic gives an appealingly nuanced performance, even better than his breakthrough role in Welcome to Sarajevo. The young man playing Margaret's son shows much promise as well. The other elements of the film, cinematography, lighting, setting, editing, work so well, you don;t notice them (except maybe the lush cinematography), you're that caught up in the story. The music, reminiscent of a ticking clock, works perfectly. It's a reworking of a drama based on a pulp novel from the 'forties, and writers/directors David Siegel and Scott McGehee have done a great job adapting it. "},{"Title":"flat, unengaging, and tedious","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film was populated with uni-dimensional characters that I didn't care about one way or another.The most emotional range shown by the protagonist was at the end when tears were shed.  Big woo.  Facial appearance, body posture, vocal inflection ... all were flat.  Things went from bad to worse to tragic with no visible change in her demeanor.This was an apparent attempt to be a quirky Coen Brothers style film; it was an abysmal failure.  It was a  fairly good story, but excruciatingly executed.  "},{"Title":"What a waste of time!","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sorry to disappoint those who liked it, but to each his/her own. I saw it advertised on HBO and it was given 3 stars. I like Tilda Swinton and Tahoe is a gorgeous place so I thought OK this is going to be good.WRONG... It was trite, predictable, the acting was awful (by some of the actors) and had blasé stereotypes. Maybe, just maybe if this had been a period piece, set in the 60's, the big threat would have been more believable.There was NOTHING I liked about this film! I felt so dumb because, as I have done with other films, I kept waiting for it to redeem itself. That NEVER happened. All I did was waste time and walk away feeling cheated and grossly mislead by the 3 stars.I guess if I had to say a good thing about it? I didn't fork over $14.50 hard earned dollars to see this one.There I just saved you some valuable time. "},{"Title":"stupid","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Everyone in this film behaves stupidly from the start, from the small child to the grandfather to the villains. It is actually painful to watch such a poorly constructed script performed by good people. Almost had to stop this film it was so bad. Hard to watch a film where every single premise, situation, and reaction introduced is unbelievable in every respect. The actors are entirely competent, but the situations, reactions to them, and the behaviors of the characters are just outrageously ridiculous and unbelievable. Technically competent cinematography, sound, sets,casting all good...writing TERRIBLE - more than a waste of time,actually unpleasant to watch. "}{"Title":"A mother will do just about anything to protect her child","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Tilda Swinton stars in The Deep End, a 2001 film also starring Goran Visnjic of 'ER' fame and Peter Donat. It's a modern remake of Max Ofuhls The Reckless Moment. Swinton plays Margaret Hall, a busy mother in charge of three children and her father-in-law (Donat) while her naval husband is away at sea. Her older son Beau (Jonathan Tucker) is gay, and when the film starts, he has just been in a terrible car accident with his drunken boyfriend Darby (Josh Lucas). Margaret goes to see him at a nightclub, The Deep End, and asks him to stay away from her son. Though we don't see the scene, she offers him $5,000 to do so. That night, he comes to see Beau, and a fight occurs. After Beau goes back to his house, Darby falls off the peer, impaling himself on an anchor. Margaret finds the body the next day and gets rid of it in the ocean and drives his car to another location. But someone knows that Darby was there, and Margaret is visited by a blackmailer, Goran Visnjic, who represents himself and his partner, and he wants $50,000, or he will give a video of Beau having sex with Darby to the police.This is a story about unfinished thoughts, about a woman who does what she feels she has to without thinking it through. If you're having feelings - she says to her son, My husband wouldn't understand - she says to Visnjic about Beau, but never completes the sentence. She lives in a world where sometimes, it's easier not to know - or there's no time to really figure it out - and just cut to the situation.Someone on this board said this is a film that can be appreciated on many levels, and that's true. The level I'll offer is that the Swinton character is forced by circumstances to live in the moment and just take care of things as they come up - be it blackmail, her father-in-law collapsing, finding a dead body. She's the master of split-second decisions. When Visnjic orders her to try harder to get the $50,000, she admits that yes, maybe I'm not trying hard enough. Maybe you can tell me how I can try harder between driving to ballet and soccer practice, trying to reach my husband... He eventually sees what her life is, and, as the crux of the film, the two form an important bond.Tilda Swinton gives a brilliant performance, an underplayed one, of a woman who internally is on the verge of a nervous breakdown but externally holds it together for her family. When she goes to her father-in-law for money - $50,000 - as usual, she doesn't finish the whole thought, and he gives her $80 from his wallet. She only smiles and thanks him. When she finally breaks down, for the last reason one can imagine from the beginning of the film, she finds support from an unlikely person - who also has to keep it together amidst personal turmoil.One more thing - someone else on this board commented that there were many negative comments on this film from people looking at it from a technical point of view. That is the reaction I had from reading comments on The Reader. There is an emotional aspect to film. Some of us would rather get into the characters more than the lighting. I guess you'd say it's just another level of appreciation. "},{"Title":"Such a promising opening, and what a let-down.","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First, the positive things acting, directing, producing, lighting, sound, cinematography, etc - no problems here.Even the dialogue was good.  The story and more importantly the character sketches were *horrible*.  Each character *could* have been more interesting, but not ONE SINGLE CHARACTER has ANY interesting backstory or history - completely two-dimensional.  One keeps hoping and hoping for a twist, a surprise, a - something! - and it never happens.  A then B then C. The average moviegoer's life is FAR more interesting than the lives portrayed in this movie.The Deep End When Bad Scripts Happen to Good Movies  "},{"Title":"Boring plot, but great photography and well shot.","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The movie is rather boring, and there is no dynamics whatsoever. The characters are not motivated enough, and there is that constant feeling that something is missing. However, what made me give this movie a relatively high 5/10 is the fact that cameras did a great job, and colors in the movie are just excellent. There is a very nice, tender FORM, but the SUBSTANCE is just not there. "},{"Title":"Confused","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A friend recommended this film to me stating it was the best film he'd seen this year.  I am completely dumbfounded at the notion that he, other people at imdb, and several film critics have actually confused this quite possibly one of the worst written, acted, directed, edited, and overscored theme music to cover up the lack of any true emotion or suspense films ever made. I love indie films, but The Deep End is a harsh reminder as to how awful a film can be.  Many of the reviews here have summed up why this film is such an abomination.  I do have to give kudos to the cinematography, opening title sequence, and sound work, but the film was such a train wreck by the end with its horrendous script, acting and direction colliding, I found myself laughing harder than any comedy I've seen in recent memory.P.s. - I can't wait for the DVD to hear how the film makers explain what a struggle it was to make such a bad film. "},{"Title":"Sentimental junk with homosexual content tossed in","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Deep End is a rather dull, conventional melodrama with the added element of having homosexual characters subsituted for the straight characters of the film upon which it was based, The Reckless Moment.  This substitution does not elevate it from the soap opera it is (albeit with beautiful scenery) to something more.  There is nothing original about this film, other than the cheap use of homosexuality.  The scenes that were supposed to create tension fell completely flat.  The motivations for the characters' actions made no sense, and the ending, which was intended to create a sympathetic reaction from the audience, was laughable. The only people who will enjoy this movie are those who can derive sufficient pleasure from seeing beautiful shots of Lake Tahoe, and lingering shots of Tilda Swinton and Goran Visnjic. The rest of us would be better entertained elsewhere. Most critics fell all over themselves to praise this movie.  I believe the only reason they did so was the fear of being labled homophobic if they panned it.  They need to look at movies with gay characters in them the same way they would look at movies with only heterosexual characters and make their judgments accordingly. Of course, different sexual orientations could bring different elements to the movie, but to rave about something simply because we're shown a gay relationship is ludicrous. "},{"Title":"Unfinished","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Deep End starts off pretty well and the first half of the movie turns out to be very enjoyable, the premise is rather classic but it's effective as is the mise-en-scène and editing which create this strange, enigmatic vibe. Then right after Goran Visnjic is introduced in the equation, the story and its dynamic crumble completely as if the writer had to wrap everything up in 24 hours. The plot then becomes far-fetched and the narration as chaotic as you could get, you finish this pseudo thriller, sometimes grotesque and clearly lacking intensity in it's second half, in freewheel mode on a vulgar, uninteresting, blackmailing mechanics. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, great work from Swinton","Date":"18 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Deep End is exactly the kind of drama thriller that was more frequent 10 years ago. Of course, it is from a decade ago, so it makes sense. It's a rather messy, but entertaining and sometimes even unpredictable thriller. I definitely didn't think it would become what it did or end the way it did, and I guess what the filmmakers intended to do with the lead character was different than I would have expected. The last act is full of some overly melodramatic moments, and some lines are full of cheese, but as a whole it's still a very solid film. The biggest reason to see this is for Tilda Swinton, who really gives a great performance here that only strengthens her resume. I think, if anything, the problem is that the film didn't do more with the moral dilemma at the its core and went for a rather surprisingly simple and convenient way out. "},{"Title":"Did I Miss Something? Terrible....Rushed Movie","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I had really high expectations before watching this movie, the reviews I read on both here and the cover of the DVD really had me excited. I love nothing more than a solid crime thriller but I was left really disappointed after watching this.The film seemed to rush everything to the point were I thought I'd missed something. The acting was terrible, it was like watching a bad TV movie. Tilda Swinton is wasted in this movie and seems to be just plodding along. The relationship with Margret and Alek is sooo bizarre one minute he's blackmailing her and 30mins later they are the best of friends. She falls for him without there being any reason for it happen. There's very little in the way of a police investigation over the death of Darby which seems very unrealistic. I still have no idea how Alek and his partner managed to get the video in order to blackmail Margret that all seemed very rushed as well.Very disappointing! it could have been soooo much better "},{"Title":"The Deep End","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The enchanting opening score and a dominant blue hue eases its way of a concealed familial drama with a murder case, a blackmail and an in-the-closet gay son. Out of expectation, a lesser impact on the gay culture, the film endeavors a strenuous effort to accent on a desperate mother's instinct of shielding her son, and magnificently the plot concocts a cordial twist to furnish the film with compassion and great gratification. Tilda Swinton is the ace here (vaguely has sustained her indie-queen ethereality into a more mainstream scope since then), magnifying every impression into an intact personification of a role model mother of three children, who struggles to cover a murder case which she thinks has executed by her elder gay son (which is barely the truth as audience has witnessed the entire occurrence), after that developing a mutual affinity with a young gay blackmailer, things start to become more engrossing. Goran Visnjic is equally empathetic and even a tad overshadowing Ms. Swinton during the final confrontation (a poignant moment arrives when their lips are so close to each other near the end of the film). It never goes awry with the things-getting-worse-until-the-very-end mode, at first one might sense a pro-WE NEED TO TALK ABOUT KEVIN (2011) ominous trauma was awaiting us, congenially enough it is not about the embittering mother-son's love/hate perplexity. This indie gem from director duo Scott McGehee & David Siegel (whose later feature BEE SEASON 2005 is a rueful misfire, a 5/10 in my rating, while their latest WHAT MAISIE KNEW starring my diva Julianne Moore is on the shelf this year) needs more credit for its adroit exposition, splendidly heart-rending impetus and the celeste tableau. "},{"Title":"Wild Implausibility Scars Otherwise Good Film","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Some of the lines uttered by these stick-figure characters were laughable. Some of the things Swinton's character does are ridiculous. Her character panics, but she just does not seem like the type who would panic---- by yanking out an anchor out of the victim's chest (with bare hands); attaching the body to the same rope and anchor; dumping the yellow tarp in her garbage can; jumping in to get the victim's car keys in her underwear in broad daylight; it's nuts. And the blackmailer's acting was bland, to go along with his ridiculous demands. He helps her with reviving her father-in-law? Jeez, I started out liking this movie but it just got too implausible after the first hour. However, the adolescent arrogance of the boy was played very will. "}{"Title":"Suspense, Stoicism & Self Sacrifice","Date":"5 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The majority of remakes tend to be disappointing, so it's especially enjoyable to see a movie like this which really bucks the trend. The Deep End is essentially a remake of Max Ophuls' The Reckless Moment and both movies were adapted for the screen from Elisabeth Sanxay Holding's story called The Blank Wall. This thriller involves blackmail, a murder investigation and also a compelling account of the lengths a mother will go to in order to protect her family. Unusually though, it's also a story about characters who make great sacrifices for the people they care about.Margaret Hall (Tilda Swinton) lives near Lake Tahoe with her three children and father-in-law and becomes concerned about her 17 year old son's gay relationship with a significantly older man. She tries to persuade Darby Reese (Josh Lucas) to end the affair and he agrees to cooperate subject to a payment of $5,000. That night, however, he secretly visits Beau Hall (Jonathan Tucker) and after the two guys talk about Darby's readiness to be bought off, they argue and fight. Beau soon escapes and runs into the house but the dazed Darby staggers out of the boathouse and is accidentally killed as a result of falling onto an anchor on the beach.Next morning Margaret finds the body with some evidence which convinces her that her son was implicated and so to protect him, she dumps Darby's body in the lake. The body is found shortly after and a police investigation is launched immediately. A little later, things start to get complicated when a stranger called Alek Spera (Goran Visnjic) calls by Margaret's house and demands a substantial ransom to prevent him from passing a copy of a video tape to the police. The tape in question is potentially incriminating as it shows a sexual encounter involving Darby and Beau and thus establishes a close connection between the two men.Tilda Swinton is outstanding as the stressed and very determined mother who has to deal with a whole range of crises on her own because her husband is a naval officer whose duties keep him away from home for long periods of time. Swinton's expressions are incredibly effective in conveying the outward appearance of calmness which she feels she must maintain whilst at the same time giving hints of the enormous amount of fear and worry that she's experiencing. The range of duties and problems that her character deals with on a daily basis is impressive and also one of the reasons why her blackmailer unexpectedly changes his attitude towards her. Goran Visnjic displays the conflict which gradually develops within Spera very capably in what turns out to be a surprisingly good performance.The most striking difference between The Deep End and The Reckless Moment is that in the newer movie, the mother is motivated purely by a powerful desire to protect her family at all costs whereas in the older version there was also an element of being driven by a need to maintain the appearance of conforming with the perceived standards of her social class. There is also no indication in The Deep End that Margaret feels trapped by her family or that she feels any resentment about the pressures that their needs place on her.The Deep End is a beautiful movie which is rich in atmosphere and the cinematography by Giles Nuttgens is marvellous. It's also well written, full of suspense and the development of the relationships between the various characters is interesting to watch. "},{"Title":"simply ridiculous","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" this film is ridiculous ~ and the main character (tilda swinton as margaret hall) is even more so. she is the most ridiculous and whiny woman i've seen in a film in a long time. she spends most of her time in the film begging someone for something ~ pleeease, (fill in the blank). she begs her father-in-law, both of her sons (several times), her daughters, alec (the goran visnjic character) ... EVERYONE! if i knew this woman personally i would probably slap her, rather like cher slaps nicholas cage in moonstruck ~ snap out of it!the only redeeming factor of this film was that it took up some time on a rainy Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"Homophobic","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Easily one of the most subversively homophobic films ever produced. Gay men are presented as sordid, lascivious predators who exclusively lurk in harshly-lit gay bars in the corrupt big city, coming into suburban areas to prey on vulnerable, sensitive adolescent boys. The idea that this good kid would allow himself to be filmed in the act of having sex is preposterous enough, but the director really exploits the scene by showing the actual act with inter-cuts to Tilda Swinton's face looking repulsed and grief-stricken.What's even more dangerous about this film is the fact that it is full of Trojan horses the indie feel of the production, the casting of Derek Jarman's muse Tilda Swinton (who should be inducted in a special hall of infamy for selecting this piece), and the fact that gay men were apparently involved in putting the film together.Perhaps the film has some artistic merits, but overall I found it an infuriating, irresponsible film that I would have preferred to miss. "},{"Title":"a little uneven, but compelling","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is valuable mostly for the performance of Tilda Swinton as Margaret Hall, a prototypical soccer mom at the head of a privileged, overachieving family who finds herself acting against reason and propriety in order to protect her son, whom she believes has committed murder.Margaret lives in Lake Tahoe (a sublime setting well-employed throughout to sustain the film's chilly, noir-ish tone) with her three children and her father-in-law, a retired naval officer, while her husband--also a naval officer--is away at sea. The film opens with Margaret approaching Darby Reese (Josh Lucas), the sleazy proprietor of a gay nightclub in Reno, who we quickly learn has been carrying on an affair with Margaret's 17 year-old son, Beau (Jonathan Tucker). Margaret--who has recently learned of the affair after her son was involved in a car accident while driving drunk with Darby Reese in the passenger seat--means to chase away her son's seducer, by any means necessary, including bribery.Mr. Reese arrives at the Hall home that night, where he calls Beau out for a little fun in the boat house. Angered both by a recent confrontation with his mother and the revelation that Reese had agreed to abandon their relationship for a payoff from Margaret, Beau fights with Reese and then orders him to leave. But after Beau has left, Darby Reese has a fatal fall from the dock into the lake, and his body is discovered the next morning by Margaret, who assumes immediately that he was murdered by Beau.With her husband away at sea and unreachable, Margaret decides impulsively to cover up Reese's disappearance to protect her son, who is in the process of applying to elite universities for a music scholarship (he is a trumpet prodigy; ironically, Margaret's encouragement of Beau's music talent indirectly led to the relationship with Darby Reese, whom Beau met on his weekly trips to Reno for private music lessons). She assumes her son is guilty of murder, but seems equally concerned about protecting him from the public revelation of his homosexuality. She can't reach her husband by phone, but even if she could, Margaret wouldn't know how to reveal the truth about their son's secret life to his father, whom she is quite certain will not be as tolerant as she.Margaret is too consumed with preserving the appearance of normalcy to discuss the previous night's events with her son, who learns rather innocently from the newspapers of his lover's demise. All might be well but for the appearance of Alec (Goran Visjnic, of ER fame), a blackmailer who knows that Reese had visited the Halls on the night of his death and who possesses rather seamy videotaped evidence of Beau's relationship with Reese.The film subsequently follows Margaret's desperate attempts to gather enough money to pay off her blackmailers. Her determination arouses sympathy in Alec, who gradually shifts his allegiance from his employer to the Hall family, as the film moves towards its somewhat predictable climax.The elements are all familiar to viewers of suspense films; where 'The Deep End' deviates--and excels--is in its performances, which are universally understated and subtle. Tilda Swinton is one of the most magnetic actresses in film, but is less than a household name primarily because she works somewhat rarely as a film actress and is very selective about her roles (she is best known for her starring turn in 'Orlando,' based on the Virginia Woolf novel about a man who wakes up one morning in a woman's body). It's easy to see why Swinton was attracted to the role of Margaret Hall she is basically a typical housewife, but with her husband away often for months at a time, she must act independently and without consultation. She is simultaneously trying to cover up a murder, pay off a blackmailer, tend to her ailing father-in-law, keep tabs on her son, and make sure the other kids get to ballet practice and school on time, all while maintaining her prim, well-organized demeanor so that not even the son whose love affair has set off the tragic chain of events is aware of what she's up to. Most affecting is the profound sense of devotion Swinton's Margaret displays for her eldest child, which is key in a story which could basically be summarized in the old cliché about what a mother will do for her children. The ultra-proper and ordered Margaret--very much the traditional stay-at-home mom and military wife--transforms into a desperate, feral creature who will do absolutely anything to protect her young.The plot turns out to be more predictable than one would hope for, but the superb performances (in addition to Swinton's, Jonathan Tucker is excellent as Beau, and Goran Visjnic is also persuasive and compelling) make this one worth a look. The conclusion is a bit of a let-down, but otherwise, this is fine stuff. "},{"Title":"It stars Tilda Swinton, but the movie isn't weird","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Deep End is melodrama, and that might be all you need to know in order to decide not to see it. But it's a pretty good movie; only a couple of the necessary plot twists are too clunky, and the gradual building of, not suspense exactly but interest in what might happen next works well. Ultimately, though, what you've got is Tilda Swinton. Swinton's been in a lot of weird movies, like Orlando where her character lived 400 years and changed genders every so often, and Female Perversions, based on a non-fiction book of feminist theory, where Swinton had hot sex with Karen Sillas that was a match for what you see in Mulholland Drive. The Deep End isn't weird, but by now when we see Swinton we assume weird; between the baggage she brings from her earlier movies and her oft-noted skin tones, she's like a high-end European version of Rose McGowan (if McGowan were about 8 inches taller). Swinton is the main reason to see this movie; ok, Swinton and that Croatian hunk from ER.  "},{"Title":"MOTHER'S PRIDE","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a real festive treat for serious U.K cinema fans. A quality noir re-make from the people who bought you Suture, one of the top 5 films of the 1990s.Swinton is absolutely superb, and the film is beautifully shot. Unless you've seen the original, you're never be quite sure where the story is taking you. Well worth the 8 year wait, and one of the top 5 films of 2001. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock light...to light","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There is of course always a danger in being inspired by Alfred the Master and that is if you lack talent. This is a film about Mother's devotion, but you aren't touched, you aren't puzzled and letting dying persons saying important things,like in this movie, have through all film history been a cheap trick. Tilda Swinton is OK, but not OK enough to get you interested in this family drama, where death and some violence only get you more bored   "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Over the top symbolism, events that are completely predictable, or so far fetched that it's almost hilarious, ridiculous plot lines, compared to which STAR WARS seems a pretty credible story, and an end that just wouldn't come. A complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"One big plot hole..","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The accident/murder killed it for me too.. perhaps if the screen writer or director had taken some time to do character development it might have worked more.. The performances where good.. it just seems that the movie had no point given one plot flaw or failure to give rational explanation of decision based on flaw.. "},{"Title":"Extremely unrealistic, but very good!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found this movie to be extremely well written and well directed, however the whole story concept is completely implausible.  Goran Visnjic and Tilda Swinton are both fabulous in this film.  My favorite scene was when Alec (Goran Visnjic) arrived at the house of Swinton's character to collect the money she promised him, right as the grandfather was having a heart attack. Then Alec immediately jumped in and helped rescue him.  It was right out of ER!  A GREAT scene.  I definitely recommend this movie! 0) 8/10 "}{"Title":"Hypnotic and unusual, but full of frustrating passages...","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Somber, stylish drama has determined mom Tilda Swinton attempting to cover up an accidental murder committed by her gay son. Swinton's lead portrayal is everything it should be and has to be she's both focused and frazzled, crazed and in control. Swinton plays a straightforward woman forced into taking short-cuts, and while she isn't a dynamic screen presence, she's the whole picture. The production is fine and the film's ambiance is gripping, yet the script is full of ready-made coincidences--the outlandish kind which eventually formulate into what Roger Ebert calls the idiot plot. There's a ready-made suspect for the killing, a car accident which seems performed without effort...and yet Swinton makes it worthwhile. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Atmospherically Tense as Relationships Play Out in Surprising Ways","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Besides the beautiful, atmospheric cinematography, the fulcrum of The Deep End is the conflict and relationship between Tilda Swinton and E.R. hunk Goran Visnjic (and I was surprised how few people in the audience recognized him to get an in joke about a doctor), such that he, surprisingly, is changed more than she. The motivations for a housewife to do things she'd never conceive she'd be doing under unexpected pressures is developed more believably than in Traffic like a quote I once heard or read Having children is like watching your heart walking outside your body.The Nevada setting is reminiscent of a similar recent character study within a sort of a murder mystery, Sean Penn's The Pledge.I'm not sure the ending is as satisfying as the build-up, but I am now concerned that if I ever have to suddenly to pay off a blackmailer all my assets are held jointly with my husband. (originally written 8/21/2001) "},{"Title":"An involving thriller","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The reason this movie is so good is because so much emphasis is put on the characters they're a fascinating group who must make difficult decisions that affect themselves and the others around them. Tilda Swinton is great,as is the rest of the cast. Plus,there's all thatwater... "},{"Title":"Nice Surprise","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I only rented it because there was nothing else I wanted to see at the video store. I'm glad I knew mostly nothing of this movie before I saw it. This is definitely one of those pics where the less you know, the better.It has a lot of good surprises,  nothing really surprises me anymore, so that was appreciated. Kick ass performance by Tilda Swinton, and maybe I should watch ER sometime..... who knew Goran Visnjic was so delicious?!  "},{"Title":"It's Deep All Right","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Rarely does one come along a pile of you know what as deep as this. Just how gullible does this writer think one audience can be? One of the most contrived, convoluted plots around. It's all pretty ridiculous and laughable and a classic film for making fun of as you watch. My friend and I were on a roll by the time we got to the last half hour and really enjoyed some good laughs. From a woman who makes some pretty stupid decisions in her obsession to protect her son to her totally oblivious family to developing a crush on the man who is trying to blackmail her for 50,000 dollars, yes, this is the deep end of suspending disbelief in film. Hey, maybe this is some kind of offbeat black comedy; if so, then it deserves the highest rating. "},{"Title":"I'll feel much better if I can save one other person from seeing this film.","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the only way I can make myself feel any better from having wasted what seemed like 4 hours in the movie theater, but which turned out to only be the standard 90 minutes.  I was at no point interested in any of the characters in this movie nor their struggles.  The scenarios were absurd and the progression of the plot was boring and unrealistic, two qualities that no movie can possess at once and be at all entertaining. The nautical theme of the film was so heavy-handed as to be insulting.  The characters and their motives were unbearably, and again, insultingly, flat.  By the end (of only 90 minutes!) there were at least 2 or 3 honest snores from dozing audience members around me.  Please, save yourselves.  "},{"Title":"A truly awful movie","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a joke. This says it all.'The latest fraud coming along to remind us of just how truly awfulindie movies can be is The Deep End, a mercilessly incompetent thrillerthat's easily as soulless (and brainless) as Tomb Raider or Planet ofthe Apes or Jurassic Park III. The movie was written, produced, anddirected by David Siegel and Scott McGehee, whose previous effort wasthe not-always-successful but remarkably fashionable indie thrillerSuture, and this film retains none of the interest in their earlierwork. Filmed in shimmering CinemaScope that does nothing but callattention to itself, the film offers little but impotent stylisticposturing; in the tradition of generic Hollywood thrillers, it drawsonly the simplest characters and the most basic plot developments withwhich to waste our time, somehow insisting that the handling of thematerial is where the meat of the film lies. McGehee and Siegel canadmittedly compose an attractive image, but if that's all they're after,why not try still photography and leave notions of story, character,performance, and theme to those who have more than a 2nd gradeunderstanding of the medium? It would do us all a lot of good.' (M "},{"Title":"The first soccer mom murder movie?","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This story has received wildly varying reviews but I have to say I enjoyed it. At first I was intrigued with the parallels between this and `Before and After'. Then I was waiting to see the `coming out' scene between mother and son, then I wanted to know more about the compassionate blackmailer. Overall, the movie held me enthralled from the first moments until the end but at the end I felt a bit cheated. I never got the `coming out' scene I was waiting for, or the revelation as to why the blackmailer was acting as he did "},{"Title":"A little gem","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The premise seems so unlikely that it may raise a few eyebrows, so some early suspension of disbelief is called for. In particular, one has to wonder what state of mind the protagonist must be in, to make some of the decisions she does. But then, The Deep End is less about the premise, subsequent events, or plot devices, and more about strength, bonds and love, that are often at their loudest and most poignant when unspoken. This film's message can be found in its quiet spaces, for those who know how to listen. A strong and different type of performance from Tilda Swinton, with perfectly-pitched supporting shows from Goran Visnjic and Jonathan Tucker. Minor characters are fairly two-dimensional, and so hammy that it's verging on camp, but they only serve as vehicles to emphasize traits of the main characters or to convey a certain atmosphere, and this does not overly detract from the message, or from one's enjoyment of the film. Worth a detour. "},{"Title":"A Rare Event","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Deep End is a rare event a touching thriller that is based more on relationships and personal growth than on plot, a film on a tight budget ($3 million) that is completely captivating, a remake of a film (The Reckless Moment (1949)) that really works. Many critics gave the film a top rating, and a few did not like it much, but most agreed that Tilda Swinton was superb. My own opinion is that everything works the superb acting, the suspense, the finely detailed direction, the beautiful cinematography, the masterful screenplay, everything, even the melodramatic parts. Margaret Hamilton (Tilda Swinton), is an average, ordinary-looking, middle-class housewife, whose husband is away with the military. Her family is her life. She has reason to believe that her son (Jonathan Tucker) has killed someone and she disposes of the body to protect him.It only makes things worse by leading to blackmail. The handsome blackmailer (Goran Visnjic) gets caught up in a family emergency and becomes fascinated by and drawn into the close family setting. He is also attracted to Margaret. The film is mainly about her relationships with her son and with the blackmailer; one can connect emotionally with each of them and their own personal predicaments. The other family relationships are incidental but they do illustrate how her life is completely filled with the needs of others; there is not much time left for her needs. The DVD allows one to watch much of the film a second time, with the two directors (Scott McGehee and David Siegel) discussing the details behind the making of each scene, often showing several radically different takes of the same scene and explaining why they chose the one that they did. It gives a deep insight into the filmmaking process.To watch the film, I recommend that you turn off the telephone and pick a time when there will be no interruptions so that you will be free to become deeply absorbed in a very moving experience. "}{"Title":"Deep in All Ends!","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Deep End (2001) Dir Scott McGehee, David Siegel / Cast Tilda Swinton, Goran Visnjic, Jonathan Tucker, Josh Lucas, Peter Donat What does a mother do when she believes that her son committed murder? Her emotions travel severe grounds. She orders Derby to stay away from her son due to reckless behaviour. Despite the warning he shows up and encourages her son Beau to venture outside. The following morning she discovers Derby's body impaled on an anchor. To protect her son she dispatches the body. A stranger appears with a tape of Beau and Derby having sex then he blackmails her for money. The following day he arrives to the sight of her trying to revive her father after a heart attack and his guilt searches for options. Scott McGehee and David Siegel do well directing with a strong performance by Tilda Swinton as a mother under heavy duress from various angles. Goran Visnjic soon works with her while attempting to ease his partner's demands. He will ultimately do right but not without sacrifice. Fine supporting work by Jonathan Tucker as Beau, involved in a bad relationship that stems into tragedy. Josh Lucas plays Derby, his older sleazy lover who attempts to make financial gain to stay away from Beau until fate hits. It is a solid well made independent film that carries some power. How far may a parent go to protect their children? Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Good Acting Can't Save Stilted Script","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" During the opening credits, I'd noticed that The Deep End was adapted from a novel which I'd hoped was going to be done well. Alas directors McGehee and Siegel fail to create a good movie out of it, granted I didn't read the novel. Tilda Swinton single-handedly holds up the weight of an aloof and stilted script which has some glaring misgivings and failures. First and foremost the idiocy of the main character of which the tension gets created is an eye-roller, the dialog of Swinton and actor Goran Visnjic seems robotic, and the dysfunctionality of Swinton's character and her son in communication is poor feeling contrived. The movie's fight scenes are poorly done though editing and scene fades are on the better side. Swinton is tense and stressed out, believably so. Visnjic is stoic though satisfactory. Other actors as family are OK. The direction is mixed, and some scenes work while others seems more wooden or absurd, unfortunately more so towards the end. Mixed to poor - 5.5/10 - not really recommended "},{"Title":"Psychological Tremors At Tahoe.","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Deep End is directed by Scott McGehee and David Siegel, both of whom also adapting the screenplay from the novel The Blank Wall written by Elizabeth Sanxay Holding. It stars Tilda Swinton, Goran Visnjic, Jonathan Tucker, Raymond Barry and Josh Lucas. Music is by Peter Nashel and cinematography by Giles Nuttgens.An updated take on Holding's source novel (it had been adapted by Max Ophüls as The Reckless Moment in 1949), The Deep End explores how one reckless decision in life can let the equilibrium of normalcy be invaded by dark forces and deep seated desires. Here we have the magnificent Swinton as Margaret Hall, a mother of three who finds her life spiralling out of control when she tries to keep her eldest son from being found culpable in a murder investigation. With the husband and father constantly away from their beautiful Lake Tahoe home, due to his being in the Armed Forces, Margaret is practically alone and afraid but still fiercely protective, but when blackmail walks in to her world in the shape of handsome Alek 'Al' Spera (Visnjic), there's can open, worms everywhere.What unfolds is a tale full of classic noir staples, yet it's no cliché addled picture. McGehee and Siegel paint a pristine portrait of middle class life, but once tainted by noir it's very unlikely the protagonist will get back to that pristine world. The relationship between Margaret and Al becomes fascinating, their respective impact on each other is the beating heart of The Deep End. It all builds to a finale that has caused some division amongst the people who have seen it, but it strikes the right chords and dangles the right questions in context to the human characteristics that have been played out. Personally I would suggest further viewings are required to really get the most from this piece.Beautifully photographed and scored, there is very little wrong here. Raymond Barry's head villain is a little weak, and some of the dialogue is a bit clunky, but really these are small irritants. The Deep End uses no tricks or over theatrics to grab our attention, it asks us to invest and pay attention in the principal players, because then, as the suspense and human psychological smarts come into play, is where the rewards are to be found. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Web of events traps a mother who covers up what seems to be a murder involving her son","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Deep End is a neo noir. It's based on the same novel, The Blank Wall, as was the noir The Reckless Moment. There are some story changes and the themes emphasized also differ to some extent. I recommend both movies.The basic plot is that a mother (Tilda Swinton) attempts to cover up for a murder that she thinks her offspring has been involved with. A blackmailer (Goran Visnjic) then appears who has some knowledge of the relationship between her offspring and the murdered man. The blackmailer develops a soft spot for the mother.This blackmailer is himself being forced into blackmail by a much harder and tougher man. The tough guy is played by Raymond J. Barry, who also did a fine job in Interview with the Assassin.In The Reckless Moment, the mom's daughter was having an affair with the dead man. In The Deep End, the mom's son has had a gay relationship with the dead man. In both cases, the protective mom has to come to grips with her child's maturity as a separate person. "},{"Title":"Tilda Swinton is Fierce!","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Deep End premiered at the 2001 Sundance Film Festival and was a breakthrough role for actress Tilda Swinton. She plays Margaret a fiercely protective mother of three who starts to lose her grip when her gay teen son is caught up in the murder of a night club owner.The story takes place in Tahoe where Margaret is basically a single mother, since her husband works on aircraft carrier in the Atlantic. Beau is her oldest at 17 and has been seeing the much older night club owner Darby. She confront Darby about their relationship at his club called the Deep End and tells him to stay away from Beau and offers him money.Beau looks to be a good kid who always seems to be getting into trouble and making the wrong decisions. He is a boy with an absent father and looks up to sleazy Darby. One night he comes over to visit and they start to argue over his mothers visit and her offer. A fight breaks out and things get out of hand. Early the next morning Margaret finds Darby's dead body washed up on shore with a boat anchor lodged in his chest. She furiously runs around hiding the body and the evidence fearing her son killed him.The next day a man appears at her door, its not the police but it's just as bad. Alek Spera (played by Goran Visnjic, who was on the show ER at the time) and his business partner are con men looking to black mail her with a video tape of Darby and Beau having sex. He wants $50,000 in 24 hours or he sends the tape to the police. Although she tries she can't come up with the cash. The next day when Alek comes to collect Margaret's live in father-in-law had just had a heart attack that moment. He helps give CPR and eventually saves his life. This starts off a very strange and interesting relationship between Alek and Margaret. Alek is the stereotypical con man with a heart of gold. He feels for Margaret's situation and tries to persuade his partner to call of the black mailing. This doesn't fly.This movie is all about Swinton's performance as a mother who will stop at nothing to protect her son, but also showing how lonely and vulnerable she is with her husband gone for long stretches of time. Her strength and determination to protect her family and the lengths she is willing to go are remarkable even though she is not sure of her sons innocence. All while taking care of everyone else and not letting on that something is seriously up. This is a great character study and Tilda is amazing! So check it Out! "},{"Title":"Excellent Overlooked Film","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film was a wonderful surprise. I wasn't aware of it - the publicity was scarce - so I watched it from word-of-mouth recommendations and enjoyed the entire experience thoroughly.Swinton's performance was a masterpiece of understatement. Her role was certainly no hammed-up overacted Academy Award performance. In fact it was virtuosity of the opposite nature. Underplaying a part can be excruciatingly difficult for both actors and the public and it requires effort on both parties. Thankfully the screenplay was a model of efficiency and tact with no whiz-bang histrionics at the end. The music from the magic of Ravel was astounding - again, subtle. The photography was magnificent and won well-deserved awards.Everything in the film meshes beautifully. I loved every golden moment.Curtis Stotlar "},{"Title":"Swinton Astonishes in Complex Drama","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The camera sweeps over sunlit water to a lakeside home and 101 minutes later pulls from a window in that same house and backs towards the now dark lake. Between those bookend shots, a complex tale of blackmail, death, and strong maternal love unfolds. Anchored with a powerful performance by Tilda Swinton, The Deep End pits an intelligent, loyal mother against dark forces that would engulf her family. Sensitively played by Jonathan Tucker, young Beau Hall has become involved with an unsavory older man, Josh Lucas, who meets an untimely end. Tilda jumps to conclusions and fails to confront her son for explanations, which lays her open to a blackmail attempt presented by Goran Visnjic, darkly handsome and ambiguous in his malevolence.The film is refreshing in its depiction of a strong woman with the capacity to face crisis on her own. Tilda as Margaret Hall is alone with three children and an elderly father-in-law, while her Navy husband is unreachable on a carrier at sea. Unwilling and unable to confide in anyone and share her dilemma, she reaches within herself to solve a seemingly insurmountable situation. Goran as Alek, the blackmailer, arrives on the scene and expects to go head-to-head with the man of the family. When Alek is forced to negotiate with Margaret, he must adapt to an unexpectedly formidable adversary and deal with the equally unexpected feelings within himself.The Deep End is beautifully directed and only rarely lapses into self-conscious artiness. Viewers may find that some situations and resolutions stretch credibility, but the earnestness and sincerity of the performances carry a plot that could have been resolved early on with a frank conversation. While Tilda Swinton, who gained prominence as the gender-changing Orlando in the Sally Potter film and won an Oscar for Michael Clayton, deserved as much attention for her role here as Margaret Hall. As a mother whose only goal is protect her son, she is astonishing to watch as conflicting thoughts and emotions play across her face. With a lesser talent, The Deep End might easily have fallen off the deep end. "},{"Title":"What's The Matter With Kids Today?","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Tilda Swinton's son, Jonathon Tucker, is a homosexual trumpet player about to enter college on a scholarship, but she knows nothing about his sexual proclivities. (I think; I missed the first few minutes.) Swinton's husband is a naval officer on an extended trip overseas. The family home is a comfortable dwelling on the shore of Lake Tahoe, on the Nevada side.A man approaches her, informs her of Tucker's sexual activities, and threatens to expose him unless she hands over fifty thousand dollars. Shove comes to push, the extortionist falls off the dock, lands on the upright flukes of an anchor, and is killed.The hysterical Swinton dumps his body in the lake, where it's promptly found by an unlucky fisherman. Swinton is then visited by still another blackmailer, a handsome young man, not unsympathetic. But the big boss behind the scam is pitiless and wants the whole boodle, which Swinton is unable to raise, due to the absence of her husband.Thereafter it gets twisted. The evil die, while the good flourish as the green bay tree.It would have been a good black-and-white B movie from Warners in the 1930s or 1940s -- blackmail scheme goes awry. What lifts it out of that particular genre are two things.The presence and the performance of Tilda Swinton, which is really quite good. Her features are idiosyncratic. Her rather ordinary face features these startlingly blue eyes topped by brows so pale that they make La Giocanda look like Salma Hayek. They're both piercing and terrified. And she's a fine actress, judging from this film, despite her being barely handsome enough to serve as romantic lead without a big do-over.The second thing is the location shooting at Lake Tahoe. It's immediately identifiable for where it is. Those granite rocks of the Sierra Nevada are unmistakable. But, with a little suspension of belief, it could be a fairy-tale Switzerland. But don't even think of living in Lake Tahoe. You couldn't afford a pup tent.It's worth seeing -- at least once. "},{"Title":"Morbidly Fascinating","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A claustrophobic thriller about a woman who will go to any lengths to prevent her son from being implicated in the murder of his abusive lover.This is one of those movies in which a character digs herself deeper and deeper into a hole progressively more difficult to get out of, and it unspools with all the morbid fascination of a ten-car pileup. The Deep End was my introduction to the endlessly mesmerizing Tilda Swinton, in my opinion one of the best actresses working today. She received some award attention around the time of this film's release, but remained mostly obscure to the general public until fairly recently.Grade A "},{"Title":"A captivating drama","Date":"14 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is about a mother who would do anything to protect her seventeen year old son from getting into trouble.The Deep End has a very touching plot. Storytelling may be simple and straightforward, but it delivers Tilda Swinton's struggles and desperation effectively. I can understand why she goes at length to protect her son, as any mother would. Her lonesome struggle is portrayed well, making me feel her pain. The changing relationship and mutual sympathy that develops between her and the blackmailer is also convincingly crafted.The Deep End deserves to be seen and appreciated. "}{"Title":"Black thriller of manners","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Tilda Swinton shines... that's the wrong word. Impresses is closer to the mark but it's more to do with the impression a fist leaves in a plasterboard wall. This is a cultured but realist characterisation of a housewife caught in a moral cul-de-sac. Discovering that her son is responsible for the death of his lover (another man! shock!) she sets out to protect him against both investigation and a sinister blackmailer who may have evidence of the act.Swinton's performance is remarkable, not least because of the natural, uncommon physicality of the actor. Where one might reasonably expect the weight of this situation to bear down on the features of Margaret Hall and render her drawn and craggy, Swinton manages to soften. Yes, she exhibits the natural stress of a (middle-class) woman under siege but also takes on the colour and robust allure of the woman defending her son-as-extension of her absent husband. It's no wonder that she brings Goran Visnjic's rather soppy tough guy around. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Engrossing and well-acted","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ** Includes SPOILERS **For once, I didn't know much about a movie before I went to the cinema. I only knew that it was about a mother trying to cover up a murder (which, of course, wasn't a murder) to protect her son. The blackmailing came as a surprise to me. The good thing was that I didn't have any expectations at all before I saw The Deep End. The movie is interesting, engrossing, and well-acted (Tilda Swinton, Goran Visnjic and Jonathan Tucker are all brilliant). Even the friendship between Margaret and blackmailer Alek was believable. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Had Margaret Hall been Norman Bates' mother, he would have had a head-start in life!","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In her 25th film, dating back from David Jarman's way left-field odyssey, 1984's CARAVAGGIO, Tilda Swinton hits overdrive, changing up with effortless syncromesh.Lonely, if only she had the time to realise, motherhood is indeed her calling...even in Lake Tahoe! When her son looks set to consummate a relationship in a galaxy far far away, with his new found male friend of quite obvious persuasion, the maternal instinct kicks-in and Ms Hall, shall we say, remonstrates with the would-be lover. Talk about bad luck, the upshot of her protectionist instinct is a body, one that she would have much preferred NOT to have been washed up beach-front, but a hop skip and a clothesline from her front door. Evidently familiar with the problems inherent in explaining this phenomenon to people, especially those with small silver badges, she wisely disposes of Mr limp wrist!Game, set and match?  wrong! Next morning, one dark-haired Mr Spera (how cute am I? Goran Visnjic) fronts her porch early, with a demand for fifty big ones and brandishing a video-tape...it ain't THE LION KING! Well, if this just doesn't beat all? She embarks now on a round of increasingly desperate calls to her hubby who, loyal naval lad that he is, is out on the NIMITZ somewhere in the Atlantic mid exercise, and really can't come to the phone right now. Further complications exist by reason of the presence of her old and infirm father-in-law, whose needs must be met along with every other domestic chore waiting impassively for her attention. Judging by the way she handles the escalatingly pressured relations with her blackmailers notwithstanding, she must have watched THE NEGOTIATOR half a dozen times at least. As options run out - the Bank even refuses to release funds without her husband's written permission, she finds herself in totally unchartered waters, somewhat hampered by the anachronistic relationship she has fashioned with one of the blackmailers.Let us not divulge further proceedings, merely comment that Ms Swinton has come of age with this here portrayl of a mother, pushed to the wall but with all claws extended. Arguably her best post feminist role since ORLANDO (we should be gracious and forgive the small aberration that was THE BEACH) Tilda Swinton makes for a fascinating study of a mother in chaos, at this time perhaps, interestingly comparable to her counterpart, Nicole Kidman in THE OTHERS.As for ER's wet-dream for girls Mr Goran Visnjic, well, THE DEEP END was just his 'summer job'...something to do between out-takes. In the context of this rather niftily handled flick, he certainly ramps up the credibility aspect but misses out on the menace. (Way too neat a hair-cut!)THE DEEP END is way better than the sum of its parts mainly on account of the fact that Tilda Swinton is a part of its sum!  "},{"Title":"polarizes watchers","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First off, the film is flawed; no doubt about it.  Very beautifully shot and a wonderful score, but the storyline left most people shaking their heads.  But what fascinates me is how it polarizes reviewers and commentators (even on this site.)  Check 'em out.  There's something about flawed, character-driven movies that bring out the biases in viewers.Those that hated the movie for all of its flaws (and there are many) seem willing to say anything to make you avoid this movie.  Even claiming Wesleyan as a good Christian school (shoring up arguments about a homophobic subtext).  Have they been on that campus?  I cannot imagine anyone espousing hard-core Christian values being comfortable in the music program at Wesleyan.Those that love the movie ignore the tiring, film-school glee with which the directors devise as many ways as possible to put water between the camera and the actors.  Enough with the symbolism already; I get it!My advice, see the movie (for free if possible, it may not be worth $8) and then read the reviews.  Some of them will sound nothing like the film you saw. "},{"Title":"Another lifetime original classic","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  WARNING WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS, but if you don't care...McGehee and Siegel's follow film up to `Suture' played along like an after school special.  The plot developed about as fast as drying paint, and had as much enthusiasm as well.  The premise of the movie revolves around a mother and son relationship, and how far she will go to keep him from harm. I kept thinking the movie would go to a commercial and I would see thirty-second spots for feminine hygiene and hair removal.  Alas, I was unlucky. Tilda Swinton (The Beach) plays the part of Margaret, the mother. Goran Visnjic (Practical Magic, Rounders) is the movie's antagonist Alek.  I found that Swinton's portrayal, as a calm collected mother, was at times farfetched.  No matter how bad things would get for her, she was able to maintain a sense of composure and continue a type of reform-school etiquette. Alek, at first, seems to be a complex character often brooding over what he needs to do get the money from Margaret.  Should he be more aggressive in his tactics?  He feels sorry for Margaret, and decides at some point that he should try to help her.   Complex?  I think not.  As I got further into the movie, it seemed that Goran, who may be best known as Dr. Luka Kovac from ER, was just looking for a little action from a sexually repressed middle-aged-station wagon-team mom. Margaret, being a typical nosey mom, follows a hunch that her son, Beau, might be cruising with the wrong crowd.  She asks the boy's gay lover to stop hanging around her son.  That night, the boy's thirty-something lover, Darby, shows up to the house. The Darby and Beaus argue and, unbeknownst to Beau, Darby falls victim to a cleverly placed anchor.  The church lady says it best, `How convenient!'  The next morning, Margaret discovers the body and immediately assumes that her son killed Darby.  What's a mother to do? I know! Hide the body in the shallowest part of Lake Tahoe.  Now that she has cleaned up Beau's `mess,' she decides to try to confront Beau by asking what happened, as if she didn't already know. Margaret is then approached by Alek and told that she must acquire $50,000 or a tape of her son with Darby, inflagrante, would be released to the police connecting him to the murder.  Again, some simple communication would prove useful here.  Margaret, on the other hand, decides to mortgage the house, pawn jewelry, and is only able to get about $12,000.  I was surprised that she didn't sell herself and/or her daughter into prostitution.  That seemed fairly logical for a MENSA reject.  Lucky for her, Alek is willing to reduce his take on the deal, and she only needs to get $25,000.  `Thanks. You shouldn't have! No really, you shouldn't have.' Through all the trials and tribulation that I faced as I watched this film, I would like to applaud Siegel and McGehee's cinematographer Giles Nuttgens.  He was able to capture some of the best shots I have ever seen in a movie. `The Deep End', a.k.a. Water World 2, was saturated with scenes de l'eau. There were shots through aquariums, car washes, and, my favorite, a single droplet of water clinging to a drippy faucet.  It was a good thing I didn't have to go to the bathroom.  Characters were associated with water. Margaret's husband is on an aircraft carrier in the North Atlantic, and the youngest child is in a school production of Swan Lake.  Margaret's father-in-law has a heart attack as he transports jugs of water.  `Is there a doctor in the house?'  No, but Alek plays one on TV- it's a good thing he learned CPR while on ER. If you liked `Suture' or are a big believer in 75% of the earth's mass, then see the movie.  Or if you really dig Swinton and can think of no better way to spend an hour and a half, then check it out.  I would like to congratulate Giles on a job well done.  I would like to ask that Siegel and McGehee continue to take pictures of themselves, and leave the rest of us out of it.  Be on the look out for another picture by the duo.  Another heart warming love story set in the Mid-West.  Oh Rapture!!  Other than that, if you can think of no good reason to watch `The Deep End,' then skip it and watch `Water World.'  At least you can watch Kevin Costner drink his own urine.  As Ross Perot once said, `Where can I sign up for that?'  "},{"Title":"It could have been a 10.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The acting and editing of this film help create a sense of nearly unbearable urgency as characters caught in their mutual inability to speak with each other about what is really going on see the worst possible consequences working themselves out.  For the most part, the director succeeds in convincing us that the events portrayed have a deadly logic of their own, but about 2/3 of the way through the illusion began to crack because of accumulating implausibilities.  That is the only fault I could find with this otherwise powerful and convincing psychological thriller.  Tilda Swinton is terrific.  It is easily one of the most effective films I have seen in the past six months. "},{"Title":"Mother VS Society","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a beautiful film, if unbelievable at times. But if you take into account the premise that mother get irrational about matters regarding their children's well being, everything becomes clearer. The film is deffinately not a thriller per se. It is a commentary on the role of motherhood against society. Other work of art have concluded that mothers would go to any degree of self sacrifice to protect their children. This film begins with this notion, and doesn't really explore it. The film begins when Margret, the main character, comes into a sleazy bar to tell off a suspicious man called Darcy Reece (I think) to stay away from her son. Someone's mom is here for you, Darcy is told, and from then on, it is abvious that being someones mom is the begining and end for margaret's character. Of Margaret's three children, only one seems to be a real character, the other two just precious burdens, who demand a little attention and a lot of car rides. Dad  is missing - as is common in many mom-in-the-middle movies. In this case he is at work as a naval officer, and his presence is barely fealt. What happens when dad isn't home, but keeps his beurocratic and moral power over the family. The conclusion? Women do it better for themselves.American society at large, as portrayed in this film, is also confronted with the myth of the mother. Can a stranger truly appreciate a mother's responsibilty and burden? And what responsibilty does the mother, in return, have over society? In America, mothers have demonstrated for their children and against war, for their children and for a cleaner environment, for their children and against big tobacco - but does a mother have the right to betray society in order to help her children? And must us non-maternal citizens of the world accept this? The film gives some interesting answers, but leaves some interesting answers hanging in the air.Another question is what happens when mother breaks down, either because she suddenly has some desires of her own, or because she has bitten off more than she can chew? Will her children be left helpless, screaming for their dinner? Or can someone else take her place? Do children need the absence of the mother (or at least, the mother-role) in order to grow up? Or will they insist on growing up anyway, With or without moma's help?As I said, this film is not a thriller. it is a candid tribute to motherhood, and as such, I believe it has been executed beautifully.  "},{"Title":"Interesting but somewhat unsatisfying thriller","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Deep End is a curious film as thrillers go.  It's really more of a character study, an examination of just how far a mother will go to protect her children and her image of herself and her family.   It has some interesting things to say about the modern American family - most notably the way children have been invested with so much power and authority in the family structure.  Tilda Swinton's character never criticizes, much less condemns her children for anything they do, including lies, deception, and myopic self involvement.  She simply thinks that if she works hard enough she can make all things right.  Unfortunately this includes covering up the death of son's gay lover and dealing with the ensuing web of events this act unleashes.There are some nice moments in the film, but I found Swinton's performance to be a bit too removed (not to mention unconvincingly American).  She was nearly robotic in her emotions and actions.  Perhaps this was the intention, but I found it difficult to empathize much with the character.  I understood what the film makers were trying to say about her character, the trouble is it wasn't all that compelling.  The other actors give credible performances, but in the end I think this film just didn't translate enough from the book, which I haven't read but am now curious about.  I suspect it is much more rewarding - you get the feeling during the film that given more time and detail you may have been more engrossed in the story.  All in all not a bad effort, but not nearly the film you may be led to believe it is if you read all the positive reviews.  Though for the most part well directed, edited and acted, it just failed to establish or maintain enough tension the way a good thriller should.  Worth renting but I wouldn't recommend paying full price.  "},{"Title":"The deep end of the script pile.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've said it before What were they thinking? Did the makers of this film think that the spicy pederastic sadism at its beginning would carry it in these jaded times? They certainly could not have thought that the plot or the script or the lack of any suspense would carry it. This story must have been at the deep end of the script pile. And what about those old cars? What was that all about? I hope Ms. Swinton sold out for a whole bunch of bucks for this one. Her credibility has been damaged rather heavily with this former big fan. Between Peter Donat's really bad dotage and Raymond Barry's Snidely Whiplash imitation, I was absolutely bored and disgusted. Not even Goran Visnjic's magnetic effect on the camera, any camera, could stir me to the least bit of interest in any of the characters or the plodding story line. Beau, the gay son, seemed to be enough reason for gay youth groups to picket theaters where this is shown. I seldom come down this hard on a film, but I highly recommend that you avoid this one. I plan to contact the two friends who told me it was great to make sure their bodies haven't been taken over by aliens.  "},{"Title":"Classic... I loved it!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have noticed a trend in some of the higher brow films of this year there tends to be a return to the classic film styles along with a fresh, modern spin that has turned out some quality work.  _The Deep End_ is the best example I seen so far.  Thematically and emotionally, this film evokes the best of Hitchcock and film noir with its twisted, crime ridden plot, deceit, and desperation.  _The Deep End_ blends these tried-and-true elements with modern themes about family, maternal instincts, sexuality, and moral ambiguity that make this film absolutely riveting.The acting here doesn't hurt anything.  Tilda Swinson is great, and should surely get more exposure after this.  The other actors, though, less well known, consistently match Swinson in her ability to communicate effectively with her facial expressions and body language, making dialogue seem almost unnecessary.And, hey, here's a bonus the movie isn't too long!  At just about 99 minutes, _The Deep End_ maintains a tight and frenetic pace, not even allowing the audience enough time to catch their breath and go to the bathroom.This film is just great.  That's it. "}{"Title":"Swinton Soars, Script Sinks","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILER)))  SPOILER))))Tilda Swinton gives a wonderful performance in a well-made film that eventually falls under the weight of a sparse script that hopes to connect all the dots but ends up failing. Im not looking for everything tied up in a pretty bow, there were just characters that were so underwritten (especially Beau - the son)they didn't come off as real humans with dimension. Under the cirsumstances that the son was involved in, he kept sniping at his mom like he had only gotten a bad report card as opposed to a major crime, coming out of the closet, drunk driving, wrecking a family car, etc. The actor who played the blackmailer also gives a multi-layered performance and Swinton and he played off of each other nicely. It is beautifully shot but when all is said and done, one is left not quite feeling satisfied. The movie's not quite a thriller, not quite a mystery, not quite a romantic drama. It just moves along the surface of the water like her small motorboat. It is worth seeing for Swinton's work though. a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A combination of thriller and naturalism doesn't quite work","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Scott McGehee and David Siegel's first film was the seriously weired 'Suture'; 'The Deep End' is a more conventional movie, the story of a woman who tries to cover up her son's involvement in a killing. Tilda Swinton gives an understated performance in the lead, and it's artfully filmed, albeit in a slightly contrived way. And if it seems contrived, that's probably because as a whole, the film never really seems to come alive, probably because of the way the elements of generic thriller undermine rather than complement the more naturalistic ones. And in 'Suture', it was at least clear why the directors were trying so hard; this movie just isn't as striking. "},{"Title":"Tilda Swinton in a breakout role, in a movie that could have been better...","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Tilda Swinton is definitely on the rise. I've admired her work ever since this movie, and I've noticed her getting more high profile films since, such as Adaptation and Constantine. She definitely pulls off a lead role very well in The Deep End, but unfortunately, the movie itself isn't as interesting as her performance. She's basically the only reason I kept watching as the story got weird. In The Deep End, she's the mother of a confused teen, who gets involved in his trouble lifestyle. As the plot thickens, she goes from trying to protect her son to committing some serious crimes herself. All in all, this is worth seeing only for her work in the role. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly GOOD Film!","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Surprisingly GOOD Film! I didn't expect this to be as good as it was. All around, an entertaining movie. Better Than Good Acting, Directing, Music, Camera-Work, Editing, Script, and Length. It's just long enough at 137, but not tedious in the wrapping-up. If you're looking for a very entertaining movie, rent/buy this sleeper. It surely is not a waste-of-time! I couldn't find a thing that was disappointing. Rather, it's more like a diamond in the ruff. The camera-work was especially skillful! A character-study, and a mood-piece, for sure, but an excellent one at that. The subtle yet superb blending of the 'dark sides' and 'the light' deserves quiet accolades. "},{"Title":"Impressive film.","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I rarely review films, but I can't help but review this one. I have bought DVD's of  films that I have no knowledge of, based on the reviews in home movie guides, and I have usually been disappointed.  NOT THIS TIME!  The review was good, but I think the film is better than what was said.  One of the benefits of a DVD is the ease in pausing it, and I partake of that benefit almost every time I view a film.  NOT THIS TIME!!!! I won't go into detail about the plot because that information is available elsewhere, but my impression  of a good story well told remains several days after seeing the DVD. This is what sticks in my mind First  excellent acting by the three leads.  These are not  Attention, attention, I'm acting here performances.  They are simply convincing.  I believed these people were who they were supposed to be, especially Tilda Swinton, but also Goren Visnjic.  There is a naturalism that is refreshing.  You will be even more convinced of Ms. Swinton's craft when you watch the extras on the DVD  I had forgotten that she is British. Second  The cinematography is outstanding!  Perhaps I am responding to something not worth commenting on but I felt that the quality of the film stock was better than on many films that I see  great natural  colors; a dense, almost rich look.  The framing was excellent; and there were several reflection/refraction scenes that give the film a distinct style, while silently commenting on the action.  There is also a scene with a boat that is quite special.   Third  the music is very fine, without being overwhelming. Fourth  the story is supported by excellent dialogue; believable lines delivered by people who believe them. Fifth, and probably the key asset  the direction is outstanding, especially considering that it was a tandem effort. All-in-all, THE DEEP END is  a very enjoyable experience, one which I will  delay having, but which I WILL have again.  "},{"Title":"An interesting study in character and offers several plot twists along the way","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Deep End (2001) D Scott McGehee, David Siegel. Tilda Swinton, Goran Visnjic, Jonathan Tucker, Peter Donat, Josh Lucas, Raymond J. Barry, Tamara Hope. A mother finds her gay son's lover dead near their home, then tried to cover up the crime suspecting her son might be the killer. But things get increasingly complicated when a man tries to extort her for $50,000 after he tells her that he has incriminating evidence. An interesting study in character and offers several plot twists along the way, but the ending is less than satisfactory. RATING 7 out of 10. Rated R for violence, profanity, and strong sexuality.  "},{"Title":"Why mysteries should conserve their energy","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Perfect example of a movie that chooses the wrong direction. After a crisp and captivating first act, The Deep End stops trying with its unlikely character development and nearly illogical plot turns. Even Tilda Swinton loses the lustre that her caring central character should have provided throughout the film. The Deep End is a movie that is crying out to tell a dramatic, suspenseful story of family bond, but ends up watching a couple of Hitchcock films and calling itself an expert of the genre.5.5/10. "},{"Title":"Tilda Swinton is motivated to make a good film but no one else seems to care","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"    If your planning a vacation to the Lake Tahoe area anytime soon The Deep End is the movie for you.  It starts off in The Talented Mr Ripley tradition incorporating lovely scenery with thriller elements.  Tilda Swinton single-handedly carried the movie on her small shoulders as Margaret Hawl and ultimately they just weren't strong enough.  Consider for example how the film is willing to left unsaid the confrontation we all expect between mother and son.  Certainly the makers of the film cannot be faulted for wanting to leave things subtle and not break down into the usual by the books rule of dumb thrillers that calls for a confrontation.  And yet I never understood Margaret's motivation.  Her and her son had all of three lines in the film and I was expected to believe that four people had to suffer sad fates for him, her loyalty to him was never challenged, and he got away with it in the end.  If only he had apologized to his mother it could have been all worthwhile.  The movie didn't need the big confrontation about the crime the son committed but couldn't he have said Mom I'm sorry that I've been worrying you lately.  I didn't mean to upset you by hanging out with a 30 year old when I'm only 17 and getting into that car accident.  I'm not saying the son should apologize for being gay at all (that's okay) but if I hooked up with a 30 year old guy at 17 years old my mom would be a tad bit worried as well.  Instead The Deep End gives us this contrived ending where we expect the son to start asking his mother what's been going on lately and he instead asks if he can call anybody for her.  Huh?  I did not believe for a single minute that the Goran Visnjic character was anything more than a complete loser who loved casinos in the end although Tilda Swinton appears to think I'm wrong.  The star from ER phoned in his part and when he did say his lines he looked as though he was dying to leave the set to get back to his 5 million dollar penthouse.  Please.  The Deep End might be a nice rental when you and your friends want to see a thriller with a woman who is forced to become more than a housewife to protect her family.  Don't be prepared for any answers though.  I kept wondering what the point was of having the grandfather/father-in-law in the film.  I thought that maybe we could have seen how he would respond to the son being gay but no he's just filler for an ill-fated lucky break for Margaret.  Unless your planning a trip to Lake Tahoe you'll probably be snoring in your seat by the time you get to see the scenery.   "},{"Title":"Next time you're dumping a dead body","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A word of advice when disposing of a corpse in a huge lake, dump it in the shallowest waters available.  This way, you can guarantee it will be found almost straight away, thus plunging you into an abyss of blackmail, double-cross and MURDER... Also, when being blackmailed by bad guys, make sure one of them is actually good ON THE INSIDE and that his boss is a useless, unthreatening dope.  Who looks like he's wearing a toupee. Also, if you are a married woman, try to get plunged into an abyss of blackmail, double-cross and MURDER when your husband is away at sea.  This serves two functions 1) It means you have to carry the movie yourself.  Which, for the admirably restrained Tilda Swinton (is she named after the rice, or is the rice named after her?) is not difficult.  Imagine if she weren't in it.  What would be the point of seeing it? 2) It allows lazy viewers (most UK critics, especially) to bask in their brilliant insight - the gay son is seeking a father figure in his real father's absence, and the wife is seeking a husband figure.  Do you see? Also, if you are planning a career as a bad guy, then either be really bad and start beating people up when they can't get the money together, or just forget it right now.  You're not cut out for this sort of work. ALSO, if you are making movies which, you hope, use a standard noir plot-line on which to hang serious, like, issues and stuff, then please (I'm asking you nicely) make sure the standard noir plot line is watertight.  No plot-holes.  No utterly implausible events.  No scenes that will make the average audience member (heck, the average five year-old) howl with derision.  That way, your serious, like, issues and stuff, will be much more impressive.   Alternatively, of course, you could just make a really good noir thriller with no pretensions to anything loftier.  Hey, it worked for Hitchcock, The Usual Suspects and lord knows how many others.  But that would probably be beneath the worthy but inept people who made The Deep End.   "},{"Title":"Stylish and significant","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A stylish, quiet and intense thriller which ends up, quite surprisingly, being about the duplicity we will undertake to protect our families. Full-time mother, Margaret Hall, finds herself disposing of a body and frantically trying to raise $50,000 in 24 hours to protect her son, Beau, whom she suspects not only of murder but also of hiding a homosexual relationship with the victim.  Tilda Swinton gives a superb performance of controlled panic and motherly angst, Goran Visnjic is perfectly ambiguous as the morally-fraught blackmailer, and Jonathan Tucker is hugely convincing as the son concealing his sexuality despite the awful tension his lie creates. My only reservation is that the lack of a final coming out scene in which that tension is broken and the family unified might suggest, to some viewers, that Beau's dishonesty is justified - like his mother's concealment, it successfully holds the family together.  I doubt this reading is one the film-makers intended, so it might just be a hangover over from the 1947 novel on which the screenplay is based.  In 1947, Beau's hesitation would be understandable. "}{"Title":"This film should have been entitled, Shallow Waters...","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I went expecting to be thrilled with it; all of the critics whose opinions I had read were ecstatic about it.  But I was disappointed to find that if The Perils of Pauline were shown today, it would be a kissing cousin to this film.  After it was over, there were scattered chuckles throughout the theater.  One woman commented to me, What else could happen to the mother? I replied, only a tornado, a hurricane, or a flood.  It stretches the imagination as much as any Disney animated film, except it is not nearly as honest or as entertaining. "},{"Title":"Tense and disturbing","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found this a good movie- but not a standard hollywood thriller. Tilda Swinton is amazing, as usual- and elevates the film. The pace is deliberate, which is interesting and irritating- contrasting the mundanity of everyday life with her son's secret sexual life and the complications ensue. Yes, there are holes in the plot, but during the movie I didn't think about them too much, other than wonder about a blackmailer who could be kind existing, as in this movie. If you like European pacing, tension and good acting, I would recommend this. "},{"Title":"Was this some film student's class project or what?","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERSThis film reminds me of something they'd only air on HBO late at night figuring few people would be watching anyway. How this has enjoyed such a long theatrical run is beyond me. There really is shortage of good grown-up movies at the moment so I suppose people are starved enough.Many good films have survived a dumb main character (see Forrest Gump). Foolish choices that people make can really drive a plot. I have a sneaking suspicion, in the case of The Deep End, that its creators might not understand just how dumb their heroine is, or at least how dumb they make her appear to be.  A few questions Hiding Darby's body--Why does she do it? Is her life so boring and unsatisfying that she subconsciously wants to bring some trouble into it? There's the whole gay thing with her son, okay. He's trying to get into college, one of them Wesleyan, i.e., Christian. Is she worried about him ruining his life? Is she worried about her reputation as a parent? At any rate, she makes a split-second, boneheaded choice, and must live with it. Somewhere in here is a message about how parents see their children as reflections of them, but it's hopelessly buried in this plot. It's difficult to sympathize with Margaret's dilemma. It's not like she had no choice because she clearly did. More questions where were the Tahoe police after the body is finally discovered? Were Beau and Darby not seen together just the previous night, at the car wreck? And no one even shows up on their doorstep to ask about her son's involvement with a drunk 30 year-old club owner? That's a great lead! I've been to Tahoe. It's not a big town and as far as I could see, the cops there aren't stupid. And ditching the body across the lake in shallow water? It's like the script calls for her to dump the body there because if she hadn't, the scene where she has to go BACK and get the car keys wouldn't have been possible. And why doesn't she leave the body wrapped in the tarp? Stupidity must be contagious in the world of this film.The Deep End has an interesting premise. I just prefer my main characters to be smarter than me, and I'm no mental giant. If only Margaret had risen above her ordinary life and found a way to beat her blackmailers. All she does is scramble to raise the money. The Hitchcockian &#145;normal person in extraordinary circumstances' device has been mentioned in connection with this and I disagree. Margaret never becomes as extraordinary as the circumstances she's in. She lets herself be played the whole time. True, she's the victim of blackmail but also of her own foolishness.Maybe someone else can explain this mess to me. Many imdb users and critics seemed to like it. Please tell me why. Other than the one-cut-above-TV movie quality cinematography, everything else was average at best. The direction (this took two people to direct?) is nothing special. The script stunk. I have many questions, the foremost of which being, why couldn't I have just stayed home?Hearts in Atlantis and Don't Say a Word both open Friday. Relief may actually be in sight.Grade D "},{"Title":"Acting Tour de Force","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As other reviewers have commented, the movie from the get go leaves you asking question after question as to how the characters find themselves in the situation they are.  After a certain point, you simply have to suspend logic, kick back and enjoy the amazing performance of Tilda Swinton.  She was superb and well worth the cost of admission.  I may not take home much from the plot, but the acting and cinematography are superb. "},{"Title":"Slow and hardly thrilling","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is far from the thriller it is advertised to be. There's virtually nothing thrilling about it. Even the scenes that could be thrilling are softened. This entire movie could play on Lifetime TV with almost no editing. You keep hoping the plot will intensify... but it doesn't. There were some interesting plot points that could have been developed better but... they weren't. The main theme (mother protecting son) is weakly established and barely maintained. Oh! Then there's the gay subtext... it just didn't matter. So much potential unrealized. Don't waste your money in the theatre. Don't even rent it unless you are interested in its soft artistic cinematography and some decent acting performances by the lead characters. "},{"Title":"Not sure what people see in this. . . .","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers.When I saw this film today, I wasn't expecting much -- I walked into the theater, in the mood for something different, and bought a ticket for the most interesting sounding film with a showtime within the next half hour. I was still disappointed.I'll grant that the acting had its good moments -- Goran Visnjic, particularly, seemed to really carry his scenes well. For every good moment, there was a painfully bad one, though. The stumbling timing in the interactions between Tilda Swinton and the rest of the family in the first 10 minutes of the film was incredibly distracting, for example.No, my main disappointment is with the writing. When the credits rolled after the reconciliation scene between mother and son, I wanted to jump up and demand some answers. Mom and son each think the other killed the guy -- aren't they going to ask each other enough questions to at least figure out that it was an accident? Also, sure the blackmail situation is wrapped up at the end, but the police are still trying to solve a murder, and they have one of the Halls' innocent neighbors in custody -- Margaret Hall seemed really upset initially about the false arrest, but at the end I guess it's better than finding herself in jail. There are tons more questions, just like that.It seemed that plot and logical character behavior were secondary to political agendas, of which this film had plenty. Apparently we're all supposed to ignore the illogical storyline because we're satisfied enough having learned that 1) criminals can be caring people, too, and 2) busy moms sure have a tough time, and 3) manslaughter is not as bad as blackmail, but even blackmail is not as bad as dad coming home and finding out too much about his son's personal life.I worry sometimes that just because some films are willing to deal openly with controversial issues, people automatically consider them landmark features. Based on some of the other reviews of this movie, it looks like a lot of people made just that mistake. "},{"Title":"Stylish and suspenseful","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The people who like this film and who dislike this film are both right on their comments about this movie.  It is very well made, stylish, and well acted; but the main character does make some very poor decisions. If she were to do the rational thing and just call the police, then there would be no movie.It seems that every time a stylish suspense film comes out, somebody compares it to Hitchcock.  This is nothing like Hitchcock.  One of the things that made Hitchcock such a great film maker was that all his films were fun.  This film is very serious and suspenseful, but not fun.I liked this film and found it very entertaining.  I feel it is definitely one of the better films to come out this year, but that may be damning it with faint praise. It is far from flawless, but I really liked the way it was filmed and the performances were great. "},{"Title":"Great performance, stupid storyline","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Tilda Swinton puts on an Oscar-caliber performance, but mydisbelief of the plot in The Deep End went beyond suspension toflat-out rejection.No one so seemingly grounded in a normal life could becomeSO STUPID so qucikly.To think a mother capable of raising a scholarship  winning/waterpolo playing son and a ballet dancing/automobilefixing daughter would suddenly lose her grasp on reality isimpossible to believe.A nice turn by Goran Visnjic as the bad guy with the good heart.   "},{"Title":"Water water everywhere","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Picturesque Lake Tahoe is the setting of this story but there's the decadent Reno, NV lurking. This family is in deep water from the very beginning including a lakeside home, aquarium, leaky faucet, water bottles, health club pool and the watery grave for the dead drunk. We're drowning in this metaphorThere's evil in the deep end, which is the name of the bar that Margaret's (Tilda Swinton) first nemesis owns. She has old fashioned notions that her 17 year old son Beau (Jonathan Tucker) shouldn't be hanging with a 31 year old dude, particularly since they just had a major fender bender where alcohol was involved. Was I the only one curious about Beau's continued driving following an obvious DUI?Once the body surfaces so do predatory opportunists with an incriminating video placing son and bar owner too close for comfort. The father, a military officer who's too much the gentleman to appreciate his son's uncloseted lifestyle, must be kept out of his loop. The price tag for domestic tranquility is beyond Margaret's reach and that dilemma only draws her in deeper.Here we start to see the scrupulous extortionist Alek (Goran Visnjic). The good cop/bad cop ploy between both blackmailers, Alek and Carlie Nagle (Raymond J. Barry) and Margaret evolves into a relationship leaving the audience, and Margaret, agape. Tilda Swinton shows her remarkable range of perplexed expressions as well as a darn good American accent. She plays her part with the determination to protect her son regardless of the personal cost. Left to her own resources, the alpha female will defend her progeny through determination, wile and good fortune. I had a boss who said he would rather be lucky than talented. He was lucky. Margaret is both. And Tilda Swinton is remarkably talented; for that we are lucky.CyCy "},{"Title":"Tight, effective thriller film-making, with awesome performances","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Deep End was a real good treat in August.  As it was, the good thriller wasn't good to come by, and when this came out, I was pleased. The film stars Tilda Swinton as Margaret, a mother of 3 who discovers in the wake of her eldest son's (Jonathan Tucker) car crash, that he was at a club called the Deep End.  She then finds that he was with a guy and she tells him to stay away from him.  Unfortunately, he doesn't listen, and he comes to the house to visit the son anyway.  Some insight comes in (the son is gay), but then the 2 fight.  As the son goes back to the house, the man unfortunately slips and falls to his death.  When Margaret discovers this, she dumps the body far from the home, but this starts her getting involved with a dastardly (or is he dastardly) figure (Goran Visjic) who wants a whole lot of money or he will disclose a tape to the cops of her son doing something, well, let's just say not hetero like.The film's plot is actually quite an original, with tight scenes going in the film consistantly and the actors delivering the punchy dialogue quite well.  The pic is a reminder of old Hitchcock movies and even film-noirs at points (the scene where Margaret dumps the body is a very nice touch) and in that region it's very close to must see.  Only sqaubbles that kept this movie from being a great thriller- in some crucial moments, the characters keep they're motives and thoughts to themselves when it would be better for the audience to know it so.  Also, their could've been more scenes with Swinton and Tucker (he makes a good breakthrough here, as does Visjic).  Still, in the overall scope it's a often mesmerizing, totally atmospheric and definately believable movie, with Swinton turning in possibly the best female performance of the year and definately the summer.  Scripted by the directors, from a story by Elisabeth Sanxay Holding.  A- "}{"Title":"Moody, character-driven","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a nice throwback to 70's films  more character-driven than the average thriller nowadays.  Well acted by the three leads--though if Goran Visnjic wiggled his tongue along his teeth one more time I would have come unglued.  The low budget was cleverly disguised with simple but effective camera set-ups, and a minimum of extraneous characters.  Best moment  the extreme closeup toward the end in which Alec's and Margaret's lip are almost touching--extremely erotic moment, particularly since what is really happening out of camera range (no spoiler here) is decidedly unromantic. Not as haunting as it wants to be, but refreshingly smart and egalitarian in its respect for and treatment of its characters. "},{"Title":"Tilda Swinton - Best Actress Nominee?","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Beautifully filmed movie. Tilda Swinton did a stellar job conveying her character's fierce desire to protect her son and kept the somewhat far-fetched plot grounded. Jonathan Tucker was wonderful in the film as well and portrayed his character in an understated and simple way and made us understand why his mother would go to the end of the line for him.  Goran Visnjic was somewhat less convincing in his role, but I blame the cheesy lines he had to deal with.  Wonderful film. "},{"Title":"No boring segments in this movie","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Writer-directors Scott Mc Gehee and David Siegel did a beautiful job on this one.  The movie twists and turns were fresh and kept one attention throughout.  If you can allow yourself not to nit-pick the not infrequent implausible situations, then you will appreciate the acting of mom and the handsome bad guy both of whom were excellent in their performances.The photography and the music was beautifully done.  In short, a very entertaining movie.  I give it 3 and 1/2 stars.   "},{"Title":"Stretches plausibility 'til it breaks","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the story of a woman who manages a coverup for her son at great expense; this is set in motion by a decision in which she must choose to cover tracks or report an incident to the police.  The problem is that the tracks are neither hers nor her son's, and we are expected to empathize with a woman who essentially covers up an accident, and then the coverup spirals out of control.  I sat the whole time wishing she'd simply been honest and brave enough to let the incident stand as fact.  Instead, she comes off as rather stupid, or at least horribly foolish.The movie's subject matter is pretty unpleasant -- a 30 year old man has been having sex with her perhaps-of-legal-age boy (the movie skirts this issue, but we know he's ready for college) -- and the mother can't bear for her son's ever-absent father to find out.  I can understand a mother's disgust at being shown video footage of what a criminal calls his blossoming sexuality, but I simply never believed that a mother would commit some of the acts which she does to protect his privacy or reputation or whatever.  Indeed, the audience is insulted The son is portrayed mainly as a simpering fellow, his eyes always on the verge of tears; his lover is a club owner with enough vanity to drive a swell car and wear nice clothes, but apparently pride not sufficient to remind him of the occasional brushing and flossing.  In short, no one needed to yank my chain to make me feel this boy is puppy dog vulnerable and incapable of facing adulthood ramifications of his actions; no one needed to make sure the older lover was slimy enough that I'd be aware of all levels of inpropriety.  It's always much more interesting if characters are played against type, but instead we have a club owner who, in every exchange with the boy, must address him with a pet name like Precious.  (But never the same pet name -- we'd hate to risk characterization.)I had a surge of hope when the mother confronted the blackmailer with the reality of her situation -- how she was going to try harder to raise the $50,000 he wanted to steal from her -- and for a little bit, the movie kicked into a nice gear.  Suddenly it was fresh and plausible.But not for long.  I won't reveal the ending, but it's like the anti-deus ex machina, even allowing lips to gently brush one another in the wake of tragedy.  There were titters in the Oakland theater at the contrivance, and audience members were sort of looking around -- Do you believe this?No, I didn't.  I believed a few minutes of the story -- the acting generally is not the problem here -- but those few minutes just weren't worth it.  As overrated as GHOST WORLD, this one will soon be forgotten.  5/10 "},{"Title":"A mother goes to great lengths to protect her son from evil.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"   It starts with an upscale family on tony Lake Tahoe.  A young boy is cleaning out an aquarium tank with a garden hose.  That is the beginning of the theme of water, underwater, fish, fishing for toys, fishing for a set of keys in a body under the water.As anyone can see, there is a Hitchcockian juxtaposition of the everyday normal and the bizarre, shocking and horrifying.  We follow the path of a mother who is trying to protect her teenage son from hanging around bad company.  He is a nice boy, but straining at the leash, looking for excitement in the nether world of Las Vegas.  He unknowingly falls into a trap and the mother is desperately trying to extricate him, but gets caught up in it herself.It seems the young man had a fight with his gay friend and seemingly murders him.  The mother is trying to cover it up by disposing of the body, but an extortionist comes with a video of her son being sodomized, and he wants $50K to destroy the tape.  How is she going to get a hold of that much cash in 24 hours?The father is away on duty in an aircraft carrier and can't be contacted and the mother is alone with ever deepening problems, one of which is a mixed blessing, the extortionist helps her out in a life-and-death situation and is touched by her toughness, dedication and devotion.  His toughness slowly melts and the plot thickens as he gets in trouble with higher ups in the criminal conspiracy.The plot uncovers one surprise after another, one insurmountable problem after another and the character development and relationships deepen and become ever more complex.  The relationship between the mother and the extortionist is the central axis of the film and the acting of both is outstanding, the denouement exceedingly touching and moving.It's an Academy Award film for acting, story, photography, editing, a winner, maybe will be the best film of the year. "},{"Title":"A mother goes to great lengths to protect her son from evil.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"   It starts with an upscale family on tony Lake Tahoe.  A young boy is cleaning out an aquarium tank with a garden hose.  That is the beginning of the theme of water, underwater, fish, fishing for toys, fishing for a set of keys in a body under the water.As anyone can see, there is a Hitchcockian juxtaposition of the everyday normal and the bizarre, shocking and horrifying.  We follow the path of a mother who is trying to protect her teenage son from hanging around bad company.  He is a nice boy, but straining at the leash, looking for excitement in the nether world of Las Vegas.  He unknowingly falls into a trap and the mother is desperately trying to extricate him, but gets caught up in it herself.It seems the young man had a fight with his gay friend and seemingly murders him.  The mother is trying to cover it up by disposing of the body, but an extortionist comes with a video of her son being sodomized, and he wants $50K to destroy the tape.  How is she going to get a hold of that much cash in 24 hours?The father is away on duty in an aircraft carrier and can't be contacted and the mother is alone with ever deepening problems, one of which is a mixed blessing, the extortionist helps her out in a life-and-death situation and is touched by her toughness, dedication and devotion.  His toughness slowly melts and the plot thickens as he falls in love with her and gets in trouble with higher ups in the criminal conspiracy.  Yet another body has to be disposed of.The plot uncovers one surprise after another, one insurmountable problem after another and the character development and relationships deepen and become ever more complex.  The relationship between the mother and the extortionist is the central axis of the film and the acting of both is outstanding, the denouement exceedingly touching and moving.It's an Academy Award film for acting, story, photography, editing, a winner, maybe will be the best film of the year. "},{"Title":"Finally a non-manipulative American thriller...","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"    The Europeans have been doing these kinds of step by step thrillers for years, and mostly without big bangs , or loud music , or visual scare tactics that cheaply provoke a jump in the seat. Jack Nicholson's The Pledge came close last year , oddly set in similar locations as The Deep End , but that film lacked polish and culminated in an awful conclusion. This movie has everything, solid cast, understated dialogue that doesn't rely on artificial extremes of bad language, and a real sense of putting the viewer in a what would I do ? mode. Tilda Swinton excells by being truly motherly and down to earth as one bad situation leads to another. There are some minor plot holes that aren't serious enough to go into that prevent this from being a perfect ten. But shot at picturesque Lake Tahoe , it has the feel of a foreign film. That's due to the aforementioned lack of manipulation .  "},{"Title":"very good, moody, minimal.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a beautifully shot film. It is also a great example of less being more (it appears to be kept to the barest essentials for good reason - the details (or lack thereof) sink in more). You will have to pay attention to this film to really enjoy it, but it had no problem holding my interest. Arty without being pretentious. Emotional without excess. Good stuff.  "},{"Title":"A real disappointment","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The trailer for this film is a textbook example of Hollywood marketing tricks at their most deceptive. This movie delivered NOTHING that the trailer promised. There was no tension, no suspense, and no climax. It started out in second gear and remained stuck there the entire time. The dynamic between the family members was so stiff and artificial -- while a certain amount of dysfunction is to be expected, the fact that none of the family members discussed any of the issues looming right in front of their faces (read elephant in the living room) -- how did the eldest son get his huge black eye? who is this new stranger lurking in and around their house?? -- recalls the flimsy misunderstandings of a bad Three's Company episode. Skip this one. "},{"Title":"An Uncommon Mother's Love","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In The Deep End Tilda Swinton's maternal instincts may not be of the average variety, but she makes us believe that they are well within the character's realm.  Not all mothers would work so arduously and secretly to protect her child.  Margaret Hall, despite her plain looks and stereotypical lifestyle, is not common.  She does what few women would find the courage to do when faced with the possibility of her son's wrong doing.  She covers it up and then sets about plugging the dams that her deception has created. She is at once inexplicable and endearing.  Folding laundry while trying to come up with the blackmailer's money, not confronting her son about his deed, it all seems a bit strange.  But Margaret Hall is not given to hysteria.  She has lived without a man, and knows how to keep her head. Margaret is an extraordinary woman and Tilda Swinton wraps her in an ordinary guise to throw us off.The film is not about blackmail or murder, it's about the tenuous relationship between mother and child, and the need for delicacy in the face of corruption.  Alec Sparrow, the enforcer, is struck by Margaret's strength and the family that is at the center of her courage.  He wanders around her empty home, noting the simpliciites of a family that he intends to destroy. That lovely scene, in all its nuances, shows Alec to be more than he appears and his altruism is all the more poignant in it's recklessness.This film is not a run of the mill blackmail movie. Nor is it, as has been said, a Movie of the Week.  The superb acting and fine direction elevates it above the rest.  In a summer of by the numbers films, this one surprises with its intensity.   "}{"Title":"Sturdy Melodrama","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A sturdy and controlled melodrama that's really about repressed sexuality and Oedipal impulses. Swinton's performance is the matrix as it moves brilliantly from chilly reserve to warm involvement. Handsome color cinematography and well-paced direction. "},{"Title":"Worthwhile thriller written, produced and directed by Scott McGehee and David Siegel - the mark of quality filmmaking","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Their first endeavor was Suture 1993, and seven years after, Scott McGehee and David Siegel together gives us The Deep End, another thinking man's thriller with action and mystery to solve. In The Deep End, we the viewers get to know some information that the characters in the film do not know. But don't for a moment think that we know it all, or feel that you have to exert effort to try to solve anything. Just sit back and take it all in. The plot is so well written that as the story evolves, the change of events comes naturally in rhythm. The audience was quiet throughout the film's viewing. I watched with fascination and anticipation as McGehee and Siegel weaved their story. It's a production comparable to a Hollywood big budget thriller - the performances, cinematography, set and locale, music; every detail contributes meaningfully to the film.The cast is solid. From the ever captivating Tilda Swinton as Margaret (Hall) the caring mother and perplexing wife, to Jonathan Tucker as Beau (Hall) the youthful son with a secret, to the steadily quiet Goran Visnjic the mystery man who turned up unexpectedly at the door of the Hall's family house, to Peter Donat's supporting role as Jack (Hall) the grandfather, to the brief appearances of Tamara Hope as Paige (Hall) the daughter and Jordan Dorrance as Dylan (Hall) the young son, and not to forget Josh Lucas as Darby Reese.Cinematography is exquisite. It's refreshing to once again watch a film with sharp focus and crisp colors, use of wide angle coverage of the scenes (from the opening continuous shot of water-rippling pattern, the clarity of angle to the specific moods - be it outdoor or underwater, to the pull back of the camera to include the Hall's family house as being just another light at night among others against the mountain backdrop of a Tahoe lakeside community), and close-up's effectively applied at measured timing. All these details are not obvious during the viewing as we are quite caught up by what's happening to Margaret and Beau and mystery man Alek...While German writer-director Tom Tykwer (Winter Sleepers, Princess and the Warrior) gives us drama surrounding the subject of Fate, both of McGehee and Siegel's features somehow also has Fate come into play in the storyline. They give us crime thrillers subliminally prompted by the element of Fate. (In Suture, by strange happenstance, Dennis Haysbert is half-brother Clay Arlington who is black, to Michael Harris' Vincent Towers who is white - the film being shot in explicit black and white complemented the storyline well.)Definitely, the refinement of the plot in The Deep End is the quality what Hollywood's What Lies Beneath 2000 did not have (in spite of the presence of Michelle Pfeiffer.)  Thanks to Fox Searchlight Pictures for distributing this i5 Films production. Scott McGehee and David Siegel - smooth operators, they are. It seems worth the wait for their next nuance-filled filmic experience.Other Tilda Swinton film appreciation Sally Porter's Orlando 1992; Susan Streitfeld's Female Perversions 1996.   "},{"Title":"A gay-tinged thriller - fascinating performance by Tilda Swinton","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My reason for going to see the film is that Peter Donat is an old friend and former client. Having no idea of its content I was captivated the moment that Tilda Swinton confronts a man she believes is a bad influence on her son.  Her performance alone makes the film worth seeing, and despite many loopholes in the story, it's a must see for anyone who appreciates good acting. "},{"Title":"Hey! I didn't know Atom Egoyan directed Lifetime movies!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Remake/ripoff of Max Ophuls' THE RECKLESS MOMENT, which isless good than it sounds. Ophuls put a fair amount of Ophulsianelbow grease into the muy-elegante tracking shots that spiffed upthis Ladies Home Journal melodrama about a mother covering upthe horrid aftermath of her good-girl daughter's One Big Misstep;the picture is still a forties equivalent of a Lifetime thriller. And sois this Fox Searchlight production, written and directed by the twoguys who did that astringent, almost Aronofsky-esque indie riff onHitchcock, SUTURE. In that one, like Todd Haynes, they seemed tobe doing a pomo thesis on the material rather than plunging intothe guts of it; here, they have advanced to full-on kiddingthemselves this is like a Meredith Baxter Birney You won't touchmy baby! special served up with Antonioni ice shavings.Particularly repellent is Tilda Swinton, one of the world's mostrepellent actresses, as an earnest, furrowed-brow soccer mom.(Nearly anyone else--Haynes, John Waters, Mel Brooks--wouldplay this casting for, if not laughs, secret, behind-the-hand titters.)The whole thing feels like an audition for these two dudes to get aParamount strong-woman-in-trouble thriller a la DOUBLEJEOPARDY or ALONG CAME A SPIDER. Go for it, guys! Just don'tcount on my nine bucks.  "},{"Title":"Hauntingly well done.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sure, it's a remake, but it's done with great thought and care. I didnt' find it homophobic in the least, but rather touching how the mother accepts the difficult situation she's presented with, with love and care. Tilda Swinton (or is it Eric Stoltz in drag?) is amazing, truly a remarkable actress. She's almost transluscent, but strong at the core. The kid is great too. This movie is made by it's performances, and they are stellar. Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Nothing Homophobic in the Slightest","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm really surprised by the knee-jerk reaction that would see a film with a single negative gay character as being homophobic. Nothing could be further from the truth. The mother's reaction is key here. She doesn't object to her son's gayness -- simply that he's hanging out with a sleazebucket. Would that we were all blessed with such a mother.But this takes us a bit afield from the film itself -- a truly novel remake of Max Ophuls' The Reckless Moment (1949), which starred Joan Bennett and James Mason. In that version it was a daughter (Geraldine Brooks) who had fallen for a gangster who is accidentally killed. Filmmakers Scott McGehee and David Siegel (who are both gay, and very cute, but not a couple) changed it to a gay son to increase the tension vis-a-vis the unseen father. Mother can handle this. Dad couldn't possibly. As a whole it's a 21-gun salute to the power of ordinary women in getting through the (often extremely perilous) business of living. It's quite unlike anything the great Tilda Swinton has ever done before. And in the role of the blackmailer who turns from being the heroine's foe to her friend, Goran Visnjic shows himself to be a major star in the making. Made for only $3 million (that wouldn't have covered the coffee allocation on Pearl Harbor) this is one of the best-looking films I've seen in years. Tilda Swinton is given the sort of full-blooded role people decide to become actors for -- but rarely get. She takes it to the limit. Even a bit beyond. Not to be missed under any circumstances. And take your Mom.  "},{"Title":"Tedious plot holes mar homophile message","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Why, when she learned that someone had been arrested for the murder of her son's seducer, did Mrs Hall tell her blackmailer that SHE had killed him? Did she suspect that her son, Beau, had committed a murder? If so, why did she never raise the issue with the boy? He had already shocked her out of her wits by appearing in a gay sex video being penetrated anally (explicitly shown in the blackmailer's video, in case we didn't get it). Would she not logically suspect him of being capable of hiding a murder as well? Instead, the film ends with a blubberingly tearful hugging session between mother and (possible murderer) son. It was an utter moral mess, masquerading as some kind of message picture.The two directors (presumably of the same bent) were so keen to get their social message across that they were willing to traduce the mother's character in order to do so. It's rather sad that Fox Searchlight and i5 were willing to finance this warped rubbish. "},{"Title":"The deep end terrific psychological thriller","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  about  the devotion of a mother.how far she can go  to save the future of his teen  son . we also  found a gothic aspect in  the filmthe isolated house, a quiet and accomplice lake.  tilda Swinton, an actress who takes risks in the different roles she chooses, is magnificent as this desperate mother whose calm and controlled life  changes drastically.  The film has certain polanskian aspect  if everything is bad, soon would be worst(like the characters of the famous Polish director, who try to fight against the adversities that alter the normal course of their lives).  Behind the slow path,  hides the desperation ,we will wonder ourselves how this woman will leave this great mess?.the film also  shows a possible unusual romance between  the blackmailer with the protagonist(a very noir situation)and then the  remorse, well,... you have to see it!.a rare thriller with  surprises, where the lack of communication, silence, complicity(from the viewer to the mother) are united.  7/10 "},{"Title":"a few more thoughts","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Commercial reviewers seemed to love this film, so I was very disappointed when I rented it and it turned out to be as dull and annoying as many IMDB reviewers thought. (Guess that shows me where I should go for my reviews next time.) Most of what I didn't like about the film has been covered by others, but there were a few things no one else has mentioned that I feel compelled to complain about (no spoilers)I didn't think the film gave a very realistic or involving portrayal of family life. The younger son and daughter had their personality quirks, but Tilda Swinton's character (Margaret Hall) treated them like nuisances she only thought about when it was time to drive them somewhere. The gay older son was the only somewhat-developed character among the children; his character seemed better-developed than Margaret's, in fact. The movie tells you nothing about her except that she's kind of tough, and is somewhat obsessed with her oldest son. She didn't appear to have any interests or much personality. The lack of dialogue may have contributed to the weak character sketches. The film was a paean to non-communication. Margaret wouldn't have had to go through half her troubles if she had ever talked to anyone, especially her son, about what was bothering her. (Kind of creepy that she assumed the worst about her son, and he about her. But the filmmakers didn't seem to be trying to make any kind of point about that.) The last scene especially seemed to celebrate this silence. I hate it when stupid things happen in films because no one ever talks to each other! And the romance that developed between Margaret and another character was completely unbelievable. The filmmakers seemed to think that the audience would buy that an unspoken chemistry was taking over the characters, but I didn't.I think the film would have been much better if Hitchcock had directed it; the idea of a suburban mother suddenly getting involved in a world of crime is an interesting one. But this film made it dull. "},{"Title":"Mom's Attempt To Cover Up Murder Her Son Didn't Commit, Hampered By Middle-Class Lifestyle","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If the film could be summed up in a newspaper headline, it's very likely that the above would be it.  Tilda Swinton plays the embryonic-looking soccer mom par excellence in this somewhat-but-not-wholly gripping story of blackmail, family, and middle-class lifestyle.I think the complaints about plot holes and inconsistencies are a bit exaggerated.  Sure, there are some, but they're not so obvious as has been described (a lot more noticeable if you're used to someone as impeccable as Hitchcock though).  Something that seems to have been ignored is the realism present in the film.  This movie takes into account how an average middle-class family might actually react to such events in real life, as opposed to the standard sensationalistic Hollywood treatment we've become so used to.  For example, rather than resorting to seedier methods of obtaining the cash for the blackmail money, Swinton actually tries every legit route that one would expect a regular upstanding middle-class mom to attempt. Is this mundane and less-than-exciting?  Yes.  But it's also pretty realistic.Another example Blackmailer Spera (excellently played by Goran Visnjic) informs Swinton that she is to meet him the next day at the post office at 5pm with the money.  But Swinton has to pick up her kids at 5, so they reschedule it to 4.The movie also gets points for the complex, uneasy situation that arises between Swinton and Spera when grandpa Hall has a heart attack and Spera walks in on it and has to help.  Of course, the movie is using this scene to show that Spera isn't all bad, but they could've done it in a lot of other ways that would be much more satisfying to Joe Viewer.As far as the homosexuality issue first of all, Swinton being a middle-class mom, of course she's not going to want her son A. to be homosexual, but especially B. to express his homosexuality with a male stripper from Reno.  This isn't implicit homophobia, it's just realistic. And the scene that some of the reviewers mentioned depicting explicit gay sex is only explicit if you can't handle the idea of two men making love. There are no genitalia involved, and the whole thing lasts about 2 seconds. For anyone who is actually disturbed by the scene enough that it affects their viewing of the movie, I would wonder about the possibility of latent homophobia.Be forewarned there are some aspects of the film that are highly repugnant. Namely, it is utterly steeped in middle-classness.  If you have any aversion at all to soccer-moms, mini-vans, or familial obligations, you may want to reconsider viewing this movie.  In particular, there is a scene where Swinton is complaining to blackmailer Spera that, and I'm paraphrasing but, How am I to get all that money when I still have to take my daughter to soccer practice everyday?!  Do you expect me to actually consider giving up some of the comforts that I take for granted every day of my life so that people like you, Mr. Worthless Blackmailer, can go on harassing such paragons of middle-classness such as myself?!?  I have kids to feed! SUV's to buy!  Cell phone bills to pay!  Okay so I'm taking liberties, but you get the idea.All in all, better than most movies coming out of Hollywood today.  Then again, that's not saying much.  Basically, if you want to see a decent film with good acting, but something not too intense or outlandish, this will suit you.To recapPluses great acting, realism not often found in films these days, not typical Hollywood crapMinuses some plot holes/inconsistencies, potential lack of sympathy with middle-class characters (if not middle-class), not as gripping as it could be "}{"Title":"Decent acting fails to save the movie","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The lead characters didn't do bad acting jobs, but that's not enough to save a movie with so many gaping plot holes. I had never even heard of the movie before my wife popped it into the DVD player, so I had no preconceived notions about it.The plot holes and incongruities were pretty bad.SPOILERS BELOWSPOILERS BELOWStrangely, the movie is named after a club that appears briefly at the beginning but never again for the rest of the movie.Why did Margaret wait for broad daylight to get rid of the body?Why didn't she clean out the boat?Why did she dump the body in clear, shallow water at the edge of the lake? She sure didn't dump him in the deep end!The cop seemed to think there were plenty of houses around the lake, so why was the lake completely devoid of human traffic? Why did there seem to be no signs of human construction or activity around the lake whenever she went out in the boat?Why did she think to wipe fingerprints off the steering wheel, but not the door handles?Why, when Alek revealed that the grounds for blackmail had gotten weaker, did Margaret proceed to relate a tale that would crank up the blackmail value?If Alek wanted her to have the money and the videotape, why did he have them in the car he deliberately flipped off the road? Especially if he didn't expect to survive to tell Margaret about it?If he was trying for suicide, why? It really seemed to be an over-reaction from an otherwise stable character. If he wasn't trying for suicide, why did he stay in the car?How was Margaret going to explain the extra car in her driveway at the end of the movie?  "},{"Title":"Intelligent thriller","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How our actions and decisions effect our own and others lives is the main theme of this intelligent thriller.  Nicely paced, acted and directed it is the sort of thought provoking film that is well worth checking out.  Tilda Swinton, British art house cinema fave, plays a mother who attempts to cover up a death which her son could be implicated in.  What she didn't bargain for was being blackmailed by a handsome stranger who could also implicate her son in the death. The film avoids easy moralising and hysteria in favour of a measured and cooly thoughtful approach which pays dividends as the film is compelling and provocative. "},{"Title":"The (Not So) Deep End","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A very conventional film. If it was done in Europe, it would hold good chances for a remarkable movie - parents confronted with the homosexuality of their teenager male kids, crime zone penetrating bourgeois privacy, the mafiosi falling in love with the blackmail victim. But the film WAS done in the US, and it would take a Hitchcock to make a great movie out of the story of the mother trying to cover for the alleged crime of her son. The master (who was British after all!) is no longer available, so we are left with an American movie filmed slowly a la European. This is exactly what US directors seem to do worse, and it takes half of the screen time for the subject to develop. The third quarter is the best, but then the end comes - and this is the worse and most conventional part of the film. What we are left is the very good acting, a story that is memorable but needs to wait for a remake in a few years to make more of it.  "},{"Title":"Captivated in Vancouver","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What a stunning movie! I was gladly pulled through an interesting and twisting plotline. I really like the way the movie was character driven rather than usual happenstance of errors and mishaps that seem to plague so many of today's current films. Director Siegel did a fabulous job with a well chosen cast. I'm looking for this one to come on out on DVD so I can buy a copy. "},{"Title":"Literally a deep end (possible spoilers)","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When this movie started, it showed a shot of a woman entering a bar asking for her son. Nothing unusual one would say. But it is unusual if it is the most exciting scene of the whole movie. The remainder quickly went down on a fast sliding scale, ending in a horrible dramatic end. The acting of Swinton was most likely the best of all here, but even she couldn't save the viewer from the increasingly annoying and laughable plot changes. Goran Visnjic on the other hand showed whole-heartedly that his place is in a series, not in an hour and a half movie production. All in all, the movie's title described the contents best it was a very long fall to the bottom of movie quality, all the way down to the deep end... "},{"Title":"I want my money back!!!","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers for anyone who cares!!!!We were tricked by the reviews! I don't even want to put forth an effort to review the film. I will classify it's contents by gradesActing - D....Bad, Bad, Bad, the only good actor was killed in the first ten minutesWriting - D- ....Bad, bad, bad. There are many positively dreadful lines that I, unfortunately, will not forgot for some time.Scenery - B ... You can't screw up scenes of Lake Tahoe, no matter how hard you tryCinematography - C ... There were a few interesting shots (view through reflection of water shot) but they were awkwardly used. It seemed that the director just wanted to throw in some Cool shots.Plot - C- ... The movie could have been extremely good, but everything else just dragged the helpless plot to its graveHopefully this will save some people's time. I have sacrificed two hours of my life so that maybe you, the innocent viewer, do not have to fall victim to the (erroneous) praises this film received.  "},{"Title":"Interesting, but...","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I applaud the very nerve of the writer/director/producer for the scenario of a 17-year-old (jail-bait?) with a 30-something. Bravado. But the motivation of mom dragging the body into the lake (pivotal to the plot) was weak. I'd have just called the cops. After all he just fell on the anchor. It was obvious, even with the piece of sonny-boy's shirt (30-something clinging to youth?) So what? Of course, AFTER mom drags the body into the lake, we discover there's money to be made by a quasi-serious briber, with a tender heart,--THEN are shown a brief erotic tape of son and 30-something in bed. I found the movie to be less about suspense and accidental death and more about oh, no! my son is GAY! An interesting plot with competent acting. Too bad Beau got caught. "},{"Title":"Don't believe the good reviews","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Isn't it amazing how that a film this bad could get good reviews from Roger Ebert, The New York Times, and Ken Turan of The L.A. Times?  Well, it did.  Despite a decent performance by Tilda Swinton, this movie is a hopeless mess.On top of the terrible MOW acting by the son, the grandfather, and the older extortionist.  On top of the hammer-to-the-skull blatant stylistic touches of water in every shot.  On top of the stupid quirky character trait of a teenage New England girl who takes ballet but also happens to fix cars, I have to take the filmmakers to task for the huge number of logic holes in this movie.<<SPOILERS AHEAD>>A few questions for the filmmakers--or anyone who LIKED this film1)  If you're a repressed New England housewife and you discovered the body of your son's dead lover, would your first instinct be to hide the body, in broad daylight and with great sloppiness, when you know that getting caught would only plunge you and your son into far more trouble?!2)  If, a couple weeks before the lover's death, the son was in a car accident while his lover was in the car, wouldn't the police KNOW THAT?  Isn't that how the mother found out about the lover to begin with?  Wouldn't the police already have that connection between the son and the lover??!3)  When a thick plastic Sparkletts bottle falls to the floor from a distance of no more than four feet, does it ever in a million years EXPLODE as if it's made of glass?4)  If a dangerous extortionist came to your house (not Goran, the other guy) would you immediately lead him to a secluded shed, where he could more readily KILL YOU without any witnesses?5)  Would anyone ever in a million years fall in love with someone who was trying to extort them for $50000 two days before?6)  If your movie includes an accidental death by boat anchor, a heart attack, and two car accidents in the space of a week, isn't it obvious that you're straining for some kind of suspense that just isn't there?7)  Are we supposed to believe that a) the lover's car was parked outside Tilda's house the entire night and morning after his death and no one noticed? b) Tilda drove the lover's car all the way through this small town and no one noticed her and c) she left no fingerprints or fibers on the car?  Who the hell is the detective in this town?  Barney Fife?Don't believe the good reviews.  This is a bad movie.  Stay away. "},{"Title":"Not your Typical homophobic garbage.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I recently saw The Deep End when it was presented at the Stony Brook Film Festival on Long Island, and if you stay for longer than ten minutes it soon becomes obvious that the subplot about the sexual predator is only a Hitchcockian Macguffin. The movie actually deals with the suffering of a frustrated mother to protect her family from blackmail by gangsters. It also shows a deep connection between the mother and her son, whom she finds out is gay in the run of the story. She accepts him immediately and their bond grows stronger as the movie progresses. A very powerful movie with many deep issues. Also great for lovers of Hitchcock.  "},{"Title":"Electrifying drama, incredible performances","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Tilda Swinton! What a gal! This harrowing and brilliantly filmed tale is a complete tour de force from beginning to end. Why is it that these modest independent films are always ignored for American awards? Swinton's performance is really Oscar material, and so are the writing and direction by the pair Scott McGehee (spelling that surname requires some practice!) and David Siegel. The film is based on a novel by Elizabeth Holding, and whoever chose that as the basis for a movie was very clever. The young Croatian actor Voran Visnjic (pronouncing that is even harder than spelling McGehee, but is apparently 'vish-nyich') was a brilliant choice for the other lead role in this film. The third role is Swinton's gay son, played sensitively and just right by Jonathan Tucker. Rarely has female multi-tasking been better portrayed than in this film, as Swinton carries out a multitude of household chores simultaneously with phone conversations, ironing separate piles of clothes and delivering them to their respective rooms, giving instructions to her children, negotiating her way out of blackmail which threatens to ruin her family, raising money while her husband is away on a battleship in the North Atlantic (he is an absent naval captain), plotting how to save her son from a murder rap, looking after her resident father-in-law, saving him from a heart attack, emptying the garbage, and much else besides. Swinton manages to make herself as unglamourous as possible, in order to simulate a 'normal American wife'. Of course there is no denying that she is one the strangest looking people on earth, a kind of alien in our midst. In certain shots, with the sunlight at a particular angle, the eerie green of her eyes shimmers like something from a sci fi film. Her very weirdness compels our attention, as we see this bizarre creature that she is enacting human roles, as if she were not really from outer space after all, but were 'one of us'. (I say 'us' for all those who really are from this planet.) Her genius is not just acting talent, it is the capacity to cast a spell. So you see, she really is another species, because she bewitches the viewer with some kind of extra-terrestrial magic, so that you become so absorbed you forget where you are. You could almost believe it is a Martian movie and you are on Mars watching it. That would fit. But then 'bang!' you are back to Reno, Nevada, which is all too earthly! There are lots of shots of the beautiful Lake Tahoe, beside which Swinton lives. And into her life comes the young blackmailer from a world of vice played by 'vish-nyich'. He is incredibly sensitive in delineating a 'lost' young man who slowly gains some humanity and reforms his character right before our eyes, a truly magical instance of character transformation, and frankly one of the most extreme examples of 'screen character development' in a mere 96 minutes ever filmed. The fact that 'vish-nyich' makes this convincing is a tribute to his profound acting skills. He has that handsome weak face that reminds one of the young Alain Delon. His thin cheeks even wobble in the same way at moments of stress. He conveys without any dialogue to support it at all his entire life history, how he never had a family, never knew a loving and attentive mother, always had a hard time and decided to become hard in turn, and proves how shallow the roots of all this ruthlessness really are within him. This film is truly a profound one, a masterpiece of film-making by all concerned, and it is a tense nail-biting thriller which has you on the edge of your Martian couch. "}{"Title":"A little too cold but worth seeing","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" SOME MINOR PLOT SPOILERS!!!! Margaret Hall (Tilda Swinton) thinks her gay teenage son (Jonathan Tucker) accidentally killed his gay adult lover (Josh Lucas). She covers up the crime but then sexy Alek Spera (Goran Visnjic) shows up. He has a tape showing her son having sex with his ex and will give it to the police unless she gives him $50,000...which she doesn't have. PLOT SPOILERS OVER!!!Intricate thriller with a lot of unexpected twists and turns. It's beautifully shot in Nevada with great direction and music that perfectly captures the mood of the film. Swinton is exceptional in this--you see her character trying to hold herself together while her world is falling apart. She's just incredible. Visnjic is very good also. He's a very handsome man but doesn't let his looks do the acting for him. He's not as good as Swinton but comes real close. The rest of the cast is good--even Lucas in his short role. Only Tucker disappoints. He's pretty blank through the whole movie. I do like the movie but there is one annoying lapse--we never find out who Spera is or how he got that tape. Also the film is a little cold-hearted and everything is played out quietly--TOO quietly at times. Still this should be seen for the plot, direction, music and Swinton alone. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"And I Thought I Was Having a Bad Day!","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There has been plenty said about this movie from all sides already so all I really have to add is this...I wanted to see a Tilda movie and when I was finished watching this movie I have to admit I felt better. Only because as a single mother myself of a young person who is struggling to assert themselves apart from 'the family' and who shares the same qualities of being talented-with-the-world-ahead as Margaret's son, I really use this movie to make myself feel better when the day has been difficult. Because even though the movie stretches the limits, you still identify with the bulk of the despair one can feel when life starts to pile it on! And we still manage to pull ourselves up and carry on because we know we have to and we can! So I liked the movie and Tilda's performance! "},{"Title":"A Good Thriller!","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The film really should have earned Tilda Swinton, an Oscar nomination for Best Actress, as Margaret Hall, mother of three whose military husband is away at sea. Her gay musician adolescent son gets mixed up with this guy, Darby. He ends up dead and his body is dumped in the deep end of Lake Tahoe. I have to say the scenery is authentic and beautiful. Anyway, Darby's accidental death brings a series of unfortunate events plaguing Margaret's conscious. She is blackmailed by Gorjan's character who is working for a crooked, corrupt extortionist. Gorjan's role turns out to be quite decent after he saves Margaret's father-in-law's life while she is on her way to see him at the post office. He is blackmailing her for fifty thousand. So nice of a guy, he doesn't take his share for the sex tape between Darby and Margaret's son. The film is not so bad. I don't care for the gay son who I think doesn't take his responsibility for his crimes or actions that put his mother in such turmoil. It should be him and not her. "},{"Title":"I Really Love This Movie...","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's disappointing to come across so many 'viewer comments' from people who don't have the patience or cinematic understanding to appreciate a true thriller such as The Deep End. I'm just going to guess that these people see the word 'thriller' and expect sex, violence, and explosions a la Cellular or The Fugitive. While there is a place for such films The Deep End is a perfect example of the kind of European-Hitchcock-noir-thriller that define the genre (though with an 'homme fatale' and blue instead of black as a color scheme, this film actually finds ways to subvert the genre while remaining faithful to its tenets).I will, however, admit that on my first viewing I was unimpressed. But it haunted me and remained in the back of my head until I gave it another try. That was when I noticed the slow ratcheting up of tension and the complex relationship this lonely, isolated housewife (Margaret) gets drawn into with the sad, desperate, wannabe gangster (Alek). Perhaps those critics of the film are turned off by the normal, everydayness of Margaret's life, but I found that her domestic rituals (played to pitch-perfect perfection by Tilda Swinton) heightened the tension particularly in those scenes where she covers for what she thinks is her son's crime. Watching Margaret balance the demands of a blackmailer with those of a housewife is pure genius.Furthermore, the way in which this film deals with the theme of homosexuality struck a note of truth for me. It perfectly captures the delicate awkwardness of coming out to a parent against one's will. Margaret loves her son but she has no language to express her feelings for what he is going through. She can't even say the word 'gay'. The tape of Darby and Beau only serves to further that awkwardness, highlighting the nature of people to focus on the 'sex' of homosexuality.I could go on, but I recommend reading Roger Ebert's coherent and enlightening review at his website.Recommended viewing Ripley's Game, Spartan, and Cache "},{"Title":"....this mom spiralled out-of-control?..","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Deep End took me totally by surprise. I had never heard of The Blank Wall by Elisabeth S Holding, and have no idea who Scott McGehee is. Both now have a good fan - I hope to see more movies by either.Again I ask, how can you coherently comment on any given situation, if you haven't been involved in it? Tilda Swinton - what a fabulous actress! (even in Narnia) - may have been driven nearly insane with her son's secret, but she certainly acted as any mother would, who is able to cope with the everyday insanity of raising a family. Her character was totally aware of every aspect of the crises; she successfully hid all of the terror beneath the surface. PLUS, she was ready to sacrifice herself as being the murderess, in order that an innocent man would be exonerated, because he WAS innocent. That she didn't cave-in kept me glued to my TV....there are so many hidden issues in this movie, it takes several viewings to understand them all - if you can.This true-to-life, underplayed story is just that true-to-life. We are so accustomed to over-the-top reactions. Beau (J. Tucker), or any other normal-looking son, isn't going up to mom and say hey, I'm gay. Realize, please, THAT confession is almost as stigmatizing NOW as it has always been. Familes just don't talk about it - that Swinton could grasp the calamity she faced, and still do all those everyday things with such aplomb showed the real actress in her.Goran Visnjic looked sufficiently sinister at first glance - he wasn't very nice when he forced the mom to play the tape. It took all of that walking through the house - and helping to save the pop-in-law; confronting a double-sinister Raymond Barry and hearing that mom just didn't understand how she was to raise so much money at the drop of a hat,and why; to understand he was being horrific to cause this trying-to-be-happy family any more misery. This guy played his transfiguration superbly, and quietly. Was there any need to over-act? Mrs. Hall, do you ever get away from your family may have disclosed he had never had one - and regretted his steamy lifestyle. His hidden rage was revealed when he had to fight-to-the-death with Barry. That sealed the friendly bond between Swinton's and his characters. Poetic ! Peter Donat was very good in his role as the father-in-law. Decades ago, he was one of those handsome leading-men who didn't do too much more than stand-around in a tux and look good. Nice to see him again.The 6-ft-blo guy is a beauty, and perfect for his character - so sorry I can't remember his name. I've seen him in Windtalkers and can see he is also a good actor, not just a hunk for the gals.The final scene between Margaret and Alek was fantastically acted - how redeeming to witness a baddie doing his best to make it easier for a truly courageous mom. Yes, there was love there, but not the ripping-off of shirts-and-skirts kind of scene, happily. Actors and actresses who can convincingly pull-off this type of acting have it together.....that's talent, and a cleansing of the soul for viewers.Mom's and son's final scene was exactly as it should have been. The truth was revealed to both through filial love, at last. Here is a simple story to revel in, without over-the-top sloppiness - it showed that ordinary families confront - and overcome - crises never imagined. There should be another major release of this movie - I'm so happy I have it to watch whenever I want - which IS often. "},{"Title":"OK, but not anything special.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ***** SPOILERS ***** The front of the DVD case for The Deep End has a quote from an Esquire magazine review which reads Finally, A thriller that actually thrills. I wasn't. The story idea is a good one. Ordinary mother tries to protect son from being implicated for a murder. The problem here is the screen-writers/directors, Scott McGehee and David Siegel have so many side plots going on it detracts from the main story-line, and because there are so many of these sub-plots going on, they don't devote an appropriate amount of time to any of them. Tilda Swinton (who looks way to young for the part) plays Margaret Hall, a mother of three that lives in a lake house in Southern California, along with her Father-in-law Jack (who seems to be written into the story for one purpose only, which I won't divulge here). The husband, who we never see, is a Navy man who is stationed on the USS Constitution, and we are reminded of this fact by practically every main character of the film. Margaret's son Bo, played by Jonathon Tucker, is a troubled high-school student, involved in a homo-sexual relationship with a nightclub owner named Avery , and the movie begins with Margaret, not knowing how to confront her son about his sexuality, visits the nightclub demanding Avery stay away from her son. One thing leads to another and Avery winds up dead on the grounds of the Hall home and Margaret stumbles onto the body, and she immediately begins to initiate a cover-up to protect Bo from being implicated. This is where the story begins to fail and never recovers. First of all, she puts the body in what has to be the shallowest part of the lake, and the reason for this I can only assume is because she has to go back to the body to retrieve Avery's key's to his Corvette that she must ditch. So naturally, the body is discovered quickly, and almost immediately, Margaret's visited by a hood named Alek, played by Goran Visnjic, demanding $50,000 from Margaret, because that's how much Avery owed him and his partner. He gives her 24 hours to come up with the money or he'll deliver a copy of a video tape of Bo and Avery having sex to the Tahoe police. They set a meet for 4pm the next day (5pm was no good for Margaret because she has to drive her daughter to ballet. Come on now.). Next we see Margaret going through the motions of trying to obtain a 2nd mortgage, calling credit card companies, ad even a half hearted attempt at hitting up her father in law for the money. She's late for the appointment with Alek the next day and he pays her another visit, only to find Margaret attempting to resusitate the father in law who had a heart attack while carrying water cooler bottles. Alek joins in the effort and together they get his heart beaing again. Naturally she doesn't have the money and Alek gives her more time, but begins to sympathize with her plight and the next day tells her to only get half of the money, but she can still only raise 12K by hocking her jewelry. This sets up a confrontation between Margaret, Alek and his partner that turns bad. I won't divulge anymore of the plot, but I do want to go back to sub-plots for a minute. First there's Bo's music and his attempts to get grants from, Wellsley college. Then there's a lot of flashbacks (never a good thing) Margaret has of a car accident Bo had while driving drunk with Avery in the passenger seat. The teenage daughter's knowledge of cars, the father in law heart attack, and the biggest complaint I have, the ever so minor effort on the parts of the story-tellers of the police investigation of Avery's murder. There's one scene where Margaret's in her car in her driveway and can get it started. A squad car pulls up behind her, and asks if she's heard about the murder at the lake. She say's she has and the police officer says The victim was stabbed with an anchor so we're checking with all residents of the lake. And Margaret says, Oh, we don't use an anchor, we just tie our boat up to the dock. And the cop says, Oh. Okay, have a nice day. and leaves. Come on. Who's running that police department, Barney Fife? The last point I'd like to address is the acting. Every character in this film is flat an uninteresting. I didn't care for anybody in it. I didn't feel for Margaret, I didn't hate the bad guys,and I thought Bo as the stereotyped moody gay musician has been done to death. I've seen worse films this year, but not many. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly uneventful","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Plots apart, this bears plenty of similarities to the recent Al Pacino-starrer 'Insomnia'. A slow-burning thriller set amidst picturesque mountains and lakes - given that the murderers are revealed early on in both flicks, they could best be described as wheregoesits rather than whodunnits.With its lower budget and lesser-known cast, this is at least the equal of 'Insomnia', but it suffers from the same flaws. It's a tad too slow and thoughtful - what are probably supposed to be meaningful scenes ultimately play out to be meaningless (the young daughter is a crack mechanic - so what?). There's too much pretty-looking padding and not enough character development. Tilda Swinton's protective mother aside, everyone else's motives are left frustratingly unexpanded.A nice try, but there's no point cranking up the intrigue only to leave it hanging. "},{"Title":"Suffers from poor pacing, unbelievable situations.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'll admit, I wasn't expecting a lot from this movie, but I did think it would be a bit better than it ended up being. Sloppy editing caused the entire middle portion of the movie to drag on at a slower and slower pace until it was easy for me to lose all interest in any of the characters. By the time it picked up again, I really didn't care what happened, and ended up reading a book while it finished. I didn't even need to watch the screen -- I knew precisely what was happening.Some might say I just don't appreciate a slower movie, which would be pretty far from the truth. In general, I'll take a slower movie over a quick slash cut movie any day. The problem isn't how slow it is, it is the fact that really nothing interesting is going on during the slow parts. The characters perpetually continue on their predetermined routes. The story just gets more and more ludicrous and unbelievable. I won't point out all of the flaws, others have done that just fine -- suffice it to say if you are going to slow things down, you need to make it worth it. Slowing down a second rate story only exaggerates every flaw in the writing. "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Roger Ebert said something like, many movies would have no plot if the characters behaved intelligently.  We can all think of examples of this, I think (JEEPERS CREEPERS, e.g.).  Well, I'm afraid to report that DEEP END falls into this category.The movie lost me near the beginning when Tilda Swinton takes it upon herself to radically rearrange a crime scene because she thinks her son has been involved.  What defies explanation, tho, is that she takes what looks like an accident and makes it look like murder.  Why?The acting was adequate, and the budding love affair between the blackmailer and Swinton had some interest, but even this is schmaltzed up in the end.I prefer tightly plotted films.  I guess we have to blame this one on the writing. "},{"Title":"Save for the sex, not much new in remake of Ophuls' Reckless Moment","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The most arresting aspect of The Deep End, a remake of Max Ophuls' 1949 film noir The Reckless Moment, has to be how little had to be changed half a century later.  This story of a mother's attempt to cover up a manslaughter which implicates her child stays, apparently, evergreen.  The house by the water has been relocated to Lake Tahoe from the Pacific Coast, with the nearby urban sump being no longer Los Angeles but nearby  Reno &#150; Biggest Little City in The World. The means of death and disposal of the body are unaltered, and even the team of blackmailers &#150; one young, appealing and conflicted, the other older and ruthless &#150; hasn't changed (though it's a step or two down from James Mason to Goran Visnjic).What has changed is the nature of the liaison leading to all the trouble.  The earlier film has Joan Bennett trying to clean up the mess brought about when her high-maintenance Veda Pierce of a daughter gets involved with a mercenary gigolo some years her senior.  Here, Tilda Swinton discovers that her teenage son (Jonathan Tucker ) has been frequenting a gay club &#150; the eponymous The Deep End &#150; and seeing, well, a mercenary gigolo some years his senior (Josh Lucas), who, during a struggle, ends up dead.  The means of blackmail are more blatant as well.  In lieu of a beribboned packet of billets-doux, we, along with Swinton, watch a hard-core videotape of Tucker, prone, the passive receptacle of his partner's lust.The fact that the sex is gay and vicariously witnessed by the boy's mother accounts for the chief change in the story &#150; one, alas, that the film fails to engage.  Swinton reverts to a kind of catatonia, and the wall of silence between her and her son grows higher and thicker.  Whatever emotions she's feeling &#150; beyond an instinctive impulse to protect her son &#150; can only be inferred. In many ways that structure of denial is the theme of the movie, as it was of Ophuls', who, however, kept it behind a scrim (though a fairly translucent one).  In The Reckless Moment, the obligatory `restoration of normality' expected by the conventions of the noir cycle takes place, if only perfunctorily.  The businessman father ultimately returns from the East coast to preside over the hollow rituals of family life once more.  It's as though nothing had occurred &#150; nothing has changed &#150; because in his absence and absent his approval, life goes into suspension.In The Deep End, the patriarch is even more remote, on an aircraft carrier somewhere on the bounding main.  This nebulous figure can't even be reached by telephone when crisis comes.  And, as the screen finally fades to black, he finally calls.  It's left to us to speculate whether or not Swinton decides to pick up.  "}{"Title":"Being a stay-at-home mom used to be a lot easier.","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A stay-at-home mother (Swinton) of three in Tahoe finds herself embroiled in blackmail, murder, and other stuff in lakeside film The Deep End. A stylish and slick drama, artistically and technically good with plenty of pretty Tahoe scenery as a backdrop and solid performances by all, TDE is a marginally engrossing film in which the lines between  good and evil are blurred and the characters behave in sightly unusual ways as required to make the story work. Those who can make the requisite suspension of disbelief will find the film engaging while others may fidget at the staginess. Probably worth the price of a video rental those in the mood for drama. "},{"Title":"Patchwork quilt Visually pleasing, but thin in places","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  During the first 40 minutes, I was thinking the film might become one of my favorites.  It was beautifully shot, and the tension was nicely played. Then Goran Visnjic came on screen.  I don't (necessarily) fault the actor, though his character, and the character of his partner, were poorly written both in motivation and, perhaps worse, in actual dialogue.  From that point forward, only a few scenes were able to recapture the fineness of the first 40 minutes. Nice performances by Tilda Swinton, Jonathan Tucker, and Peter Donat; and there are some moments of subtle humor which work well. "},{"Title":"Weak movie","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The story of a mother who will do anything to protect her son and family can be a good vehicle for a good film which in turn can be a drama about the relations between parents and children or a good thriller. That is in theory. In practic the film fail to be any of the 2 options. There is no suspense because earlier in the film we see what really happened and the emotional drama is not existing because there is no balance between the characters. And some of them are written in such slopy way we can not really connect with them.Tilda Swinton is good in portraying Margaret Hall but even her performance can not save the film from its weakest points. Lake Taho is beautifully shot and serve as an excellent background. Other than this, there is not much to say in favor of the film. The result is a non-convincing film which leaves you cold. "},{"Title":"A mainstream oddity","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film sits rather uneasily between arthouse (Derek Jarman's muse Tilda Swinton, homosexuality, and some rather tiresome motifs) and the mainstream (that guy from ER, dead body thriller elements, etc.).Tilda is very good in the role, particularly in the scene where she meets her son after having seen him in a compromising video with another man. Her facial expression of hurt and love, seeing her child in a totally different light, is very moving. The trouble is that she isn't matched by Visjnic, whose brooding, monosyllabic Balkan act comes very close to being wooden. And if you've seen the film, you'll know what I mean when I say the whole cinema laughed when he couldn't keep his eyelid from flickering...It feels like the gay element has been added to give edgy spice to an otherwise workmanlike and unconvincing woman-in-peril thriller (cf. Double Jeopardy, Eye for an Eye), and indeed it's rather offensive to portray Swinton's son as the victim of a predatory older man. The locations are pretty, and there's some well-handled tension in the first hour, but then it goes to pieces and everybody wanders around aimlessly waiting for the movie to end. "},{"Title":"outdated homophobic attitudes show through","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Like a number of other commentators on this site, I too came out of the film puzzled at the almost uniformly excellent reviews it received.  Whereas G. Bennett has pointed out the film's strengths and has provided a most sympathetic reading of the character played by Tilda Swinton, it should be pointed out that the novel credited as the basis of the script, The Blank Wall, by Elisabeth S. Holding, was published in 1947, at a time when the mere fact of homosexuality itself was sufficient cause for the over-reaction of the mother in this film.  Underlying the whole story is the stubborn idea that the son has been preyed upon by the evil chicken hawk (whose pursuit of the lad around the boat-house is ludicrous) and if he can but be sent off to a good Christian college like Wesleyan, he will be saved.  Once these attitudes are taken into account, the whole plot (which has holes you can drive a truck through) falls into place.  The blackmailer with a heart of gold is explained, because he too, presumably, is under the spell of the evil Nagle, who, I guess, is also gay.  When he sees photos of a happy family life (sans   a husband), he might be imagining himself in the normal role he never enjoyed.  Thus his conversion to the good (and straight). The difficulties of reading the ending also begin to make some sense from this perspective.  In the end, I am fairly certain that remakes of 40's novels about homosexuality are probably doomed to failure, unless they are done as period pieces.  If this had been, incidentally, it would have sunk without a trace. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Deep End is a good examination of Mother as both protector of her young conflicting with her obligations as a modern day Super Mom. Tilda Swinton is brilliant in expressing the frustrations of her character Margaret as she fights an impossible uphill battle to shield her son from harm and still manage to drop the kids off at little league.  Swinton does a superb job playing a Mother trying to pretend everything is fine while her fears and anxieties slowly eat her alive.  Josh Lucas was also dead on as the sleazy nightclub owner.  However, the overall story of the film was rather weak and filled with holes.I found Goran Visnjic's performance as the Blackmailer with a heart of gold a little hard to swollow.  Darby's death went down like a bitter pill as well. I mean come on, what are the odds of that happening? If Nagel was such a tough guy, why did he keep sending softhearted Alek to shake down Margaret?  He was there the first time Alek showed up at the house, so it wasn't to hide his identity.  The ending...little too convenient if you ask me.  Still, it is worth the price of admission just to see Swinton in action  "},{"Title":"Nonsensical Plot","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you had to hide a dead body, and you lived on the shore of one of the deepest lakes in the world, which is famous for swallowing drowning victims to levels so deep and so cold so that they are literally NEVER recovered - they just float around, frozen, for decades...would you take the incriminating corpse you desperately want to hide to the shallowest, clearest, most picturesque little BEACH inlet you could find, just a few yards OFF-SHORE!!!???  And that's just the beginning of this movie! Swinton and the photography are wonderful, but the plot is in outer space. "},{"Title":"Water Water Everywhere (and not a sec to think...)","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Tilda Swinton, a class act Britress with fine thesp breeding, is most welcome as a Tahoe mom trying to keep her gay son from frying for his lover's untimely demise.  Swinton is film's focal point - if you don't count directors vision which packs flick with water imagery and symbolism galore.  A splash of style (Hitchcock suspense brand) is tossed in for good measure.  Flick's plot goes nowhere you'd expect and some places you'd just assume it didn't, cleverly avoiding the usual confrontations and conventions.  But they are missed somehow.  By film's end we long for Mom to give a good ole primal scream at son or for the cops to bust in and turn things upside down.  Alas, this is not to be.  So don't look for the usual satisfactions here - instead be content with watching Swinton and symbolism, of which there is a boatload.   "},{"Title":"Didn't see anything too deep on this end","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"       As an admirer of Tilda Swinton's performances in films like Orlando and Female Perversions, I could hardly wait to see her in The Deep End, a new film directed by Scott McGehee and David Siegel which has garnered a heap of acclaim from just about every major publication I can think of.  But how these film critics can mislead the movie-going public! Swinton's performance as a mother who endangers herself on her son's behalf is right on the mark, but the film itself suffers from too many plot holes and contrivances, as well as poorly developed characters.     The Deep End, which is based on a novel called The Blank Wall by Elisabeth Sanxay Holding, begins intriguingly enough with Swinton's character, Margaret Hall, entering a gay dance club to demand that its sleazy owner, Darby Reese, (played by Josh Lucas, last seen as Laura Linney's sleazy ex-husband in You Can Count on Me) stop seeing her young trumpet-playing son Beau (played by Jonathan Tucker).  Within the next few minutes, Darby's corpse appears on a shore near Margaret's quiet home on Lake Tahoe.  In the time it takes her to take out the garbage, Margaret ties an anchor to the body and buries it in the water.  But her troubles are far from over when she must negotiate with blackmailer Alek Spera (played by Goran Visnjic), who threatens to turn over some potentially incriminating evidence to the police if she fails to comply.     The Deep End may have been as exciting as it sounds in print if the writers/directors had attempted to develop the characters more, so that we can actually care about them in perilous situations.  Swinton's character Margaret is likeable enough, but never did I feel as if she were an ordinary person in an extraordinary situation, as one would think.  If there had been more scenes included in The Deep End that illustrated the tension that someone in Margaret's shoes would feel, then this thriller would actually thrill.  But instead, Margaret seems to assume a calm and collected veneer throughout.  Some key scenes should have been longer and more detailed.  For instance, the scene where Margaret discovers Darby's corpse is disappointing because she isn't given enough time to be appropriately shocked or upset.  Instead she quickly disposes of the body seemingly on instinct, as if she were simply performing a routine household chore.  Now if I were her, I would have been a nervous wreck!     Another problem I had with this film is that Margaret's relationships with other characters are not very well-established.  The relationship between Margaret and Beau could have been more interesting if Margaret had perhaps shown more animosity or resentment towards her son for his involvement with someone like Darby Reese and for putting her in such a compromising position.  But McGehee and Siegel seem more intent on portraying Margaret as a saintly mother who bears no ill will to anyone.  Also Beau is given very little to do except look pretty and play the trumpet!     The relationship between Margaret and Alek Spera is also inadequately established, mainly because Alek's motivations are not made clear enough.  I suppose if you had to be blackmailed by someone, you could do a lot worse than hunky Goran Visnjic, but the blackmailer-with-a-heart-of-gold thing was a little hard to swallow, if only because Visnjic projected so little chemistry with Swinton.  It is easy to feel sympathy for Margaret's plight, but if Alek's interest in her well-being was for romantic reasons, then this is news to me! While I am relieved that McGehee and Spiegel opted not to include an obligatory love scene between Margaret and Alek, it would have been nice if they thought of some overt ways that Alek could show his affection for Margaret.  I mean, come on, Tilda Swinton is a beautiful lady.  It shouldn't be too hard for someone to stare longingly at her.     All gripes aside, The Deep End is still a decent movie because of its slick direction and compelling lead performance by Swinton.  Just don't go into this movie expecting the masterpiece that all the top critics say it is.  If McGehee and Siegel had developed the characters more, then maybe this movie would deserve to be called the best American movie of 2001.  If you really want to see the best American movie (so far) this year, you are better off getting tickets for Hedwig and the Angry Inch or Ghost World. "},{"Title":"Not Deep Enough","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT I was eager to see this film, but found it underwhelming.  The premise was great, but the execution too paint-by-numbers simplistic.  And c'mon, who would dump a body in shallow, crystal-clear water?  And what kind of forensics team do they have in Lake Tahoe?  There would have been blood in the skiff she used to dump the boyfriend's body, and she left prints on the anchor when she pulled it out of his chest.  In this age of DNA testing, there's no excuse for such sloppy lack of detail in a film like this.  The Deep End could have been a real sleeper in more skillful hands. "}{"Title":"Well-played but improbable suspenser","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is The Bridges of Madison County with a melodrama overlay. Fortunately, it moves along quickly enough so that the viewers' doubts don't intrude until the closing credits start to roll.  Tilda Swinton is fine, as is the boy who plays her son, Beau, and it's beautifully photographed, but still ... "},{"Title":"Shallow Direction","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  (Spoilers) If I was to judge The Deep End solely on Tilda Swinton's mother character, I would give it all the stars in the universe. She compensates for all the other acting in the film almost as well as she gets her son (and herself) out of a jam. The problem with this movie is that none of the other characters are quite believable enough. I could not accept the scholarly, sensitive gay son fumbling around with such obvious slime, and their brief intimate moment was excruciatingly awkward. Nor could I accept the change of heart of Goran Visnjic's character; presumably he was no novice at gambling and blackmail. Acting aside, the story would have been better believable under better direction. Direction, I believe, is the weakest link in this movie. The cinematography was beautiful; the editing was right on the cut. Given the uncertain direction, The Deep End had me laughing at scenes where I should have been deep in psychological suspense.  "},{"Title":"stunning/divided","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As a northern Californian, I can't discuss this film without noting the setting, Lake Tahoe, eerily portrayed in the movie in its stark actuality long gone as a natural refuge, no longer a fun, healthy getaway, now a semi-urban sprawl where people work, raise kids, travel by 4x4 or boat, shop.  When the lake with mountain ridge reappears as backdrop in the daughter's Swan Lake ballet performance, it has become sheer decoration. As much as I liked the film, especially the cinematography and early structuring of relationships, the final third or so almost seems like hollow noir formula with resorting to types and stock events.  We lose the power of the mother's confrontation with her son's predator as well as of evocation of kinds of maleness suggested by absent father, father-in-law, the boys, etc.  Rather than stay with the mother's character and its secrets, the film leaves the eerie potential of water, in a sense, and gets hung up on plot. The introduction of the nightclub boss, the fight in the boat house, the car crash--none seem to grow organically out of the story. I think I'm supposed to take the near kiss between Margaret and Goran as he dies in the overturned car seriously, but it also seems comic, deliberately contrived. Either the movie loses confidence or it can't make up its mind what it wants to be a compelling mystery/drama with an interesting family of characters or a comparatively shallow murder mystery that deals with characters by killing them off instead of making them contend with themselves.  "},{"Title":"Why do people like this movie?","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Woh, this movie was one of two films (the other was O Brother Where Art Thou?) that I've wanted to walk out on.  The script felt out of a movie that you would see at 3AM on HBO or Cinemax.  There is no suspense, no thrills, no guesswork for the audience, everything moves nice and neat from point A to point B.  Tilda Swinton nominated for an Oscar?!?!  Just because she's playing a mother trying to protect her son, that does not make the performance good.  And you gotta love that criminal with a heart of gold. This movie is over-rated! "},{"Title":"TWO THIRDS OF A GOOD MOVIE","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an exciting movie for two thirds of the two hours, but it starts to drag towards the end.  The story is a good one and is certainly different, but highly improbable.  The acting is very good, and I enjoyed the story for the most part.  It is highly improbable that a killer will become a life saver and good friend, and this portion of the picture is what is not realalistic.  Worth seeing if you like fairy tales. "},{"Title":"Interesting Tilda, well-crafted, overrated 6/10","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this film, but I was very let down. Tilda Swinton is amazing--I wish she'd get an Oscar nomination. With her beguiling screen presence, she managed to drag me through the film. It wasn't a chore to watch because it's beautifully, coldly photographed and intricately put together. I really respected the technical art of this film, its consistency. The care of the director and the care of the mother and son's performances carry the endeavor a long way. The problem is that the script (maybe the source material?) is FULL of ridiculous leaps of logic and a pervasively dated approach to the plot. The mother's actions are totally silly, which stands in contrast to her cerebral aura. The gay aspects are especially weirdly handled. I kept thinking it would work so much better if the story were taking place in a time when being outed as gay would make the blackmail even MORE threatening (as opposed to being outed as gay when you're a 17yo band-sie). And I didn't buy Tilda and Visnjic's romantic tension. Overall, this was a smart film.  "},{"Title":"Remake of Reckless Moment from the 40's","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Deep End was made as Reckless Moment over 50 years ago with Joan Bennett and James Mason in the starring roles.  This older version was a more involving (and believable) film.  The current movie might have made more of an impression if it had been filmed in black & white, like the original.  In Reckless Moment it was a teenage daughter involved with an older man.  Having not read the novel which is the source for both, cannot comment on which is closer to the original story. "},{"Title":"A rather plodding drama that is sorely in need of that same depth to engage the audience and draw us into the characters and the story","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With her husband away with the Navy, Margaret raises her three children by herself. Eldest son Beau is a cause for concern as he has started making trips to a club in Reno where he is meeting with his older gay lover Darby. Margaret confronts Darby but the pair continue to see one another, with Darby coming to the house late one night. The next day Margaret finds Darby's body on the beach and assumes that Beau has murdered him. She hides the body and dumps the car, safe in the knowledge that she is one of the few that knows of the connection between the two men. However news of Darby's death brings a visit from the mysterious Alek, who has a tape of Darby and Beau having sex and is happy to mail it to the police unless Margaret can raise $50,000 for him.Although it looks professional and has a nice contrast between the middle-America home life of Margaret and the darkness that she tries to protect her family from, it must be said that it is a rather plodding drama at times and doesn't convince as often as it should. This weakens the whole film because I never really got dragged into the film; I wanted to be and I felt I should have been more drawn into Margaret's world in the way Alek was. Of course one of the problems was that I wasn't totally convinced by Alek or how he was supposed to have been drawn either &#150; a problem since this is the guts of the film. In this way it is a film with a good heart but not much else; the idea is a good one but the script fails to deliver it in anything other than a so-so fashion. It still produces enough of a plot to keep things moving but I couldn't help feel that the unconvincing delivery does much to take away from the potential in the concept.I can see what drew Swinton to the character because it is a potentially interesting twist on a dedicated mother. She tries hard with it but she hasn't got the depth in the material to work with. That said she has it better than Visnjic who's character just doesn't work at all and leaves him struggling to work within the narrative &#150; it doesn't help that he has little chemistry with Swinton and that he hasn't got the depth to make his character work. The supporting cast are OK in Lucas, Tucker, Donat and others but again the weakness is in their characters and not their performances.Overall then, this is an OK film that has enough plot to just about keep things moving forward but nowhere near enough in the way of depth and development. The result is a rather plodding drama that is sorely in need of that same depth to engage the audience and draw us into the characters and the story. "},{"Title":"Striking Neo-Noir; Twisted Me Around Like a Mountain Road","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I give very few tens. The Deep End is a ten.If you need noise, speed, obviousness and happy endings, this is not your movie.If you want to be made to think about class, sex, gender, family, money, guilt, love, and sacrifice, all while your palms sweat and your pulse races -- pop this in the player and knock yourself out.I was fooled by the movie at first. I found myself utterly cold to the main character, Margaret Hall, a mother played by Tilda Swinton.Swinton is perfect. Her blonde -- almost albino -- aristocratic mien suits Margaret Hall.Margaret is smug, spoiled, and quietly arrogant. Margaret has it all -- healthy kids, a house on Lake Tahoe, good looks, money.Her kids were, to this viewer, insufferable. Smug, spoiled, softies.I was chilled. I felt no empathy. I thought the movie wanted us, the audience, to identify with Margaret. Instead, i found myself viewing her world with predatory, destructive eyes. Apparently, that's exactly what the filmmakers wanted.A shocking event sweeps apparent con man -- maybe even hood -- Alek, Goran Visnjic, into her life.She must accede to his demands. She is arrogant to him. Slowly, though, her upper class facade crumbles. She is trapped. She begs. She wilts. We see a side of her we hadn't expected.Goran Visnjic is perfect, and perfectly gorgeous. Even though he presents menace, he is obviously vulnerable.There are great surprises. These surprises are heralded by the film's color scheme.In the first scene, Margaret is wearing almost all white, with some gray. Visnjic, in his first scene, wears black, and drives a red car.Margaret and her world are often blue, gray, or white.As the surprises unfold, colors begin to shift.These two characters reveal parts of themselves we hadn't expected. Their conclusive moves are genuinely moving.The plot never veers from pure noir. It moves rapidly to its devastating conclusion. There is raw sex and violence.And there is a moment of poignant redemption, worthy of tears. "},{"Title":"Engrossing Thriller Drama","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Skillful acting and direction help bolster an average story in The Deep End.Tilda Swinton and Jonathan Tucker make a convincing mother/son pair involved in a stark murder and cover-up of the son's clandestine hustler-lover. The mother's extraordinary efforts to shield her son's involvement comprise much footage, and the viewer experiences this event in great detail.When a smalltime go-between blackmailer enters the picture, the drama focuses on his and the mother's growing relationship.For the part of hood Al, Croatian actor Gordan Visnjic is cast, and he makes the most of his part.  A tall, handsome thespian with a personally colorful background, Visnjic was a Croatian army vet from Zagreb who also played Hamlet for six straight summer seasons at the Yugoslavia's Dubrovnik Theatre. Having made his film debut at age 26, he was a relatively mature 29 by the time The Deep End was done. Assuming we can pronounce his name, talented Visnjic should have a promising career.   The Deep End doesn't hold up much in subsequent viewings, due to the nature of the story's construction.  Once we know how things turn out, it's pretty much a done-deal.  However, the first time around, it's quite engrossing and entertaining.  "}{"Title":"Wildly implausible frustrating but well-made, acted movie","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Deep End is a well-acted, well-directed movie that held my interest throughout. It is also deeply frustrating because few if any viewers would do - or fail to do - all the things Tilda Swinton does or omits - that cause the plot to move forward. I didn't believe in the romance at all - just far too little time elapses - and the relationship changes far too late -  to get any sense of that.I didn't like the character of the son at all - from his first comment on screen. Obviously his rude and obnoxious behavior makes one realize that the belt should have been used a little more often - but unfortunately dad's off on the U.S.S. Constellation.I don't fault Tilda Swinton for this - but found the mother a puzzle - very reserved, very distant from the first moment in the movie.This is obviously a quality movie - the camera angles are interesting throughout. Unfortunately, if one is constantly thinking no, NO! about the actions or omissions of the protagonist that cause her difficulties - it's hard to really like the movie.  "},{"Title":"Remake of Max Ophuls Classic 1949 Film NoirReckless Moment","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  To Film Noir buffs and collectors Reckless Moment 1949 with James Mason and Joan Bennett is considered an important,unusual and stand out film.I thought Deep End was a very good re-make.The only important change from the original is the Gay twist,which updates it,I guess.A bit slow,it comes off more as a character study than a Taught Thriller.Still,when modern directors try and update/remake classic Film Noir they usually are less successful than with this one.Unfortunately the original film has never been released on VHS,LD,or DVD and is seldom shown on TV.I was a bit surprised that no-one else mentions or compares these two films,probably because it's almost impossible to view Reckless Moment.7 of 10.  JB  "},{"Title":"Tilda delivers!!!","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Excellent acting all around but Tilda Swinton definitely is the highlight of this film.  She brings a calmness and beauty to her role that I've seen few film actresses accomplish.  This was a strong movie until the final act and is definitely worth renting. I feel like  watching it again. "},{"Title":"Absolutely riveting.  It tugs on the heart a little.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's been quite a while since I've seen a film this captivating. Visnjic's character comes across as being multi-dimensional--he's an extortionist plain and simple but his conscience and his heart become too much for him to carry out his orders from Raymond J. Barry's character.  Though he does come across as villainous, that one little flaw makes the chemistry between his character and Tilda Swinton's character work.Swinton herself is one of the most overlooked actresses.  The portrayal of Mrs. Hall is reminiscent of a hard-working homemaker trying to keep the family unit intact.  An intriguing plot with few twists (not many are needed) which will keep an audience focused on her the character of Mrs. Hall.  My heart went out to her.I didn't expect much out of this flick, but it's a definite must-see.  It may not be everybody's cup of tea, but I did enjoy it. "},{"Title":"this movie is deep crap!!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First off I would like to say i hated this movie from the very beginning! They should have never gotten so graphic with the boy's sex life!!! I think as far as the acting went it could have been better, the boy was a good cryer, but a bad actor. The mother should have been played by someone else, but what do u expect, its a made for tv movie!!-neos "},{"Title":"WARNING","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Warning  Strong Sexuality really means Homosexual Sex.  Although not very graphic, most people will find the scene disgusting.  If I would have known it was in there I would have never rented it.Take out the homosexual overtones,  make it an affair with an female teacher or something else taboo and the movie still stinks.  Everyone else here pretty much agrees that this is not a great movie so I wont waste your time with that.  I just wanted to warn about the one scene for those of you that care.  I wish I would have known. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably well conceived and executed- Swinton gives an Oscar-worthy portraiture","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Kudos all around- praiseworthy direction, acting, story, cinematography, and editing.  This film has a feel that defiantely recalls Hitchcock at his best, and, despite being a remake of The Reckless Moment, more than holds its own.  Gay-themed scene midway may be shocking but is crucial to the story- Tilda Swinton turns in a career-making, Oscar-worthy performance.  Remember her come March. "},{"Title":"Absolutely dismal","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a movie about how murders, ransom notes etc. can get in the way of car-pooling.It also involves blackmailers who demands $50M from a wife/mother within 24 hours with no apparent reason for the unreasonable deadline; the same mother who hides a body in water six feet deep (which is convenient, however, when she has to retrieve the car keys from the corpse); a teenager who shows no his abusive relationship with a mustachioed sleaze-ball; the father-in-law who predictably has a heart attack toting enormous jugs of mineral water; a blackmailer who abruptly turns gooder than grits and suddenly falls in love with the blackmailee, etc.This inane activity is regularly interrupted by the need to bring someone to water polo, someone else to trumpet lessons, etc. Tilda Swinton is understandably completely strung out between her car-pooling chores and her incompetence at dealing with a laughably complicated series of dilemmas.Perfectly pathetic. Nice scenery though. "},{"Title":"Preposterous","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Preposterous, confusing, seriously pretentious (water imagery anyone?), ludicrous, badly thought out, indie film. Production design courtesy of Pottery Barn and RestorationHardware. The 12 year old ballerina/auto mechanic propelled this movie from the mundane/bad to the laughable. Tilda Swinton, usually smarter than this, is overwrought, and just plain stupid (what is she DOING dragging the body around without first asking her son hey did ya do it?)?. The romance seems unnatural and maybe an afterthought although Goren is a handsome fellow and no one would ever believe him be seriously interested in that hysterical, boney carcassed, creepy eyed redhead? Not me. This film gives indie a bad name. "},{"Title":"Annoying, trite, homophobic","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found it hard to fathom how a film like this ever making it into production. Each plot twist was a spiral downward for believability and credibility. Even overlooking the homophobic opening premise, and the bizarre way a man could fall off a pier and die from an anchor piercing his stomach (?), the characters were as contrived as the mock trumpet playing (that annoyed the crap out of me). I groaned my way through this, and only stayed to the end out of sheer disbelief that a generally well-made (and even reasonably acted) film could have such a diabolically bad plot turns. If this is a major studio's attempt at being arthouse, then try again.  "}{"Title":"...if you can accept the premise","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I might be the only one, but I had huge problems with this movie. Most other people seemed to love it. It just seemed a bit far-fetched for the events to play out like they did. I don't like spoilers, so I won't go into detail, but the premise that the entire movie is based on seemed a little weak to me. I had problems getting into the story after that, and then I had more problems with the way things turn out. Tilda Swinton is easy to watch though.  "},{"Title":"Deeply uninteresting","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Watching this movie through was deeply boring to no end. The script is uninteresting and implausible, acting is wooden and sham, and exceedingly tranquil camera work raises the excruciating monotony to a higher power. After the movie was over I found it hard to believe it had lasted only 97 minutes, and I can't begin to understand its relatively good score on this site. 2/10.  "},{"Title":"AWFUL!","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is by far the most awful movie in film history. People in the theatre were laughing throughout the film they had to call security, no kidding. It is so unintentionally funny. I just wonder why did Tilda Swinton accepted this role. Was it to get some good American money? Did they change the script on the way? Did the butchered the film in the editing room? Why Tilda?  "},{"Title":"DON´T WASTE YOUR TIME","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, because you won´t miss anything. This is one of the worst thriller i have ever seen. The script is very very bad. The director could have done more. The beginning promised  a gripping film but with the time the story began to turn more and more ridiculous and without anymore suspense. This is very pity. How romantic that Mrs.Hall felt in love at the end in the young criminal man.  After Memento this is another movie that gets one of my worst vote. TDE merits not more than 2/10. One point for the good shot pictures and one for the nice lake. Listen to me, this movie is too overrated.  "},{"Title":"um- stupendously unsuspenseful","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  did i miss something here or was not this movie just a bit um stupendously unsuspenseful and shockingly stupid? seriously.**SPOILER****SPOILER**please! this whole movie is a spoiler.WHY DIDN'T SHE JUST ASK THE SON WHAT HAPPENED?cause NOTHING happened!it was a silly accident.1/10ps. did like the lake tahoe camera intro shot thing  "},{"Title":"A Car Wreck","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ( MAJOR SPOILERS) Long winded story about blackmail and murder, or more accurate homicide, with a mother under pressure by two loan sharks who smelled blood in the water and came in for the kill to make a $50,000.00 pay-day off her misfortune.Going to the Deep End night club Margaret Hall, Tilda Swinton, tells the club owner Darby Reese, Josh Lucas, to stay away from her son Beau, Jonathan Tucker. Darby got Beau drunk the other night that led to an accident that almost killed him. It seemed that Darby was driving but jumped out and left Beau all by himself. Later that night Darby drunk and crazy comes to the Hall home as he tries to get very touchy-feely with Beau who belts him. Later that morning Darby is found dead, with an anchor in his chest, by Margaret at the empty docks by the lake. Panic-stricken with fear that her son Beau would be blamed for Darby's death Margaret hides his body on the other side of the lake. With everything seeming to have been taken care off a few days later Darby's body is found by the police and this stranger Alek, Goran Visnjic, arrives at Margaret's home with a video tape of Beau and Darby in bed having sex. Alex wants $50,000.00 by the next day or else he'll see to it that a copy of the tape goes to the proper authorities. You wonder what the police would do with the tape since there's nothing on it besides the embarrassing fact that Beau is in bed having sex with another man and is obviously gay.Alek later gets a change of heart when he arrives for the money and ends up saving Margaret's father-in-law's Jack Hall, Peter Donat, life after he got a heart attack. That strange incident made, a change of heart, Alek want to drop out of the plan altogether with his fellow blackmailer and loan shark Nagel, Raymond J. Barry. Alek then tells Margaret that she only has to come up with $25,000.00 for Nagel she still has trouble getting the money and ends up with $12,000.00 after hocking the family jewels. Nagel obsessed with getting the money takes things into his own hands by barging in on Margaret and, after slapping her around, threatens to kill her if she doesn't come up with the cash where Alek comes to her rescue and, after slugging it out with Nagel, kills him. Up to that point in the movie we find out from Margaret that she, not Beau, was the one that killed Darby by pushing him off the dock, when he drunkenly was chasing Beau, where he fell on an anchor and killed himself. Also the fight between Alek and Nagel seemed to be more out of Nagel being jealous of Margaret for stealing Alex away from him, which was all in Nagel's sick mind, then for the blackmail money. Alek driving away with Nagel's body then has an accident and with Margaret and Beau later coming on the scene. Alek, in a last act of penitence,gives Margaret the video tape, of Beau & Darby, and $12,000.00 in blackmail money that she gave him before he finally expires. Beau for his part doesn't have a clue to what was going on in the movie even though everything that his mother did was to protect him from being arrested for murdering Darby. Simple story blown out of proportions by the overly complicated script. The acting was better then you would expect from the uneven plot and the breathtaking photography of Lake Tahoe and Reno made you forget just how bad a movie Deep End really was. "},{"Title":"I'm sorry, did I miss something?","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wow, that is one boring movie. Nothing ever happens. I would rather swallow hot wax than sit through this crap again. It's not a drama, it's not a thriller, it's nothing really but extremely boring! The story couldn't be any more predictable, the characters are shallow and unrealistic and there's nothing special about the direction, either. I can't really say anything bad about the actors, since they didn't have much to work with and can't be blamed for not delivering convincing performances. There's no reason why anyone would watch this, who is not related to the people that were involved in the making of The Deep End. Avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"Tilda Swinton almost turns mediocre thriller into compulsive viewing","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The book upon which The Deep End is based had been previously been filmed as a typical 1940s film noir called The Reckless Moment. For this version, the filmmakers decided,perhaps rightly,that the main story was not exciting enough and therefore made the heroine's son gay. Like several other elements in this film though,little is really made of this after the early scenes and one wanders what the point was.It's really a frustrating experience. It's one of those films that is quite good and constantly seems on the verge of getting VERY good,but never really does. The thriller elements of the plot are somewhat sidelined so the film becomes a character study of it's heroine,but we aren't told enough about her for this to work and it also means that tension is badly lacking. The standard Hollywood thriller mechanics of the end don't really work because they seem from a different film.What makes the film work as much as it does is Tilda Swinton, who can be interesting to watch simply getting out of a car. By seizing on vague clues left by the script she gives a superb performance of a woman who undergoes a complex series of emotions, and she shows herself perfectly capable of carrying a fairly mainstream film. It's just that the film,while still perfectly OK,is just not worthy of her.Film's photography and score are fine and all the performances are strong. It's really the script that let's everyone and everything down, and the two directors,whilst showing talent,have yet to approach the skill of somebody like Brian De Palma,who can make a good film of a bad script i.e.Femme Fatale. But definitely see this for Tilda. "},{"Title":"Deeply derivative","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In a genre as well-trodden as film noir, it is probably hoping too much to ask for some originality, and this is indeed a re-make of  `Reckless Moment' made by an expatriate German director, Max Ophuls, for Columbia in 1949, which itself was based on a pretty pulpy novel by Elisabeth Holding called `Blank Wall'. The storyline has been quite artfully updated but essentially it's the old-time theatre of menace where the main character's predicament is caused by the triumph of instinct over common sense. What wouldn't a mother do for her son, even (perhaps especially) if he's gay, and the father is absent? It's a solid piece of film-making despite the utter unoriginality. Tilda Swanton (the ethereal bisexual `Orlando') puts in an intense and convincing portrayal of a mother in full protective mode, and the rest of the principals are not bad, though Goran Visnjic as the soft-hearted blackmailer is handicapped by the script, which provides no background and not much context to his character. This character was played to much greater effect, I am told, by a far greater actor, James Mason, in the 1949 version. Jordon Dorrance as Dylan the kid brother is cute, playing an undersea computer game with his snorkel gear on, but there's not much by way of character here. The Lake Tahoe setting is used to the full, but, hey, this isn't meant to be a travel movie. I don't know anything about the guys who made this except they made a movie eight years ago called `Suture' which sounds terribly medical, but here the whole thing is like a historic vessel reconstruction, nicely done, authentic-looking on top, but bog-standard modern down below. Sometimes this is called `homage' to the past but to me it's more like grave robbery. &#150; poor old Hitchcock for example has been done over many times. Max Ophuls did not make many great movies so his tomb may be left undisturbed in future.  "},{"Title":"Pass...","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Simply put, this movie does not deliver the goods.  Im incredulous at the good reviews and favorable comments from movie-goers that this mediocre film has received.  The writer and director of this film asks the viewer to 'invest' in the characters and the plot - the payoff being great twists and turns, with a shocking conclusion.  Well, after much investing, this movie has none of the aforementioned!  Now lets talk about how far-fetched certain aspects of this movie are;  Say you lived on Lake Tahoe and you got a body you want to get rid of.  Would you dump it in the middle of the lake where its several hundred feet deep?  Or would you drop it into a cove with crytal clear water thats only 8 feet deep?  If you picked option #1, pass on this movie.  Last comment  When I saw this movie, there was an elderly couple sitting next to me.  About 30 minutes into the film, during a homosexual scene, the couple got ticked off and left.  Well, by the time the movie had ended, I had wished that I too had been so offended by that scene - it woulda saved me about 90 minutes that I'll never get back. "}{"Title":"What Garbage!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I had heard that this movie was really good... but I ended up walking out of it. WHAT claptrap. This is one of those movies where the main character does an incredibly stupid thing in the first ten minutes, and then you are expected to sympathize with them for the rest of the story.At the beginning of this movie, Tilda S. finds a body, which clearly died in an accident. ANY reasonably intelligent person would go straight to the police. So everyone will find out that her son is gay... is that such a big deal compared to being a suspect in a murder investigation? So no, she gets her soccer-mom can-do on, and goes to dispose of the body, which as anyone who has ever lived a day in his or her life knows, is only going to make the troubles worse. That's fine, of course stupid people exist, but I don't want to sit through a 2 hour movie about them. Next why don't we make a movie about a person who decides to chop of their leg one morning, and the rest of the movie can be about how sad it is that this person has no leg?Also, I've been to the exact spot on Lake Tahoe where she gets rid of the body, and though it does look all spooky and otherworldly it is perhaps the single worst place on that lake to get rid of a body. But Tilda's character has not been known for her shrewdness.Let it also be said that Tilda Swinton is *not* a great actress. Sure she looks neat and is brave to take cool roles, but I get sick of her TERSE! READINGS! THROUGH! CLENCHED! TEETH! with the overblown drama cranked up to eleven just so we all know HOW VERY MEANINGFUL IT ALL IS!!! IT'S MEANINGFUL, SEE!!!The whole movie is a big load of claptrap anyway. Self-consciously, pretentiously arty in a just not-very-intelligent way, it hits all the buttons without seeming to have much thought behind them. By the time you get to Tilda's big speech about how she has to pick the kids up from ballet, put the roast in the oven, and deal with blackmailers, and it's just so hard! you'll need a barf bag.Garbage.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"The filmmakers need to watch some Hitchcock...","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ...because this dreary movie was inexplicably devoid of suspense. It's got a good set-up, a woman trying to protect her son frombecoming a murder suspect.  Okay.  There's built-in tension there.  Just don't hold your breathwaiting for it to expand.  Because it doesn't.   Instead, the moviedevolves into a completely unbelievable romance between Momand Mr. Nonthreatening Blackmailer With A Heart of Gold.I can't recall a movie where the central conceit was so completelycontrived.  Don't let the unfathomable good reviews fool you.  This movie isanemic.  (I give it a three because the acting's not bad, it's shot beautifully,and even the music is fairly good.  Which makes the movie'swimpiness and refusal to make things tough on the characters allthat much more frustrating.) "},{"Title":"Holes in Plot Deeper than Lake Tahoe","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I rented this video on the cover's recommendation something like  Finally a Thriller that Actually Thrills!  I could barely keep my eyes open.Neurotic soccer-mom Tilda Swinton chews up beautiful Tahoe City scenery while clumsily attempting to cover up a death that was obviously accidental, alternately trying to reach her husband and trying to prevent her husband from discovering the situation (?), and then dealing with blackmailers who don't have actual evidence related to the death.Goran Visnjic mumbles his way through an absurdist turn as a blackmailer with a heart of gold (and, conveniently, CPR training).Jonathan Tucker plays Swinton's sexually-experimentive son with all the adventurousness of Mr. Potato Head.  Even while being sodomized on video, he can't seem to muster much in the way of emotion.  Some might call this an understated performance, but he looks to me deader than Josh Lucas' character at the bottom of the shallowest part of Lake Tahoe (almost a mile deep in some parts, as I recall).I stuck it out to the bitter end, and was rewarded by the most absurd conclusion I have seen since George W. Bush became President.  You'd have to be a champion disbelief-suspender to enjoy this movie.The story is so contrived, and the acting so bad, the video store should pay ME for watching this one. "},{"Title":"um- stupendously unsuspenseful","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  did i miss something here or was not this movie just a bit um stupendously unsuspenseful and shockingly stupid? seriously.**SPOILER****SPOILER**please! this whole movie is a spoiler.WHY DIDN'T SHE JUST ASK THE SON WHAT HAPPENED?cause NOTHING happened!it was a silly accident.1/10ps. did like the lake tahoe camera intro shot thing  "},{"Title":"Typical homophobic garbage.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is another dumb movie about a homosexual predator preying on younger guys.  The story concerns Tilda Swinton who plays a mother trying to protect her son from an older man who is having sexual relations with him.  Even worse, her young son is a teenager, which means ONCE AGAIN, the villain is an older gay guy who is a predator and a sex-offender too.  How are gay people ever supposed to achieve equal rights with straights when the movie theaters are flooded with films like this?  Why are gay men in movies always negative stereotypes who chase after a teenager or some really, really young guy?  I live near West Hollywood, CA and I only see adult gay men with other adult gay men.  In my ten years of being in the gay community, I have NEVER known a gay man who chases after teenage boys.  All the gay men I know are only interested in guys their own age.  When will the film industry recognize that?  Shame on the actors and producers of this movie for participating in a story like this.  The writer of this film should spend some time in the gay community and realize that gay men are just like straight men and there is no difference!  Well, maybe gay men work out in the gym more, but other than that, there is no difference! "},{"Title":"please deep six the deep end","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  is the title of the movie a play on words or something? spoiler! I really didnt get the suspense part anywhere. I expected the body to disappear when the mother went back to get the car keys but no, the movie just went on and on aimlessly. why are movies like this even made? if they want to feature the scenery of tahoe why not spend the money on a travelogue and at least be honest about things and not waste my time and money. which was 5 bucks at a pawn shop and at that given current prices for used dvd's was overpriced.3/10  "},{"Title":"130+ minutes of agony","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Just awful.  What a horrible bag of garbage.  Dumb & EVEN more dumber. 'nuff said!  Got excited thinking that I was going to watch a really good mystery.  Boy was I disappointed!  The only mystery is my ultimate question for a really bad movie...  Who the hell financed this crap?. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Tilda and camera","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I hate to write these short reviews but really; this film is easy as I agree completely with another reviwers statement, that this is a bad script happening to a god film. It means that the cinematography is great, that Tilda is stunning (as usualy) and most of the other acting at least average. However THe script stinks! and due to this the cinematography never really thrills as it was clearly intended. I give it 4/10 which might be a bit harse, but this is the only film I can remember where good cinematography wasn't worth the effort. It's just plain boring.  "},{"Title":"The wost script I seen in years.","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The direction was horrible as well including the now-common penchant for really cool visuals that take us nowhere and mean absolutely nothing other than they are really cool. How can we watch 2 hours of a film with not one character with whom we can sympathize? One of the most contrived and idiotic scripts in years. It actually would have made a better film as a French farce. Don't waste the rental. "},{"Title":"Not bad but..","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This ain't a bad movie at all but might be offensive to some viewers with some strong uses of sexuality between two men, which may not appeal to a lot of viewers. But with all that said, a good performance from Tilda Swinton(Constantine), she looks really fine. Also there's abit of good acting ability notable from a new face to me Goran Visnjic. But this film does lack atmosphere, and needs abit more Intensity, and suspense! there weren't enough action or trills to keep you intrigued. Not the best thriller by a mile in my opinion but might be worth a watch, if you find it cheap somewhere! you could rent it, but make sure you rent it on your own i couldn't see a room full enjoying it. "}{"Title":"So many questions, so little answers.","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Deep End isn't a great movie. It's interesting because it tries to break some boundaries (like for instance a gay sex scene between two men), but the entire movie wasn't very convincing. It lacks power and doesn't always make too much sense. Some might say it adds to the mystery of it all. I say the writers didn't think enough about the entire idea behind the movie.This movie starts with a woman that goes to a nightclub, where she asks the owner to leave her son alone. At that moment it isn't yet clear why, but it is quite intriguing. Later you find out that she has to raise her children on her own, because her husband isn't home most of the time. He's at sea (probably with the navy) and her teenage son had a car accident when coming from the nightclub, but didn't get wounded. However, her son has a 'secret'. The nightclub owner, who is his lover, was with him when the accident happened. His mom knows that her son is gay, but his dad shouldn't find out. And then ... one morning she wakes up, goes for a walk on the beach next to their home and finds the dead body of her son's gay lover. Instead of calling the police, she tries to get rid of the body. This is the beginning of a spiral full of deception, blackmail and death...What I noticed most about this movie was the music. Somehow, in all its beauty, it didn't fit the movie. I had the feeling the music was too good for this movie, something that I never notice otherwise. And let's be honest, don't you think it is already a bad sign when you start thinking about the music instead of the story? I think it is. The story is just not realistic enough. Why does mom not call the police, why does she get blackmailed by these men, why do these people react the way they react, what do they have to do with each other...? There are many questions but only few answers.All in all this is a movie that certainly had some potential, but it never really worked. The acting was OK, but not excellent, the story raised too many questions that couldn't be answered and the entire movie just didn't convince me. I give it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"PC Drownings...?","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Isn't it time to move on from this sideshow melodrama? Doesn't anyone see this film as stereotypical in some places about gays? That the company they keep is always bad or negative? We're talented, but self-destructive. Now that is a cliché Vito Russo would have pointed out. As much as I like it....6 out of 10. "}]