[{"Title":"from a respite from dull films, see this","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  	A middle-aged Colombian writer, disgusted with life and contemptuous of religion, becomes involved sexually and romantically with teen-aged Medellin boys who kill effortlessly and with little provocation.  At first appalled, he eventually grows addicted to the deaths the boys bring about, their magical ability to resolve the annoyances of everyday life, such as noisy neighbors and aggressive cab subway riders.      The plot has some really astonishing surprises, and the taut nearly flawless script (in Spanish) is a treasure.  The film , obviously the product of a philosophically inclined mind (Schroeder studied philosophy at the Sorbonne), is a thinking filmgoer's feast and works on many different levels.  The main character's ambivalence about religion (the film's title, and the fact that the writer keeps finding himself in cathedrals) furnishes much matter for reflection.      This film is not for everyone--- it is, even for these times, shocking. Those more comfortable with the blowsy and predictable product issuing from Hollywood committees should probably avoid it.  But those who treasure the ability of film to explore provocative and original ideas will love it.  "},{"Title":"Madonna of the killers","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Medellin is a dangerous city in more ways than one is lead to believe. At the time of the action, Pablo Escobar's empire has been dismantled and his loyal soldiers are scattered all around the city engaging in a game of death, revenge and petty vendettas. There is no reverence for life in a place that has seen violence on a daily basis and where children have access to guns for protection in order to survive in that environment.Barbet Schroeder, the German director, expands on Fernando Vallejo's novel, which the author adapted for the screen, resulting in a highly violent and bloody film that is disturbing, as well as true.Fernando, the older gay man who comes back to his native city of Medellin, quickly finds a boy to satisfy his needs. Alexis, the young man, is seen at first at the all-male brothel where he is offered by the pimp to Fernando. Alexis turns out to be something the older man didn't expect. This is a boy that is savvy in the ways of how to survive in the city, who clearly takes an interest in the older, and richer Fernando.Alexis is a marked man and it's only a matter of time; his days are numbered because there are other youths behind him that will do whatever in their power to eliminate him. Fernando can't believe what his city has become, but he has no desire to go away again. When Alexis is killed, Fernando mourns his death until Wilmar, another young gay man appears in his orbit. Little prepares Fernando to realize who Wilmar is really.Fernando's comments on the situation in his city, as well as in the Colombian reality, are the basic themes of the film. While one side of him cries for that old place he knew as a child, he welcomes this new metropolis full of danger and people that attracts and repulses him at the same time.German Jaramillo appears to be the alter ego for the writer, Fernando Vallejo, whose story seems to resemble that of the Fernando in the novel and in the film. Mr. Jaramillo's take on Fernando keeps him away from the confrontations between his young lovers and what he thinks is right. He never passes judgment on what the young people are doing, yet he is instrumental for providing the bullets that Alexis needs to defend himself. The other two young actors, Anderson Ballesteros and Juan Diego Restrepo, play Alexis and Wilmar respectively.Barbet Schroeder has directed the film with all its realism showing us a society in which all hope seems to have abandoned the citizens of the city. "},{"Title":"Black magic realism","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Occasionally venturing into dreamlike surrealism, the movie mostly hits you with a heavy dose of cinema verite. The movie is about the city of Medellin in the same way that Midnight Cowboy is about New York. The characters aren't dealing with the problem of staying human in a huge metropolis, but staying human in the midst of instability that verges on anarchy. The effects of fifty years of civil war aggravated by narcotrafficking and the associated crime are shown in two ways, which are the central themes of the film the shift from the old and traditional to the modern, and the loss of value that human life has suffered. The banality of the several killings in the movie drives home the second, and the explorations that Fernando and his two boyfriends (sequential, not simultaneous) take through the city show the first.The movie is violent like the Godfather is violent the killings are not gratuitous, they are there to make a point. As a document of life in an industrial Andean city which just happens to be the second city of the country poised to become the next Vietnam, or better said, the next El Salvador, La virgen de los sicarios is excellent. It is sophisticated in its writing and its photography. The characters are human and complex. It ought to be in far wider release than just one screen in the whole L.A. area - which happens to be on the West Side, where Spanish-speaking people typically don't live. "},{"Title":"A realistic and subversive film","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the film at the Jerusalem Film Festival. It was a rather late screening, but the viewers were glued to their seats. It's a very gripping movie and extremely subversive in themes, language and visuals. It's very anti current-day Colombia, and no wonder the production didn't go very smoothly. Still I admire the support the film got from `official' institutions in Medellion. It's subversive in themes, because we basically have a gay couple, an older man (about 40-50) who indulges in having sex with minor boys (who do this willingly, and yet, it's rather shocking to the average viewer) in return for financial support, or rather indulging the boys in whatever they want to do. The couple goes around the city and is critical of every facet of the city &#150; and rightly so &#150; yet the tone is overtly cynical and `evil'. The lead boy, Alexis, goes around and kills whomever is threatening him and his sugar-daddy &#150; I think he executed 4 people once a confrontation was about to happen, and 4 more were other kids who were after him. S this shooting spree is depicted in a somewhat accepting manner, as if this is the way to do these things in Colombia. They ridicule almost every aspect of life &#150; church, police, government, the drug lords, poor and beggars, the bourgeoisie, other gays, and even themselves. In that respect, it's a very Pasolini movie, although the realism here is a real one and not made for the sake of a socialist agenda. The writer and his two boy-lovers are very lost, although they always know where they are, and the ending is pretty bad, as expected. The film shows no hope for the Colombian people, as they are stuck in a country ran by corrupt officials, gangs and drug lords.  The writer has great lines, one of my favorite was about him hating people who whistle, because they shouldn't try and imitate the art that was given to the birds&#133; A good movie, with a 7/10 as far as I can say. Acting-wise &#150; since I don't speak Spanish, it was credible to my ears, though the boys did seem to quote their lines mechanically at times.  "},{"Title":"Daring, this movie's got cajones!","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll put in my 2 cents on this flick for what its worth, not that it matters much but it is interesting to see the wide extremes of opinions here. I'm quite oblivious to the situation in Colombia today. I've heard about the casual violence and the kidnappings through news media. As an outsider, I found the film to be some sort of a modern masterpiece. The use of digital video was odd but I felt somewhat closer to the locale. The screenplay was incisive, witty and at the same time displayed the depths of the human condition. Some have noted that the acting of the young boys to be bad and unrealistic. True, they are not thespians by trade but I thought they displayed their reactions and emotions toward the writer very well. If I was in their shoes I would have been taken in by this writer as well. Why not? He is providing me with what I need and at the same time showing me the compassion and wisdom that is lacking around me. I believe wholeheartedly that this is Mr. Schroeder's most personal work. Why else would one risk his life filming it in Colombia? I've seen some of his other works and none come close to this. The irony of this film is that the cinematography shows Colombia to be beautiful beyond words. It makes me want to visit. Maybe I'll be like the writer in the film and go there to die after I have done everything I wanted to in my life. This is an excellent companion piece to 'Maria Full of Grace.' Both films are two of the best to come out of this decade. "},{"Title":"Forcing the audience to question the value of life","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Our Lady Of Assassins showed at the Brisbane International Film Festival. It left me initially distraught and other members of the audience obviously felt the same. After a bit of thought, I realised that it was indeed a powerful and beautifully created way of presenting the desperate nature of life in Medellin. The main character, who was born and raised in the town, remembers how potentially violent it was even 40 years earlier, yet seems to be shocked by how much it has decayed. It is strange that he is also quite complicit in inciting violence, while seeming to be just looking for love.The film forces the audience to question the day to day value of life and just how much violence we can allow ourselves to tolerate. But in Medellin the solution is certainly not in the hands of just one person.A great trio of films showing the broad story of the cocaine phenomena would be Our Lady Of Assassins, Ted Demme's Blow and Traffic.  "},{"Title":"The best! Brilliant! Masterpiece!","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie takes your heart and soul. This movie freezes your heart and wants you to cry, smile and cry again all at the same time, and above all almost screams at you about the horror of life in Medellin at the time which it presents. This film moved me to the core. Love story which might offend some people is gorgeous and true. An older gay guy falls in love with 18 years old street gay boy who desperately seeks love and security which he did not have all his young life. He can't step away from the habit which became his second nature, killing the guys like himself, young and lonely. In the movie killing becomes almost as understandable as breathing or eating and becomes part of love of the older guy to the beautiful Alexis. To my astonishment, all the killings all of the sudden became acceptable to spectators. I love this movie. I love the story. I love the plot of true feelings of the older guy toward his young lover and vice versa. Human spirit which emanates from this film is mesmerizing and almost blinding and the love is heartbreaking and beautiful. "},{"Title":"should be forced on all news spokesmen with Colombian corpses in the background","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Prepared as we are for the image of Columbia that CNN shoves down our throats- full of Narcos, Paracos and desperate politicians-, there is no way to predict the surreal way of life the characters in this movie pass through. This is a film that penetrates into a very real Medellin, where nothing is certain and everything is so vulnerable that human life seems to exist only the instant in which it takes place. Medellin is like Fernando- the main character-, it is like his way of walking through a church in the feverishly catholic ambient of Latin America with his sixteen year old murderer lover- who is actually more like an angel fallen from grace. Alexis- the young shooter- is the result of a less than miserable way of life, where poverty and violence rape viciously at each other, almost to a point of neutralization, what seems perverse is in the end the most innocent. This film is strong and profound, it should be forced on all news spokesmen with Colombian corpses in the background `Lady this is Medellin, not Switzerland'. "},{"Title":"9/10","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those movies that you're wary about, because the criticisms are so obvious. Yet I think this is something close to a minor masterpiece. This is quite rich material -- very literary, in a way -- and the invoking of Catholicism (and, for me, Genet) through the title is apt, for the way it delves into accepted perversions. At first I was wondering what the much-discussed shocking aspect of the film was, thinking perhaps it was the (would-be) sensuousness of this Latin boy-lover (the shared drink is not something you'd get in common fare), but it seems like it's more the violence that people react (or object) to. While it didn't upset me, I think the violence is interesting in two ways one, the digital video makes the dispassionate killings have little impact, because it makes the film seem somewhat amateurish (with aid of the acting), like a genre film made on a shoestring budget; and two, the film as a whole is anti-dramatic -- for instance, when the revelation occurs, in a dramatized film it would be devastating the truth of your lover revealed, and the swirl of emotions it creates; here, nothing -- so there is no cathartic violence (as in The Godfather, for example), and it isn't lush. But it isn't brutal, either -- you don't get your nose rubbed in it, and I cherished that generosity to the audience.The digital also helps keep the film grounded -- the only really attention-grabbing aspects of the film, as cinema, are the opening and closing framing of very beautiful music, and one nice over-the-wall camera move. It's like a cleverer Man Bites Dog, in the sense that this *doesn't* draw attention to itself, that there is no winking or overt displays of cleverness. The film as a whole is subtle (at one point it feels like magic realism, even though we are told, I guess, that it's not), even though individual scenes are not (that the euthanizing of the dog is the only killing that has feeling is very heavy-handed). It's also incredibly easy to watch, and I think that must be due in part because the digital -- clear, crisp, and clean, with a smooth lucidity -- helps you seep into the film quicker, without any fuss. Indeed, without any film atmosphere at all. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Violent and  harsh narration  inspired on actual events","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film is set in Medellin (Colombia) where an old gay man called Fernando (Jaramillo) who after many years ago he has gone back . In a homosexual brothel meets and befriends Alexis (Anderson) a teen at 16 years old and starts a romance with him . He's a gunboy who kills too easily , he unscrupulously murders everybody create him problems . Fernando is struggling to flee him the ominous underworld plentiful of dangers , odds and murders .The picture deals about adolescents and children from Medellin . This city was under incredible violence and ruled the strongest law . Pablo Escobar has been detained and his drugs empire has been dismantled and the factions are spread engaging war each other and making an orgy of vengeance and killings . The movie is a thought-provoking and intelligent studio of juvenile paupers and an unflinching observation at the underbelly of Medellin city where teens and children are dragged into a life of crime become assassins . The flick contains emotions , records , strong violence and a little bit of critical social . The tale belongs a group of films which describe the unfortunate life of south-American youth as ¨Pixote¨ (Hector Babenco) and ¨City of God¨ (Fernando Melleires). Principal actors interpretation are outstanding , in spite of being novels players . Jaramillo is magnificent though relies heavily on the continuous philosophical speeches about his sense of life . The picture is an adaptation based on a semi-autobiography novel by Fernando Vallejo . Barbet Schroeder direction is awesome and stylish , he's a notorious Hollywood director (Murder by numbers , Reversal of fortune) realizing rightly this video- film . "}{"Title":"Not nearly poignant enough.","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Our Lady of The Assassins will have you either loving it or hating it. It polarizes because it never compels as a movie itself, but is laid out before each person, needing him or her to internalize the film. The movie speaks of living in a Columbian drug town and the irony as people get shot everyday by moral-less teens set against the beautiful city and sky. But the main character, an old gay writer, is never engaging or as articulate and thoughtful as one would expect from the best known grammarian from Columbia. In fact, as grammar is rigidly structured, so are the writer's banal comments about 'time being what you want it to be' and 'life only being lived to die.' The musings have been heard before, but with greater clarity and depth. There is no epiphany to be associated with any of his sayings. However, he meets a young former gang member, marked for death, named Alexis and they fall in love. The film is so detached that their love is the closest element to emotion, and still one cannot understand why this boy would sleep with a man who incessantly whines constantly. The shocking life in Medellin is the most compelling aspect of the movie and the movie still has points, it's just that they are not nearly poignant enough. They are shown by the director, but never cohesively placed into an argument. I really wished I could have liked this movie. "},{"Title":"A Season in Hell&#133;with Barbet Schroeder Our Lady of the Assassins","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Barbet Schroeder demonstrates brilliantly in Our Lady of the Assassins (2000) that he still has a genius for directing art-house masterpieces. His first foreign-film in over ten years, is at turns violent, comical and touching. Fernando (played by German Jaramillo) is a writer who's been living abroad for many years and he has come back to his crime-ridden birthplace, Medellin, to kill himself. His goals in life having been completed, he is ready for death. Or is he? At a party his first week in town, Fernando meets Alexis (Anderson Ballesteros), a 15 year old siccario, or street assassin, who works for Pablo Escobar. Beautiful and carefree, Alexis lives by the gun and carries his weapon everywhere, even into church, always on the look out for enemies and men who want to kill him. Much of the movie, lavishly shot with a hand-held digital camera, focuses on the love affair of Fernando with Alexis, he buys the kid anything he wants and lets him live in his luxury apartment (strangely empty, Fernando tells him that he has all he needs, a good view and plenty of good books) and they wander Medellin, comically in search of a taxi driver who will play good music instead of poppy garbage. Along the way of their savage journey, Alexis kills plenty of people, some for mouthing off, a neighbor for playing drums way too loudly at night and even a machete-wielding cabby who is offended that Fernando calls his music garbage. It is a strange kind of love between the two, but it is a love that reaffirms Fernando's passion for life, even when, as seemed fated to happen, Alexis finally gets killed. The gunfight scenes are amazing, the camera work, lighting and acting all give the impression to the viewer that we are there, witnessing the violence that Medellin's inhabitants have become completely inured to. The sex scenes are never distasteful but instead are somehow touching. The actors portray Fernando's cynicism with the violent world around him and Alexis' passion for life, despite his accepting that he can only survive by killing for both pleasure and money, masterfully. Another masterpiece by Barbet Schroeder, easily on a par with his earlier works such as Barfly and Maitresse. Part surreal odyssey, part machine-gun symphony, part allegory, this film speaks volumes on many different subjects. "},{"Title":"You have had lived it to believe it!","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Barbet Schoeder. His name did not ring any bell to me. Later, I realized how far away I had stayed from cinema. Of course I recalled his movie A Reversal of Fortune. Then, it came to my memory, his name, when I related it to Cahier du Cinema and I went back to my cinema days. When I saw the titles, I though about the movie Frida. How could a guy with the such a name dares to go to Colombia to make a movie? What does he know about the Colombian reality? Does he really understand Spanish? Does he really understand the little things we convey in our conversation? Is this another movie made by foreigners about a reality far from Hollywood? Will the dialogue be a mixture between English and Spanish, with every sentence ending in panzon? I watched the movie five times. The first time, I did it three times in a row. Then one, and then another one to check some technicalities.Bravo Mr. Schroeder. Now I now who you are. Your name is real to me. The movie is a magnificent piece of art. It proves that success, craftsmanship and artful direction have nothing to do with Hollywood.Iwas very much impressed by Mr. Schoedrer's familiarity with Colombia, and particularly Medellin. His understanding of our culture, way of life, anguish and hope, are unrivalled. I think that the fact that he decided to cast completely unknown people and to work with a totally local crew was an utterly rebellious move, contrary to the established cannon (excellent director+a lot of money+ two beautiful faces=success). He proved many critics wrong. Moreover, I think, he initiated a new era for Colombian Cinema.The acting is stellar. Fernando (knowing how things are in Colombia) is superb (His diatribes against Bolivar, are just poignant; his discourse stating that it is God whom actually needs us was just from the bag of tricks; Fernando demeanor is just, purely Colombian. It is the reflexive posture of the ones who do not know how to handle their daily lives in Macondo.) The kids are genuine and real. (For them, life becomes a serious business when they are unable to apply themselves to read or to undertake other pursuits). The lady waitress reminded me that in Colombia any adult two years older than we are, is un viejo...(The same happened with the female beggar on the street.) The locations...reminded me of olor de guayava.. and the guaro in Calle Guayaquil. I think Mr. Schroeder was simply irreverent ( Hats off for him). Only a Colombian Director (as he is now referred at to by the international critics)could make a movie in such conditions, speed, techniques and again.. with a local crew.I wish Mr. Schroeder could decide to go once again to Colombia to make us look ourselves in the our very own contradictory warped mirror. He captured Colombia as it is noisy, conflictive, chaotic, lovely, hermosa y misteriosa. His take at the morgue was a compelling one for me for two reasons He goes through three different dimensions with Fernando until he finds Wilmar's body. What caught my attention was the fact that when the other people are looking at the pictures, statistically' there is a disproportionately number of black people death, yet, they are nowhere to be seen in the different locations in the movie. As an Afro-Colombian, I think, it is about time to portray us more positively and more widely in all aspects of the Colombian Art. After all, we are Colombians too!!.Excellent Movie. Excellent Crew. I will be in my senses for long time to come.Gracias.  "},{"Title":"About the real life....","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hi, I was reading about the comments of the movie La virgen de los sicarios... some people think that there is bad acting in this movie, and i am disagree absolutely... I live in Cali, Colombia and i can assure you that what you see in the film is exactly what you can see in the real live in some poor parts of the colombian cities... i am talking about everything the way people talk, the way they move, all is very real... if you live in this country, you can understand that the actors in the movie are not acting... they are living!!! because that what you see in the movie is what we are in Colombia. Thanks for your attention.  "},{"Title":"A Potent Examination of Violence and Love","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having seen this on DVD without the benefit of hi-def there is still a feeling of reality that is both sincere and shocking. Like Pulp Fiction it treats violence as a way of life but there the similarity ends. As this is supposed to be autobiographical it naturally has no tacked on, unrealistic ending. The main character is stuck in time and accepting his fate as if there is no way out. There's only fate and providence is something hoped for and never realized. In one way or another it's a portrait of many lives and the director makes a potent social statement within the framework of a story about everyday people caught up in circumstances in the milieu of gang warfare. The effect is devastating and too close to real life for comfort although unlikely describing aspects on most of us who view the film. Or can one see parallels in their own life?  "},{"Title":"About the movie","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie for the third time today. I think its getting better and better. Its a movie about politics, violence, love and sex in a bitter mess. My heart is bleeding for Alexis and the kind of situation he is living in. I think Anderson is doing a great job with his part in the movie, and I am looking forward to see him again in another movie. I hope he is following this forum, and I will keep my fingers crossed for his future. "},{"Title":"Great movie, lousy attempt at subtitles","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie almost by accident on TMC on Demand. It is an incredible movie but the subtitles are so terrible that you might as well ignore them. Too much is lost in the translation.The other reviewer is right about the element of violence, it is there to make a point. I was raised in Puerto Rico and lived there for 21 years and this movie reminded me of all the pointless killings (which sadly, 11 years later, are still getting worse as each day passes). There are some very subtle references to the works of Gabriel Garcia Marquez which really add up to the overall effect.Overall it is a movie that will haunt me for a long time.  "},{"Title":"a haunting love story, authentic and real","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I too have recently seen the movie (3 times) on Sundance Channel, and have read most of the comments made here about the movie. Many of the detractors--and others--seem to have missed what the film was really about.I'm amused that some commentators refer to the writer as elderly. He's in his early 50s for chrissake! I can understand that many 20-something first world reviewers would fail to find the storyline or relationships plausible, particularly those unable to believe the attraction of the boys to the elderly man. Unfortunately, this nonbelief blocks their ability to understand what the film is about.This is a love story. The decay and gang wars of Medallin provide local color. Admittedly, it's graphic and shocking, and one is tempted--indeed almost invited--to interpret it as some kind of metaphor. But is it really anything more than a vivid backdrop to the central story of how love can change even the most disillusioned of lives?The teenage boys--while obviously drawn to Fernando's wealth and security--are entranced with the older writer's words and world view. His constant pronouncements and irreverent commentaries are lapped up by the boys--they're hungry for his black-humor take on life. In a way, he does with words what they are unable to do with guns. He chips away at the unauthentic in society--the gross hypocrisy as well as the small irritations of daily life--and it mesmerizes them to see him do it. They have only been able to take out a gun and shoot.Early in their relationships, the writer is pronounced crazy by the boys. But soon they appreciate the comic spin underlying his disparaging view of life. At a tango bar the owner asks Fernando what he writes. Trash, he says. His young lover, Alexis, laughs. Don't believe him, says Alexis, he's a joker. Alexis loves the joker. And even more--he loves being in on the joke. In a way, being in on the joke makes him an equal partner with the older man.Alexis and Fernando are genuine lovers--they make love, of course, but they also protect each other, and show concern and affection for each other. At one point, after sharing a good laugh together, Fernando tells Alexis how important he has become to him--how he has been the best thing to happen to him. The laughter fades from Alexis' face and they look deep into each other's eyes before they kiss. What we see is not the expression of a young man prostituting himself to a sugar daddy. We see a teenager who loves a man--a man who appreciates him, a man who understands who he is, just as he understands who the man is.The writer refers to himself (at one point) as Colombia's ultima grammarian--that is, Colombia's last grammarian. He's commenting on the decline of correct language usage mirroring the physical and moral decline of Colombia. He makes one attempt to correct Alexis' grammar, but quickly acknowledges that it doesn't really matter. Both have to live in the reality of the present.I thought the performances were extraordinary. To find out that the youngsters were first-time actors was a surprise--they were utterly natural and convincing. And that is the most difficult thing for any actor to do. Some reviewers complained about the cinematography if you can call video that. For me, the camera usage brought me deep into the scene and into the lives of the characters. It gave an authentic sense of reality, and to me, that is artful. "},{"Title":"An at first perplexing, yet ultimately rewarding film...","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Barbet Schroeder's Our Lady of the Assassins is a perplexing film.  Yet, it is ultimately rewarding in ways that most films aren't.Shot in high definition digital video, the film has an immediacy to it that cannot be simulated by film.  At first, the immediacy seems to cheapen the look and one wonders what Schroeder was thinking when he decided to undertake this format.  Yet as the complexity of the story progresses, we seem to be taken in by the video's hypnotic effect and we realize that we are viewing a medium with its own look, feel and characteristics and we accept it.About an older man who befriends and enters into a relationship with a young ex-gang member, the story takes a while to unfold.  In the beginning it seems all but pointless, yet within the hour, we are caught up in a film of overwhelming depth and emotional power.  Schroeder deserves tremendous credit for having the courage to make a movie in which the main character openly denounces the church and where themes of political corruption and anarchy in a real world setting actually exist.Most disturbing is that the themes in this movie ring true with an authenticity that cannot be challenged.  We are simultaneously horrified yet held captive by a reality which we don't want to believe exists but that we know already does, not only in Colombia, where the film is set, but elsewhere as well.  Schroeder is a master here of making the city of Medellin just as much a character as the protagonists.  He charges the environment with an electricity that seems to pervade the screen and crawl into our psyches.Unfortunately it is the medium itself which may prevent Our Lady of the Assassins from becoming a commercial success or as being taken seriously by a lot of people.  But film purists and those who enjoyed the gritty realism of similar films like Pixote and Santa Sangre, should love this one. "},{"Title":"so good, i want to rip my eyelids off","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  so that i don't blink even once while watching the movie.....not only did i like the fact that the leads killed people every ten seconds, the writer/lead actor was even more badass....lines like god must be a scumbag when he has to shoot a hurt doggy, blessed be satan, who has come down to help the miserable people and innumerable other lines like that.....man i can't wait to read the novel, there is no way schroeder wrote these lines himself, vallejo the writer must be the bomb, a new revolutionary star on the horizon....i'm gonna watch this movie many many times, its a classic for all time.......so go get it.  "}{"Title":"Another Form of Expression","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw Our Lady of the Assassins for two reasons.  One  I am Colombian and Two  my uncle, Rodrigo Lalinde was the Director of Photography.I felt proud to view a film that outlined the views expressed by some Colombians on the kind of chaos that is occuring in that part of the world.The cinematography was beautiful for High Definition and in some shots was impressed by the smooth movement of the camera. Most of all, I was astounded by the simple feat of shooting a movie in Medellin, Colombia, which is not one of the safest places in Latin America.  I was also in awe at the audacity taken by the filmmakers in making a film that challenges issues such as homosexuality, poverty, violence, and the Catholic Church with such force as to possibly offend some people.I guess, for some, enough is enough, and this film was just a way of expressing Colombia's views with the rest of the world.I believe it is a film with a message; a way of telling the rest of the world how life in Medellin, Colombia has become--lawless, corrupt, and without remorse.  "},{"Title":"This movie is really incredible","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie four days ago, and I am still totally haunted by it.  The characters were believable and you really end up caring about them no mater what they do.  If you like this film, and think the darkness is worth it for the beauty, you should also watch Amores Peros. "},{"Title":"The Way of the Gun in everyday's life, for some people","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fernando Vallejo must be a great writer. The screenplay he wrote for this movie is a masterpiece itself. His portrait of Medellin, Colombia is astounded & brutal. The screenplay is skillfuly crafted, filled up of 'slang terms' as used on the streets of any major city. He shows a little bit of the evolution of Spanish Language throughout Latin America in a extremely realistic story . Barbet's work, what can I say about it?, despite he is not Latin American he manages to achieve an accurate view of latin american present times   magic realism in spite of the surrounding danger created by ignorance and misery (remember what Alexis said about the way some killers 'prepare' the bullets before loading the guns, as a 'normal' pagan-catholic rite, respecting the dignity of the dead..the viewer must know that death does not exist in Latin American culture). Poetical film in some moments, political film as well, this story seems to be an allegory of the good old days in Colombia, before the cocaine boom in the US. This film captures the love some people have for the past times, cause they see no future at all in the present days. There's no room for redemption in this film, all characters appear to be prisoners of a certainly dark destiny. Absence of God, absence of authority (did anyone see a police officer in the film?, besides, in the movie,  all contact civilians had with their politicians was through the TV, shown as unreal characters). The main plot can be about whatever you want it to be, but the movie, as a motion picture, is a modest piece of art. I want to thank Barbet Schroeder and Fernando Vallejo for doing this movie about we humans. Viva Colombia!!!  "},{"Title":"La Vigen De Los Sicarios","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" After reading these comments I am completely shocked that those of you who insulted it even saw such an exquisitely accurate and cultured film. As for those who dismissed it as a tale about love, loss and revenge, these themes are minute compared to the overwhelming issue that is raised in the film. When Alexis kills his first victim we are shocked, as is Fernando. 'Que hiciste?' he asks him, when he returns from shooting the punk rocker next door. But as the film progresses and we witness countless murders the viewer becomes anaesthetised (sorry if i spelt that wrong im only 18 and not great with words!) to the horror of these increasingly violent and pointless murders. It is only when Fernando is about to shoot the injured dog that we are disturbed by the violence. What does this tell you? The director has led the viewers to a state of moral panic! Suddenly the sights of human death do not trouble us but we are moved at the euthanasia of a dog! As for the poor acting.. there is only one professional actor in this entire movie, the director made the correct decision by choosing real street gang members, real people who live in the streets of Medellin. How on earth can you use a professional actor with probably no experience of any real danger into Medellin and ask him to understand the idea of 'life as a commodity'. If you have seen The Rose Seller 'The Vendedora de Las Rosas' you will see just how crucial it is to use these real people. The protagonist in The Rose Seller (Leidy Tabares) has a real life story much more violent and gruesome than her tragic story in the film as a 13yr old glue-sniffing rose seller.This film is awesome, (if a little long) it shows how the institution of the Church has completely failed, as it is now used for drug exchange and other illegal activities. The homosexuality plays no significant part in the film as the couple are never marginalised by their orientation, on the other hand it is as if homosexuality is an expression of their masculinity.Anyway... im feeling rather angry that no one really understood this movie apart from the few people who have made some really interesting comments. Sorry for venting my anger! But hope you can look at the film from a totally different perspective. "},{"Title":"Burroughsian Interzone","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was initially reluctant to watch this film on account of the gay theme, thinking it would be yet another film about melodramatic queens celebrating their life and love against the prejudices of an incomprehending world. But the homosexuality in this film, like the rest of this film's worldview, is the tough, violent unsentimental homosexuality of Genet (as the title hints) or of William S. Burroughs's Interzone, where rent boys, misanthropy, anarchy and random violence are just part of the wallpaper. As such, this move succeeds in making a movie of The Naked Lunch much more so than Cronenberg's effort, even though it wasn't trying to do so.Fernando, the late middle-aged pederastic writer, returns from Europe to his home town of Medellin after a long absence to die as he puts it, because he professes to be sick of life. His family has already died, and he has inherited their money and residences, allowing him to live a comfortable life but with nothing to live for. At a boy brothel he meets Alexis, a teenage gangster from the slums, and they start living together. The love is genuine, giving both of them something to live for, even though it a sugar daddy relationship.The pederastic relationship is nevertheless a very small part of the movie. It is primarily a device to bring together these two characters who are polar opposites of each other. The opera-loving Fernando is aging and cynical, looking back to his youth surrounded by his family in a peaceful, semi-rural pre-narcotraffic Medellin. Accompanied by Alexis, he revisits his childhood haunts of the old Medellin, and comments bitterly on how they've changed or disappeared. Fernando believes in nothing, and wanders the streets of Medellin spouting his nihilistic, misanthropic but humorous cynicism towards religion, politics, Colombians, the French, breeders, hypocrisy, bad manners and just about everything else, to the delight of his uneducated and taciturn young companion. But Fernando is a man of words rather than action.The hardrock-loving psychopath Alexis by contrast says little, but lives out the nihilism that Fernando merely verbalises. Alexis's large family is alive in the slums, but he doesn't see much of them. Alexis has an itchy trigger finger, and shoots anyone who incurs their displeasure for increasingly petty reasons, with increasing disregard for any possible consequences, least of all from the absent and ineffectual police. Fernando is at first appalled at seeing this callous disregard for human life actually carried out, but drawn by his love for Alexis, comes to accept and assist and even motivate this casual violence as part of the way of life in Medellin. Fernando even berates a woman for shrieking over one of Alexis's murder victims. Despite this, Alexis is religious. He blesses bullets with holy water and keeps bringing Fernando along to Medellin's numerous churches. Yet Alexis is unable to shoot an injured dog, and Fernando does so only reluctantly.The churches have a central place in this film. Despite the chaos and anarchy of the slums, the churches are still magnificent, clean and orderly. You never see priests or nuns at the churches, but there are plenty of junkies, vagrants, whores and gangsters sincerely praying and seeking redemption among the pews or lighting candles, but also hustling for drugs. One of the most visually memorable sequences in the film involves a dream sequence where the camera does a long sweep through one of the churches. Likewise the city and the malls are also clean and orderly, and the public transport system runs. Somehow a relatively normal, indeed sophisticated and orderly, life goes on amid the carnage and the slums. This was for me the most affecting aspect of the movie.The movie is shot on video using rather naturalistic lighting, giving the whole movie a clinically clean but raw feel. Although music is played on many occasions over radios and ghetto blasters and by live musicians, there is minimal background soundtrack music. The acting is sometimes not very good, but it is always restrained and unflowery. All of these factors give the movie a pseudo-documentary look which makes it easier to believe the sometimes implausible elements such as the readily-accepted pederasty, the anarchic violence and the junkie-filled churches.Although there is a plot, most of the movie is devoted to mood and setting rather than plot advancement. Fernando and Alexis (and after Alexis, Wilmar) wander about Medellin with Fernando declaiming everything, cross someone's path and get into an argument, Alexis shoots the arguer, they go to church, they go to Fernando's apartment and talk some more. This happens several times without going anywhere. Despite this, the film is never dull and maintains a cracking pace. I was riveted throughout. I'm not sure what the message of the movie is if there was one, but it was certainly memorable. "},{"Title":"a masterpiece !","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  La virgen de los sicarios is one of the greatest movies of the last years.This is absolutely not a gay movie, this is not the subjet. I'm sure that this film will be a cult movie in ten years. This is the best movie of Barbet Schroeder, one of the most interesting directors of our time. It is a black diamond, unique, terrible and desesperate. "},{"Title":"One of the most important films of the year!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is nothing to be optimistic about in Barbet Schroder's cynical view of an unredeemable Columbia. Where our churches are the houses of God and his people, in Columbia, it is the house of drug addicts, dealers and whores. Police are too afraid of getting killed or robbed to protect and serve, shootings are as frequent as traffic jams, and taxi drivers take offense when a passenger disagrees with the music on the radio. If there is a Hell, this is the cinematic rendition.The story involves an aging writer, Fernando, who returns to his native country, to die, he says. Invited to a party he is introduced to a teen, Alexis, who is extraordinary (the tongue is firmly in cheek).Alexis carries a gun. Daily, he receives note that a gang is out to kill him. But his gun isn't just used as protection. Disrespect him, or disagree with him, for any reason, and the trigger's pulled.Fernando observes several of such occurrences. Sooner or later, he is no longer shocked by them. In one scene, him and a woman witness a murder. The woman's screaming in terror. Then Fernando screams at her, and enlightenes her as to how trivial and predictible these matters are.Sounds satirical? Well that may be on purpose. But what is far more interesting about OUR LADY is how love, or friendship, blurs the many tragedies that occur. For Fernando, who prior to meeting Alexis, lost all that he held dear, which is why he wants to die. Living with Alexis he finds a reason to live. Frequently, Fernando asks Alexis, what is it that he wants in life. Alexis replies, A mini-machete. And Fernando replies, Alexis. Only Alexis. To lose Alexis would make clear of how putrid this place is, and he would have to make a decision live and die here, or escape -- Fernando's got nothing to lose, and nothing to live for -- you guess. The ending leaves all possibilities open. "},{"Title":"First, know the writer!","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are lots of comments on this film. A feature film from Colombia! Well, that's not exactly true, because this film was made with french money and producers.Fernando Vallejo is, by far, considered the best living writer in Spanish. Wow! Will this dismiss the idea that Garcia Marquez is the best writer in the world. Well, no, and yes. Fernando Vallejo is one of the most straight forward writers in any language. He uses prose as poetry and vice versa. His narrative is full of ludicrous contradictions devised by his own experience and his point of view of life and religion.He may be one of the most explosive writers ever, because of two facts he can't see the grays in between. His life is as black and white as possible. So, his position is always one of extremes.The script was completely written by him, not only based on his novel. It is as faithful as possible to it with the exception that his kids kill more than one hundred people! He's directed some other films while living in Mexico, to depict the Colombian tragedy. These films were banned in Colombia.I recommend to all the viewers of this film not to regard it as a Shroeder film, but as a Vallejo film. Shroeder shot the whole thing with Vallejo behind his shoulder. Even the actor they cast is Vallejo himself, except for some very subtle features.If you could read his work, maybe you'll find out many explanations to his anguish and horror -and love, that seem to be exactly on the same plane. "},{"Title":"Schroeder's Career Assassination.","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Our Lady of the Assassins (2000) Dir Barbet Schroeder / Cast German Jaramillo, Anderson Ballesteroes, Juan David Restrepo, Manuel Busquets, Juan Carlos Alvarez Misfire art film with a ridiculous title that indicates that both leads are gay. German Jaramillo stars as a writer who has lived in Europe for thirty years and returns to Columbia for his sister's funeral. Before long he befriends a young hoodlum and they have a pointless sexual fling then they travel the streets where every other person takes crack shots at them and ends up dead. This becomes predictable and repetitious but director Barbet Schroeder does his best. While his efforts should be applauded, he has had greater success with films such as Single White Female and Reversal of Fortune. Unfortunately here his efforts fail to achieve even the slightest sympathy towards this kid. Jaramillo delivers a compelling performance as an individual of cunning intelligence who is trying to figure out what his home land has become. Anderson Ballesteroes as the hoodlum is hardly interesting. He shoots everything that he comes into contact with including an injured dog. We know his fate and we do not care. Flat supporting roles featuring Juan David Restrepo and Manuel Busquets who can only hope that Jaramillo attracts viewers to this film. It is a film about youth and change but it gets reduced to violence and idiocy. Score 4 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Great movie, definitely worth a... shot.","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film struck me as terribly real. It takes place in the city of Medellin in Colombia, and the plot focuses around a middle-aged man who visits a all-male brothel to meet minor boys to spend time with. In exchange, he gives them anything they want, even the ability to kill (which they then do. A lot). He takes them around the city with him, showing them present-day Colombia (he has two boyfriends over the course of the movie, the most important of which is Alexis).The camera techniques were great, with the use of hand-held cameras (my favorite technique) in many of the most powerful scenes, and the script was an incredible piece of work (Spanish, of course), though the acting was somewhat robotic in some scenes. The main characters are so subversive and parodical of the situation around them that it becomes hard to listen to them at times, but other parts of the film truly draw you in and keep you stuck until the bitter end. Anderson Ballesteros, is a great actor, and his performance is one of the best aspects of the film.I'd recommend this film for anyone who isn't afraid of gritty, sometimes painful, Spanish-language film. The movie can be tough to watch at times, and the subject matter it covers can be devastating and brutal, but it is definitely worth watching and experiencing the film for yourself. "}{"Title":"the meaning of this movie","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" through cinema we all find out that movies have as many motives and meanings as the different tastes everyone has. left alone the fact that this movie was done on a low budget i realized that the movie is not about the violence that plagued the city (medellin)in the 80's and early 90's. after living in the streets of medellin myself through all my childhood, i recognized that the movie was about the main character (fernando) realizing that he has been unhappy for all his life and apparently until it ends, he'll always be. he comes back 30 years later to his birthplace as a famous writer being politics his main specialty. just to find out out that his town has changed for worse. he's travelled all over the world and lived in the big cities abroad just to come back to put up with the ignorance and lowlife lifestyle of everyone around him. which is why he attracts all the bad situations that happen in this film. he tries to find love wherever he can find it, and he does so in alexis and then again with wilmar who kills alexis in revenge for having killed his brother and so many other gang members. after seeing all the common-everyday violence he finds useless to kill wilmar in revenge for killing alexis,and instead he emotionally attaches himself to wilmar. just to loose him as easy as he found him. this movie is about the sadness in being unhappy all your life. and the value of it. "},{"Title":"Breathful","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In a way, I've been looking for a better Breathless, for years. The original, the template, struck me as more of an essay on the emptiness of French film than anything else. It did create a narrative tone, but that tone required the absence of narrative structure. The story was that there was no story. It seemed possible for there to be something a bit more complex than a selfaware void and reference to American gangster films.We have that here. Its the same form life has somehow locally had the plug pulled on purpose. A writer appears back home after a successful life at creating narrative and now discovers its all used up. He is prepared to die. The movie consists of several adventures with death, several dream-hallucinations that present a narrative of death (with a character that appears in real life and announces death), and a number of encounters with story in music and religion. Any of the encounters with death might be successful and the rest of the movie that during-death vision. Or any of it could be the author's writing of what happened before prompted by what happened before. Or it could all be post-death, which is to say post- writing. It still is all suspense and on the surface no movement, but the viewer moves as the narrative possibilities increase.Oh. He's gay and there's some folding of his character with a dead woman saint contained in the crypt of a certain church. So the lady is himself. In this world of coke, murder and perversion, no one smokes.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"A second view leads to disappointment.","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I was so excited to see a film not only touch on the subject of violence that is all to prominent in Colombia, but also see parts of Medellin, the beloved city of my family, on screen. However, when I watched for a second time and perhaps with a little more objectivity. I felt the movie lacked in a few areas. For one, the movie does seem to drag in prolonged scenes of silence that doesn't seem to serve even a dramatic effect. This makes the movie feel slow and boring. Also, the central relationships between Fernando and his two young lovers seem a little unplausible. Fernando is an aging writer with the rhetoric of a intellectual and a cynical academic. The young lovers, Alexis and Wilmar, are to young, too hip, and to modern for it to be believable that they would have such an intimate and profound relationship with Fernando. The ending also leaves with a void and a sense that there is something else that was left out. The acting is good, very natural in the dialogue but some of the non-verbal actions of the characters ( such as love-making or the killing) can seem a little rehearsed. The cinematography is beautiful and it uses the city of Medellin to the fullest as another character in the backdrop of the movie. It also gives a glimpse into the everyday life of the Colombian city culture with the infusion of music and outdoor shots of the people and places in the city. I like the fact that it doesn't hold back in portraying the violence it addresses as raw and common, but sometimes it seems a little unreal or dramatized.  "},{"Title":"Moving and disturbing","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is modest, and certainly flawed in some respects, but overall very impressive, and very disturbing. I cannot speak to how accurately it depicted Colombia, or Medellin in particular. What struck me was that Fernando, brooding and cynical in his middle years (not elderly--please!), often bringing up his own wish to die, is at first reinvigorated by his relationship with Alexis--young, enthusiastic, seemingly almost angelic--but completely absorbed into the culture of death that surrounds him. Fernando is disturbed by the anger and the callous, nonchalant attitude toward death and killing that he encounters everywhere he goes, and even in Alexis. But he is less disturbed by it as time goes by. And at times Alexis kills on his Fernando's behalf--for instance, shooting a neighbor about whom Fernando complains because the neighbor's late-night drumming keeps him awake at night. As Alexis's companion, Fernando himself is drawn into this culture of death. And at times, his own anger and his inability to keep quiet about his contempt for many of the people he encounters incite the situations that result in Alexis killing for him. This, to me, was a particularly compelling aspect of this film--the way in which Fernando, shocked and disgusted by the death and killing that surrounds him, becomes so much a part of it--and, at times, is even exhilarated by it, even as he sees the moral dilemma his participation in it represents for him.When Fernando shoots an injured, suffering dog as an act of mercy--yet something which Alexis, so callous about killing people, cannot bring himself to do--he (Fernando) is so bitter and upset that he threatens to take his own life. When Alexis wrestles the gun from Fernando, the gun is lost; Alexis loses his protection and is soon shot and killed. By saving Fernando from himself, Alexis loses his own life.Fernando later meets Wilmar, another teenager who at first seems so sweet and innocent that it seems almost jarring (to me, at least), when he later removes his gun. And, yes, it is a bit soap-opera-ish to learn later that it is Wilmar who had shot and killed Alexis, but when he explains to Fernando--who is ready to kill Wilmar when he learns that Wilmar is the killer--why he had killed Alexis, his answer seems so simple, and so devoid of emotion, that it is truly disarming--literally, in fact.As disdainful as Fernando is of his countrymen, and as aloof of the anger, callousness and death around him that he pretends to be, in his attempt to regain his own life and happiness, he finds himself more and more a part of it. To me, that is what is so artfully, even masterfully, shown in this film. That is what makes it moving and disturbing.And I thought the acting rocked. Also, I cannot understand comments about how this movie is filled with gay sex scenes. There is a little bit of embracing, a little kissing, a few scenes of Fernando lying in bed with Alexis and/or Wilmar, and a lot of scenes of Fernando walking around town with one or the other of them.I do agree that the English subtitles are pretty awful. My Spanish isn't good enough to have been able to do without the subtitles completely, but it is good enough to realize how much dialogue was missed, or poorly translated.  "},{"Title":"Columbian Riff on the Death Drive","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An aging writer and pederast returns to his birthplace, Medellin. As the film develops we discover that he feels bent on self-destruction as feels that he as finished with what it is he can do in life.  His self-destructive urges are piqued by a love affair with a boy hit-man.  He quickly loses his moral repugnance toward the boy's frequent murders, and a dark stoicism replaces it.  Early in the film we see him crying at the memory of his deceased kin, but by the end of the film he faces the deaths of those he loves with coldness and detachment.  There is a stark streak of misanthropy that runs though this film.  It surfaces in the protagonists repeated complaints about excessive human breeding, but it goes beyond that to include a renunciation for his own worth and of any special value in those he loves.  The despondency that first seemed to comprise questioning his own life's purpose reveals itself to be a renunciation of the game of treating any life as purposeful.  The protagonist's self-destructive misanthropy and the self-destructive violence of Medellin society merge, or rather come to be seen as one in the same.   "},{"Title":"Strangely enough","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Really enjoyed this film, just sort of stumbled onto it on late night network TV.  Can sometimes be sort of annoyed and or offended by relationships portrayed in movies with significant age difference but in this film it just seemed normal and natural. Strangely enough it really made me want to visit Colombia. "},{"Title":"The plot of Our lady of Assassins","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like the way, first of all they made this movie-into kind of a tele-play. I also liked the scenery. I have never been to other countrys at all, and think the mountains and towns were beautiful.  As were the guys that the older gentleman took in. I believe that this was a good film- life may be like that in parts of Columbia. I did not buy the shootings and just walking off without getting caught-that was the only thing I thought silly.But as for the gay material-speaking as an out,gay and proud man-I think the whole story was about being Gay and the older man having to come to terms with his life now that he is old and cannot get a grip on the fact that he is no longer young.I like all movies that include gay material and cannot understand why people do not see that this is the prime part of the movie. Just as I am totally confused at why straight people watch Queer As Folk? But- as for Our lady of Assassins-The film was good. I can relate alot to the man who is older. He knows his life is slipping away-and I have lost 2 lovers. I assume it may shock alot of straight people to see that we sleep around so much-but I always say if straight people do not like the gay content-they should watch a straight movie. "},{"Title":"great misunderstood film","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching the movie in the Sundance channel. I also just finished reading all the comments about this movie posted in this forum. There are a couple of facts that are polemic about this movieYes, this movie was shot in HD video and it takes a little to get used to, but once I started getting into the movie, I completely forgot about the format in which it was shot. If you get into the story, the format doesn't matter, if you don't, well... even if it was shot in 70mm it won't help you appreciate it. Yes, Colombia, and especially Medellin are as violent as presented in this movie. The Colombian viewers who say it's not THAT bad are just in denial about how messed up things are in Locombia. Sure not everywhere in Colombia things are this violent, but for the 70%+ Colombians who live in poverty, this is day to day reality. Sorry if the movie didn't portray the comfortable lifestyle that some Colombians enjoy. You guys will have to wait until someone makes a movie about la zona rosa or your favorite mall in Colombia. No, this movie is not a gay film. The story does include the main character's love life, and he happens to be gay, but this movie is not Long Time Companion or Bird Cage. In short, if you can get beyond the violence or the gay relationships (if either one of those two things bother you), the movie is very good. It won't inspire any middle of the road feelings. It is powerful, violent and tender all wrapped in one. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"An at first perplexing, yet ultimately rewarding film...","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Barbet Schroeder's Our Lady of the Assassins is a perplexing film.  Yet, it is ultimately rewarding in ways that most films aren't.Shot in high definition digital video, the film has an immediacy to it that cannot be simulated by film.  At first, the immediacy seems to cheapen the look and one wonders what Schroeder was thinking when he decided to undertake this format.  Yet as the complexity of the story progresses, we seem to be taken in by the video's hypnotic effect and we realize that we are viewing a medium with its own look, feel and characteristics and we accept it.About an older man who befriends and enters into a relationship with a young ex-gang member, the story takes a while to unfold.  In the beginning it seems all but pointless, yet within the hour, we are caught up in a film of overwhelming depth and emotional power.  Schroeder deserves tremendous credit for having the courage to make a movie in which the main character openly denounces the church and where themes of political corruption and anarchy in a real world setting actually exist.Most disturbing is that the themes in this movie ring true with an authenticity that cannot be challenged.  We are simultaneously horrified yet held captive to a reality which we don't want to believe but that we know already exists, not only in Colombia, where the film is set, but elsewhere as well.  Schroeder is a master here of making the city of Medellin just as much a character as the people.  He charges the environment with an electricity that seems to pervade the screen and crawl into our psyches.Unfortunately it is the medium itself which may prevent Our Lady of the Assassins from becoming a commercial success or as being taken seriously by a lot of people.  But film purists and those who enjoyed the gritty realism of similar films like Pixote and Santa Sangre, should love this one. "},{"Title":"Returning Home to Die","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rather liked this violent, dark film.  A writer, Fernando Vallejo, although neither old nor ill has returned to the place of his birth, to die.  This city, Medellin, where death has become a way of life, is unrecognizable to him now.  The city, infested with drugs and violence, is no longer peopled by the gentle, rural folk that he remembered from his childhood.  The inhabitants have become immune to the daily carnage and are now as frightened, cornered animals, ready to kill or be killed.  Vallejo falls in love with a young, ex-gang member (the gang no longer exists as they've all been killed off).  The writer is at first appalled at the ease in which his young lover dispenses with anyone who may in any way pose a threat.  Vallejo soon comes to see that this resort to violence may be the only way to survive in this strange, new world.  This man, who, came here to die, is surrounded by death although he himself remains personally unscathed, at least for the time being.  He comes to realize that all life is fragile and cheap here, not just his own.  Returning home after his lover's death, Vallejo closes his curtains on the sun-drenched and still beautiful hills of Medellin.  He is lost in the darkness of the times and the darkness of his own soul.  The novel on which this film was based was written by Fernando Vallejo which is also the name of the protagonist.  I guess that it's safe to assume that the novel must be in some way autobiographical. "}{"Title":"This is what I call Quite good!","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Brilliant flick... Although painful to watch-and dreadful to imagine living through-this characterization of human experience has to be highly commended. The three main actors where grand... side that with the inimitable Schroeder and  Vallejo, and well, it's a piece to marvel at and cringe through. Quite good indeed "},{"Title":"A good but slightly unaccomplished film","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has been one of the rare films I got to watch in the big screen. It conveys all the power and emotion of latin american cinematography and deals with complicated yet simple issues like the existence of God and the need to endure hardships or the inevitable tendency for things to fall into chaos and wether or not is it worthwhile.The movie is very bitter at points, while at others seems to be stepping out of normality. Throughout the whole thing it is quite weird.There are some technical problems which make it look somewhat amateurish, at least in my opinion. I also don't think the actors can quite squeeze all the drama out of their characters.People who don't enjoy gay films should be advised there's some action in that department.Otherwise, it does raise excellent points and should definetively be seen. "},{"Title":"Medellin is the biggest star here","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is about an elderly gay writer who returns to his hometown of Medellin, Columbia after a decades-long absence to die.  He takes his sweet time getting around to it, after he takes up with a gay teenager gangbanger. Fernando, the writer, talks up a storm about the obvious corruption and poverty in the streets of Columbia's capital while the kid, Alexis, looks at him in awe.  While the occasional gem passes from Fernando's lips, for the most part he's a bitter old man bitching at the world then hopping into the sack with his boy-toy.The depiction of Medellin is excellent--I really got a sense this city was as close to hell as one can get on earth.  Some of the symbolism used is quite good as well.  Unfortunately, this film is mostly style with little substance.**** POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT!!!   POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT!!! ****Fernando refers both implicitly and explicitly to the absurdity of the deaths he's seen throughout the course of the film.  Yet the only people who die in this film are violent people, who die at the hands of other violent people while committing violent acts.  This is far from absurd, rather, this sends a very moralistic live by the sword (or gun); die by the sword message.  This is where the film disappointed me it's a film that gives you the sense that's it's really deep, through esoteric literary references and fortune-cookie existentialist ramblings, when it's just as melodramatic as any Hollywood film.Good for its depiction of Medellin, but don't go looking for a deep meaning. There isn't one. "},{"Title":"brutally honest and moving.","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this film is incredibly real even though the setting & events would normally be difficult to accept as possible. apparently it was adapted by vallejo from his autobiographical novel. it centers around a gay writer who returns to colombia after 30 years travelling abroad and falls in love with a gangbanger who is constantly in danger of being shot by his rivals. the writer's outlook is bleak and cynical, yet that also makes the moments of beauty shine even brighter.one of my favorite quotes from him was when he is sitting in a bar watching a soccer game and says when people sit and cheer for 22 childish adults kicking a ball around, we're screwed. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I also disagree with the comments which dismiss the acting in this amazing film. Schroeder chose to use real kids from Medellin who were living the world of the film every day, and I found their performances to be totally credible and moving. After watching this film I felt as if I'd been punched in the stomach -- it's a gripping examination of violence and death. If you liked Amores Perros you should definitely seek this film out. "},{"Title":"Moving story about an Older Man and ?","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Worth seeing, as the story is touching, and shows that love can exist in places where you'd least expect to find love or affection. Violence and love can co-exist within a framework or unorthodox love, with several plots twists concerning the young semi-macho men in the movie.Tragic ending, showing the continuance of unfortunate circumstances prevailing over heartfelt love bonds.The film currently showing how life moves on in a tragic city,  Mendelin, filled with violence and senseless death. Touching how the younger men are influenced to overcome their violent paths through mediation and contact with the older mentor man. "},{"Title":"Astounding, frightening, beautiful video","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What first struck me about this film was that it seemed to shot on videotape--which made it seem like a soap opera or porn film.  It also seems to have been shot on the streets of Medellin, and at many times it looks like that shots were captured while the characters were walking down a street while everyone else around was going about their business, either ignoring, or, sometimes looking at the camera.We receive no background for Fernando, and learn as the movie goes on that he is a writer, a grammarian, has inherited an apartment from his sister, and has a death with for himself.He goes to a male brothel in Medellin, where we find out that he was a regular here 30 years before (perhaps as one of the boys).  The owner of the house introduces Fernando to Alex.  Rather than have a one-night affair, they fall in love with each other.  But as they walk through the fascinating streets of Medellin, gangster arrive regularly to shoot each other up.  And Alex is quick on the trigger himself.  Fernando frequently insults people on the street, who react violently, and Alex shoots them.  At first Fernando is put off by this behavior, but decides that it is merely the way things are in Medellin.  One accepts that he may kill or be killed on any day.  And Alex is targeted by one of his enemies, known as The Blue Lagoon (because he used to wear his hair blonde and curly, like Christopher Atkins).The immediacy of the setting is what got to me  by using videotape, the film, which is a craftily plotted movie, comes off like a newsreel.  You feel like you are with the men as they wander through the city.  It's like a tour of beautiful yet seamy city, with a jocular host and his comely companion, who also happens to be a killer.It's a movie that combines ideas and philosophy with sex and bloodshed, and mixes them all perfectly. "},{"Title":"A few additional thoughts","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having only recently seen this film and having had no preconceptions before that, I was prepared to write a fresh analysis of its style and content.  But now I see that others have already covered that ground admirably.  The comments preceding mine are filled with important and valid observations -- though a few are obviously inaccurate and far too dismissive, as anyone who has seen the film thoroughly will recognize at once.In general I liked the whole of it very much while reserving judgment about small details.  It has a coherent message; namely, in the midst of life, there is death -- but hope springs eternal.  Sure, it is cliché.  On the other hand, the message as it applies to the particulars of what is somewhat bizarrely called the war on drugs is that there are a hell of a lot better alternatives than the current self-serving actions of politicians and others with private agendas.I cannot quarrel with either Schroeder's apparent philosophy or his cinematic execution.  He is, after all, no beginner in his craft.  Nor do I find unusual or in the least odd Fernando Vallejo's characters or his representations of actual life on the streets of Medellin.  The cinema vérité feeling is authentic, whatever one thinks of its appropriateness in this film.  And as for the gay subtext, I have three words for its critics  Get over it!In short, I recommend that the viewer read some of the longer and more thoughtful comments posted here, even the ones that are less positive.  This is a film that inspires thought.     "},{"Title":"A movie that changed me profoundly","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie, filmed under the extremely dangerous conditions that were shown in the film itself, was a true work of art dedicated to the beauty and tragedy of the city of Medellin and of the Colombian people, who live in what seems to be one of the most entrancing cities in the world, but also one of the most chaotic and crime-ridden.  The city is really one of the characters of the film and was shown so beautifully that I am eager for the day, if it ever comes, that I can safely visit it.  The two boys that the main character, the writer, gets involved with are really not actors, but are actual Colombian gang members and criminals who are playing parts much like the lives that they are really living. Part of the tragedy of this movie is that those characters, about whom I came to care about personally, may very well be dead by now.  Both boys show a phenomenal appeal and Alexis, in particular, kept me on the edge of my seat, fearing that any minute the buzz of a motor scooter going past would signal the end of his life... which seemed like a loss that would be too hard for anyone to bear.At first blush, one might think that an almost instant love affair between a cultured, world-weary writer and a teenaged gang member would be impossible, and yet as portrayed in this film the combination is utterly believable and hope-filled.  The advertisements say, A man without faith, a boy without conscience, and yet the beauty and willing openness of the boy gives the man a reason to continue living, while the sophistication and heart of the man gives hope to the boy that one can find a higher, more value-based path. This is a truly life-enhancing symbiosis.To be sure, this movie is a tragedy...if it reminded me of any other movie I have seen, I guess I would have to say the Baz Luhrman version of Romeo + Juliet starring Leo DiCaprio, which demonstrated a similar level of violence in the midst of unlikely love, and stylistic beauty in the midst of a color-saturated city.  But, like all well-done tragedies, the pay-off is the rush of the life-enhancing catharsis.  Surely we don't have it as bad, and let's make sure that we never do, despite the original book's author's contention that what we were experiencing is merely a precursor to our own future.Living like I do in a city that has the world's the highest concentration of Hispanics outside of Mexico City, it was easy for me to become weary of what seemed like an invading, alien culture whose members adamantly refuse to assimilate, particularly in matters of language.  However the Spanish as it is spoken in this film sounded as beautiful and romantic as French or Portuguese, which is probably due to the Colombian accent which may be more highly refined and spoken by more educated speakers than what I hear among the crowds of Spanish-speaking economic refugees.  This, combined with the opening of my heart that this film engendered, has allowed me to see the beauty and tragedy of a people who have been forced to leave their precious homelands in an effort to survive any way that they can.  Instead of hordes, I now see individuals and families, all of whom are living lives and hoping for a better life of peace and prosperity and through my thoughts, attitudes, and efforts, I would like to see that better life secured for each of them.  In effect, then, I benefitted from the same symbiosis of beauty, willing openness, sophistication, and heart that the lovers in the film did.  I can hardly wait for this film to come out on video or DVD, and meanwhile, I have preordered the English translation of Vallejo's book. "},{"Title":"Interesting topic, bad acting","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Medellin is being filmed with majesty. The theme is interesting and original, but not very well developed. The writer becomes too easily entrenched into the criminal path. Also, we do not have many hints to understand his despair, his story. But this is not as bad as the acting; too bad, but it is disturbing, especially the young killers... "}{"Title":"Sicarios Blues","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some people say that the problem with La virgen de los sicarios is the acting. I do not think so. Though the leading actor sometimes recites his lines, it seems appropriate for him, because he is playing a writer. His young companions seem to be natural actors without any training but that makes the film more convincing. What I believe is the movie's real problem is its script. It simply does not deliver. When one characters introduces himself in the first ten minutes of projection, saying that he has come back to this city to die... well, you expect something is going to happen to him in physical terms, because he is already dead from a spiritual point of view, from the very beginning. When his first friend dies and the writer goes to see his mother, the film goes down and never recovers. It goes in circles, introducing dreams and impressionistic images to no avail. I also did not like its use of music, which sounded like a rip-off of Bernard Herrmann's ominous scores. A very disappointing film. I would recommend instead Victor Gaviria's remarkable films Rodrigo D No futuro and La vendedora de rosas if you want to see how Medellín really is. Gaviria is not only from Medellín, but he is a well known and excellent poet. "},{"Title":"Tempestuous Drama","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  He's supposed to be a writer, but we never see him working at his craft. Instead, he just wanders about his hometown of Medellin, Columbia, to which he's returned after a 30-year absence. He takes up with a 16-year old youth he meets in at a private party, and carries on an intimate though vacuous relationship. The youth carries a gun, and shoots people--anyone who rubs him the wrong way, from a taxi driver who won't turn off his radio to an unknowning pedestrian who whistles off key.After that youth is shot to death, the writer takes up with another youth who resembles the first, only to find the second youth is the one who killed the first . . . Is there something we don't know about this drug capitol of the world--something like a living hell on earth, where taking a life means little more than swatting a fly?  We thought Stanley Kubrick (and Anthony Burgess) may have been going too far with their shocking futuristic vision of A Clockwork Orange.  Little did we know Barbet Schroeder (and Fernando Vallejo) would be coming along thirty years later with a societal portrait that makes the first seem like a child's bedtime tale.In the meantime, guess where we won't be visiting on our next vacation. "},{"Title":"Something is missing","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The idea of showing Colombia through the eyes of 2 different characters,one is young the other is older,is good because it show us what happened to Colombia, however if the film has a message it is lost on me and during the screening I had the feeling that there is something missing. There is one character  and one scene that, though seem important,go completely un-explained.At the end I've been left with the feeling that it could have been better. "},{"Title":"A masterful telling of a thin and vague story","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Our Lady of the Assassins tells of a gay man who returns home to Medellin, Colombia after 30+ years abroad to find wanton killing and near anarchy in the streets, the sad result of years as the capital of the South American drug trade. The film is little more than the catholic-turned-atheist man and his young lovers roaming his childhood haunts while ruminating about the plight of humanity he sees as street thugs off others daily with no remorse. An excellent and stylish shoot with a very real feel, this film is an artful and smart production. However, the story it tells could have well been in South Central Los Angeles and shows us nothing new. Some may be turned off by the gay sex, misanthropic undercurrents, and subtitles. Recommended for foreign film buffs into reality flix. "},{"Title":"Disturbing, depressing","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An old, gay Colombian writer Fernando (German Jaramillo) falls in love with a young, gay punk Alexis (Anderson Bullesteros) and they walk around Colombia exploring and talking and talking and talking...Later on he does it with another punk Wilmar (Juan David Restrepo).  The film is interesting with some very interesting dialogue and some truly beautiful scenery (sometimes it seems more like a travelogue on Colombia).  The acting seems to me very natural and unforced (although Restrepo wasn't that good) and the two young men playing Alexis and Wilmar are just incredibly beautiful.  But...what's the point?  Fernando's questioning about love, life and death gets tiresome and the Alexis' and Wilmars' casual killings are disturbing.  Also the movie is VERY depressing--I left the theatre in a miserable mood.  So, I'm giving it a 7 because it was interesting--but what was the point?  I'm assuming it's trying to show gay life in Colombia--but I'm not sure.   "},{"Title":"Vicious circles of violence","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Shot in the most violent city on earth, this film succeeds in confronting the viewer with his attitude towards violence in a truly mesmerising way. Both the viewer and the main character, in their own ways, try to make sense of what occurs and it is very tempting to follow the main character's logic, though you're never quite sure whether this is the 'correct' thing to do. The film is not just clever and confronting on an intellectual level; it is also a very moving, though simple, tale about love, loss and revenge. "},{"Title":"A small disappointment","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to this movie because I liked Barbet Schroeder's earlier work. But I was a little disappointed because the story doesn't seem to go anywhere and the actors were not very good. I don't really know what to think of this movie, it tries to be a tragedy but at the end I felt a large apathy towards the story. "},{"Title":"A waisted opportunity","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  La Virgen de los sicarios is Fernando's story, a middle aged gay writer, who returns to his hometown Medellin to die. His weariness of life is somewhat washed away when he falls in love with Alexis, a sixteen-year-old hit man (sicario). Wandering through Medellin he finds out that the idyllic atmosphere of his childhood has been replaced with inhumane violence. On the streets of Medellin life is cheap, a sad fact that will affect Fernando in various ways.Most interesting about this film is that for a change Colombia is not represented in Mexico, but the film is actually shot in Medellin, a very dangerous undertaking. That said the outcome is utterly disappointing. Instead of colorful Colombian scenery, we are presented with uninspired lighting, dull locations and a cheap High Definition video look. Worst of all, the movie doesn't give us a real peak at the slums that made the sicarios (hit man) notorious.The real problem with this film however originates in the source material. Presented as a story about youthful hit man, it is in fact a story about gay subculture in Colombia and has little to do with the first. Although everybody in the movie is gay and it is presented as self evident, the movie fails to explain if there is a relation between living in the slums as a hit man and being gay. The movie also fails to explain why these young sicarios are attracted to this old writer that they have little in common with. Except for a few touching moments in the love story, the film doesn't work on a universal level. Although the depicted violence is exemplary for contemporary life in Colombia, it would have been more interesting to see a more universal story about the sicarios and how they relate in a strange way to god and their mothers that they worship. Given the opportunity to shoot in Colombia Barbet Schroeder selected the wrong material and thus wasted a perfect opportunity to give us an insight in a world we only know little of. "},{"Title":"Boring, pointless, full of cliches, complete waste of time","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most of the time the movie follows pattern childhood memory, philosophy, murder. It gets boring almost immediately. Everything that the main character says is a cliche. His reactions are unnatural - he gets surprised every time his lovers kill someone, even though that's all they do. The movie fails to make any point or to entertain. Its trailer was dozen times better than the movie itself. "},{"Title":"This movie was poorly depicted....","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a native of Colombia I feel very let down by the plot of the story.  It went absolutely no where and displayed Colombia and the people very poorly. The characters were too monotonous and it didnt hold my interest. Unfortunately there is a cruel world out there, where people need to do what they do in order to survive.  But it should have been displayed in a different way. "}{"Title":"Bad film","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very little cinematographic story. Just a tourist view of these days' Colombia. The plot doesn't match with its realistic intention. The writer's character doesn't speak like common people. He is teaching his lessons as an intellectual person all the time. Bad acting. The kids doesn't have true feelings. They're just interested in the writer's money. The problem is the characters don't offer ambiguity or doubts. The only thing they do is walking along Medellin' streets the whole movie. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad..","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" *** POSSIBLE SPOILERS! ***First of all, everything is 100% amateur on this film. The picturing is absolutely dreadful. The camera guys do their job hardly any better than I would myself. It's like the frames are randomly put together sometimes. And the cast is not even carefully chosen. The writer is ok, the rest is absolutely horrible. The first gay gangster boy is a disaster. He simply can't act. When he's supposed to laugh, he doesn't laugh. Instead he smiles widely and says hahaha. How exhilarating! I'm not really an expert on Colombia so I don't know if the situation is exaggerated, but even if it's not exaggerated it looks exaggerated and I don't like that. Also, how easy is it to find gay gangster boys on the streets like that? Are Colombian males all gay?!? I know 3 in my life, and they're all straight. So I wonder who prepared a ridiculuous screenplay like that. Apart from all, the plot is extremely simple. I'm close to thinking the film is made for the sole purpose of anti-religious propaganda (which I like, but it doesn't make the film good just because it matches my disbeliefs) instead of a movie with a conventional plot. Ok I have to say it's not quite boring, but you simply come across LOTS of MAJOR errors you have to ignore in order to enjoy the movie. It's hard for me to say this being a very anti-Hollywood cinema enthusiast, but I'm starting to think they should leave action films to Americans and keep working on drama. On the other hand, a film that reminds me of this one which takes place in a neighbouring country - Ecuador, was absolutely fascinating. Ratas, Ratones, Rateros. That one was a billion times better than this. Watch La Virgen De Los Sicarios only if your planned trip to Colombia got canceled and if you're so sad about it that you'd like to get to know the country a little through a movie. If you watch it and think it's almost alright but something's missing and you just don't know what, go watch Ratas, Ratones, Rateros instead. But this very one gets only 6/10 from me, generously.  "},{"Title":"Unconvincing, disappointing, dull","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is about aging, loving, losing, and coming to terms with the world as a place of change and violence. However, it is only about these things and no more.Being a message movie with no message, it fails to convince on every level. The protagonist's single dimension is his revisiting the city of his childhood only to be shocked by how different it is (who knew that Columbia is a violent place?) His pseudo-existentialist musings fall all over the map (humanist, misanthropic, rebellious, disillusioned) and convince his young lover even less than the audience. The young lover in question is spared the luxury of being even one-dimensional he's a scripted appendix to the gun in his belt and the stereo blasting rock music (standing in for America's cultural hegemony?) The homosexual relationship between the two characters is completely unnecessary and artificial; it seems thrown in to raise the controversy factor but lacks in chemistry and credibility (why are they together - if it's only for the sex, where is the sex?) It only serves the purpose of bringing about the solitary plot twist in the narrative (namely, the second lover), which seems like a desperate attempt to save the movie out of nowhere.The book, upon which the movie is based, has some Socratic undercurrent; the movie cleverly translates it into dogmatism (with a hammer over your head) rather than irony (if any questions are raised by Fernando, they just hover in the vacuum of the director's confused efforts to figure out where his movie is going.) See instead 'Amores perros' or 'Ratas, ratones, rateros' or read Fernando Vallejo's book. "},{"Title":"call me crazy","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just can't agree with all of the positive reviews this film has received. It has the production value of a telenovela, but without the acting chops one might find in even the most vacuous example of the genre. Watching it I felt as if I were watching a bad rip-off of a Genet novel, but one without the poetry and meaning one might find in his work. The violence of the film, while meant to take me to a visceral place, only took me to one where I found myself laughing at it, and I merely ended up wondering if the cast crew weren't as embarrassed by their attempt as I was for them.Sorry, but I want the time spent watching it back. "},{"Title":"Wish it was in any language but Spanish","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the reviewers thought that some people might have been turned off by the subtitles,  among other things. In my case it was quite the contrary. I wished throughout the length of  the movie that it had been in any language but Spanish. Had it been the case, the very bad  acting would not have been so painfully obvious to me. Other big turn off was the use of  digital video. I was expecting much, much better. Big disappointment. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Video format is a horrible mistake","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" What the hell was Barbet Schroeder's reason for making a movie on high definition video? You can't call this a film for obvious reasons. It made me think I was watching a daytime soap. When you use video the whole structure of the movie changes and actors have to change their approach when acting on camera because acting styles look different on film than on video.Also, the story just went haywire when the kid starts shooting everyone who looked at them the wrong way. Then the older guy says it's wrong and than later he says he's lucky he met him!! Baloney! It just gets so convoluted. A big misfire from an interesting director. "},{"Title":"What was Barbet thinking?","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the first viewer review/comment that I have written on this site. I was moved to do so because I found this movie to be amateurish and ridiculous. I have no qualms about the film being shot in HD Video format. However, I found the style to be equal to a bad daytime drama or soap opera. Outside of the lead, who was good, the overall acting of the ensemble was terrible. Looks as though Barbet cast a group of non-actors to relieve the budget, and it shows. Barbet has done great work but unfortunately, this film is not one of them. "},{"Title":"Beware this well packaged junk.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some directors (Barbet Schroeder in this case) are so positive that they have a deep, meaningful message to relay that they actually forget to make a film that has any meaning at all. They might also forget movies are, in the end, entertainment and you must create something that is enjoyable to watch while you are delivering your message. This (can't verify format) shot on video mess is devoid of any feeling or drama at all. The plot concerns a gay elderly man who has traveled long and far and now returns to his native Colombia to settle down and live out his days. He befriends a young former gang member and the two begin a relationship. After that, this tiresome garbage goes back and forth between hopelessly silly dialogue and violent incidents while going absolutely nowhere. If you want to see quality gay cinema, instead rent The Big Eden, All Over The Guy or Hedwig And The Angry Inch and you will be rewarded for your time. Let Our Lady Of The Assassins sit on the video store shelf where it belongs.   "},{"Title":"A boring movie with a good story","Date":"12 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" La Virgen de los Sicarios is a movie about 2 gays- a senior and a teenager (Alexis). Both live in a city where killing on streets is a daily routine. Alexis literally shots everybody who he wants to and only death stops him. Paradoxically, although he killed tenth of people, he could not have killed a sick dog. Because of the generational difference there are always 2 looks at one situation- the olds experienced look inwrought with memories and Alexis updated, who always knows what is happening. Unfortunately, the film does not know what he wants to say and becomes boredom, although there are some funny scenes and sudden turnovers. From the “sleep” wakes you nothing up. "},{"Title":"Barbet, I hardly knew ye","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Barbet Schroeder seems like an interesting guy. I like that he threatened to chop off his hand with a chainsaw in a meeting with Menachem Golan and Yoram Globus when they wouldn't raise the budget of BARFLY. I like that he constantly gives interviews about how gang-ridden his Venice neighborhood is. I like the wacky effrontery of his subject matter--at least in his early films--from dominatrixes to Idi Amin to rich beautiful hopheads; he had a great tourist sensibility, if not really a great filmmaking sense. Some of his Hollywood stuff, like REVERSAL OF FORTUNE and SINGLE WHITE FEMALE, has an amusing Polanski-lite perversity. So why is this most personal of Schroeder films so bloody awful it drove me from the theatre?In it, an aging homosexual writer--he calls himself Colombia's eminent grammarian--walks the streets of Medellin muttering cynically about the uselessness of it all, the cheapness of human life, suggesting that the city's mass of over-breeding heterosexuals ought to be taken out and shot. Then he meets a sexy young kid, a sort of tousle-haired gunsel who becomes his lover, and makes the same high-flown, cynical, literary remarks--and the kid starts shooting people.Nothing in the movie seems remotely plausible--least of all the round-the-way kid who sits and laughs at the writer's windy, purple pronouncements. (Couldn't Schroeder think of any other response for this kid other than a polite, indulging, obviously uncomprehending chuckle?) Schroeder seems to want to create a hothouse, ambisexual, Genet-like atmosphere (the one cool moment involves the kid spilling vodka from his mouth into the writer's) and to wring his hands in a Roland Joffe, sob-sister fashion about the agonies of Colombia. What he comes up with is as frighteningly, stiltedly bookish as a bad PLAYHOUSE 90.There's even a gaunt-faced figure called Deathboy, who comes with a shrieking orchestral leitmotif, who repeatedly approaches the boy to tell him how a gang is about to kill him.If this makes the movie sound in any way like a lowbrow, jacked-up BEFORE NIGHT FALLS, it isn't. It's just bad. But I would like to know the ending; the movie just wouldn't let me see it. "}{"Title":"Goes for shocking realism, turns out idiotic","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Even trying with all his might the director couldn't make it worse. I know Colombia, and the violence was exaggerated to the point of ridiculousness. How many people did the young guy kill for no big reason? like 10? For god's sake he even kills someone because his lover doesn't enjoy whistlers! In Colombia there are laws and police, and even if ineffective they would catch a killer so emotional and with that high a body count.The protagonist can't be more unlikable, it tries to sound like a philosopher, but ends up sounding like my frustrated literature teacher complaining about everything but failing to produce good lines himself.Many Latin-American film makers try to capitalize on the stereotype that their country is violent and dangerous. This way, they comply with the foreign moviegoers' expectancies, and fool many critics who pass this implausibility as realism.Moreover, local moviegoers over-praise any movie that comes out of their homeland. I wouldn't be surprised if the current 7.0 score is due to 1000 colombians giving it a ten. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Terrible. As a film student, I've seen better films by first year classmates with Hi-8 camcorders than this crap. Overacting, bad scripting, horrible camera work, and amateur lighting this movie has it all. Not to mention the terrible casting. Honestly, i understand that people might enjoy seeing a hard and provocative story, but this film is a joke.  "},{"Title":"Cheap, exploitative and disgusting","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK,taking an unflinching look at the small value human life seems to have in Medellin through the eyes of Fernando who returns to his home city after 30 years and sees all the ground crime has gained was maybe a good idea to start with. OK, his subsequent encounter with Alexis and the beginning of what seems to be a love story seem to bring some kind of a redeeming quality to these two somehow cursed characters, the first one by his disappointment and disgust for life in general, the second one by the very background he was born in. However, the problem with this on-screen garbage is that these two aspects only serve as an excuse for a fundamentally sleazy and exploitative display of any kind of gratuitous violence, to such a degree that at a certain point, the movie loses all its credibility and value. This happens somewhere in the middle of the movie, when Fernando is arguing with two men in the Medellin underground/subway and literally gets Alexis to kill the two men for NOTHING. It is here that the director starts displaying with great complacency an authentic killing spree that Fernando and Alexis go on during their walks in Medellin. If the whole population of that city acted this way, I think there would be no single living soul out there anymore. And the most pathetic scene is definitely the one with the dog, which both of them seem SO DESPERATE to have to kill. OK, the movie is misanthropic, but this aspect is no way a redeeming quality after all, the Nazis also preferred animals to the overwhelming majority of mankind. And after that, we have that encounter with Villmar, which is supposed to make us sympathize with Fernando, suggesting that he hasn't after all lost all his humanity and is still capable of forgiving? No, I do not buy it, and I would even add that Mr Schroeder hasn't enough balls to kill the character of Fernando after Willmar's death at the end of the movie. At least, this would have made a point, that is to say that violence had totally prevailed. To sum up, this is only a huge, pointless and nauseating crap. "},{"Title":"amateurish and boring","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" i hated this movie. it is shot with digital video, and it looks a lot like a home video. perhaps that was the intent. i was certainly surprised to see the credits that suggested a lot of people on the production and a lot of post-production work.perhaps i've missed something. for me, this movie came across like a first film, filled with pretense, grand and overbearing monologue, plus poor acting.perhaps that was the point. maybe someone thought that a degree of realism could be achieved with poor light, sound, film, and 'special effects'. instead, it looks like a gay porn video, without the porn leaving an dull romance between an old, self-absorbed whiner, and a rent boy. "},{"Title":"Truth in packaging","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The description of this movie on the package was very misleading.  It's basically a simple story of gay people in Columbia.  A lonely older man picks up a succession of young boys in a gang atmosphere.  The cinematography of Columbia was very beautiful but that's about it.  If you want to see a movie about gays, that's OK, but I didn't. Beware. "},{"Title":"I laughed at this movie from the beginning, it's just way too bad","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen some of the comments of the people here, and I completely disagree with 90% of the comments. This is practically the worst movie that's been made, the acting is absolutely horrible, I mean what can you expect of two actors that are in real life hitmen, this I've only seen in movies of Ed Wood, Why would you hire people that aren't actors to do a movie? The movie is ridiculous, the phrases and thoughts that Fernando Vallejo says are light We live to die. I mean anybody can create a phrase like that(and there's more deep thoughts like this the whole movie, it's just unbearable). The acting is so bad that they don't move their arms while they walk, they're stiff as pole and are always looking to the horizon like it was a romantic moment the one they're living. Barbet Schroeder makes an awful directing making scenes that can be made in any school movie project. Someone compared this to a Kubrick film, other said it was inspirational, other generalized the violence and thinks that's the way we live everyday, I can only say that I completely disagree. It really ticks me off when the worst actor in the whole world says lady we are in Colombia, this is not Switzerland Colombia is like that in certain places, but not all, if I do the same with Germany I could think all germans are nazis(by the way I don't think so). This movie is probably a great, very realistic documentary for people that doesn't live here and doesn't know how things are around here. Fernando Vallejo it's probably the worst writer in Colombia and some people think he's brilliant. I would give this movie 1/2 of 10, but i can't. And of course the disgusting gay exhibition just adds some more spice. I laughed at this movie from the beginning, it's just way too bad. Of course, there's nothing wrong in liking it, it's just a matter of taste, it's a point of view that I just don't share. "},{"Title":"Our Lady of ... ABSOLUTELY NOTHING ...","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have read several reviews on this film and had seen that it had won numerous awards, but this was one of the worst films of 2000. I am not sure what director Barbet Schroeder or screenwriter Fernando Vallejo were trying to accomplish with this film, but it just didn't happen. I understand that perhaps this was a piece of Fernando Vallejo (the screenwriters) life (see connection of names of Fernando Vallejo and Fernando in the film), but it didn't make any sense. Coupled with the fact that this film was in another language, the overall themes were not brought at well at all.Let's begin with the title. La Virgen de los Sicarios or Our Lady of the Assassins. This is what initially threw me off. I was expecting perhaps a story about assassins (see the title), but that was not the case at all with this film. Alexis (the boy) does nothing more but shoot random people, then director Barbet attempts to make a very big leap with the connection that perhaps Alexis (the boy) is doing nothing more but killing the evil people in the world. He is perhaps doing the work of God himself (or herself). That is a huge assumption, since we have nothing to base this on other than the fact that he kills some random gang members and almost a waitress that did nothing wrong but give them bad service. There is a religious theme in this film, but it is so faint that I had trouble seeing it. There are moments when the two travel to the churches only to find some inhabited by prostitutes and drug addicts. Oh, can't everyone see the heavy and deep symbolism happening here?? Please, I have seen better moments watching crackers in soup.Next, there was the acting in the film, which nobody could do. I don't know if this was everyone's first film or what, but it seemed as if they were all reading their lines from cue cards and overdoing it. Perhaps it was the fact that it was in another language made the acting tough. When English is used, you can sometimes forget the actors and hear the words, this was not the case in this film. The use of Spanish only hurt the actors even more. I believed none of the characters. I couldn't get into them at all, and I blame the actors for that. Fernando (the man) and Alexis (the boy) were the worst. They were supposed to be in love, but that emotion was lost in the first little bit of this film. I never once believed that they were lovers, and that was an important part of the film!! Who wrote this film? I would like to read the three words they must have learned in Screen writing School. I would also like to attend, because it seems as if you can graduate without learning anything. The line that sticks in my mind the most is when Alexis (the boy) is shot down Fernando (the man) takes him to the hospital trying to save him, but sadly Alexis (the boy) dies. The doctor comes out and simply says, Why did you bring a corpse here? WHERE ELSE WOULD YOU TAKE IT??? Come on people.Finally, perhaps the hardest part to get over, was the fact that this film was filmed in HD Video format. It just felt like there was an amateur behind the camera instead of a respected director. It also made the film seem more like a movie instead of a story. I was continually reminded that I was watching a movie and not really at that location ... that should never happen. Overall, this was a horrible movie that only proves that critics either love the big budget films, or that little films that apparently need no talent to make at all. I can hear them now, oh, it foreign and about gay people ... we have to love this one. It is truly a sad day when a film like La Virgen de los Sicarios wins any awards.Well, I am off to shed my tears now and watch something ... anything ... that is better!! Grade * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad...","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A complete disaster. How much time is left? was my constant question after the first 30 minutes... I still don't know if the center of the movie was the gay affair between the writer and the gay gang, or the violence inside Medellin.The performance for the gay affair is excessive, morbid and gross. There are many subtle and intelligent ways to represent homosexuality, without the need of using too obvious scenes (passionated kisses or nudity), or vulgar phrases like Which butterflies? The butterflies are us! or I like women only if they have little brothers... On the other hand, the plot is too simple and recurrent (most of the film is the scenes of the gay affair), as well as little credible Alexis dies and the next day the protagonist finds another gay with similar dress, gang and gay! And immediately they fall in love!! Give me a break! So easy is to find gay gangs in Colombia? Finally The supposed point of the movie (or al least, what the title means), the violence inside Medellin Is this? Only that chain of shootings without sense? And what about the drug problem, the cartels and the FARC? It gives the impression that people kill each other for nothing...Conclusion A very bad way to represent the violence problem inside Colombia and the homosexuality. A complete disappointment. Avoid it at all costs.0/10  "}]