[{"Title":"Accurate and scathing attack on various forms of political correctness","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"48 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Probably Director Todd Solondz' most mature work to date, Storytelling is split into two parts `Fiction' and `Non-Fiction' - yet similar themes underlie both and pose questions about what we call reality when it comes to prejudice and taboo subjects. Whilst in previous attempts (such as `Happiness') Solondz' work has merely been controversial, in this film he berates political correctness more accurately and more entertainingly. It exposes ridiculous attitudes in the name of political correctness, whether it is the student with an awful essay who almost escapes criticism because he has cerebral palsy, or a black teacher who gets away with being a pervert because his victim doesn't want to entertain thoughts of racism. Nothing is sacred Jews and the Holocaust also come in for merciless examination. But part of the film involves the story of a `documentary' being made within the main story, by an exploitative screwed up filmmaker who wants to do his own thing in the name of art, so in this sense, Storytelling even turns on itself and questions the validity of using the subject matter that it does. A controversial, worthy, and very entertaining film that stretches your ability to make moral judgements within a convincingly coherent framework.  "},{"Title":"Some of the best writing you will ever see.","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Writer/director Todd Solondz last rocked my world with Happiness, which was the sharpest, most unflinching black comedy I'd ever seen. He does it again with Storytelling, keeping his impeccable edge while exploring some intriguing new turf. No doubt wary after his previous ventures, Solondz attempts to circumvent some of the criticisms that less savvy viewers are bound to make. Sure enough, they go ahead and make them; the reviews are polarized. But the film is a masterpiece.The film has two parts. The first part, titled Fiction, focuses on a creative writing student Vi (Selma Blair), her Cerebral Palsy-stricken boyfriend Marcus (Leo Fitzpatrick) and their professor Mr. Scott (Robert Wisdom).The classroom setting provides an unusual venue a story writing workshop within a story. Solondz puts one of the characters through a perversely traumatic experience, which we witness as viewers of the movie. Before we have a chance to pass judgment on Solondz, his character writes about the event in the 3rd person and reads the story in class. All accusations one might level against Solondz (namely bad taste, plus every ism in the book) get made by the fellow students, who detest the story. But in the context of the movie, they're condemning an account of an event that actually happened! Very clever...In spite of some of the grotesque twists, I found myself laughing out loud fairly often. Solondz has a gift for rendering subtle ironies that become overwhelmingly funny.The lead characters are fascinating and multi-layered. Vi seems innocent, but if you pay close attention, you'll notice she's not particularly sincere. One would like to root for Marcus, but his condition doesn't excuse him for being a lousy writer and a self-absorbed a**hole. The professor may be a monster, but he is also very frank.The second part Nonfiction is also highly self-aware. It covers the making of a two-bit documentary. In the process, the dialog once again anticipates many of the charges some will make against Solondz (that he exploits his subjects and creates a sensational freak show for us to snicker at). There's a cameo role with Mike Schank, who was featured in real life in American Movie. The similarities between the documentary American Movie, the fiction Storytelling and the documentary within a fiction (tentatively titled American Scooby) are uncanny.Scooby (Mark Weber) is the ultimate apathetic suburban slacker teen. While very much spoiled and sheltered, he is also alienated from, and resentful of, his elders. He perks up a bit when there are no grownups around, but most of the time the stupid barrier is up and his eyes are half-closed and red from smoking pot. He's such a lost cause, he attracts the attention of an aspiring documentarian (Paul Giamatti).As you might expect, the rest of Scooby's family is a real piece of work. Scooby's dad (John Goodman) is loud and domineering. His mom (Julie Hagerty) is idiotic. His younger brother Brady (Noah Fleiss) is a jock, perhaps the closest to what we'd like to consider normal.The brainy youngest brother, Mikey (Jonathan Osser) is a real standout. He tags around with the overworked El Salvadorian housemaid Consuelo (Lupe Ontiveros) and asks her lots of questions. His curiosity is cute, but his conceited insensitivity truly boggles the mind.Solondz definitely favors the sordid, but I'm not sure he does so gratuitously. I think he simply refuses to pretend, as so many other do, that the world is a tidy, simple place. (Those who seek to preserve such a notion are guaranteed to abhor his work.) But is it fair to berate Solondz just because he dares to present what others systematically avoid? Whose vision is more skewed Solondz for pointing out the dog***t on our shoes, or the mainstream for ignoring it?I wish I could agree that his writings are contrived and distorted, but I don't think they are. Through the media, through the grapevine and sometimes with my own eyes, I've seen events that are every bit as twisted and wrong as those Solondz creates. Everywhere I look, I encounter people who could easily be incorporated into a Solondz script.Every storyteller recreates the world according to his/her own vision. Todd Solondz just happens to be vastly more perceptive and talented than most. Storytelling is one of the most insightful, clever and thought-provoking films I've ever seen. Watch it multiple times for maximum yield. "},{"Title":"An unpleasant, unsettling, and most importantly, necessary film","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After reading about Palindromes and finding myself oddly attracted to the subject matter of several of Todd Solondz's features, I bought this film. It would seem that it has a reputation as being his worst work to date(at least as far as theatrically released movies go)... I must say, if the rest of what he's done is this powerful, I will have to keep my eyes open for it. You seldom see movies that are this unpleasant. There are films that are far, far harder to watch... but this is still not one you put on to enjoy yourself. As many other viewers, I didn't care much for the first half(well, part... it's a third of the projects full length, with a running time of about 25 minutes), Fiction. I felt I had gained little after it was over, though I will say that the concept and themes explored are quite interesting. Non-Fiction proved to be far more worth-while, in my opinion. The writing and direction is excellent in both. The pacing works well... I was never bored, and while it wasn't exactly a good time, it moved along as it should, never really too slow or too fast. The characters were incredible... the sheer amount of development, through so little time spent on each... that's talent. As its title indicates, Storytelling goes into different methods of telling a story... and displays some of the most impressive storytelling that I've seen to date. There is some humor, but it's quite black, and throughout the film, I was unsure of whether I should laugh out loud... or cry my eyes out. The film is strongly satirical, very direct and seemingly almost aggressively anti-PC. Dealing with several subjects of taboo, Solondz pulls few punches, if any. Certainly not a film for everyone. Both parts seem to end somewhat abruptly, but that may be intentional. I will say that my rating would almost certainly have been higher had the first part been improved upon... or removed entirely. It's difficult to say who I'd recommend this to... cynics or realists with a strong threshold for the some of the ugliest sides of human nature, I suppose. From what I understand, though, it's less provocative than the other films of Todd Solondz. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Shocking","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's pretty rare when I am at a loss for words, particularly when I am weighing an opinion on a film. Even more rare is when I'm speechless about a film by a favorite filmmaker. And to further the irony, the film is titled Storytelling. Written and directed by Todd Solondz (Welcome to the Dollhouse, Happiness), Storytelling is actually two short stories within the same film.Being a fan of Solondz's work, I can't possibly pretend to be surprised that Storytelling is depressing. Anyone who has seen his other work knows what he or she is in for going in. One thing that I felt about Storytelling more than any of the other two Solondz films I've seen is that it seemed a lot more personal. The character of Toby is clearly a representation of Solondz, and a depiction and answer to and of his critics who say that he is a horrible person for mocking his characters, etc. In the film, when a fellow filmmaker criticizes Toby, telling him it is glib and facile to make fun of those people, Toby denies this, simply saying I love them. Looking back on his past work, and looking back on reviews I have written of those films, there is a definite pattern with the characterizations and the situations that Solondz writes them into. The situations are painful and the characters are sympathetic (or pathetic, depending on how you look at them), but the pain comes from Solondz not turning the camera away from the subject when they are at their most vulnerable. Most filmmakers, in order to make a more commercially acceptable film do not inject the kind of honesty that Solondz does, which naturally ends up creating criticism for him because it is different.Also notable is his defiant decision to, rather than cut his film according to MPAA standards to give it an R rating instead of NC-17, create a ridiculously large red box to mask the sex scene in Fiction. Apparently he was told that the scene either needed to be cut or he would get a higher rating, (an absolutely ridiculous notion because the action itself was not overly graphic, it was the details of the scene that were disturbing) so in his refusal to cut it, he decided to throw it back in the MPAA's face and call it what it was Censorship.Out of many disturbing scenes, there was one scene that I found so profound that it has not left my mind since I watched this film last night. Scooby decides that he wants to see the footage that Toby has shot thus far, so he travels into New York City to see him. Mike, who tells him that Toby is actually screening the footage elsewhere as they speak, greets him at the door. When Scooby gets to the screening, where various intelligista are gathered, he sees himself on the screen, giving his inner thoughts, while the audience is laughing. Other than to turn to the footage on the screen, the camera does not leave Scooby's face, which has been transformed from a look of hopefulness to a mask of grief. Later, when he returns home to an unexpected tragedy at home, among the various policemen, etc., Toby runs up to Scooby with Mike, camera in tow, saying, Oh my god, Scooby. I'm so, so sorry. To which Scooby, providing the last line of the film says, looking right into the camera, Don't be. Your movie's a hit. That scene, those words, and the rest of the film made Storytelling shockingly and almost unbearably good. Solondz, who has made a career out of turning his eye to the fraying suburban ideal, is at his bleakest with this film. I've read criticism that he is too dark, which make his films somewhat unwatchable; a notion I find absolutely ridiculous. True, his films are like repeatedly ripping scabs off of a wound, never allowing it to heal, but their profundity is almost tangible. Storytelling was so thought provoking and effective that I found myself too numb to fully react until I actually began to put my thoughts into words, at which point I felt like I wanted to cry my eyes out. In a society where films like Guess Who and Miss Congeniality rule the box office, I find this to be a really difficult film to universally recommend, but there are definitely those out there who will appreciate this film. An extremely strong 8/10.--Shelly "},{"Title":"Solondz rules","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After a very bumpy (very bumpy!) start, Storytelling disarmed me with its amazing humor (which really shines in Non-fiction), succinct dialogue, and brilliant use of music.  Let's face it, in a movie industry that bastardizes the concept of soundtrack, I am thankful for Solondz who doesn't overwork a condescending one.  But back to the story, I was really wondering what the point was with the Fiction until its hard-hitting ending, which blew me away.  In Non-fiction he once again proves that he can create sympathetic characters like no one else, all with a commentary on school violence, celebrity, conformity, etc.  He also has the best humor in cinema (get this! haters of American Beauty are also treated with a spoof!).  Humor without all the nasty sarcasm.  Scooby, the protagonist in Non-Fiction is so wonderfully dimwitted and confused that its so easy to love and relate to him.  To all of Solondz's critics, he says,  I love them! by proxy. Solondz always struck me as someone with a very good heart, and he showcases more of that here.  I really do think that this is a powerful movie and more than the sum of its parts.  The first part is in the same vein as HAPPINESS while the second is is more like the digestible WELCOME TO THE DOLLHOUSE. Both are great movies (the second being a masterpiece), but only one is a film you could watch repeatedly.  It really saddens me that the terrible responses to his films (all save for WELCOME TO THE DOLLHOUSE) have made filmmaking so much a nightmare to him that we might Solondz disappear from the cinema world. "},{"Title":"Dark Woody","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Solondz is a modern Woody Allen. Both are obsessed with how film fiction and life  reinforce each other. But where Woody filled his empty spaces with love and gentle angst  about love in a slapstick context, Solondz cavorts darkly. He sees the penalties.In both cases, most viewers really think the reason for the films to exist is the stuff used  as filler that Woody's films for instance are about city life and love.Nah. And many people will be similarly distracted here and comment on matters of race  and generational distance and various exploitations. Nah, again.The very point is that we are so easily distracted and enmeshed in narrative that we  cannot tease out the mechanics of life from that of film. The notion of `race` is a fiction  made real by popular art. The notion of sex in love as well. The notion of truth is a  deliberate fabrication of fiction in order to give itself power.I give credit to Solondz. He hits the same sweet spot Woody often does by proving his  point by using that point to confound us. Where Woody entertains, Solondz distracts. Watch this only if you are interested in thinking about film.`Safe' is a much more subtle and effective essay on this same matter. It actually enlists  the actress (the multilayered Moore) in the endeavor, something that Solondz apparently  cannot do.`Death on the Seine' is more stimulating to my mind because it explores restoring  reality.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"The Non-fiction story is the superior fiction.","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"22 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was fascinated by Todd Solondz's HAPPINESS, a spell-binding drama every minute of it - sometimes terribly naked. There are such tendencies also in STORYTELLING, but only in the second of the two independent parts.The first part, called Fiction, is significantly shorter than part two, Non-fiction. This is as it should be, but the best would be to exclude it completely. The story about emotional tension between a college girl with ambition to become a writer, her frustrated CP boyfriend and their impressive/monstrous teacher, the successful writer, is just as conventional as the stories the students write in the film. This may be intentional, to cause multiple layers of meta-effects, but it doesn't save this part of the movie from being pretty predictable and boring.And the story ends before it should. A sort of coitus interruptus (if the term is allowed), which demands some kind of return or closing-up later on in the movie - but there is none. I got the strong impression that this part was only included to make the movie full-time.The second story, Non-fiction, is clearly stronger, and told with much more passion from the writer/director. Here, many facets are explored, the characters are complex, the drama intricate - and the tension builds, right below the drab suburban surface. It is impressive how elements common in just about any family life, here add to the suspense and the sense of doom. The thrill of trivial life, but not at all trivially portrayed.This might be the reason for the title Non-fiction, since the lives and fates shown in the story feel so real - contrary to what happens in Fiction.Still, this story, too, has been told insufficiently, as if abbreviated, or halted at points where it was about to erupt into infernal drama. Pity. Did Solondz retreat from his own vision? Did he censor himself to get more of a general audience?I hope that it's not the case. His portrayal of human life, although unpleasant indeed, is fascinating and uniquely his. So he must be true to it. "},{"Title":"Storytelling Is Supposedly About Storytelling","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Todd Solondz' follow-up film to Happiness and Welcome To The Dollhouse is not as successful as those two films. Solondz divides the film into two sections fiction and non-fiction. Selma Blair stars in the fiction section which turns storytelling on its ear when a creative writing student borrows from real life experience to tell a story, only to have her peers criticize her for its pretentiousness and unbelievability. The story opens with Blair being manipulated by her college lover who has has cerebral palsy. When his story is ripped by the class as well as the professor, He breaks up with Blair. Blair, whose own story was trashed off camera, is determined to succeed in the class, so she goes home with her instructor and subjects herself to a degrading sexual escapade in order to write something honest fiction. While doing so, she discovers the class intellectual has been involved in kinky sex with the instructor as well. The non-fiction portion of the film stars Paul Giamatti as a loser, would-be documentary filmmaker who attempts to portray a suburban family with a troubled high school senior, played by Mark Webber. The portrait turns into an exercise in self-indulgence for everyone involved, including the Giamatti character. Giamatti of course is acting as Solondz' alter ego. He vacillates between making a meaningful documentary and accepting changes along the way as it suits the would-be success of the film. Initially, the film attempts to get at what makes the teenager click, but we discover there isn't much to explain it. He's just another typical teen slacker. We also discover the ignorance and bankrupt values of average America. Some of the dinner table conversations are sure to remind some viewers the banality and stupidity of their own experiences with family and friends.As in the fiction section, Solondz seems to be saying that storytelling, whether fiction or non-fiction, is entirely subjective and the success of any story told often relies upon luck and/or factors out of one's control. In fiction, the author's attempt to fictionalize a true story went awry, possibly due to the limited, politically correct mind-set of her peers. In non-fiction, the documentary's focus was modified as other events occurred throughout filming the teenager being an inappropriate focus, his family's lack of character, his brother's accident, etc. Mike Schank from American Movie fame has a cameo even, underlying the notion that luck plays a part in any storyteller's success, just as it did with the film American Movie. The audience must be willing to accept the storyteller's premise. In American Movie, the audience accepted the premise of a loser filmmaker with no talent thinking he could produce a film. In this film, audiences failed to accept the premises in the fiction and in the non-fiction sections.Both sections of the film indicate the role of the audience as one of the chief determinants of the storyteller's success. The creative writing class reacted negatively to Selma Blair's true story. The class intellectual was revealed to be a sell out herself for yielding to the instructor sexually. What price are storytellers willing to pay to succeed? The test audience trashes Giamatti's documentary and finds it unexpectedly funny, contributing to a series of cataclysmic events. The film is funny at times but less entertaining at other times. It is not as successful at illustrating the storyteller's dilemma in creating as it is at illustrating the mind-numbing ignorance of today's youth and the lack of character and direction in their lives. **1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"More Solondz brilliance","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yet another masterpiece from one of the great indie filmmakers.  Solondz again uses a lot of his trademark stark and unsettling characters to tell two separate stories.  Fiction  was short and to the point, the message being the utter subjectiveness of the art of storytelling.  It was hilarious how the other kids in the writing class reacted to Vi's story,  like it was improbable, racist and offensive.  Solondz again displayed in this story that many people ARE racist and offensive, sometimes without even realizing it.  It would have been impossible to make a whole movie  out of Fiction, and I think it was impressive that Solondz had the daring to just change over to another story without trying to link them, which would have been tedious.  Solondz wanted to make two separate points, and the only way to do so was with two separate stories.   The graphic sex scene between Selma Blair and Robert Wisdom is blocked out in the R-rated version; Solondz has a big red rectangle over the characters in a successful attempt to show how the MPAA censors can ruin a movie with their silly rules.  I actually thought it added to the message of the first story, and the uncensored version is also on the DVD anyway.  The second story is much longer and as a result has characters that are much more well developed.  The Paul Giamatti character was a hilarious reflection of Solondz himself.  Not just physically, but also in the way he was criticized for making fun of the characters in his documentary just as Solondz has been criticized for doing the same in Welcome to the Dollhouse and Happiness.  Many people who dislike Solondz films just can't stand the often vicious or disturbing denizens that inhabit his works.  These people should stick to watching Titanic and A Walk to Remember as they have no appreciation for the daring and honest way Solondz makes his movies. "},{"Title":"It has a beginning a middle and (most definitely) an end!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Another completely original, dark, deeply skewered and audacious commentary on society from Todd S., whom we've come to depend upon for this sort of thing. Not as focused as Dollhouse or as filled-out as Happiness, Storytelling does seem sparse, and that's one of the things I like best about it (I've seen it 4 times now)- how T.S. didn't feel the need to conform to what the majority of film goers (even his OWN crowd!) expect when they enter a theatre. It's divided into two parts - Fiction, with its heavy sexual, presumably-racist and ironic elements, a searing affair that many people seem to have found offensive without getting the underlying satire, and then there's Non-Fiction; amazing how much spot-on societal jabs T. S. squeezes into this one, and plus it has another great, multi-layered performance from Paul Giamatti, always a major selling point of any film, for me.The bottom line I believe T.S. deserves credit for his audacity alone, his unwillingness to compromise his vision, however unacceptable it might be. Or he might be consciously tailoring his vision toward the unacceptable, sort of like Andy Kaufman did - getting off on just making people react, shaking them out of indifference. Or maybe, like some people have suggested, he's run out of ideas (or he peaked with Dollhouse) and he's just rehashing the same stuff, hoping nobody will notice. Or maybe he WANTS us to notice, maybe it's a cry for help, in which case I would recommend a writing class, but NOT one that has Robert Wisdom as the professor. "}{"Title":"Two fascinating stories that don't translate well on screen together","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Now from reading the trivia provided by IMDb, it can be learned that their was originally going to be three stories. After learning this, I can somewhat understand the format of movie the director was going for. However, having only two stories (which are disproportionate in the amount of time spent on them) is completely distracting because you find yourself looking for the parallel between them. The theme was their but that wasn't enough. If Solandz would have just pulled one character from the first story and show a glimpse of them in the second, I would have found the movie a lot smoother around the edges. Since he did not do this, I am forced to evaluate the second part of the film more due to the time spent on it as well as plot development.Format aside, I loved the second part of storytelling. All characters are lovable and easy to relate to, especially Scooby. Scooby represents a normal teenager trying to find his own with many confrontations with his parents. So much so, that he can almost be looked at as a theme more than as a character. The portrayal of the oldest, middle, and youngest child is dead on. Parents are a cliché but it only adds to the plot. *SOMEWHAT SPOILER* The beginning shot of the director makes you sympathize him which then leads you to trust his intentions. Everyone, even the viewer, is betrayed by his depiction of the family. The movie ended perfectly, as there was nothing else that could be said or done and I give props to Solandz for being able to leave it perfect and raw. "},{"Title":"Cerebral Picture","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A lot of people have commented on the humour of Storytelling. I didn't really find it funny at all, which is not to say that I didn't thoroughly enjoy it. Although the film is divided into fiction and non-fiction, truth is the theme here. The irony of course is that the authoress' 'fictional' short story is in fact entirely true, and the documentarian's 'non-fictional' film is in many ways a conceit. The one wishes to expose the truth, the other wishes to abuse it, yet for both the common purpose is successfully to apply the conventions of their medium to tell a story. This structuralist analysis could be taken a step further back to argue that Todd Solondz was doing just exactly the same. (Remember his nod to the audience when he had Giamatti's character talk about how he'd invited Jacques Derrida to narrate his film?)  "},{"Title":"wonderful painful","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Storytelling has two parts. Fiction and non fiction. In fiction Tod Solondz tells us how we have to watch part two, as soon as you start writing (filming in this case) everything becomes fiction. It is not surprising that the first part (fiction) seems to be more non-fiction than part 2 (non-fiction). The first part is the very raw and painful story about a young girl who is raped by her literature teacher. The second part is the story of a documentaire filmmaker who tries to make a film about teens in suburbia. The guy is a looser, and nobody believes his film will be succesful. But the family he follows (by accident) gets involved in a serie of dramatic events, and the film becomes a hit. When the filmmaker tells his subject he is sory for what happend to him, scooby tells him not to be sorry, because his film is a hit.Tod Solondz is a genial storyteller. He doesn't follow the normal structure of a hollywood film, a protagonist with an dramatic purpose, an antagonsist with an invert purpose, ... Like the bad guy in part one tells us, the second story is way better, this one has at least a begin, a middle and an end. In fact Non-fiction has a begin, a middle and an end, but that is not the reason why you will like the movie. The dramatic events that will happen to the family livingstone are not the motor that makes this movie turn. As in happiness, it is the way Tod Solondz shows us how we really act in life, different than how we think we are acting. watching a Tod solondz movie is like when you watch yourself in the mirror early in the morning when you aren't completely awake. there is an ocean between where i live, an where tod Solondz films his movies, but everytime again, i see myself reflected in the personages of Tod Solondz. That is wath makes his films so wonderful painful, you see people doing stupid things, but you can't blame them, because you know you should do the same thing. You love the personages you are laughing with.Well, i love Tod Solondz, in my directors all-time ranking i'll put him on the same level as lars Von Trier, just under Ingmar Bergman, and igmar bergman, that is the top. "},{"Title":"Like That Thing On Your Neck, It's Grown On Me","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" At first viewing I though this was the weakest of director Todd Solondz films, however like all of his works, it's impossible to forget once seen. Todd Solondze absorbed criticisms about exploitation, showing misery for misery's sake, and just generally being a meanie, and turned them into the cinematic equivalent of a dis song(rap term for song made specifically as an attack or beef with another rapper), with Solondz against critics, carefully trying to explain the notions of Storytelling. Our first story deals with sex, political correctness, race, and fiction writing, as a young liberal college girl has unpleasant and ironic sexual experience with her Black writing professor. Our second well...with the same subjects just this time with non-fiction in place of fiction. Here Solondz shows us yet another dysfunctional upper middle class Jewish family in chaos, but this time as a documentary, which shows us the pathetic film maker, the cruel or otherwise ignorant family, and the audience who laughs and scoffs, at it all. This is a rare film, because it's a film maker addressing his critiques, himself, and his audience all at once. And it has plenty of Solondz trade mark cringe scenes, that veer drastically from comic to dramatic in a matter of breaths. The results are absorbing but like all Solondz it leaves a bad taste in your mouth, and makes you honestly question your own moral compass. They say satire is dead if the audience cannot be shocked, but it's also dead if the audience cannot be shamed, in the days where South Park and Family Guy, are on non cable TV any afternoon (l love both shows), shock and shame are concepts so familiar they've lost some of their power. Thankfully just when we've seen it all and were sure that nothing matters and nothing can surprise, startle, or offend us, Todd Solondz will be there to show things can always get worse. "},{"Title":"If you're sick of happy and/or uplifting movies...","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...this movie will cure you - but GOOD.It is remarkable to see so much effort and talent poured into a making a movie this awful. Mind you, the actors are compelling and the director is very good at getting his story across.Unfortunately the story of this movie is what makes it so unwatchable. Mr. Solondz has apparently taken it upon himself to even up the balance between the world's happy movies, and its unhappy ones. I figure Storytelling's relentless destruction of its character's lives means the unhappy movies are now comfortably in the lead.*spoilers*The movie is divided into two parts Fiction and Nonfiction, with the common thread being that the main characters present their stories to the world around them.The first part is brief, and serves as little more than the movie's shock factor. It opens with the segment's main character having sex with her boyfriend and culminates in her having a revolting sexual encounter with her college professor. No character is explored in any meaningful way - the characters simply do what they do. While the segment builds up to a big confrontation, it resolves with Solondz's patented cruelty. We are left wondering the same thing that the girl's classmates ask her Was that supposed to shock us?The second part of the movie is far better, although equally merciless. We follow the misadventures of a desperate documentarian that chooses the first subject who says they'll be in his film. The kid, of course is another one of Solondz's misfits Slow-witted, passive, and the kind of person other directors would have 'come out of their shell.'Scooby, (the name of this unfortunate) meanders uninterestingly through the usual dysfunctional family environment, doing things that might be amusing if we were inclined to care about what happens to this idiot.Scooby's story resolves itself in an avalanche of cruelty that, frankly is just too silly to be funny. I'm told this movie was intended to be a comedy, but even a person as cynical as I am couldn't find the conclusion funny.The brother with a lot to lose, loses it - the oppressed housekeeper goes homicidal, and then Scooby wraps up the movie with perhaps the dumbest line ever uttered.While I get that the atypical nature of this movie is what is supposed to make it a comedy, I just think it fails to do so. None of the characters is sympathetic, nothing they do is compelling, and when everything that happens to everyone is horrible and destructive, the viewer is left asking Why did I watch that?Why indeed...? "},{"Title":"Unbalanced, Uneven, Dark Dramas, Strong Acting","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  MINOR SPOILERS ONLY IF MEDIA AND OTHER REVIEWS HAVEN'T BEEN READConsisting of two stories, Fiction and Nonfiction, director Todd Solondz gives us a film in which the first episode - short and powerful - tells a cohesive story while the second, longer, can't seem to make up its mind whether to go for humor or stark tragedy.In Fiction a powerful Selma Blair portrays a struggling creative writing student attracted to her teacher, a brooding black man who has garnered the Pulitzer Prize for something (we're never told what).  In a highly charged and faltering relationship with a fellow student with cerebral palsy, Blair is attracted to and engages in a sexual act with her teacher that is beyond degrading. The visual depiction of the act is, um, amusing.The story is at its best when it lampoons the pretentious cant that often passes for serious classroom discussion of student writing.  Not too many cliches are skipped and some viewers will have flashbacks to their own encounters with teachers and classmates who critique, to employ a euphemism, the work of those in the room.Selma Blair is a wonderful actress who convincingly projects a range of emotions that shift with the short scenes.  She deserves roles like this and should graduate from the helpful and understanding friend role she's had in several recent films. She was a good supporting actress in Legally Blonde. Here she is strong in her own right, a complex and central person. If she will take on more Indie projects like Storytelling, she will follow, with success, the road largely paved by Parker Posey.The second story, Nonfiction, is interesting but lacks an emotional coherence.  An affluent Jewish family in suburban New Jersey confronts a number of situations with comedy leavened into what are anything but humorous issues.  A son who appears rootless as a high school senior is both an observer and an instigator with neither role satisfactorily delineated.  John Goodman is excellent as the paterfamilias whose bluster barely conceals much love for his children.  His wife is a silly caricature of a suburban Jewish woman whose airheadedness is a throwback to third rate sitcoms.Shades of the Loud family of many years ago TV documentary fame, this family is trailed by a would-be documentarian whose acting rather than character is shallow.In Nonfiction, too many situations arise and are dispatched within a very short cinematic time span.  The ideas are good, the execution less so.Nonetheless, this director is going to make important films if he's willing to take risks.  And if someone will fund those risks. "},{"Title":"An Unorthodox Climax","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having never seen a Solondz piece, an Italian friend though I should see this movie along with Palindromes.I was engrossed in the film by the fiction portion of the movie, which was graphic and fast-paced. The questions posed by the students were neither uncommon nor unpredictable; however, Catherine and the professor force the story forward by asking the hard questions and giving the hard analysis. A majority of the students are stuck in their analysis of the piece (much like most viewers and readers) It is realistic? It is graphic? Is it rape? ... but Solondz named this piece fiction -- though one could easily interpret it as non-fiction (with the exception of the readers/listeners presented by Solondz). Without the select words of two characters at two moments in the segment (totaling no more than one minute each) the entire fiction segment would go nowhere.because once you start writing, it all becomes fictionSolondz then moves on to Non-fiction. This segment was utterly unbelievable. A sociopathic 5th grader who manipulates his father, a homosexual teen with absolutely no psychological issues (or capacity, really), a filmmaker who settles for a clearly mundane subject, and a murderous maid -- all clearly fictional. Cliché mother, father, and brother figures aimed to fit the mold of non-fiction are tossed in with the unbelievable characters for some sort of contrast. However, the contrast is truly lacking without further probing of these characters. Again, I will point out that in the screening, the viewers (like most viewers and readers) are stuck in their analysis of the piece Are their dreams realistic? Are they capable of achieving their dreams? Haha, simpleton.The biggest message I got from this movie relates fiction and non- fiction. Both segments conveyed a non-fiction story, but the first was received as fiction and in the second the viewers so distanced themselves from the subject that it might as well have been fiction.Overall, the movie confused me. I found most of the characters to be utterly unbelievable; I found the division into fiction and non-fiction intentionally deceptive; and I thought the bulk of the movie was anticlimactic and boring. I don't know how everyone is seeing an assault on political correctness. Vi was simply reflecting the racist (albeit positive) stereotypes her character has and was criticized for the assumption of the criticizers that her character was raped. I think everyone who has ever written about race has been called a racist. The maid was El Salvadorian... so what? The mother was Jewish... not relevant.4/10 "},{"Title":"Give up hope, all ye who seek out the phrase the human condition in the text below. It's not that kind of review.","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The best thing about Solondz's films is that they're utterly unpredictable. You never know what to expect, hence along with the steady stream of very funny gags and situations, there is a certain tension, almost like watching a comedy thriller. (A new genre perhaps?) Solondz veers away from the clichés of both mainstream Hollywood rubbish and lethargic/pretentious/mindless indie crap, hence keeps the viewer on his toes for the duration. In a sense, he is the anti-Ephron. A deaf-and-blind person could foretell you how a Nora comedy proceeds - in every successive scene - in her terrible noraphronic cinematic turds.I'm not quite sure what Solond'z political leanings are. Chances are that he is yet another movie-making liberal (hint hint he's a vegetarian, and his films are about middle-class suburbia), but he isn't a black-and-white, narrow-minded, dogmatic liberal who never analyzes anything, never digs below the surface, simply sponging in everything Michael Moore tells him - i.e. the stereotypical intellectually catatonic Leftist lazy, smug, gullible, unable to learn. His cynicism regarding humanity isn't misanthropic, he simply tells is like it is (more-or-less).Besides, what's so bad about misanthropy? Marxism might seem (I underline might) people-friendly on the surface, but deep down it hates every man, woman, and child. And because a skeptical view of man's alleged inherent goodness is NOT the foundation of all Marxist/Leftist beliefs, eventually Solondz might actually connect the dots and realize finally that left-wing ideology has no scientific basis, no roots in logic whatsoever, and contradicts his own views. He'll come around... if he isn't afraid to face the consequences of switching sides. Of course, a problem is that most Americans only see two (extreme) sides they can join either that of the Socialist, clueless, overly idealistic liberal whiner, or the side of the Christian fundamentalist wacko who considers abortion the burning issue of this millennium. There IS a middle road, you know... (well, a middle road that tilts toward the Right - naturally.) Storytelling has two parts, and while both are very good, it is somewhat of a pity that the first story was so brief. I got a great kick out of those English Lit class discussions, with all those hypocritical, cowardly, unimaginative, brainwashed college girls listening to the second essay, but pretending awkwardly not to know what or whom it's really about. It was extremely funny; these characters alone have the potential for a mini-series, let alone a 90 minute full-length film. However, these exploits end after a mere 10-15 minutes, to be followed by an entertaining saga of a Jewish family, their mentally unstable Putzfrau, and a nerdy, confused filmmaker wannabe. Great dialogue.One of the highlights is certainly the youngest Goodman son telling Consuela that the execution of her murdering/raping grandson was possibly for the best. "},{"Title":"Storytelling...","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" *MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS* All in all, this film was hard to watch at times. I knew going into it that it was going to be a somewhat disturbing experience. It is Solondz after all. However, when you compare it to his previous films, Happiness and Palindromes, it seems like Sesame Street in comparison.The film is split up into two parts Fiction and Non-fiction. The first story deals with a young lady who has enrolled in a writing class with her handicapped boyfriend. Her teacher is an overbearing and brutally honest black man. It is apparent that there is some sexual tension between the two of them. She dumps her boyfriend, goes to a bar one night, and her professor just so happens to be there. She ends up back at his place, and something horrible happens to her that pretty much ruins her emotionally. She writes a fictional short story based upon what happened to her that night Everyone in class accuses her of exploitation, of being a racist, etc. Her only response to the harsh criticism But it really happened! Powerful stuff...The second half of the film deals with a documentary filmmaker who is basically supposed to represent Solondz himself. He wants to make a film about teenagers living in modern day suburbia, and he chooses a slacker named Scooby to be his subject. Scooby comes from an extremely dysfunctional family, headed by his extremely temperamental father. Scooby doesn't know what he wants out of life, doesn't even care to take the SATs at school, and wants to be a talk show host when he grows up. He has two brothers. One is your typical high school jock, and he thinks that Scooby is gay. His younger brother is a demonic little intellectual brat who is continually harassing the maid, and on occasion, hypnotizes his parents to get what he wants. However, the documentary filmmaker insists that he cares about these people and decides to go on with his project. There are moments here where it is clear that Solondz is making a statement about past criticisms of his films. Anyone who has done any research on the director will pick up on this. Scooby pours his heart out in front of the camera, telling of his hopes and dreams. He ends up taking the SAT, albeit in a very unconventional way. All the while, the filmmakers intentions become less and less honorable. I will stop there for fear of giving away the shocking ending.Solondz may be letting off a little steam here, and some of it feels gratuitous. However, it gives you plenty of food for thought, and you won't be able to think about anything else for a while. "},{"Title":"Apathy For The Sake Of Apathy","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's probably fun to make a movie about yourself &#151; or one that focuses closely on you &#151; and that is what director Solondz has done with STORYTELLING. Not only is the film divided into two nearly unintelligible segments, it is further broken down during the final section by portraying a down-on-his luck director (Paul Giamatti, THE ILLUSIONIST) who is obviously a doppelganger of Solondz himself.Overflowing with apathy, Storytelling has two distinct parts fiction and nonfiction. In fiction, which launches the film, we're introduced to Vi (Selma Blair, HELLBOY), a young New Jersey college student involved in a writing/literature class that concentrates on critique. Her boyfriend Marcus (Leo Fitzpatrick, THE WIRE TV series) has cerebral palsy and it appears the only reason she's with him is because of her apathy toward college life and those that haunt its halls. The teacher of the class is a forbidding black man named Mr. Scott (Robert Wisdom, also from THE WIRE), a Pulitzer Prize winner who's flat affect and bored demeanor heaves a heavy shadow over the class. But apathy attracts apathy in Solondz story, so Vi and Mr. Scott have a sexual encounter, if for no other reason than to slip out of their routines and into one another. There's actually some interesting dark sexual comedy here, but it quickly dissolves.Perhaps fiction was part nonfiction, too, as one could easily see Solondz sitting in a class, reading stories that get sledgehammer critiques.The second and final portion of Storytelling is nonfiction. Here we find Toby Oxman (Giamatti), a man who can't seem to finish anything. But when he discovers a young kid named Scooby (Mark Webber, THE MEMORY THIEF) who mirrors Toby's own apathy toward life, the wannabe film maker believes he's found a new calling to make a documentary about society. John Goodman (O BROTHER, WHERE ART THOU?) stars as Scooby's father, a big man that pushes his kids and family too hard to become his ideal nuclear family. His wife Fern (July Hagerty, AIRPLANE) is just as disinterested in life as the rest of the cast, but hides it behind a facade of smiles. The only empathetic character in the Webber household is the maid Consuelo (Lupe Ontiveros, TORTILLA HEAVEN) who gets fired because she shows some interest in life. Toby Oxman films all of the Webber household people but keeps his focus on Scooby, whom he sees strictly as a character subject.That the film ends abruptly with the death of Scooby's family, and we still see no emotional response from him, only adds to the viewer's anger that there's no one in the film to care about. No protagonist that we can get behind. No angst from any of the characters. They are blobs of human flesh pooling around each other in uninteresting ways.Directing a movie about apathy has been done before; American BEAUTY is probably the most notable of these. But the characters were multifaceted and you cared about them. Here in Storytelling, the premise seems to be filming a flick about apathy just for the sake of showing apathy. "}{"Title":"Not his best work, but not as bad as everybody says","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not the best work from this director, but not as bad as many people seem to think. 'Fiction,' while unpleasant, is Solondz in fine, chilly form. He gets criticized a lot for showing contempt for his characters, but his movies are more than the simplistic revenge fantasies they get written off as. When he's on, there's something really beautiful about his dry, clear vision he's truly appalled, even frightened, by his characters and their hypocrisies. 'Fiction' is a toxic little parable about what's wrong with the processes of both making and interpreting art, and Selma Blair's performance is quite surprising and good. But 'Nonfiction' misfires. It, too, contains some brilliant insights about making art (and personally, I wasn't bothered by the navel-gazing), but they're spread quite thin, and the narrative itself meanders, never really finding its rhythm. (In other words, the storytelling itself is its worst weakness.) Paul Giamatti is typically good, but he doesn't always have much to work with. Overall, 'Storytelling' is too uneven to get very enthusiastic about; then again, it's more interesting than much else out there. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Solondz hits the nail on the head for poignancy and dark comedy once again.","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Storytelling is very much an analysis of how stories are presented and created. Solondz splits the film into two parts 'fiction' and 'non-fiction', both depicting a different scenario exploring characters who are involved in the process of the titular process of storytelling. The first part takes up the most part of a quarter of the total film, which focuses on a couple, both of whom attend a college creative writing class and becomes the basis of thematic questions involving writing, for this part of the film. It focuses on the thin line between the conveyance of fiction and non-fiction in writing and poses rather poignant questions concerning disability and race. This part of the film is very quick-witted and progresses rather quickly, but the characters express such despair and are written in such a way that captures the confusion and experimentation, which ultimately leads to self loathing, in young adults and leaves the audience with a rather bitter taster for the whats to come in the second part, but also with pragmatic questions installed, which depending on your interpretation of the film are answered through the second part. 'Non-fiction' is more complex and layered than the first part, it focuses on different ideas, such as exploitation, societal expectations, the struggling attempt to maintain the norms of the nuclear family; as well as the purpose of the creator and how the circumstances can impact the final product. The focus storyteller being Paul Giamatti, who plays a very morally confused and conflicted character, who's selfish desire for success leads to a very one-sided and bias representation of his documentary subject, which begins as the evolution of the American youth, but turns into a exploitative character piece on the socially dysfunctional. Solondz nails the very dark and subtle comedy, but also some very dark beats which come as a shock and feel very out of place but work incredible well concerning the context and the overarching themes, which was also what made Happiness work so well. Solondz writes characters so twisted by society, it almost feels too real. "},{"Title":"Solondz examines his work","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Storytelling is an interesting film because it's largely a critique of how Solondz approaches his work. As the title says, the movie is all about the way he tells his stories. Most of the negative criticism of Happiness focused on the perceived smugness and harshness of the directorial viewpoint, the sense that Solondz was looking down on his characters and mocking them for not being as smart or as sophisticated as he was. I never thought that criticism was accurate for one thing, I felt that Solondz brought out the characters' pain and emotional torment, especially the torment of the father, far more than most conventionally sympathetic directors do. But Storytelling takes the critiques of Happiness seriously and places them right at the center of the film. In the Fiction part of the movie, Solondz shows us the complexities of people trying to understand and exploit each other's motives and desires. If his vision of the Selma Blair character is merciless in exposing her pretensions and hypocrisies, it's also equally unblinking in portraying her moving attempt to find her own viewpoint in a situation that turns her against herself in the cruelest way imaginable -- by making her feel responsible for her own degradation. Just as strikingly, the film's second segment, Nonfiction, shows an art-house audience laughing smugly at the family on display a pitch-perfect version of how many audiences reacted to the family in Happiness. At the very least, Storytelling shows that Solondz has thought deeply about his satirical method. While his films will never be for everyone's taste, I think this movie demonstrates that he approaches his subjects in good faith, with an artist's desire to deepen our concern for each other by facing squarely and honestly some of our worst qualities. "},{"Title":"a little 'too'clever","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had mixed opinions about Storytelling. Some of the negative things about the filmwhen Solondz tried to shock the audience,Paul Giamatti,and some of the dialogue. In Happiness and Welcome to the Dollhouse,the taboos just didn't seem as forced,even though you knew you were being provoked.   The cinematography was delicious and colorful, like most Solondz films. The idea was clever, but there were still things missing. The spoof on American Beauty was especially low. I've seen a couple other spoofs on that film and it's just outdated. Furthermore, Solondz must be extremely sensitive, because he also used the American Movie director to film American Scooby. Ugh, how incredibly lame! Unless the insults (or nods) are subtle like Shrek(ok bad example) or 8 1/2 Women by Greenaway, then it shouldn't be done. I definitely lost some respect for Solondz for adding those pathetic attacks on American Beauty.   The thing that gets me about Solondz, that makes him so different from a lot of other directors, is the way the movie is so black that it's incredibly serious. The humor comes out of the seriousness. He knows how to capture 'real' moments and it's the craziest and most powerful thing I've seen in a long time. I love watching films that capture real emotions, like reading a D.H. Lawrence novel. In Happiness moment of truth with father and son, argument between the parents about divorce, and when lara flynn boyle admits of feeling shallow. These are just a couple moments, but in Storytelling, the most beautiful moment captured (in my opinion) was Brady talking to Scooby in the bathroom. That's why I watch Solondz films. It's so amazingly real.On the other hand, I was less impressed with some of the characters. I didn't think the joke about cp was funny and it reminded me of scenes in Gummo, which I wasn't impressed with either. There's a very fine line between showing what's 'real' and exploiting people or trying to shock audiences and it seems to be slightly crossed in both films. I just don't think it's shocking about Blair's desire to date Marcus because of his disorder. It makes Blair a shallow character, and thus renders her uninteresting. Furthermore, it makes her later situations less impactful because it's hard to feel emotion for or against her. Although, maybe that isn't his 'point'. I tend to like films that evoke emotions though.     I don't think length of movie can be equated with 'good' film. I've wasted a lot of time watching horrible films that have lasted way longer than they should have. Further, most Egoyan films average 90 minutes.     I must note that the particular instance with Blair and her professor is not something 'real' to me. I was so caught up with Solondz forcing this taboo, that I couldn't believe it. It seemed too scripted.     I think while, Storytelling was funny in some parts, it was also very sad.      Could someone please explain the hypnotism that went on? It was almost like magical realism. I couldn't quite tell whether Goodman was trying to please his son because his other two were long gone, or if Goodman was really 'hypnotized' and it was a subtle critique of his character?  "},{"Title":"So?  What´s new?","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It surprises me to see the amount of positive comments for Storytelling; breaking taboos, daring the audience, etc.There is nothing(!) new in this movie.  It has all been done before, and what´s worse, it´s been done better!  All the actors give a good performance (except the cerebral palsy guy), but without any development in their characters (in the first part), I just didn´t give a damn what happened to them.  The second part at least had John Goodman and he is truly an actor, but unfortunately he cannot save a movie about how selfish people really are.If you want to see a movie about selfish people that will get you mad, watch Kids.  If you want to see a gonowhere movie that you can discuss with your friends who all majored in film but are now unemployed, watch Storytelling. "},{"Title":"Refreshingly different movie, very annoying censorship","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you got the region 1 DVD, don't even bother watching the R rated version. Once you've enjoyed the unrated (i.e. uncensored) version of this very fine movie, it is well worth checking out what you would have been robbed of. Just skip to the interracial sex scene in the R version and you'll be in for a very unpleasant surprise about how absolutely ridiculous censorship can be in the US of A.  "},{"Title":"AMAZING!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Todd Solondz has done it again! Storytelling is great, funny, sad, dramatic, hilarious! everything you could ever want in a film, Storytelling has it!  Solondz is the best director around today.  Storytelling is just as perfect as his other great films,Welcome to the Dollhouse and Happiness.   Wonderful performace by Selma Blair in the first part Fiction.  She portrayed the character to her full ability and did a fantasitc job!All in all, I give Storytelling, *****/out of 5 PERFECT! "},{"Title":"Tell Me Something I Don't Know","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Storytelling disappointed me thoroughly.  I have a soft spot for documentary spoofs, and I approached the movie in that spirit--it's not like I went expecting great performances or subtle characterization.  Storytelling is supposed to be a multi-layered parody, but it doesn't have the substance to make its postmodern quirks effective.Think about the difference between Storytelling and This is Spinal Tap. Neither is deep, but ST has some genuine insights into the phenomenon it portrays.  You already know everything Storytelling has to say about suburban life,political correctness, and voyeurism and anomie.  A good satire is value-added.  It's not enough to trot out exaggerated renditions of the flaws and affectations we all bemoaned in the original.  Who wants to see that stuff again, if not in the service of a larger point?  "},{"Title":"A misanthropic mess","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought 'Happiness' was severely over-rated- though it had some good moments and ideas. It was not close to the excellent 'Welcome to the Dollhouse'- which was up there with films like 'Kids', 'Gummo' & 'River's Edge'...With 'Storytelling', Solondz runs out of ideas.He writes a film that is a dead end- the (yawn) relationship between fiction and non-fiction, art & life. For this you're probably better off watching Woody Allen films- or '8 1/2'. Or, even better- reading 'Immortality' by Milan Kundera, 'The Information' by Martin Amis or 'Ravelstein'/'It All Add's Up' by Saul Bellow.The topic isn't suited to cinema- or, it is not given a decent treatment. Where is the projected third-part, which featured James Van Der Beek (Dawson's Creek;Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back) in a homosexual situation? Where is the projected Solondz styled deconstruction of the teen movie? Where is the epilogue? Why is this film only 87 minutes long?- could it just have been a TV movie instead? Or a sketch on 'Saturday Night Live'?The first, brief story 'Fiction' is supposedly set in 1985. Solondz, as with 'Happiness' pushes taboos to shock the audience. We get a disabled person having sex with Selma Blair- who is attracted by his state. We get a harsh Pulitzer Prize writer who is lethal on his creative writing class- the campus story has been done better by Don DeLillo, Denis Johnson and Bret Easton Ellis. We get a laboured premise for Blair's character to sleep with the African-American lecturer- using, in a supposedly challenging manner, the phrase f*** me nigger. Edgy! This kind of thing seems really dated now- do we still have hang ups and jealousies about 'The Negro'? Solondz may as well have said he was well hung and added the stereotypes of the 'Mandingo' the fiction in 'Fiction' talks about. And if you think this is shocking- try and watch something that isn't Miramax-style corporate Indie film- perhaps Lars Von Trier's 'Breaking the Waves' & 'The Idiots'? Or Mike Leigh's 'Naked', David Lynch's 'Blue Velvet' or Michael Haneke's 'The Piano Teacher'...It gets worse- we get a second-tedious section 'Non-fiction', where an aspiring film-maker does a documentary on the 'American family'. This portrait of suburbia is well worn ground for Solondz considering his previous two films- and others such as 'Lawn Dogs', 'American Beauty' & 'Magnolia'. This section takes the p*** out of 'American Beauty'- as Mendes apparently dissed Solondz- what's wrong with AB accentuating the positive? (though I don't know how a murder, an affair, beating your child and lying about your virginal status are particularly upbeast). Is Solondz 'real' because he has ejaculate and child abuse in his films? Is this not 'American Pie' with Bergman'Silence' pretensions?...John Goodman is really fat, Julie Hagerty is really thin. They live in a big house in suburbia and have an immigrant servant. And some irritating spoilt brat children- one of whom might be gay because he listens to early Elton John. Pass the stereotype! What follows is extremely boring- and bears little relation to the previous section both are fiction! The one saving grace is the music of Belle & Sebastian. A house is burnt down, one of the children goes into a coma- which I was close to doing myself. It ends leaving the audience with a sense of what? A misanthropic mess? Oh yeah, life sucks and stuff. We get the idea Solondz thinks he's superior to the people who populate his films- because he's doing films about the ancient relationship between art and life? That the characters are formless ciphers, merely there so Solondz can 'provoke' with babyish-taboos. That and his creative redundance. The dialogue is flat, the cutting lines so not there- what is the point in watching a film where what is the point? Avoid. "},{"Title":"Screenwriter's block","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a story of continuous failure and humiliation, told through the eyes of feature film maker Todd Solondz, using the perspectives of an aspiring writer (Selma Blair) and an actor-turned-documentary film maker (Paul Giamatti, of Sideways acclaim), who use pen and camera to distance themselves from their subject matter in turn. While the writer is her own subject, the filmmaker finds a teenage outcast to tell his story of American Scooby. So what we see is three to four levels removed from reality, whatever that may be. Sounds glum and complicated? Uh-huh. Solondz gets a few cerebral kicks out of the whole truth-and-fiction hodgepodge, but it's all a bit too academic to be much fun. Fans of Selma Blair, however, will not want to miss it. 20 minutes into the movie, and already she has gotten her kit off twice. Ironically, the movie's second segment is actually the more interesting, perhaps because John Goodman makes such an imposing dad. If you liked Happiness, find someone who liked Little Miss Sunshine and go see a movie together. It doesn't necessarily have to be this one. "}{"Title":"Clearly some liked it....just don't know why?","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had seen Todd Solondz' previous work Happiness and thought it clever enough to give Storytelling a try.  Total junk.  Little if anything of interest through entire jumble of a movie.  Didn't care for or feel interest in any character or interaction this movie had to offer.  Would clearly appeal to those who found artistic merit, as well enjoyable controversy, in the Virgin Mary covered in Dung.  Roger Ebert is quoted as saying that he saw the movie three times.  I'm guessing it's because he fell asleep during the first two viewings. "},{"Title":"Equally offensive to all.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not a single feature, but rather two unrelated stories, one fairly short, the other somewhat longer.  In the first, focusing on characters in a college writing class, there are scenes in which the class meets around a large conference table to present and critique each other's stories.  We hear them talk about using shock appeal as a substitute for depth, dialogue that is predictable and obvious, never making a meaningful point, pretentiously offensive, and so forth, all of which is painfully true for this story.  Its characters are cardboard stereotypes who speak in pseudo-intellectual cliches, it tries to shock us as a pretense for depth, makes no worthwhile point, and is ultimately degrading and abusive.In the second, the focus is on superficial everything.  None of the characters are likeable, from the nebishy shoe salesman pretending to be making a documentary on teenage angst, to the teen whose nihilism and narcissism he seeks to capture on tape.  All the other characters are similarly two-dimensional.  We know what they're going to say before they say it.  No worthwhile point is ever made, and everyone is portrayed in the rottenest possible light.  Taken together, the two stories merely slime us with hypocrisy, as though making the obvious seem profound.  Neither seems to like its people so much as making fun of their superficialities and delusions of adequacy.  At most one can admit that each story has, as the professor in the first one observes after having brutally violated the humanity of one of his students, a beginning, a middle, and an end. "},{"Title":"Utterly Hilarious","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a comedy.From reading others' reviews you might surmise that it has all kinds of deep meanings, hidden messages to critics, juvenile shocking moments, and pretentious contempt for the audience.Nonsense!It's just really, really funny.As for it being hard to watch...Ridiculous!It's just as funny and rewarding the 10th time you see it.Relax, enjoy.  "},{"Title":"A new and versatile film for Solondz","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While it's not Solondz's best film, _Storytelling_ does what it sets out to do, and does it quite well.  Rather than maintain his usual focus on pointing out the subtleties and flaws of human nature, our director instead takes us into a much more self-aware film that steps back to examine itself and Solondz's previous films.  The first part, Fiction, sets up nicely the conflict between Solondz and his most vocal critics- the ones who insist that his characters and stories are unrealistic and offensive.  Layered on top of this is the usual emotionally driven storyline that makes Fiction one of the most memorable film sequences that has come along in a while.The second and longer part, Non-Fiction, is thematically related but narratively separate from the first part.  It is in this part that it becomes clear that Solondz is aware of the comparisons between his 1998 film Happiness and American Beauty.  Solondz's response is subtle and at times slightly nasty, but the when the Solondz's reality is portrayed against the mainstream perception of reality, the results are impressive indeed.  We are also given something of an explanation for Solondz's bleak storylines and characters- if we are to take Paul Giamatti's director as the voice of Solondz (and this doesn't seem to be much of s stretch), the Solondz's brutal honesty is based in an all encompassing love rather than hatred.  This is a thought provoking sequence indeed and could even warrant another screening of all the films by this rather complex director. "},{"Title":"not much of a story really.","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just another movie that strives for well, nothing. It seems like the will to actually tell something was replaced by the will to get another award. For me this is just another Robert Altman wannabe at work. But he just can't get the story straight. Deconstructivism sometimes seems, as well as irony, to be used when you are to insecure to tell the whole story. It takes courage to make a straight story (like Lynch), based on really good storytelling. By making the movie a bit arty and confusing you're not putting your ass on the line. You only put the responsibility in the hands of the audience. Sometimes it works, sometimes it don't. This time didn't work, for me at least.Furthermore I didn't really see how the two parts interacted in a interesting way. But maybe I've forgotten my Derrida... "},{"Title":"Excellent storytelling","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film, from indie director Todd Solondz is really two different movies, both of which have to do with storytelling of a sort...the first tale set in a college writing course has Selma Blair as a young woman involved with a cripple who has an affair with her professor and the second story is about Paul Giamatti as a down and out documentary filmmaker who follows a depressed high school kid and his family (including John Goodman and Julie Hagerty) around. Both stories are interesting and offbeat featuring solid acting work and good and involving storylines..They alternate between amusing at times and disturbing at others, often both, though sticking a big red box over a disturbing rape scene is more amusing than it should be... still a fine piece of filmmaking that is definitely worth the price of admission. GRADE A- "},{"Title":"Setting yourself up for depression...","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching anything by Todd Solondz is going to make you awfully depressed. Not because his films are bad, but because they are so good, and there is hardly anything like them out there today.  Watching Storytelling in the theater was a blessing, but afterwards, my friends and I could only feel completely depressed!  If you've never experienced Solondz's magic, this film can leave you a bit more uplifted, as you have Welcome to the Dollhouse and Happiness still left to explore.  But if you've already seen these films, watching Storytelling can only make you feel bad, like a quickie, it's so good then when it's over, poof, you're bored and you want something else just like it, but different.  I wish Todd Solondz made more films, but sadly after you watch those three, you're done, and it's back to putting up with dumpsters of celluloid garbage for the next year or two until his next film.  I mean let's face it; where else are you going to find a great performance from John freakin' Goodman!Sadly though, I find it hard to convince certain TYPES of people as to why Solondz's work is so good.  I try to tell them the writing is award-winning and beyond most failed attempts at culture critique.  I try and tell them how good the performances are.  I even try and point out some fantastic themes out of the multitude available in his work.  But these certain types, they just can't seem to get it.But on the bright side, the one thing that does give me a boast about Storytelling is Conan O'Brien.  Now, it's not the fact that he's here, but how he fits in, it's like there are people out there that do NOT understand Conan or his humor at all, they just don't get HIM altogether.  Then there are those, such as myself, that completely understand Conan and all his self-deprecation.  How can you not love a character like Scooby that wants to be Conan's sidekick??? Is this NOT the dream of every self-deprecating teenager and college student?!?  Being able to simple make that point in a film, as Solondz does so perfectly during that scene with Scooby and Conan, right after the proverbial gay pseudo blow-job, is something most auteur's can't ever GET AT.  This is why it's depressing watching the film, you see how brilliant this man is and how clearly he can speak his mind and say to you I hear YOU, I feel this way, and I know you do too, and this is here for US to enjoy, not just something for everyone.  Some people say Art is something everyone can universally appreciate.  Others say it is completely subjective.  I think it can in fact be both ways.  You can look at Storytelling or actually Happiness is better for this as formulaic, or formal art, the technical way the film is put together is brilliant, that's its universal art.  The thematics, the way the auteur says what's directly on his mind in a way that a certain kind of person is immediately able to grasp a hold of firmly, that's the other kind, the subjective kind.  This man understands communication, let alone life, like very very VERY few writers and directors ever have and ever will. "},{"Title":"American Scooby","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Woody Allen, Todd Solondz spends his time poking fun at man's foibles, whilst simultaneously wishing he weren't part of the very social fabric he condemns. It's your classic ego trap I'm better and above you, but worthless and wish I were with you. Solondz made Fear, Anxiety and Depression in 1989. He wrote and directed that film and, like Woody Allen, also cast himself as the film's neurotic hero. Like Allen's alter ego in Annie Hall, the geeky looking Solondz spent the entire film bumbling about, venting his various dissaffections.Solondz was never happy with Fear, however, and promptly disowned the film when his producers re-edited it behind his back. Burnt by the film industry, Solondz slipped into depression. He withdrew into isolation and became a teacher and writer. During these years his approach to art changed drastically. His screenplays became more formal, more precise, more caustic, and his visual style became cold. Ice cold.Solondz's first film when he emerged from his depression was Welcome to the Dollhouse. Drawing upon his own unhappy school years, Dollhouse is about Dawn Weiner, a girl whom the universe seems to have condemned. More sinister than similar teen movies, Dollhouse's Dawn is so insecure she's happy to let a kid at school rape her if it means validating her own self worth. This would be rapist is himself marginalized, insecure and so reliant on sexual threats for self validation. Dawn is so filled with rage she even saws off the heads of her sister's dolls, fantasises about bashing people with a hammer and deliberately causes her sibling to be kidnapped by a local paedophile. Meanwhile, all the abuses people hurl at the geeky Dawn, Dawn hurls down at her little sister, a girl whom she unfairly despises. The result is that Dawn is shown to be capable of the same kind of brutality that she's subjected to. Social bullying is internalised, becomes self-hatred, and is then redirected violently back out at others.Dollhouse was a cosy film compared to Solondz's next three flicks. In Happiness he portrays a web of characters, all of whom harbour different problems and neuroses, and all of whom are linked by their desire for absolute contentment. And so we have a paedophile who is only happy around kids, a successful writer who is only happy if she writes something of substance, a musician (who ironically writes songs of substance) who can't find success and is so discontent, an elderly couple who no longer have the will to live, a fat man who fantasises about raping women, a fat woman who is disgusted by sex and a dopey housewife who is blissfully unaware of the disturbing truths that exist beneath her sweet suburban facade. Forget American Beauty and Blue Velvet. Solondz ends his film with a Norman Rockwell kid ejaculating on his front balcony. Solondz's point is almost classically psychoanalytic Lack breeds Desire breeds Suffering. Peel away the emotional baggage and happiness is a stain that oft amounts to nothing more than a fleeting moment of biological bliss.Happiness doesn't broadening its horizons to tackle the wider social and structural issues that better directors align to their existential musings, but it does offer more than Sam Mendes' American Beauty. Indeed, Solondz's next film, Storytelling, seemed designed to address those critics who pointed out the similarities between Happiness and American Beauty. Mendes has himself slammed Solondz on numerous occasions, and so perhaps Storytelling is best viewed as a sort of intellectual assault on Solondz's critics.Storytelling is divided into two segments, the first called fiction the second called non-fiction. Fiction is about a creative writing student who has sympathy sex with a mentally disabled kid and later lets her African American teacher rape her. She then turns her experiences into a work of fiction which purports to be truthfully based on these factual encounters.Storytelling's second segment then focuses on a documentary director who makes a documentary called American Scooby (a parody of American Beauty) in which he follows a high school student around campus. The documentary director hopes to uncover the truth of growing up in suburbia, but in reality is merely transposing his own deep thoughts, self-analysis and existential hang-ups onto a modern teen who is actually a dopey airhead. The end result is that film-maker and child enter a sort of exploitative relationship. The kid gets fame and is portrayed as being deeper than he is, while the film-maker gets prestige for nothing. End result Solondz essentially advocates the sort of truthful sensationalism present in the non-fiction segment of the film, whilst aligning human delusions (love, romantic illusions, family etc) with the fictions of the second half. Other themes abound - the power games and domination/exploitatin reversals of Dollhouse are reworked here with subplots about a vengeful maid and a black teacher - but it's the American Beauty angle that's most interesting.Palindromes is thus far the weakest of Solondz's films. The first and last words in the movie are Mom, a pair of palindromes through which Solondz implies that nothing ever changes. Indeed, Solondz makes the film a palindrome at every level, his Schopenhaueran point being that we are paradoxically always changing and never changing (hence different actors play the same character), every desire and addiction merely supplanting another. It's an extremely bleak film, depending how much trust the audience puts in its final monologue. This bleakness has led to critics labelling Solondz a misanthrope, but he's no more colder than both Allen and the Coens, two other contemporary critical darlings who've spent their careers reworking similar material.7.9/10 &#x96; Welcome to the Dollhouse, Palindromes 8/10 &#x96; Storytelling, Happiness "},{"Title":"A mockery of writing workshop, cinema-verity, and people's hypocrisy","Date":"23 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Todd Solondz's Storytelling could be looked at as a film about film (the second part),and a film about fiction in general both parts). The first part named precisely Fiction tells the misadventures of a young couple studying creative writing at the University. Marcus, a brain damaged, and Vi, his girl friend, seem to be dragged by their sexual drives when composing their texts.He will read in the writing class a story about an invalid proud of his handicap (a sweetend narrative about his own situation). The text being reported will be deadly criticized by their implacable teacher, a black who was winner of a Prize Pulitzer. Vi's eventual sadomasochist affair with the same teacher gives her material for her next writing exercise, which would also suffer appalling remarks.She is convinced it is a good story, merely because based on true facts. The judgments by the writing pals hardly hide their own superficiality and clichés. The teacher, on his side, exploits his evaluating skills to refer indirectly to his own depraved relation with her. Creating fiction serves to settle one's account with somebody. What characters say and do, lacks, more often than not, correspondence with what they think, and in many cases they are unable to grasp the absurdities of their statements. In the second part, named Non-Fiction, Fern Livingston, the mother in the Jewish middle-class family, argues and believes that she and her off-springs are virtual victims of the Holocaust, notwithstanding her parents had emigrated from Europe before it. Scooby the supposed rebel in the family, who repels going to study at the University, dreams about becoming a television talk- show celebrity and is steady convinced of his talents I'm not an idiot man, I watch TV (Could it be that most of the spectators wouldn't easily endorse this assertion). Cynical dialog reaches high tops in the scene, wherein Mickey, the infatuated youngest son in the family, asks the housemaid what it's the meaning of rape. She answers It is when you love someone and they don't love you and you do something about it. Solondz draws a ferocious caricature of American people, blacks, whites, rich, poor, adults and children, who are puppets of their ignorance, prejudices and wickedness, and live their fantasies as indisputable facts. Also the amateur director in the story, who decides to shoot a documentary movie about Scooby experiences at the High School, and considers himself to be an objective witness of reality, seems not to be aware of his unscrupulousness. When the boy uncovers his hypocrisy You are a pervert, Toby, the director, denies it, without pondering the dangerous implications of his reply No. Actually, I am a documentary filmmaker. The spectators could willingly fall prey of this Solondz's juicy, sardonic, grotesque tragedy in two episodes, like flies trapped in an attractive but sticky mass. The hypnotic musical theme accompanying the initial credits paves the way to. Adam Gai "},{"Title":"Storytelling Storytelling","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What makes Storytelling stand apart from other Solondz works is that it is a more explicit commentary on film-making, documenting, any kind of storytelling. With this film, we get a meta-presentation of the craft (Mulholland Drive comes to mind here).In the fiction portion, we have a student writing about a personal experience in a college writing class. The experience is explicitly shocking in its racial and sexual questioning, but even the 'shockingness' of it is questioned by Solondz. Unsurprisingly, Solondz beats us to the punch, already mapping our responses. The writing class responds to the story much like many of the reviewers here, using language like self-indulgent and shock with no substance. Solondz then brings up the question, how can this be if it really happened? What Solondz is depicting the grimy underbelly of suburbia, true in character, only appearing absurd and contrived when high in density. But once again, Solondz jabs us with the theory that once you begin writing it all becomes fiction. Within this first short section of this movie, Solondz has set everything up for us an impenetrable, self-referential mobius strip of a movie.In the second portion of the film, we are told the story of the documentary. Despite the family being documented in a non-fictional way, we get caricatures of their beings. The director generally does 'care' about his subjects but like the typical Solondzian ending don't be sorry, your movie's a hit, we see the struggle of a filmmaker seeking to please his audience as well as 'staying true' to the art.What is ironic here is that Solondz' characters aren't really mean-spirited and banal people. It is more likely that these adjectives can be applied to the audience who doesn't see 'the truth', who overlooks the diluting processes of documentation; the writing class, the test-audience, you and me. Self-referential paradigms are often over-deterministic and thus seemingly unnecessary, but Solondz has a more lighthearted manner to his display. He isn't really misanthropic; he understands the value, the necessity of discussion, enough to create characters and movies of an accessible complexity. He may be a bit bitter, shrugging his shoulders and saying don't listen to me, what I know?, but what he really means is C'est la vie, so what are you going to do about it? "}{"Title":"inspiration in alienation","Date":"25 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie consists of two different parts - two different approaches to the storytelling. The mutual thread - what people are capable of doing in the search of the inspiration... Not to mention the main character's alienation, which is a leitmotif in all Solondz's works. Even though people tend to criticise the first, short part, it is quite interesting. I think that the key to that part is the teacher's comment on Marcus story, The Wrongness of Truth is that supposed to be a joke of some sort&#x85;or are you just being pretentious? Quite a gimmick&#x85; The second part - well, it's just a masterpiece. Makes you feel depressed and amused at the same time. Truly admire Solondz's work "},{"Title":"Hardly perfect, but strong","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After re-watching Happiness for the first time in over a decade, I decided finally to catch up with Solondz's two follow-ups. Storytelling finds Solondz in a self-critical and defensive mood, taking on both his own weaknesses as a writer and his critics, who were ubiquitous after Happiness. That aspect of Storytelling didn't really work for me, because, honestly, I don't find Solondz as shallow as many critics did. His characters are sometimes grotesque, but I think he does uncover some uncomfortable truths about people with his technique. Storytelling is comprised of two parts. The first, entitled Fiction, is really a short film. Selma Blair plays a college student who is enrolled, alongside her disabled boyfriend, in a creative writing course. Their professor is a cynical, controversial and angry black novelist. After their professor gives a scathing criticism of the boyfriend's story, he and Blair break up angrily which leads Blair right into her professor's bed. It's hard to see exactly what Solondz is trying to say with this story. It's easy to say he's just trying to stir controversy and make the audience uncomfortable, at which he obviously excels. But the thing is, the uncomfortableness only arises because the emotions of the film are so precise. The second part of the film, Non-Fiction, is a little stronger. Paul Giamatti plays a documentarian who finds his ideal subject in the form of pothead Mark Webber, a high school student who has no ambition. Whatever Giamatti does with his film, it seems like he's making fun of his subject. I liked this part of the film better, because it deals with a subject that I think about often, that being the way documentaries work. There were a few bits of the film that I didn't like, but mostly I found it pretty strong. The film is bolstered by original songs by Belle & Sebastian. "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" STORYTELLING is by the director of WELCOME TO THE DOLLHOUSE and HAPPINESS and, surprisingly, is his most disturbing film. It is a film that really tries to undermine all the ugliness of the human race with incredibly heartless cruelty. WELCOME TO THE DOLLHOUSE was the film in which a little girl suffers ridicule at the hands of her classmates and family in hostile, over-the-top ways. HAPPINESS was the film in which a man rapes women over the phone while another abuses his son's friends. Both of those films were directed and written in smart, clever, ironic, and challenging ways that made sense and were better films. STORYTELLING, however, seems to try to be as impossible to watch as possible. Want proof? The opening scene involves a boy with cerebral palsy reading a story he wrote to his creative writing class before being ridiculed by his teacher and classmates about what a horrible piece of writing it is. The film, from a distance, is about two stories called FICTION and NON-FICTION. FICTION is about a girl in a creative writing class who is assaulted by her teacher. NON-FICTION is about a dysfunctional family being filmed by a documentary filmmaker. At a much closer look however, the film is just about awkward moments that everybody has only in this film they go horribly bad in every possible way. It's incredibly irritating and sickening to watch. The characters are mostly sketchy and ugly, with the main exception being the character of Scooby in the second story. His character doesn't pretend to be happy and perfect. He isn't a jerk to everybody and doesn't constantly whine. He lies a lot, mainly to himself, but doesn't harm anybody. The film covers all sorts of issues including the mentally disabled, rape, ridicule, race, homosexuality, the holocaust, and immigration. I didn't like any of the characters, nor was I supposed to. Instead I felt sorry for everybody and kind of just wanted to to all die. However, it isn't that easy in this film. Everybody is just so insanely miserable that it eventually works it's way into your psyche. I find this film to be a much more challenging film than Todd Solondz's previous outings. It's probably his least accessible and his worst. I find the film to be an incredibly daring work that certainly is worth checking out. However, the film's efforts to shock and disturb manage to overwhelm the positive aspects of it. I love the film, but I don't feel at all comfortable recommending it.Pros -Generally a very solid film in acting, directing, set design, etc... It's all very top-notch Cons -the film is filled with outright heartless cruelty. "},{"Title":"Fascinating, but truly realistic stories...","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film could seem to some commercial-spoiled young pubertal teenagers as boring, but precisely patience is the key to this piece. When being brought in to the story with a fantastic piece of directing, you will agree with every single bit of these 2 stories. The first story - Fiction may not be as realistic, just as the name could hint you, but shows that world full of prejudice may have a reason. The afro-American storywriting teacher is in our eyes a negative character, but does not come out as positive, but dives even deeper.And the 2nd story is the most heart touching and fascinating part of this film. A story of a boy from a classical American suburb, turns his own family upside down with the most discussed matter in the world - homosexuality. He becomes part of a documentary, which was supposed to show a normal American family, but turns out to be a laugh to naivity of all Americans. "},{"Title":"soundtrack and critique","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" the soundtrack for this movie was done entirely by Belle & Sebastian, but most of the songs recorded by them aren't in the movie. their full soundtrack is released as an amazing album.that soundtrack is better than the movie itself in many ways, since the moral statement of the film, about the power of art to distort reality gets lost in the spectacle of the movie. the unsuccessful film screening is a perfect summary of the whole film. not to say i didn't like this movie, i do. i just think that it has a muddled point and muddled execution, which is an interesting commentary on the ability to control your art and say a good moral message life and art get messy and a real moral tale is hard to tell realistically. "},{"Title":"tough some may not see it, storytelling a wonderful film about emotional disawarness","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this film today in high school, at cinema class. tough my class is usually in a very high level of film understanding, I was surprised to see how pepole didn't like the ending and tought the film could have used situations to make scenes more emotional, missing all the point of this movie.from my point of view, this film is about emotional disawarness to other pepole's feelings. it is screamed in the relationships inside the family, between the director and Scooby, and in every scene in the script. I do not want to make spoilers for the movie, but I think it shows clear at the last line of the movie.storytelling takes what so many other movies (like crash) tried to do, but do it better, with more depth, more meaning, more gentle treatment to the characters, just better. who ever saw it and did not think of the point of characters that are emotionally closed, I think should watch the movie again, because he might miss a spectacular work of cinema. "},{"Title":"Storytelling - Its dark","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you write about this movie as mean-spirited or negative I don't think you got the idea! This movie is supposed to be as dark humored as it gets, I don't think I've ever laugh so much because of a simple scene. The movie was split in to 2 separate stories but you could connect them to gather if you just activated your brain a little. Although the first story was necessary I didn't like it, or, I thought story no. 2 was so good that I didn't want to remember that story 1 was there to. The acting in higher then to be expected and the conversations in the movie are beyond laughable, you just don't know what to do! That kind of movie starts a little flame in every director's heart. A low bucket film that should make money! MuggZ "},{"Title":"what to look for in a story?","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie consists of two parts which are related only by the director's attempt to make inverse points. Part 1 was called fiction and it was about 20 minutes long. Part 2 was called nonfiction and it was ... well, the rest of 70 minutes.After seeing this movie, I understand why people usually make trilogies or omnibus films with three parts for the same reason that major musical pieces have introduction, middle, and repeat (and an optional coda)-- the need to wrap-up... It isn't that we LEARNED to like the 3-part structures; but because with 2 points, you can only draw a line; for anything 3-dimensional, you need another point, a reference. If at least the first and the second part were of equal length, the movie would have been better, although it would have still felt like 2 movies. But at least you wouldn't feel that one story is less important than other. If the director felt that the second story was so much more important, why even bother with the first story? If the point of the director was exactly to trivialize the first story, he should have arranged his movie differently, because it doesn't flow well as a movie.In fiction, we learn that any nonfiction written as a story becomes fiction. The young author is not being true to herself out of confusion; she thinks she needs to be cool to write, and is trying way too hard; her insecurities are crushed by those same people she's trying to use to achieve coolness.In nonfiction, we see a guy who wanted to be an actor when he was a teenager, succeed in making a hit documentary about a boy who wants to be an actor; the documentary feels real but funny, while the boy's life is completely artificial. But I can't make a clear parallel with fiction. Is it that any story drawn from a fiction is a non-fiction? Or is it that in this case simply life is unreal and story is real? Or am I too rational?Exploitation of geeks and minorities in life and in art and of course their revenge is a key lite motif in this movie, as well as in other Solondz movies, I love the cynicism on the politically incorrect side. The heart of both stories is no matter how you write a story, people find in it what horrifies them the most - be careful what you write about, since you're writing for an audience, and the audience might not get it... or it might get something else out of it. So there is a lot of wonderful acting, good cynicism, and all in all, a good potential in the material, my vote is only a 6 because the movie doesn't flow well, the parallels (conclusions) are unclear, and the third or concluding part isYeah, what??? Oh. Yes. It's missing. "},{"Title":"Interesting but lacking something","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I did find this film pretty interesting it still seems to be lacking something compared to his previous two efforts. It doesn't have the emotional impact of Welcome to the Dollhouse or the sharpness and coherency of Happiness and both of those films each had a standout performance in them and this one does not, although Selma Blair is pretty good. The two parts Fiction and Non-fiction just seem to be missing some element. Its not that we don't understand what he's doing and what he's trying to say but it just doesn't have the closure that seems to be needed. The first part Fiction is shorter and just seems to end without allowing what it had just conjured up to play out. I do like Todd Solondz and the way he writes his films in general. He possesses a very dark and cynical view of both political correctness and the suburbs. I also think it was important for Selma Blair to be in this film. Her career seemed to be playing the stars friend or appearing in teen comedies. Here she plays a lead role and a somewhat controversial one at that in what might be her first nude scenes. I think its good for her career to be in something serious like this. I know I'll think of her in a different light from now on. Not anywhere near Solondz best films but interesting enough to recommend and anyone who likes Solondz (like myself) should see it.   "},{"Title":"deconstructionist text not as up to par with happiness yet gleefully offensive","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most people think the two segments are independent of each other - they clearly are not, even if the characters do not occur in both segments, its to provide the contrast and illustrate the alleged dichotomy - the center is not the center as derrida would say. This movie deconstructs and illustrates there really no longer is any line between fiction present and nonfiction by showing us the point at which both become its opposite. Good film that's sure to provoke thought. First segment can be difficult to watch though as the fellow portraying the student with CP is a terrible actor and some of the themes explored are disturbing. Selma Blair and her prof are excellent however. This first segment is alternately hysterical and disturbing and at times both. The second segment is too long and is less focused and humorous and a bit more obvious and sententious. On the whole a good film but a disappointment for the Solondz fan whom might have been expecting something brilliant like happiness another deconstruction, that of the american dream done before and better than american beauty won oscars for mining the same material. "}{"Title":"JUST WATCH IT!!","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It seems that the majority of comments about STORYTELLING fall broadly into two camps. Those who get it or approve, really identify with at least some of the characters, or maybe with Solondz's P.O.V. (when it can be deciphered)and seem to have taken the film on it's merits. The other camp, who seem to hate it most commonly express dissapointment that it wasn't what they expected, that it wasn't this that or the other thing, including, too long too short, not funny enough, not sad enough, too POST MODERN (whatever the hell that is supposed to mean to Jesus, Buddha and Groucho Marx) etc.It's a shame these people didn't allow themselves the experience of just WATCHING the damn thing and appreciating it for what it is. I have noticed that any piece of film making/ story telling that refuses to follow the established form, in this case Hollywood cliches and rules about structure, generally elicits more talk about these departures than about the actual content itself. This is a real shame, but I suppose it is to be expected among buffs who in my view are simillar to trainspotters but worse in that their excessive point scoring actually strips the bueaty out of something worth while. Funny also how quite a number of those who criticise the film along these lines have adopted dialouge from the film to do so, I assume unselfconciously. The phrase mean spirited pops up a few times, just as it was uttered by the prudish Born Again type, who morally offended by the rude words etc. of Vi's story completely misses the point of it's content. In the film she also asserts that it is somehow perverse or wicked to shine an artistic light on the sad and disturbing aspects of life. This attitude used to infuriate me but these days when I encounter it, I mainly just laugh, and it's good to see others can too. If you haven't seen the film, I'd advise you to just watch the damn thing, let the story flow around you, let the characters speak. Analyse them, but if you obsess over form and structure, the past output of the artist etc. I think you will miss a lot of what the film has to say about Art, Truth etc.All in all, I thought the movie, allthough harrowing at times, revealed an artist who is achingly honest, someone kind hearted but disturbed by what he sees around him, someone who can still see the beauty in people's screwed up lives. I've not seen any of Todd Solondz's other films but I sense that he is a truly great director and I would recomend this great movie to anyone who is able to aproach it with an open mind and evaluate it on its merits. I rate this film amongst the best I have seen. "},{"Title":"When you start writing, everything becomes fiction...","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a great film, superbly crafted. The two stories were not given equal time in the film, as they should not have. Although Selma Blair delivers, what I believe to be, her best performance to date, her story pales in comparison to the Nonfiction part of the movie, which gives a much more real and brutal account of Mark Webbers character, Scooby.I would rather not give a plot summary nor deliberate on inconsequential details of the movie, but suffice to say this is a must see! While it may not be as eloquent as American Beauty, Storytelling provides a wonderful snapshot into the psyche of high school and college life wrapped in some extraordinary circumstances. This film is a testament to despair, self loathing and personal struggle.The ending is, perhaps, the crown jewel of this film. It made my jaw drop and, in fact, I sat in front of the TV for a number of minutes before I regained my senses. Side note I had to watch Fiction twice, as I failed to see its correlation to Nonfiction when I watched it the first time.My vote 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie the other day. I'd like to think of myself as open minded, but this film is very disturbing. I couldn't watch this film all the way through the first time, as to viewing the fiction part of the movie first, and had to force myself to finish the other half to view the other half, which had some humor in it, as to soften the creepiness of some of the characters that you witness. As in Welcome to the Dollhouse, Todd Solondz ventures in to the dark themes of suburbia that we don't most often like to talk about, but this film almost leaves you helpless, taking you through cruel experiences of the characters, with nothing to save them. "},{"Title":"Bravo!!","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think Storytelling is a masterpiece! I`ts wonderful to see that some American directors still can do something with style. This movie gets as close to classic literature as possible. It has the same abilities as a novel. It opens your eyes and wakes up questions, that you want to find answers to. I think that the reason why the story work so well, is that it was from the beginning planned to be a movie. Some movies that are based on novels, does`nt work that well because the director can`t be sure of what the author had planned (specially if he/she has died many years ago). Paul Thomas Anderson is an other great example of this type of directors with vision and intuition. The movie is a desperate cry for help. Some people in the states are blinded by the authorities, television and the surrounding environment. They are so blind that they cant see the real problems, although their standing right in front of their noses. If i met Mr. Solonz i`d definitely shake his hand and congratulate him for his work as a true rebel. I hope that we`ll be seeing more of this kind of work in the future!!   "},{"Title":"Solondz movies encourage thinking","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would propose to all the naysayers of this movie to compare the comments submitted for Storytelling to, say, the comments submitted for a movie like Austin Powers, Dumb and Dumber, or even the shallow farce that is American Beauty.  In fact, you can compare the comments of Storytelling to almost any other movie and you will find the comments elicited (i.e. reaction) by Storytelling to be much more profound, ponderous, and engaging.Such comparisons will enlighten all that this movie has more substance, more honesty, more reality, more intelligence and more creativity than 90% of the crap forced upon us.  I am being kind when I estimate 90% is crap.I won't delve into the synopsis as other reviews have repeatedly provided and besides, as stated in the movie  once you put something into your own words, it changes.  And besides, the best way to watch any Solondz movie is to not have any idea what it is about.  Have fun!  "},{"Title":"Another great effort by Solondz","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ******SPOILERS******There seems to be only a handful of directors that are making truly interesting films these days. You've got Solondz, Larry Clark, LaBute, the Coen Brothers, and Todd Phillips(dont hold Road Trip against him(Todd) we all need to pull a good paycheck from time to time)Once again, Solondz delivers the goods. He, and the others i've mentioned, and some i've obviously forgotten, always make an honest attempt to give us something we haven't seen before...or if we have seen it before, they do their best to put a very interesting twist on the story.Storytelling is a movie that has two stories within it---one short and one long. The short story is about Vi and Marcus. Vi and Marc are lovers. Marcus suffers from Cerebral Palsy; Vi is a cute, 'artshouse' kinda chick...bent on proving how liberal or UNconservative she is. Anyway, to make a short story shorter, she gets called on her BS...early on by Marcus, and later by her classmates and her brooding, black Prof who she had a one night stand with...The second story revolves around a very common Solondz target---the normal suburban family. The family consists of a husband, wife, and three kids. One of the kids is a jock. The other kid(the youngest...still in grade school) borders on being a child prodigy, and the third kid, who the story centers around, is a complete screw up.It would take too many keystokes to go into any kind of detail about the second story. So, suffice to say, normally when we watch a film where a young, very smart kid dies, and a total slacker lives, it hurts...it's tuff to watch----but not this time. Solondz basically makes us beg for it...and I guess that's his genius.If you enjoy dark comedy, you really need to see this film. I'd give it an 8 out of 10P.S. For the people who've said it was predictable and obvious...what films are you watching?????? I really need to check um out! "},{"Title":"Confronting Almost Every Film Taboo (Spoiler)","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Last weekend I was searching through the New Releases at my local video store when I saw the DVD to Storytelling. The thing that caught my eye was the director's name, Todd Solondz, because I really liked one of his other films named Happiness. I picked up the DVD and watched the Unrated Version (only big difference between the R Version being a large orange rectangle covering a sex scene). This movie contains almost every taboo not seen in films today. There's interracial sex, underage gay sex, and a fired worker killing her employer. This movie hit and it hit hard, almost as much as Happiness. This movie is disturbing, but only because it shows what's out there in a way that doesn't try to hide anything. I really like Todd Solondz's work and I can't wait to see more of his films. "},{"Title":"It's story time with Todd.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After crafting his dark comedic masterpiece Happiness, one would wonder where he would take us next, and to what depths of human darkness he would show us.  What story would he tell us next?  Although nowhere near as satisfying as Happiness and Welcome to the Dollhouse, Todd Solondz delivered Storytelling, a film that not only examines the idea behind telling stories, separating fact from fiction, media exploitation, waiting for things to happen instead of making them happen, but seems to be a look in the mirror of sorts for Solondz.  Despite the fact that Storytelling is marred by a somewhat weak opening(which happens to feature a hilarious comment on censorship in the form of a red box in the rated version), it serves as a prelude to the non-fiction segment, where the film truly opens up.  Much of the plot-spoilers can be found in many other reviews, but I will comment on one of the scenes.  A truly fascinating scene is where Scooby, a lackadaisical kid who thinks destiny will come to him instead of finding it, sees a test-audience laughing at him on the screen of a documentary surrounding his life.  In a sense, the character within the movie, stands back and watches his own movie, and sees how the world is reacting to it.  Does Solondz feel empathy and responsibility towards his characters?  Are stories merely a chance for us to laugh at other people's movies?  The whole idea behind Storytelling is grasped and questioned in that very scene. Regardless of whatever judgments you hold for Storytelling, which demands that you make your own ones of it, it's undeniable that it's a work of art and remains as entertaining, provocative, dark and exciting as anything by Solondz. "},{"Title":"Life is a quest to find your identity and how we identity the world?","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In The Storytelling, director Todd Solondz introduces a character who are feeling inconsistency with their dreams and their reality, who are reliant of others for achieving their dreams, who are playing their life unplanned. These are the mental diseases created by the wealth and the freedom when people take them for granted, or may be that these diseases are existed as long as human exist.Todd challenge us to think, is the life really unfair?, are we humans are slave of god or destiny?. Most of us will say that we are independent of making decisions for self actions. It is true but our results are not always what we expected, decisions does not led us to the dream, it is the skill or ability led us to the dream, action does not led us to the dream either.In the face of these truth of life, people act differently depending on how they accept the reality that includes self identity and the world identity. "},{"Title":"Life is a quest to find your identity and how we identity the world?","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In The Storytelling, director Todd Solondz introduces a character who are feeling inconsistency with their dreams and their reality, who are reliant of others for achieving their dreams, who are playing their life unplanned. These are the mental diseases created by the wealth and the freedom when people take them for granted, or may be that these diseases are existed as long as human exist.Todd challenge us to think, is the life really unfair?, are we humans are slave of god or destiny?. Most of us will say that we are independent of making decisions for self actions. It is true but our results are not always what we expected, decisions does not led us to the dream, it is the skill or ability led us to the dream, action does not led us to the dream either.In the face of these truth of life, people act differently depending on how they accept the reality which include self identity and the world identity. "}{"Title":"Yes, there is racism on the MPAA !!!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When watching STORYTELLING in cinemas without knowing about the outrageous RED BAND covering A WHOLE SEX SCENE between a two characters in the movie; I  imagine the most savage kind things were happening behind that RED BAND  when even their heads were covered.I saw the movie on DVD (the unrated version) a few months later, and there were only a provocative but nothing else (besides the guy's back no other nudity could be seeing).  Oh yes, there was something different, the characters were a  very WHITE woman and a very BLACK guy.BASIC INSTINCT had (in the R version) a more violent scene (but both were white persons).  It seems that the MPAA is somehow against mix couples, sex or relations.  Who was also with that idea, well KKK, WHITE SUPREMACY MOVEMENTS and of course HITLER.Can we tolerate that an EXCELLENT movie like this being RUINED.  Yes, that scene was just the CENTER OF THE HISTORY. So this wonderful movie, fail at the box office, well I really wanted to get my money back.   I felt robbed and insulted at the movies, when I felt that somebody WHO MUST THINK ITSELF MORE INTELLIGENT THAN THE REST OF US, decides to cover or cut  something just because of different races, or because he or she did not like it. Why they don't just tell the people `BE CAREFULL INTERRACIAL SEX ENTER AT YOUR OWN RISK`.  But no, seems, that ART and CREATIVITY is not of a subject, moral beliefs,  thinking FOR THE PEOPLE (or just using that power) are first.Please, see STORYTELLING in DVD, is an excellent and quite explosive movie. Is not about sex at all, but about our relation with people DIFFERENT or in a lower level than us. The movie dares to criticize Jews on their superficiality and materialism. It dares to state that young kids are only moved by selfishness. That education and real feelings must go together. That even the poor working or disabled people are not saints when they are attacked.  But the most important thing is that POWER CORRUPTS, the power obtained for being a teacher, a father, a lover, or just richer.  That must be also the case of the censors at the MPAA.See this movie, you will discover a couple of things about the way we live; but also, fight against censorship of any kind.  If we can go to war and kill or be killed, we can also see some lovemaking; don't you think so. "},{"Title":"Solondz's best to date","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, its been a while since we saw dollhouse & Happiness, but the many levels of the American (USA) experience that this bipart movie addresses along with its comments on narational creativity (or not)makes it especially significant at this time.  The shot of the twin towers (coming in from New Jersey)and Consuella's reaction to her rejection by her adoptive family are particularly illuminating (in view of the subsequent question why do they hate us?).  "},{"Title":"great.A very savage, dark, disturbing masterpeice.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Storytelling is one of my favorite movies to date. it tells two seperate stories the first being fiction the second non-fiction. anyone who is thinking about seeing this should stop thinking and just see it. John Goodman's preformance is downright hilarious as the tightly wound father in the second story. Selma Blair is also very good. I think i liked the second part better but it is too hard to tell, as they are both very dark yet very true with what happens everyday in this world, with exploitation, rape, self discovery, and deceitfullness. i dont want to give anymore away so anyone who reads this i recommend it to you and anyone else who wants to have a good time watching a great movie. 10/10 stars. excellent! "},{"Title":"Not a new Happiness but almost","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are two stories here. Both combines a feeling of reality with  unrealness. In the first story, Vi's follow students are much too disgusting witty to be seen in real life. But Selma Blair's performance really is.In the other story, which is a raw satire, the main person, well played by Mark Webber (II) is sure to be found outside the cinemas (and inside too probably) but his family is not. Especially not the monstrously innocent and at the same time evil grotesque little brother. Or maybe he can be found too. This is class conflict. In the first story an emotional one and in the second an economical one. Its raw abuse in both cases.Entertaining, but not really another Happiness by the talented Todd Solondz.  "},{"Title":"Todd Solondz Storytelling is too quick.....","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Todd Solondz Storytelling is too short of a movie.  The first story fiction ends so quick and you want more.  The second story non-fiction is the best of them all and it ends the same way to quickly.  Todd Solondz has made some great movies WELCOME TO THE DOLLHOUSE AND HAPPINESS  this movie is his least favorite of mine. I like the movie but not as much as WELCOME TO THE DOLLHOUSE AND HAPPINESS.  I hope Todd Solondz next movie is better.6.75/10 "},{"Title":"Storytelling genius","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Practically bursting at the seams with ambition, Storytelling is a brilliant film, provocative from the first frame to the last. In under 90 minutes, director Todd Solondz examines the exploitive nature of art, the motivations of those creating and participating in it, and its effect on all those involved. From the tidy precision of fiction to the messy, rambling nature of non-fiction, Solondz has created a story (or, in this case, stories) full of contradictions; deeply personal yet full of big ideas, tragic in nature yet occasionally darkly comic, warm and sympathetic to its characters even as they do terrible things. It's a movie you feel in your heart even while you're picking it apart in your head. "},{"Title":"duh!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i liked storytelling more than welcome to the dollhouse and happiness. none of these movies i found particularly comedic though. i just wanted to point out something in response to another review about it copying american beauty it was meant to! i think they put that in there to show how that guy was ripping off that movie because he was so crappy at making documentaries himself, he couldn't come up with his own ideas. there's also a connection to american movie, mike shank from that documentary films american scooby (see?) and he probably felt the same way scooby did when other people viewed their lives.i think this movie would've been better if they either made fiction longer, or just took it out altogether and the whole movie be about the non-fiction aspect. i really wanted to see more and didn't like how the movie cut off like it did.. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Superbly original","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the greatest films I have ever seen. Both stories show how perceptions of our peers can lead to us living a life as charactures of everything we hate about them. It also highlights a very basic fact at face value, how real is real life TV, what we saw from the final documentry is nothing like what we saw of real life Scooby. And to say this is like American Beauty is so far of the mark it is not even funny, both are superb films, but that is where similarities end. "},{"Title":"two stories about youth","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  the first story fiction is great , showing the relationship between a cp symphtom and a girl, both take a writing class for a famous black author who have a racist view on white girlsthe second story is a total rip off of American beauty this annoyed me to death since there are scenes that is stolen directly from American beauty , "},{"Title":"Give Poor Todd a Break!","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having read various of the user reviews of Storytelling, I have to say there are some very scathing critiques of the film & his supposed intentions.  I would say Todd is having the last laugh on all the people who say he's being cliched, stereo-typical etc. - it's satire for Godsake!  He's satirising the cliche!  I find the 'worldview' of all his films  a breath of fresh air, a welcome release from society's horrifying pressure to conform! I think you have to have a black sense of humour to really appreciate Todd's films; a sense of life being unfair but still funny in a sick sort of a way.  I don't think he's cruel/insensitive, on the contrary he's showing how cruel the world is & giving us a way of coping with it.  Possibly only people who can identify with 'life's losers' or who feel they themselves are 'failures' in society's eyes will fully empathise with the anti-heroes in his films.  OK, so he might be self-indulgent & getting his own back, but so what, why shouldn't the victim have a say for once?! "}{"Title":"Great Movie really!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love Tod Solondz's movies..... He gives us movies that show us the other side of people. If u are tired of the tipical hollywood cliches, i recommend u to watch his movies. Storytelling, in my opinion, was a little short. I wanted to see more! Specially the first story (fiction) was extremely short. But with the second story, Solondz redeemed himself... Solondz allways finds a way to surprise (in good or bad ways) the audience, and that is what i expect when i watch a movie. "},{"Title":"unruly and ambitious","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sharp pair of vignettes w/ terrific auto-criticism built in.Don't let the comedic overtones fool you.  Like Magnolia, this picture reaches beyond its own storylines into ponderous territory that applies to the whole of our reality.  The film is a reflecting loop, repeatedly illustrating the blurred space between perception and expression, and, more, the perception of expression.  Rarely has ambiguity been rendered with such precision.  Scene by scene and tone by tone, Solondz urges us to realize how, intuitively or otherwise, we manipulate our own experiences to preserve our self-sustaining value systems.  The fact that the movie draws no tidy conclusions is to be appreciated; the movie is a process, a dissection, and a meditation rather than an argument in favor of a pre-baked point (as American Beauty is).Every character onscreen is hinged between the awful uncertainty of experience and the tempting complacency of conclusive perception & interpretation.  The movie's intelligence and self-consciousness, its ability to comment upon and chastise itself as it unfolds, yields it critic-proof, if such a thing is possible.  Solondz knows how imperfect and vulnerable he is-- he puts it right on the screen-- and to put down this movie is to be effectively redundant.10/10  "},{"Title":"makes you want to watch it again...i couldn't stop watching the trailer","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Storytelling is a great movie, at times Solondz could have done better but everything was good. From the music, that was the main reason why i wanted to watch the trailer again; to the humor. This movie dares to go places that other movies don't and most of the time it works.Two stories, fiction and fact, make up this story. The first one, fiction, involves an interracial relationship between a student and her college professor. The second, Fact, revolves around a boy named Scooby and his struggles. The second story is where all the meat is and the first was pretty good too.John Goodman gave a good performance and the lad that played Scooby was pretty good too. All in all this movie deserves a watching, but i warn you this movie is not for people that like crossroads or Hilary Duff movies. If you enjoy music and indie movies this is for you. "},{"Title":"Excellent dark comedy with hell of a lot more truth in it than your average award-winning dramas","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is great.Because it deals with nasty subjects and themes that are just too real and raw for most directors out there to even attempt to handle.Tod is a truly consummated director and storyteller(pun intended).I certainly can see an autobiographic commentary here, as any viewer paying some attention could.But for all it's dead pan humor and dark views of the human nature, this movie is a lot of fun and full of twisted, brilliant moments.*Spoilers Next*For example when the character Scobby is high on marijuana and sees himself as a guest on Conan Doyle's Show...great!! And when his little brother(highly annoying and egotistic but also very intelligent)hypnotize his father to..love him!*End of Spoilers* By any means you should compare this with Tod's masterpiece Happiness, but with Welcome To The Doll House(another excellent movie of his)this could stand very tall and proud.Highly recommended essential look! "},{"Title":"Cruelly Funny","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Todd Solondz seems to specialise in hating everybody. From Welcome to the Dollhouse, through Happiness to this film, he seems to thrive in misanthropy, delving into the worst aspects of human nature.Storytelling has two separate segments Fiction deals with a college student (Selma Blair) who breaks up with her disabled boyfriend and has a brutal one-night stand with her creative writing professor. Non-Fiction describes the attempt of an aspiring documentarian (the always good Paul Giamatti) to make a film about a typical high-school loser and his wealthy family.As always the film is savage and bitter and is bound to have something to offend almost anyone, and yet it is very funny. In a way the laughs are almost shocked out of you by the casual cruelty on display. In my opinion Storytelling is better than the over-rated Happiness (which just went too far at times).When you want something to make you feel good about life and humanity, don't watch this film. "},{"Title":"Not Solondz's best, but worth seeing","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Storytelling is an indictment of repressive suburbia, but it is also an indictment of the postmodern, ironic, and politically correct intellectuals, and how both parts of society control and restrict people from being truly who they are. It is also about, well, storytelling and how easily stories and plots are manipulated for effect.The first half hour, Fiction, is devoted to a story of a college student, Vi, who is tired of dating the undergraduates and ends up a violent and racially charged sex scene with her African American creative writing professor.  Solondz pushes the limit on all of the society's buttons in Fiction, from the handicapped to race relations to sexual politics, and it is almost like he was simply out to shock the audience.  The short film comes across as even trite and cliched, although now I realize that I'm quoting a scene from it almost directly, so perhaps this is Solondz's point.  Still, if you ever seen any other of Solondz's movies, you can see the whole point of this section coming from a mile away (the dangers of political correctness, the prudishness and hypocrisy of the American middle class, even those claiming to be liberal or progressive, etc.)  And I just couldn't believe that Vi would only say Don't be racist, don't be racist in the bathroom scene.  I think I gotta get the hell outta here would be much more logical.However, the brilliant last hour, Nonfiction, more than makes up for the first half.  It tells the story of a listless and intelligent teenager who lives with an angry and sad family in suburban New Jersey, and also about the documentary that is being made about them.  Truly, I wish this were the whole movie, it is that good.  Yes, there's plenty of postmodern film-within-the-film winking, but that quickly falls apart as we reach the heartbreaking and disturbing ending, when the movie suddenly becomes painfully real.  What is also funny about Nonfiction, which is supposed to be real, is that it contains completely fictional and even forced plot points someone is injured and slips into a coma, someone else is hypnotized and told what to do, and even the final, terrible act seems more to come out of a bad TV movie than real life.  (I also especially enjoyed the not-so-subtle digs at American Beauty and American Movie.)Do we want our lives to be more like an episode of Friends, wrapped up neat and tidy, with minor quibbles that are resolved in a half hour (or, during sweeps, maybe a two-part special)?  Is political correctness just a big cover up for uncomfortable yet still very real desires and thoughts?  Which is worse being told what to do, or being told what to think?  Are the two the same thing?  Storytelling does address these questions, and I think if Nonfiction were stretched to feature-length, it would answer them brilliantly.  But, because of the ho-hum first hour (yes, ho-hum, even with that scene and all), all the pieces don't quite fall together.  To change the lyrics of a certain Scottish band, It could've been a brilliant movie.  Storytelling is worth seeing for the great acting (in both Fiction and Nonfiction) and the excellent second section, but you can clip your toenails or stare out the window for the most part during the first half hour.  I was expecting more of a cynical irony-fest as in Happiness, but I was truly touched by Nonfiction, and it will stay with me for quite awhile. "},{"Title":"I don't get it","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So I loved Solondz's first two movies, esp. Welcome to the Dollhouse, but this one is just kind of jumbled. It's two movies in one for one thing, and the first chapter just seems like an excuse to show off some extremely pale and skinny woman naked - not bad, I guess, if you're into that kind of thing. The second one is more interesting, but it has lots of plot threads that go nowhere at all The maid seems pretty essential to the storyline, but her plot kind of fizzles; the story opens with a phone call that goes nowhere; this kid Scooby has some gay liaison that similarly has nothing to do with the plot. There is some interesting stuff though, especially the performance of the child actor - and his dialogue - mirroring the ballerina in Welcome to the Dollhouse, the American Beauty documentary narration was funny as well, and - if you've been in a writing class - there are some truisms. But I'm hoping next time Solondz tries to find some plausible kind of plot, and maybe tone down the kink factor a little. Oh and another thing, supposedly whole chunks of plot were eliminated from the movie, hello, on the DVD, where are they? "},{"Title":"Everybody's got one to tell.","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" by Dane YoussefThe writer/director of this one is Todd Solondz, so you all know what to expect. For those who saw his heavily acclaimed (by critics and audiences alike) Welcome To The Dollhouse a movie about the hell almighty on earth that is junior high school.I was not one of the film's many admirers. Yes, I felt like just about everybody else that the film did have some poignant truths, but... I pretty much already knew them all. It all felt kinda redundant. I was in high school at the time and every scene I was watching, I thought, Yeah, no sh*t.I mean, I know it's supposed to be a satire, but I felt too much like I was watching what I already knew and thought and what has been said too many times before. Solondz was preaching to the reverend there.His next film, Happiness about three sisters and their lives... and how adulthood is even less as mentally unbalanced as junior high school. About three sisters and how their lives aren't as well-adjusted as they seem. The seemingly ideal perfect sister is dry, secretly dull and lives such a sterile life that when an obscene phone caller calls her... she starts stalking him.The best line in the movie Happiness... that almost encapsulates the entire filmI'm not laughing at you, I'm laughing with you. But I'm not laughing.The film is about two different forms of storytelling Fiction and Non-Fiction.In the first story, Fiction, Solondz shines an interpretive light a creative writing class.A woman with writing aspirations and her cerebral-palsy boyfriend with the same. Vi has broken up with her boyfriend after his obviously autobiographical story is panned horribly by the school teacher who scathes it. He especially takes some kind of pleasure in attacking the title The Rawness of Truth. Vi's boyfriend is furious with her for not giving it to him straight. Marcus' Rawness is about how Vi gave him confidence and made him feel... completely cerebral.Most of the whole class warms up to it... except for the teacher's pet... and the writing teacher himself, a Pulitzer-winner author of a novel entitled, A Sunday Lynching.Vi, stricken, gets hammered, lights up and... well... let me just put it this way... after having her last story ripped to shreds by the professor, her next story is certainly something of an improvement. And she's definitely evolving... because he's finally got something to say.The professor has a poetic line about the writing process that rings incredibly true Whenever you write... it all becomes fiction.Non-Fiction skewers reality and human experiences with life with a scalpel. Often at times, those documentarians seem to be roasting and attacking their subjects with great anger and fury... but are they just trying to get heat for their film... or is that how they really see it?Who knows? Many artists are former victims, grown children with bad experiences and hell-bent on vengeance. Non-Fiction revolves around the exploits of a documentary filmmaker and his desire to make a documentary about teenagers and what they're feeling now.Have things changed much? Drugs... suicidal feelings... self-loathing... loathing of the world around them... of the way society treats them, pressures them, conforms them and disposes of them... how do teenagers put up with it? What's ahead? Mark Webber is Scooby Livingston, a depressed, moody teenager who's completely lost and like many teenagers, his all-purpose requests to every question is I don't know, I really don't care and Whatever. He always seems deep in thought and in need of answers. He has no aspirations... When asked how he plans to attain his dreams of stardom, he answers I don't know, see if I have any connections... whatever... After a meet-strange with a documentarian Toby, both seem to be exactly what they're looking for and maybe their seemingly unobtainable dreams might have a chance of coming true after all.The family's not enthusiastic about this... especially the father who doesn't want the family's dirty laundry to be aired out. But after some hard questions and earnest promises, he agrees.No family wants to be exploited... and this family certainly would provide more than enough of such material. I think the boy represents Solondz as a young teenager (Solondz himself's vegetarian) and of course, Giamatti as Toby is Solondz as a filmmaker (Solondz dresses up Giamatti to look exactly like him). There's pressure all around from every angle and sadly, no way out in sight. College doesn't sound appealing to Scoob. Will there be a place for him. Since Scooby grew up to be Solondz himself, there must be hope. But I think Scooby represents all teenagers. He reflects our generation. God, how many teens out there are EXACTLY like Scooby?Like all of his other efforts, this is about how ugliness and unsettling rage lives in middle class suburbia. You can't watch this movie, see/hear some of these people and not think of someone you know or have met or seen randomly on the street. Solondz is from Suburbia, New Jersey and is talking about what's going on there. I like how he talks about things that most people shy away from. He wants to criticize, satirize and get you to ask yourself... How many people are really like this? And... is there hope for us? How many of these people exist... and more importantly, are they in our neighborhood? Not many... hopefully.Like all of Solondz films, people will either be mesmerized by it or despise it, but it's a movie that many should see. Perhaps a movie for cynical teenagers and aspiring storytellers. Just know what you're getting into. Like all of Solondz's pictures, this cuts deep... and leaves a mark.--A Natural Storyteller Oneself, Dane Youssef "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, excellent message","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm surprised because so many people don't understand this movie. It says that sometimes the fiction stories are more realistic and more honest than the non-fiction stories. Documentaries are often manipulations of real life, to show the director opinion with demagogy. A good example is Bowling for Columbine of Michael Moore.I think that Storytelling has got a exuberant sound judgment and maturity, and turn out to be a fascinating film to reflect on. "},{"Title":"Found it lacking, effective nonetheless","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Part 1 - A young aspiring writer with a cerebral palsied writer boyfriend both attend writing class taught by a seething, viciously critical novelist.Part 2 - A schlubby wannabe documentary filmmaker finds his perfect subject an abjectly apathetic teenager living in privilege with his volcanic father, dithering mother, jock brother and supremely smug, tactless baby brother.There's nothing in movies more frustrating to me than when a director/writer finds fertile soil and only digs two inches deep. They're precocious enough to stumble upon a great subject but they're content(or shamed or frightened into) going on autopilot from there, lazily applying whatever moldy stylistic preconceptions they made their name with, their auteristic trademarks, if you will(in director Todd Solondz' case, it's awkwardness, embarrassment, and pain heaped upon pain). I don't have a problem with Solondz' unpleasant modus operandi so the self conscious apologias and justifications found here are superfluous for me - what I wanted out of the film is a deeper examination of the themes of race, fetishistic exploitation, and lack of compassion Solondz is so quick to point out but not address to my satisfaction. His indictments of other films(American Beauty, American Movie, whose resident burnout Mike Schenk gets a cameo here) are impassioned but unconvincing. On the whole though, I think I mainly had a problem with what's not here. Truth is, there was great acting all around, and it was suitably provocative.  "}{"Title":"Well, I Loved It...","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am surprised that this movie has so many negative comments, i thought Storytelling was an excellent movie. In the first hour of the movie, it's supposedly a fiction story, where we see a sexually frustrated college student who takes creative writing and writes stories from her personal experiences. In the next hour, it's a non-fiction story, and we see a lonely man who wants to make a documentary about teenagers. Both stories were quite depressing but they were still filled with humor. The second story kinda reminded me of American Beauty and that's why i liked it more then the first one. Anyways, i would give Storytelling 10/10 "},{"Title":"Disturbing to show its brilliance!","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What is it about this guys' films that disturbs me, but is so interesting, I want to watch more than once to figure out why?This film is divided in two parts Fiction and Non-Fiction but what you find is they are both equally thought provoking and disturbing. For me, the first part made you wonder why people can be so high and mighty when judging someone else work when all the character was doing was telling the truth, the second one was showing the inner workings of a documentary, the filmmaker's private turmoil as well as the theme and subjects turmoils he chose as well. How many times has that thought crossed MY mind as I watched a Documentary? Here, the question is placed in front for all to think about, and rightfully so. In watching this film, you can't help but to. "},{"Title":"uneven but sometimes powerful film","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Storytelling,' a film written and directed by Todd Solondz, is actually made up of a pair of stories combined into a single work.  The first, entitled `Fiction,' is the shorter and lesser in quality of the two, telling the tale of a waiflike young college student who, tired of relationships that seem to go nowhere, finds herself having a kinky, almost racist sexual encounter with her black writing professor, then using the experience as source material for one of her amateur stories.  Selma Blair does a beautiful job in the role of Vi, a quiet, taciturn girl who finds herself drawn to an experience she quickly comes to regret.  Even though she is a `willing partner' in what happens to her, she also comes to see the exploitative nature of the event.  When she attempts to confront the professor by reading her tale in the writers' workshop session he is hosting, she discovers that few of the other writers are able to see the story for what it is and dismiss it as trite, racist and exploitative fiction.  That seems to be the theme of this first episode &#150; that everything becomes fiction once it is committed to paper &#150; but because the episode itself is so short, it somehow feels underdeveloped and incomplete.  Despite the excellence performances and the assuredness of the direction, this opening section comes across more as a clever conceit than as a fully developed work in its own right.The second story, which is almost twice as long as the first, creates much more of an impact, due largely to the fact that it gives itself more time for the development of character, milieu and theme.  In this tale, entitled, not surprisingly, `Nonfiction,' Solondz presents us with a view of an upper middle class suburban family caught in major crisis.  The story focuses on young Scooby Livingston, a high school senior so devoid of ambition, drive and motivation, that he is literally drifting through life, indifferent to family, school, peers, anything but his pie-in-the-sky dream of becoming a talk show host like Conan O'Brien (who makes a fun cameo appearance in the film).   Scooby's family resides in one of those perfectly manicured suburban residences replete with a maid from Central America whom the family members either ignore or treat with hurtful disdain (the mean-spirited action of the youngest son in this regard provides one of the truly disturbing, haunting moments of the film). Solondz does a beautiful job conveying the quiet desperation that defines so many lives lived behind such suburban facades.   Scooby's parents are at a loss to understand why their sterile home environment fails to elicit the responses they think it should from their oldest son.  Paul Giamatti plays Toby Oxman, a wannabe documentary filmmaker who decides to make a movie about Scooby's attempts to get into college.  Toby is a man whose life has not turned out the way he had imagined it would.  Unmarried, living with a roommate, and working as a clerk at a local shoe store, Toby latches onto the Livingston family as his ticket to fame and fortune.  By the end of the film, Toby has gotten more than he bargained for as the family weathers some amazing crises and even provides him with the perfect `finale' for his nearly completed work.`Nonfiction' takes a number of surprising turns, not all of which are entirely convincing or credible, but the film is more interesting for its characterizations and milieu than for its plotting.  Scooby is representative of many of today's apathetic young people, cut off from both his own emotions and the emotions of those around him.  Young Mark Webber captures Scooby's passive, glassy-eyed exterior perfectly.  Equally impressive are John Goodman and Julie Haggerty as Scooby's well-meaning but hopelessly ineffective parents, who simply can't understand why their son fails to share any of their basic values.  Jonathan Osser, as Scooby's youngest brother, Mikey, is a revelation, a smart kid who seems, on the surface, to be warm and caring, but who can, with cold calculation, destroy another human being without a moment's regret or hesitation.As a director, Solondz creates an atmosphere and a world that is raw, stark and sterile, utterly drained of happiness and joy.  In fact, I don't think a single character ever smiles in the course of either of the two stories (with the exception of Scooby and, of course, Conan, in the former's fantasy sequences).  These are people sealed off from the possibility of happiness, who are just going through the motions because the only other alternative is death.  As such, the film is, in many ways, a disturbing and depressing experience, but one that offers some valuable insights into human nature.   You may not want to live in the world Solondz is showing us, but you may want to visit it for a short time to perhaps see how much better your own life is. "},{"Title":"Given the director, I expected more","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This entire movie seemed like a step backwards for Todd Solondz. Had this come out before Welcome To The Dollhouse, and Happiness, I probably would have liked it more, because it seems to have some potential despite its flaws. However, it's not the work of a new director so it's puzzling that it's so disjointed and rambling. After his previous works I expected something surprising and subversive, and instead got a film that was nearly mundane. I suppose I would have thought even less of the movie had I saw the R-rated version of it. 5/10    "},{"Title":"so dark and disturbing... and Hilarious too!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  wow what a comedy. this movie is pretty compelling and it gets pretty dark, my god the only grudge i hold against it is that it's too short, there should have been 3 segments but then again what the hell am i talking about this movie is so pure evil, but in a good way. "},{"Title":"Todd Solondz does it again","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Todd Solondz is one of the few masterful indepent filmmaker who hasn't sold out to Hollywood. He makes his films the he wants and that's the way he'll stay. Storytelling is no excpeation the film is funny at times and brutally harsh at other. The film composed into parts is very nicely done but I preffered the first tale. Check this one out. "},{"Title":"Hollywood should take a look.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It should almost be mandatory for any Hollywood director to view a film of Todd Solondz before beginning a new project.  No director at present can present the honesty that he presented in Happiness or the newer Storytelling.  His work, along with Larry Clark's Kids are what's missing in Hollywood movies.  They don't require million dollar budgets for special effects or name stars demanding twenty million per picture. You start with a genuine script and a bunch of actors who know what they're doing and how to take direction and a cameraman who knows how to show the viewer what needs to be seen.  That's the formula. The finished product is a little masterpiece such as Storytelling.  This movie, especially part two, will knock your socks off! "},{"Title":"Everything turns to fiction...","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie poster for Todd Solondz' Storytelling shows a group of miniatures staring up a big, red, rectangular book bearing the title of the movie; which is interesting, because during the movie the audience that I went to see Storytelling with was staring up at a huge red rectangle on the screen for more than a minute (a means to hide an explicit sex scene in the movie). The MPAA's decision to tell Solondz to blot out the scene was their way of telling him that the scene was too vulgar and explicit to be seen. In all fairness, I think it only drives the themes of Solondz' movie further that the intention of art will result in a reaction that doesn't fit the purpose. In the first segment of Storytelling, a student, in a creative writing class, is raped by the teacher. She writes an account of the rape and reads it to her class. Her story falls on deaf ears. But it did happen! she cries out! It doesn't matter, the teacher states, once you put it down on paper, everything turns to fiction. And that's the point of the movie. Once you put ideas on paper, celluloid, or what have you, the reaction of the audience will be unforgiving. Hey, what do you expect from a movie where Schindler's List and American Beauty (here, it's American Scooby) get their just deserts. Also, Solondz has an interesting way in which he paints young people. The kid in Storytelling, the most supremely annoying character in the movie, is Solondz' way of painting the worst of critics extremely privileged, naive, shady, having considerable smarts, the mind of a child, and having no degree of emotion. How does he react to his housekeeper, telling him about her grandson's execution? Maybe it was for the best! Interestingly, it is this scene that leads up to the movie's wicked conclusion. Storytelling is a great film; it's like the literary equivalent of Mulholland Drive, just as laconic, but less ambiguous. "},{"Title":"A one sided case for suicide","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's not so much that this movie chose to depict a rather nefarious view of humanity; it's that this movie eliminated the possibility of anything but in the world of the characters. If someone made a movie, in this day and age, in which all the characters were happy, secure, whole and loved, a lot of people would be bored. And say that it's not very realistic. Well I was bored. A deep and subtle boredom, that (upon waking) causes one to question whether they're bored; cause that would mean feeling something...when it kind of just feels like nothing.This movie was boring. And it wasn't very realistic. "},{"Title":"critical look at political correctness","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I find this to an amazingly bold film. It is a critical look at political correctness, and a highly comedic one, although most people are probably too offended to see that. I can say from experience that the first segment of the film, Fiction, is a rather accurate view of a college creative writing class. And the second segment, Nonfiction, has one of the creepiest characters ever in the young kid in the family. With this film you either get it or you don't, and the majority don't seem to get it. I can't say with time this film will be looked back on any more favorably, although it deserves it. If anything it will probably be even more offensive. Solondz' comedy works for me, because it is not forced, although his punchlines are more like social commentary. Like Spike Lee's greatest films, this is one that is bound to make a lot of people angry. And like Spike Lee's films, it also has several points to make. "}{"Title":"pointless storytelling","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  as an actor and director, i feel torn with this movie. from the actors point of view, this is a wonderful acting tool to engage ones self in. the characters are uniquely interesting and keep your attention by a talented cast. however from a directors point of view; a storyteller in his own right, why the hell would one even attempt to create such a dark script. i feel that solondz is one these types of directors that attempts to disillusion us with a feeble story and pass it off as art. now i am the firm believer that art imitates life but the question now is what do we call art? if this example hold true than i could create a story about birds*** and pass it on as art. or i could even write a story about mundane routine of a Monday morning and have that perceived as art. plain and simple, that word art along with many others like genius, love, and freedom have been taken completely out of context. the idea that one can make a particular story but the reason of why one can is another. once that conclusion has been defined with a specific purpose than can it be debated with an artistic cause. there was no purpose in this story, there was no meaning and without that there is no conclusion. just 90 minutes of scenes intended for shock value and dark cynicism*. i was hoping to find a meaning in this film. granted, all movies need not a meaning but there was not even consistency in the movie. it wasn't even the sex scene or depressive state of the movie that bothered me, just the lack of substance and consistency made it a disappointing experience due to the fact that this movie came highly regarded from a good film friend. i think that by having films that are un-Hollywood can cataclysmically* reinforce ones love for the cinema. that's the beauty of it, there is no limit for creativity in this business but, ultimately one has ask the question, why do i want to make this movie. with that answered, everyone else can have a better picture of that picture.  "},{"Title":"Don't get your hopes up!","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having had seen Happiness several times, I really expected more from this movie.  It seemed to go nowhere and the characters were boring.  Maybe I need to see it again, but I doubt I will.  And, I hated the whole American Beauty ripoff.  Great actors with very little to work with.  4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A rare misfire from Solondz. An terrible movie with nothing to say.","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was profoundly disappointed with 'Storytelling'. As a huge admirer of Todd Solondz's 'Welcome To The Dollhouse' and (especially) 'Happiness', I was eagerly looking forward to this movie, but I can hardly put into words just how let down I was with this awful film. Why any sane person can actually find anything worthwhile to praise in this movie is beyond me. It is terrible. The first segment stars Selma Blair ('Cruel Intentions'), an embarrassingly inept actress, as a pretentious college student who finds herself shafted, literally as well as metaphorically, while studying literature under the cynical and manipulative Dr Scott (Robert Wisdom, 'Three Businessmen'). Now whether Solondz was simply baiting PC types with this story is difficult to work out, because on any other level it is a failure with nothing profound to say about literature, sex, race, power or anything much at all. The next and much longer segment is Solondz's knee-jerk reaction to Chris Smith's brilliant documentary 'American Movie'. He obviously has a bone to pick with Smith, but as satire it falls flat on its face. Surely for satire to be successful it should be either clever, cutting, or at least funny? 'Non Fiction' is none of those things. There are some great actors involved (John Goodman, Paul Giamatti, even Steve Railsback), but the script stinks. When the movie finally finishes all you can do is shake your head bewildered, and wonder what the f--- was he trying to say here?? I really don't know what Solondz was aiming to achieve with 'Storytelling'. I don't even think he does. A boring, self-indulgent waste of time. Don't bother watching it, watch 'Happiness' again instead. "},{"Title":"Worst-written movie ever.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mr. Scott (Robert Wisdom) critiques Vi's (Selma Blair) writing because it lacks a specific beginning, middle, or end.The very same is true for Storytelling. This movie is two separate films, Fiction and Nonfiction bundled together. The first movie is a couple of days in the lives of Vi and Marcus (Leo Fitzpatrick) - we never get any background on them, and never find out what happens to them. The second movie is far meatier, about the lives of a suburban family. But it, too, lacks a beginning -- and more importantly, it lacks an end. The movie has some funny moments in the middle, but the end cuts away about an hour before it should probably end for the plot to make any sense at all. Of course, I doubt I could stomach another hour with such trite characters in a poorly-written story that tries to be avant garde, but fails miserably.With few exceptions, the acting is fantastic in Storytelling. I only wish Mr. Solondz could give these actors a fair platform. "},{"Title":"Just more lame manipulating junk.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Todd Solondz is guilty of the same tricks at hipness and emotional toying that Hollywood is.  Unlike the industry he's trying to buck, he is able to appear sincere only through the blessing of independent coolness. Storytelling is no exception full of forced irony and one dimensional characters.  To his credit I believe he could become a great director if he learned to accept subtlety and soul in his work.   "},{"Title":"Hateful, bitter, smarmy and mirthless exploration of human weakness and stupidity - pointless and depressing","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Todd Solondz is a man with an axe to grind.A very big axe.Like his two previous features, Storytelling is a tale of suburban dysfunction.  The movie is populated by unloveable losers and those that exploit them; the inhabitants are either the freakish and ignorant or the depraved and sadistic.Unfortunately his latest film is billed as a comedy, but even an uncomfortable chuckle seems inappropriate in the depressing wake of this vituperative two-part 'expose' on the nature of truth.And while that lofty theme is only intermittently and haphazardly explored, Solondz is unquestionably successful in what one imagines was a primary objective -- to shock the audience with an unabashed combination of sexual taboo and craven human instincts.He's enlisted their services before to much better effect.Happiness, a painfully funny and scary film, offered a twisted sliver of hope that the family at its center would endure after it weathered a series of bizarre interpersonal storms and scandals.  Conversely, Storytelling is little more than a loosely collected series of flimsy vignettes concerning a remarkably vain, cruel and flawed group of people that cannot possibly survive.Or two such groups.  Solondz reportedly took inspiration for his uneven diptych from the highly regarded films Carnal Knowledge and Full Metal Jacket, ignoring the fact Kubrick's film didn't just haphazardly explore hypothetically related themes in two entirely unrelated narratives, but developed a series of characters and had them weather the stresses of battle later in the film.In Storytelling, the parts feel like rough drafts of two different, though no less repugnant movies, and at times it is painfully obvious that Solondz just didn't have enough material or inspiration to make one good movie. Unfortunately, the ugly subject matter is mirrored by the film's uninteresting camera work, about as solid and distinguished as a South American soap opera.The performances -- from a cast of principals who have nearly all appeared in brilliant comedies -- range from overbearing to underwhelming, not surprising considering the bewildering and sometimes pointless lines they have been given to speak.A dream sequence involving the burning and crucifixion of the mother and father and an appearance on Conan O'Brien is futile and embarrassing, and Solondz's examination of racial and sexual attitudes is almost as foolish as the offensive 1986 stinker Soul Man.Solondz spares no expense in relating his bleak belief that life trapped between the malls is a living hell for anyone with any sort of sensitivity. Only those who view life through the prism of soft-drink commercials (jocks, cheerleaders) and traditional values (soccer moms, dads at the barbecue grill, guidance counselors, hardworking housekeepers) stand any chance of happiness, but only because they are basically morons.But Solondz's maverick status is sealed by what has become his  unsettling calling-card  Even the have-nots -- the disabled, the poor, the shmoes, queers and failures -- are also despicable.  In his films the outsiders don't deserve your pity.  They are as self-serving and stupid as everyone else, and even murderous.Solondz fleshes out the misanthropic round-up by making the few characters with real intelligence in the film -- a precocious younger brother, a Pulitzer Prize winning professor -- predators that use their wiles predominantly to humiliate and defile the weakest people around them.Not surprisingly, there is a palpable sadness throughout the film, which is perhaps the most obvious emotion one would feel in the face of such freakish malevolence.  And despite the unrelenting onslaught of depressing episodes, Solondz bilious wit is not entirely suppressed.He is a preternaturally equal equal-opportunity offender.  One of the films few pale joys is that the characters occasionally voice what amount to fierce critiques of the film's excesses virtually in real time.And there are occasional moments when the satire is not entirely heavy-handed; American Beauty, a deserving target, has its most mawkish and sententious moment cleverly lampooned, and its title is bastardized for the American Scooby documentary that is the centerpiece of the second half. (In an extended, oblique pun, American Movie's Mike Schank appears as the Scooby cameraman.)Oddly, there is little that distinguishes the preachy humanism of the Oscar winning film from Solondz's strident, smarmy brand of outing social hypocrisy.And whatever treatise on fact and fiction was intended, ostensibly how an artist's evocation of truth can become more powerful than the truth itself, is ultimately obscured by a very angry young man's swipe at all of God's creatures.Solondz's nihilism and hatred may be explained by what he has suffered at the hands of the world around him.  His films undoubtedly bear the stamp of pain experienced first hand.   It's just that the average 16 year high-school art class junkie with a Pettibone fixation might be able to show you the same thing that Storytelling does with a few crude drawings. Life sucks. "},{"Title":"this movie made me feel terrible...","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Todd Solondz is a very good filmmaker, and it's evident with Happiness and Welcome to the Dollhouse, but this film was something that should never have been made. I'm still perplexed on how a company actually put up money for it...Selma Blair is a super-sexy actress, but in this film, she couldn't have picked a more terrible role...what was she thinking...? The fiction segment was easily the most powerful; yet also the most absurd...whatever Solondz was trying to do failed miserably...I think Solondz should skip this melodramatic sex theme and all these societal issues and make either a porno or horror film. There was no humor in the film, unlike his other efforts, Storytelling was a cheap movie with cheap ideas. "},{"Title":"Solondz's talent shows, but needs more closure","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Storytelling is interesting, dramatically effective and well-acted.  It just left me wanting more.  Those who were heavily turned off by Solondz's last effort, Happiness, (a film I still regard as brilliant) might not be as turned off by Storytelling.  Other than an explicit anal sex scene (which is blocked off by a cheesy red box in the R-rated version), the material is quite innocuous.  But Happiness not only had a provocative edge; it also had closure.  It didn't leave any loose ends, having the audience wonder, What's next?  This movie has Solondz's provocative edge, but it needs closure.  The characters and situations are colorful.  I've always loved the director's use of brutal honesty in telling stories of otherwise straitlaced white collar suburbanites with skeletons in their closets.  His films possess a unique realism that we almost never see in today's movies. Selma Blair gives her best performance up to date, her first character role.  There's a greatly powerful scene in which she's taunted, by her fellow classmates, about her short story which was based on a true situation between her and her tough-as-nails professor.  John Goodman is terrific as the strict, suburban dad who simply wants his family to be normal.  Leo Fitzpatrick is great as Blair's lonely boyfriend with a speech impediment.  After seeing him in that awful movie, Kids, it was great to see him in a decent role in a halfway decent movie.  I'm guessing he really does have a speech impediment.  The little boy got annoying at times.  Though I know it was part of his character, there were times where I just wanted to put my foot through the TV when he would go on rambling.  And the underrated Paul Giamatti delivers a fine, low-key performance as a geeky documentary filmmaker.  I wouldn't say this movie is anywhere near terrible, and I still look forward to Todd Solondz's next film, but it just needed more.  It would've made a great television pilot, but for a film it would need a stronger narrative.  In the second story, Nonfiction, we get to know a fair deal about these characters, their backgrounds and their aftermaths.  However, in the first story, Fiction, I felt there could've been a lot more background to the characters and what happened after Vi's dreams were crushed after her fellow students gave their hypocritical opinions on her short story?  As I said before, it's an interesting film, but not altogether satisfying. My score  6 (out of 10)     "},{"Title":"Solondz's weakest movie","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" On movies like Happiness or Welcome to the dollhouse,Todd Solondz showed he has a lot of talent.He could mix,greatly,strong subjects with a lot of sarcasm.On Storytelling,Solondz's mistake was that he could not mix well strong subjects with sarcasm;he put excessive sarcasm and the movie looks like a mediocre comedy than a serious but sarcastic drama like Solondz's previous films.The films' two stories have a weak plot.The film has excellent actors such as John Goodman or Paul Giamatti but they cannot adapt to strange style this movie has.Storytelling is Solondz's weakest movie.If you wanna see a great film directed by Solondz,you need to watch Fear,anxiety and depression,Welcome to the dollhouse,Happiness or Palindromes(his last movie by now). "},{"Title":"outspoken","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS!!!! A 'hip' black literature-professor or the like, seducing his white female students and then thoroughly 'using' them sexually.A hispano maid getting bullied by the kids of a rich household, explaining to one of the kids why her son is in jail for rape, by telling that he just wanted love and didn't get any - and later on, the same maid getting rid of the whole family.The third story I don't remember now, so it was probably no good - but these two were good enough to give this film a 10 out of 10.These are stories who come near to the truths we live in, unlike most other films. They are somewhat 'over the top' in order to be clearer, thereby avoiding the falseness of 'appearing true' instead of 'being true'. And there is humor of the black kind (please excuse the pun). "}{"Title":"Not as good as Happiness overall but....","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (If they count... minor spoilers) ...but bloody good film all the same, mainly for the non-fiction segment. ...I'd watched this in a Todd Solondz double bill, I'd rented both Happiness and Storytelling because I'd heard he was a controversial film making and hell I like to see rough and ready films that normally tend to shock and disgust middle America (sorry no offense) so I wasn't disappointed with either of them.I'm led to understand that there was another segment intended but James van der Beek was kicked off the production for comments DAWSON said (written by Kevin Williamson not van der Beek!) in Dawson's Creek regarding Happiness... If that is the reason then that's crazy! But anyway I digress! It is a short film and feels like there is something missing...maybe that's it!Fiction starring Selma Blair was pretty good even though it was short, nice to see KIDS star Leo Fitzpatrick in there as Marcus aswell, the story was quite sad really but the shock value as that segments concludes makes it worth watching for the shock value alone.The far more superior by length, story and overall quality segment NON-FICTION was an enthralling thing to watch John Goodman (as Marty) never fails to disappoint the normal person! Paul Giamatti's character Toby Oxman follows Mark Webber's Scooby around for his documentary all the while you are presented to his All American (well trying to be) family Goodman's Marty Julie Hagerty's Fern, Noah Fleiss' Brady and the evil evil child Mikey Livingstone played by Jonathan Osser, damn that kid was a little brat in this film, and it was a great performance basically taunting Lupe Ontiveros' maid character Consuelo.There is a lot of good moments in this film and Solondz should do much more!7/10 "},{"Title":"Nasty truths told with a delightfully nasty touch.","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Add another notch to Solondz's repertoire.  Here's a welcome, sophisticated comedy that should fairly easily upset audiences who get their entertainment from the vapid wasteland of TV sitcoms.  This mean-spirited gem is full of everyday truths and venomous observations and is definitely a no go for the self righteous.  Terrific! "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Dollhouse It's Not","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had high hopes for this film, but was extremely disappointed. Too bad I had to buy the DVD to find that out. I can see that Solondz was trying to make some meaningful points, but they were lost in this dry, slow-paced, seemingly pointless film. I'm a big fan of independent films and from my experience, you usually love them or hate them. I must say I hated this one, but maybe others will have better luck with it.  "},{"Title":"50/50 Half of It Good, The Other Half Horrible","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just recently saw this movie and let me tell you that I didn't get it. It was interesting most of the time that's why I thought that the movie was going somewhere, it just didn't.  The ending was crap and it left me hanging asking what's next?  The movie is too different stories in one single movie. I liked the first one better than the second one, not because it was more sexually oriented D, but because it just made me think of some issues about life in college.  On the other hand, the second part just made me feel like everybody in high school is really depressed or really popular, that there is no middle ground.  Also, the ending of the second part is something that I'm still trying to forget, that's the worst way to end a movie.  The plot was okay so were the acting, nothing special to see.  Just don't watch it; you will be doing yourself a favor.   "},{"Title":"Undoubtedly Clever","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For the first ten minutes of this film, I thought, by its dry narrative, it would be yet another film that I watched that I knew was very clever, but I didn't if I was truly honest really understand or enjoy. But once it got going I pleasantly surprised.This was a film that made me think, I real novelty in films of late. I watched it and thought, 'Well what was the point of that?' and then it played on my mind and the pieces of the film fell into place.It was well acted and every actor went in accordance to the dry and somewhat unfeeling sentiment of the film. It was subtlety at its best and the most chilling scenes in the film are the ones that are perfectly understated by the talented cast. It is not the scenes of animalistic sex which stay with you, it's the scenes where rape is described as being in love with someone who doesn't love you back and doing something about it.Although the film does have a tendency to be too clever for its own self on occasion, it is fresh and compelling and thought provoking, and although it isn't one of the most memorable of films I have ever watched and not one of my favourite, it made me think for at least for two hours after watching it, and therefore for me a worth while couple of hours of my life. "},{"Title":"A true Dark Comedy","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow, what a movie.   After the movie I sat down and thought how very accurate this movie made life feel in general.   Many emotions can be expresed in this film because it simply has them all.   The realism of the family in the non-fictional part of the movie had me laughing all through it.   The acting was great, the characters that were created is what made this movie the great comedy it is.   The personalities were so contradicting!   Basically, they were so mean to each other that it was funny.   Great movie! "},{"Title":"Even if Storytelling lacks the bite and humor of his earlier work, Todd Solondz is still out there where few of his contemporaries except maybe David Lynch and Neil LaBute dare to go.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Todd Solondz's `Welcome to the Dollhouse' showed comic/absurd promise; his masturbation scene in `Happiness' overstepped the boundary of film taste but got everyone's attention.His current film `Storytelling' is split in two The superior first half, `Fiction,' starring Selma Blair, tells of a harrowing creative writing class where teacher debases student in more than one way; the weak second half, `Non-fiction,' tells of a harrowing Jewish family, headed by John Goodman, who banishes kids from the dinner table like Saddam Hussein at a weekly executive meeting. Both stories appear to represent the director's dark feelings about writing, filmmaking, and the critics who accuse him of being superior to his characters. In addition, racism takes an ugly turn with an abusive black creative writing teacher in the first segment and the vengeful Latino maid in the second.  Solondz has a hard time creating any sympathy for his characters or their desires a coed uses both her cerebral-palsy lover and her predatory teacher; a young teen is lost in self-indulgence about his future, barely aware of a brother's coma. Another brother who hypnotizes his father is a nerdy, destructive manipulator who could grow up to be a sardonic director.Solondz's contempt for the critics of his previous films is crystallized in the character of a documentary maker, Toby, who exploits audience and actors alike, and accepts the Jewish family's fate as if it were just another piece of realism.Even if his film lacks the bite and humor of his earlier work, Todd Solondz is still out there where few of his contemporaries except maybe David Lynch and Neil LaBute dare to go.  John Waters seems like Mother Theresa by comparison to Solondz. Yet I hope never to say about this director what his disabled surrogate says to his lover in `Fiction' The kinkiness has gone. You've become kind. "},{"Title":"unbalanced","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think the fact that this movie seems to have received reactions ranging from outright praise through to total contempt will probably save it from languishing in a sea of mediocrity.Sadly, it is a little mediocre compared to two of his previous efforts - 'Welcome to the Dollhouse' and 'Happiness' - both of which had a few more endearing qualities.Not that this a terrible film by any means. The first story is prepared to tackle a controversial subject, and it does it honestly and takes no prisoners. I found that to be good filmmaking, even though I found it a little laborious at times dialogue-wise.Perhaps the second longer story is a little more punchy, but frankly it doesn't work as well. There's some great performances and some wonderfully dark humor to sustain the piece, but on the whole it seems a little flat. It has its moments - Solondz's characters are satirical figures after all, there's a few digs at other 'suburban malaise' movies, and there's a message here for sure... just quite what that message is, I'm not sure. The first story certainly had a bang to it, the second kind of fades out with a whimper.Nevertheless, Solondz is still streets ahead of many directors out there. Controversial, at times, yes, but there are others who have been as controversial for sure. Comedic, definitely - I think perhaps Solondz could be a master of the blackest type of comedy ever.Too bad then that 'Storytelling' doesn't quite hit it off completely. It's still compelling for sure, and it's brutally honest, it seems like it could be an 'important' movie, but it's no masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable, but Todd Solondz's work always is )","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I didn't enjoy Storytelling as much as I did the Director's two previous films, Happiness and Welcome to The Dollhouse, Solondz continues to amaze with his depictions of just how awkward true life really is. As always, he masterfully shows the oft times tactless, cynical, transparent motivations of everyday suburban life and combines them with outrageous situations, giving a humorous view into the myriad of interesting quirky characters he creates. As with Happiness, Storytelling has no background characters. Each character gets fully explored in a way that no matter how familiar or foreign a specific character's behavior might be to you, you can't help but understand their motivations. Solondz can develop over 10 characters in 88 minutes while most conventional hollywood films fail to portray just one in any given 3 hour epic. Selma Blair and Leo Fitzpatrick give incredible performances in the first segment of this film titled Fiction. John Goodman is at his best here in the film's second segment Non-fiction, not to mention it was a pleasure to see Julie Haggerty again. One of the film's most honest moments (and there are MANY) comes in the beginning of the Non-Fiction segment, during a phone call Paul Giamatti gives to a female classmate he hadn't spoken to since high school. WHile hilarious, I couldn't help but feel bad for his character, which gets fleshed out in the almost confessional tone of the conversation (which of course, he blunders). I don't want to delve far into the plot because the elements of shock and surprise that are Solondz bread and butter should only be revealed firsthand on the screen, suffice it to say I recommend this movie very highly. I look forward to anything this director does. "},{"Title":"FOLLOW UP SYNDROME","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has generally been panned by the critics. As far as I can see, this is because it doesn't match up to Solondz's previous superb Happiness.I'll just take this film on it's merits. It suffers from the 1st and perhaps more interesting story being too short. However it is painful, funny and incisive in all the right places. One of the most interesting directors around. "}{"Title":"analysing the imposition of will","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A strange one. Two stories - one titled 'Fiction' (F), the other 'Non-Fiction' (NF)... with nothing in common apart from the central theme of storytelling. F is focussed on a college story-writing class and the students and teacher, while NF is about a documentary film-maker making a docu on high school students and the college entry process.Well at least it seems that way after the first few minutes of NF. After a bit of time has passed however I came to realise that the central theme is about the imposition of a person's will on others, along with some interesting commentary on fame, social blueprints, and taboo language and actions. Although F is very short (around 20 minutes I guess), it carries the main theme very well - showing the students producing stories that dance to their tutors/courses tune instead of writing from the heart, and also the use of fame for sexual domination purposes. NF is the real chunk of the film - almost everyone in the story is trying to force their own will on others, some with greater success than others.The most enjoyable (perhaps the least believable though) characters come in the shape of John Goodmans character (a hard-working family-man with a strong believe in the US college system), and his youngest son (a slighly schizophrenic genius who is craving for his parents attention) in NF. Most of the laughs in NF come from the youngest son and he manages to steal every scene he's in. Particularly enjoyable is his altercation's with the housekeeper, despite some iffy dialogue.Summary - pretty without being boring, thought-provoking without being overly-trite, and funny without really trying too hard. A winning combination in my books. Some scenes and dialogue may be a litte close to the knuckle though, and I wouldn't advise watching it unless you like your humour VERY black. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"a tale of two halves really","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i agree with a certain amount of what has already been said about this movie in the other reviews. the first half, well story, was much shorter and indeed much nastier whereas the second story was much more spread out and seemed to be a kind of update on 'happiness' with an added film crew.i suppose the best thing, to me, about the 'fiction' half was that it was at times just so uncomfortable to watch. nearly everybody (nearly?) was just unpleasant and thus much truer to life then the usual film with an, easily identifiable, hero. but the second seemed just too unfocused. too loose and too many things that were trying to be said but were kind of left.it is worth going to see although it is nowhere near as good as the awesomely uncomfortable 'happiness'. if nothing else we should be happy that there are still directors in america who are prepared to make films which are about morally ambiguous subjects with people who actually look like they come from the real world. "},{"Title":"A fair review, people...really, it is....","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Trenchant stuff here...the first portion of the movie, at the very least; the second part works itself out perhaps a bit more subtly than is comfortable.If you're unaware, Solondz's film is in two parts Fiction and Non-fiction. In my opinion, the first story is a complete knockout, rife with all kinds of unsettling and -- equally -- interesting ideas to be drawn out from a most well-crafted narrative. On the other hand, I found Non-fiction taking quite a while longer to find its legs unlike the straightforward and often deliciously clever self-referential nature of the story in Fiction, the film's second part is not so easy to handle. Whereas, watching Fiction, I found myself in the clear midst of an intelligent social exploration, grasping keenly the import of what was going on before my very eyes -- and all the while constantly surprised at turns in the plot; simply wonderful storytelling here -- Non-fiction simply confounded me at times, leading me to suspect -- wrongly, it turned out -- that clearly here was Solondz's much weaker writing. The film's last shot was most revealing to me, then, in the sense of elucidating all the slipperiness preceding it.Apart from that, the film as a whole is entirely entertaining, perhaps with the second part being even more so than the first. The acting is up to par, but the real beauty of Solandz here is in his strong writing.That said, I liked it.  8 out of a possible 10. "},{"Title":"precise dramatic story","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How could you do a better movie about storytelling than showing how hard it is! Solondz splits the movie in two parts, Fiction and Non-fiction and shows in both how easily our subjective perception of real life loses its grips in other people's perceptions, situations, expectations... while writing about it. Whoever has ever written something Don't miss this film! "},{"Title":"Sex scene story 1","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie twice now, and I'm wondering what is up with that large orange block in the first story? Is there something real going on here? The movie as a whole seemed like a cross between American Rose and Six Feet Under. Selma Blair seems to have an affinity with quirky indie type films. The moment when Vi walks into the restroom to freshen up, and discovers the dozens of photographs of other girls, some who i believe are in Vi's class, who ended up in the same predicament was a nice touch to a kind of dry film. Teacher/Student fantasies happen in real life every day. Who hasn't wondered about sex with a teacher, it goes as far back as grade school. "},{"Title":"Freak-Weirdo-Disgusting Thing","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  C'mon!! Nasty Truths? If your life has THOSE truths, then you have Deep Real trouble! I simply saw it in my computer. Mhh, a guy with mental problems having sexual relations with a girl. Nice message it has! But thats ok, I guess. It's isn't my kind of movie, thats all. Like I didn't like I-Don't-Know-Who masturbating in the new Psycho. It's just useless. It doesn't provide a message, it's ugly to men, it ugly to women, It doesn't refer to the plot. What is that scene doing there? "},{"Title":"Bad movies that know they're bad are just as bad as bad movies that don't know they're bad","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why audiences tolerate such photography grimy, grainy, murky, under-exposed, ugly. Yes, it matches the subject matter, in the same artless way that a shoe shop built in the shape of an enormous shoe matches ITS subject matter, but anyone can see that Solondz, like the architect, is cheating, and short of ideas.He cheats in other ways, too. Perhaps stung by critics in the past, Solondz tries to anticipate every possible criticism one might make of his film and have it voiced by one of the characters IN the film. But he hasn't refuted his critics, merely beaten them to the punch. Storytelling IS contrived, unbelievable, mean-spirited, unfocused, misanthropic, racist and ugly; it DOES try to shock us simply for the sake of shocking us; Solondz DOES wallow in his own superiority to his characters; the dialogue IS flat-footed; the craftsmanship IS poor. I'll admit there's some wit and cleverness in the way Solondz weaves every single one of these complaints (and more besides) into the fabric of the film itself, but that's all the wit and cleverness there is; and this doesn't change the fact that the charges are - every single one of them except for the incomprehensible one levelled by Catherine against Vi's story in the first segment of the movie - true. And since they're true, this ought to be the end of the discussion. Yes, Todd, you HAVE made a miserably bad movie. "},{"Title":"harsh to pointlessness","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie is a burning attack on the hollowness of many modern American values, particularly for young people trying to find their way through high school and early adulthood.  i doubt Al Qeda (sp?) could make a more blasting propaganda film than this about American values.  but the problem with this movie is that it never lets its characters be human, it chooses just to show the darkest, most empty portrait possible.  this movie will find an audience with people who are so postmodern as to be no longer capable of real feelings or tenderness.  any sensitivity is something merely to mock.  it will also find an audience with people who would rather savage than understand other people, pre-judging them to something like Sartre's No Exit or a Neil Labutte (sp?) movie.  this is only truth as much as the view of an asshole taking a crap is truth, but there is a whole lot more to human beings than the cold, narrow characters we see here.  Solondz characters are all losers or players, when really we are all a little of both and not so much of either.  perhaps the harsher reality is that our lives are actually simpler than this, less evil, less harsh, less sad. perhaps Solondz wants to demonize life when life is more of a purgatory than a hell.  but either way, you won't see the kinder, more humane moments of life in this movie, and for that, it is a rather sad, simple, pathetic kind of story.  not because of the characters, because of the storyteller. "},{"Title":"Just more Solondz for masochists","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Storytelling is just more Solondz egocentrism spewed on the screen in the name of...well, storytelling. This two part film will be little appreciated beyond dilettantes and critics as it spins a pair of tales, one short and one long, with Solondz's signature edgy dark humor. Neither story is particularly interesting and both are obvious, as with Happiness and ...Dollhouse, and fabricated for the purpose of provoking the lesser sensibilities with little entertainment value. Passable stuff except for those into film for film's sake. (C) "},{"Title":"Truth is stranger than fiction","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" STORYTELLING  (2002) *** Selma Blair, Paul Giamatti, John Goodman, Julie Hagerty, Mark Webber, Leo Fitzpatrick, Robert Wisdom, Lupe Ontiveros, Xander Berkeley, Jonathan Osser.  Filmmaker Todd Solondz once again dips into the pitch dark genre of black comedy/social satire checking out the underbelly of New Jersey suburbia with equal parts repulsion and fascination at how stereotypes often are too good to be true by separating them into two sections Fiction with Blair (giving her best onscreen performance to date) as a coed who's creative writing class is a thorny lesson in life's trickier twists and Non-Fiction with dweeby Giamatti (ditto)  as a novice documentary filmmaker attempting to depict the evolution of teenagers in America by focusing his camera on disassociatedly brain dead Webber (deftly daft) and his dysfunctional family.  Solondz' flare for freaks and geeks continues to thrive in this defiantly in-your-face squeamish comedy of class ills and the ugliness that is all too evident in today's harsh world.  "}{"Title":"Masochism Does Not Equal Good Filmmaking","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie mean-spirited and rather pointless.  The plot of both stories fumbled along with no beginning, middle or end.  It also felt very egocentric to me.  It seems that Solondz wrote the movie for himself, not for an audience.  I feel like he just wanted to get a rise out of people. The characters were all 2-dimensional with no redeeming qualities.  Flawed characters are one thing... but it's completely unrealistic to have an entire cast of characters without one positive attribute between them.  I guess that's fine if you want to be experimental; but I think Solondz should decide whether he's conducting psychology experiments or making movies. I'm sorry, but I don't see any reason to watch a film when you don't like any of the characters.  I watch movies for entertainment and/or to learn something. The only things this movie taught me is that Solondz must be an egotistical, self-centered man, who gets pleasure when so-called intellects tout his work, just because it is different.  Different doesn't mean good... and despite some opinions, different does not mean artistic.  This was probably the worst movie I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Incurious","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The writer's best work (Welcome to the Dollhouse) does a good job exploring the hardships of high school teenagers in the context of American society.  This movie was less insightful and the characters are more depraved, so it becomes more of a work of pornography - not quite as bad as Kids or The Cook, The Thief, His Wife, and Her Lover, but under the artsy veneer, it's basically the same voyeuristic crap.  "},{"Title":"What a pretentious piece of crap","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With a forgettable plot, painful dialog and non-existent directing, this is a waste of film.The first story fiction is by far the worst of the two. Dialog is delivered with pauses after nearly every line as if they just spoke some profound words that will be remembered for the ages. All it really shows is the director's lack of purpose. It's as if he's trying to be avant-guard or biting but all he ends up doing is looking ridiculous.The second story non-fiction is not as painful but still is a joke. None of the characters are even remotely believable and just come across as poor imitations of cliché's that aren't valid anymore. If this was a first time director then I would expect this type of result....but it isn't. All it shows is the director's shot at trying to recapture his initial creative success and missing.....badly. "},{"Title":"bad storytelling","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another abortive, pitiful attempt from Solondz... His problem is that subjects of his films are not interesting at all. You just don't care for them. I wonder, how long will it be, before he starts to film a life of some low-life idiots in real-time and present it as art... "},{"Title":"Yet another overrated Suburbia movie","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It seems american independents nowadays are only interested the trifle torments of white, middle-class kids. With the exception of Donnie Darko the suburban movie gets mediocre results (American Beauty, Ghost World) and raving critics. Solondz started out promising with Welcome To The Dollhouse, but couldn't get get the tone right anymore afterwards. Storytelling gets you grinning a couple times but furthermore it's a bore. "},{"Title":"God Awful","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed both Welcome to the Dollhouse and (especially) Happiness. Unfortunately, Storytelling was horrible.  Solondz's detractors have always claimed that he was exploiting his characters and didn't respect them.  I disagreed...until now.  The only redeeming thing about this film is the performances.  Selma Blair and Paul Giamatti leap into their roles with go-for-broke gusto.  Gutsy performances.  They don't make up for the total lack of a point in either of their vignettes.  Avoid this one. "},{"Title":"The only redeeming feature about this movie was its brevity","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching this movie was the biggest waste of 85 minutes in a long time. Now don't get me wrong, I love strange, quirky, quiet little films. I loved But I'm a Cheerleader and Lost in Translation. I almost enjoyed Dirty Pretty Things, and really liked Requiem for a Dream. Not the same types of films as this, but it shows I have an open enough mind when it comes to non-mainstream films.But this film was worthless except as a reminder that going to film school and making one good movie like Welcome to the Dollhouse (which I enjoyed) doesn't guarantee you can't make a piece of crap later.I seriously kept waiting for the punchline, but all I got was a lame ending that seemed to be trying to teach me something, but wasn't sure what it wanted to say.If the only problem were a confused message, then maybe the message could be its very lack of a message. But unless Solondz was actually trying to express how hard it is to make a decent movie with a message, then he's failed whatever it was he tried to achieve.This movie was so bad that I actually registered on IMDb just to post this review. I'd advise against wasting your time with this unless you need a lesson in what not to do when writing a screenplay.  "},{"Title":"Ironic title. That's a bad thing.","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The one word that pops into mind when thinking about Todd Solondz's Storytelling is disappointing. Two words, thoroughly disappointing. I am a fan of Solondz's earlier films Happiness and Welcome to the Dollhouse, but Storytelling lacked that intangible something. However, what it did have was pretension. I guess one could have seen it coming with ol' Todd, and it showed in spades during this film. There was no point that I felt connected to ANY of the characters. Actually, I didn't like or passionately despised all of them. Was that the point? Was I supposed to waste an hour and a half of my life watching the lives of characters I didn't like? Not only did I feel nothing for the characters, but the horrible things that happen to them (typical in Solondz fare) brought forth nothing but apathy. The story was stale and went absolutely nowhere, which was a tremendous waste of a great cast. It's categorized as a comedy, but there were very few laughs. I did, however, find it funny when Marty (John Goodman) derides Tobe (Paul Giamatti) for lacking focus. Though, I doubt that was an intended chuckle. I don't know, some people might like this movie, Roger Ebert did. Then again, he did give Godfather III three and a half stars...Bottom line, the film showed nothing, achieved nothing, and was essentially about absolutely nothing. However, if you're into artsy films, even though they are crap, go ahead and waste your time. "},{"Title":"It's no Happiness","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved Happiness and Welcome to the Dollhouse, so I looked forward to this movie with great anticipation. My hopes were dashed, however. Here we have two unrelated stories with relatively boring characters, neither of which is allowed to fully develop. Both had potential in their own right, but they just seem to go nowhere. I desperately wanted to like the movie. I gave it every chance to impress me. But the shocking stuff, like the racial issues in Fiction, wasn't really that shocking, yet it came across as being more done for shock value than the well-defined, nuanced characters of the much more shocking Happiness. "},{"Title":"Be prepared to be left feeling like the world sucks.","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Be prepared to be left feeling like the world sucks. This movie made me and my friends that I saw it with, wonder how such terrible things could be put into a movie.  Certain movies depict things in society or in history that were terrible tragedies so that we can learn from them or remember those that suffered.  This movie however was just unbelievably wrong.  I would only recommend this movie to the most morbid of individuals. "}]