[{"Title":"Made for children, but still a fun movie.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've always been fascinated with the idea of stopping time, so when I saw the trailer, I was really interested in seeing the movie.  Anyhow, the movie was actually really cool and had some REALLY cool ideas.  I really liked the idea that they weren't actually stopping time, they were just slowing it down REALLY slow.The main reason I wanted to see the movie was for the special effects and I wasn't let down, the special effects were spectacular and lots of fun. As far as acting goes, I thought all the actors did a find job.  I liked Jesse Bradford, French Stewart, Michael Biehn and last but certainly not least, Paula Garces.  I was really impressed with Paula's beauty, she is a quite a beautiful woman and predict a great future for her.  I can't wait to see her next project.As far as story-line goes, I thought it was pretty darn good and rather smart.  There were a few things that I could have done without, but I can deal.  One part that really struck me as odd was when he (Jess Bradford) was in the bathroom at the hospital and he was trying to get the watch (time-stopper) to work.  While he was in the bathroom the bad guys slow down time and come walking into the hospital and suddenly you see Jesse disguised as a cop and then as soon as the baddies walk by Jesse takes off running.  I assume he got the watch to work momentarily, but that doesn't really make sense because later in the movie he gives it to French Stewart so he can repair it and get it working again.  I just think that one scene could have been explained better and it would have been quite easy to do.One little movie trivia tid-bit that I noticed in the film was when Francesca and Zak are having fun with the watch and she says Make it so Number One.  That is a reference to Star Trek The Next Generation.  Captain Picard always said that to Commander Riker (aka Number One).  This is interesting, because Clockstoppers is directed by Jonathan Frakes, who plays Commander Riker in Star Trek.I hope you enjoyed the movie as much as I did.  It's not a superb sci-fi movie, but it's fun and it's got lots of cool things to look at and some fun ideas.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Good fun, nice effects, decent plot","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is a very loose remake of the 1980 TV movie, The Girl, The Gold Watch, and Everything.A young boy accidentally finds a watch built by his estranged father that accellerates whoever is wearing it, and whatever (or whoever) they're touching into hypertime, which makes the rest of the world move at a snail's pace, comparitively.Michael Biehn plays a decent villian, although he is not allowed much developement, which is a bit sad, after his excellent work in Terminator, Navy Seals, Abyss, and The Rock.French Stewart (Harry from 3rd Rock from the Sun) provides the comic aspect, and was pretty much my favorite character.Jesse Bradford & Paula Garces do a good job, too.Remember, this is a kid's movie, done by Nickelodeon, so it's on a kid's level, which explains some plot holes.  "},{"Title":"An awesome break from reality.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When the government secretly hires a firm to produce a time-slowing device that would speed up a person's molecules so that they could travel at several times normal speed, a high school student ends up with the device and becomes the target of a manhunt to get it back.Clockstoppers is the first feature film from director Jonathan Frakesoutside the Star Trek universe. The story revolves around a mysteriouswatch with the power to speed the wearer's molecules and allow him to move faster than anything around him does. Scientist Earl Dopler sent a prototype of the device to friend and college professor George Gibbs to help him perfect the device. One afternoon, the watch accidentally falls into a broken toaster where George's son Zak picks up to take with him.Zak has been trying to get a new foreign exchange student to go out with him. She finally agrees after he goes out of his way to stop some bullies from harassing her and agrees to have him come over to her house to help rake the lawn.When he activates the watch, thinking it's a stopwatch, time slows suddenly and while taking the bag of leaves to the garbage can comes across a hissing possum. He pokes it and thinks it's dead and waltzes into Francesca's house to show her what he found that was invading the trash cans and his watch suddenly ends its time and everything goes back into standard motion. The possum isn't really dead and when he tries to explain, things get out of hand.After figuring out what the watch does, Zak and friends go on the lam trying to escape the organization that's trying to get it back. They use similar watches, preventing him from using the watch as an escape mechanism.Nickelodeon films, one of the production companies behind the film, have been known for good and bad movies throughout their feature film career and have managed to stumble across both an idea and a director that works. Frakes proved his capabilities with the feature film Star Trek First Contact, a terrific film that shines among its fellow Star Trek films. Now, Frakes has branched further into the science fiction genre, stepping away from his small screen productions. He takes a potential childish and unemotional film, blends in the right amount of scientific explanation, avoids paradoxes adroitly and keeps the film excellently paced with plenty of room for enjoyment.The performances are probably the weakest part of the film. Each actor does his very best to portray the characters realistically and perhaps their relative inexperience is a factor. Bradford has numerous credits to his short career, including Hackers, but smiles far too often for his characters needs and even when he's upset or angry, the tell-tale smile is nearby. Garcés tries her best, but with the broken English, she feels more like a caricature than a character, but she is awfully beautiful! The same goes for the third friend, Meeker, who is around for comic relief more than for dramatic necessity.Television actors Stewart and Julia Sweeney, as Zak's mom, are capableactors in their own rights, but for Stewart, this was a step in the wrong direction as he bounces well over the top of good taste in his rather amorphous role.The true prize of the picture is its slow-down visual effects. Usingtechnology first seen in commercials to stop the action and then using a composite image to allow actors to walk freely amongst stopped figures, was a bit troublesome at first, but as the film went on the effects were better. The most notable was the frozen water droplets hanging in air while the actors interacted with them. The effect was admirably done and important only to the magnificence of the experience.Clockstoppers is most certainly made for teens, but adults will be able to sit back and enjoy the film without feeling talked down to.  I thoroughly enjoyed it!  "},{"Title":"Although Being a Screenplay Full of Flaws, It Entertains","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Zak Gibbs (Jesse Bradford) is a teenager, son of Dr. Gibbs (Robin Thomas), a brilliant scientist. He wants to buy a car, but the attention of his father is to his own research work. Zak likes Francesca (Paula Graces), a new student from Venezuela.  One day, Zak finds by accident a watch developed by Earl Dopler (French Stewart), a former student of Dr. Gibbs, with capability of accelerating time. Henry Gates (Michael Biehn), the villain of the story, stole this research and wants to make lots of money with this device. Zak and Francesca will face lots of adventures due to this finding. The screenplay of this film has lots of flaw, but anyway it entertains. There are lots of inconsistency in the story, but if the viewer do not pay attention to these details, may have some fun. The special effects are very reasonable. Teenagers are certainly the public-target of this movie. My vote is six.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Family Movie","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Clockstoppers is everything I'd hoped for... Action, some comedic moments, good SciFi, great special effects and very decent acting.A lot of money was spent on this movie for the effects and crew and it shows.There's been a few negative comments from folks who seem to forget that it is a SciFi movie made for kids and families, intended to be a good story with good effects and offend no one.Looking at Clockstoppers in that light, it is a big success.  Compare it to The Matrix or 2001, and it falls short.  No surprise, they weren't meant to compete.All in all, a formularic boy meets girl/father and son resolve differences family movie, combined with state of the art special effects make for a great family movie night.  "},{"Title":"A really cute, imaginative movie - good for kids and adults alike.","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The story of Clockstoppers centers around a very cute teenage boy who is good at a lot of things, extreme bike-riding with lots of incredible tricks, playing a guitar, riding a skateboard, fighting with his sister...His mom, played by Julia Sweeney of Saturday Night Live and It's Pat fame is a doting, (and docile) mom but his father, a college professor, is much more involved in his students' lives than in Zak's life.  This causes a lot of conflict between them and Zak tries to get his father to understand how he feels.  His dad looks guilty but professes that Zak is exaggerating. When he has promised to go with Zak to look at a car that is Zak's heart's desire, his dad suddenly has to go away to help an old student who is having a problem with an invention.The invention is a wrist watch that can be activated to put the wearer into hyper-time.  After the father leaves, Zak finds the watch and puts it on, thinking it is only a watch. While visiting a girl he has recently met, Zak pushes the button to check the time and voila!  Time stops.  To the viewer it appears to freeze everyone and everything else, but then you begin to notice that drops of water from the sprinkler are still falling, just falling a millimeter per second; a hummingbird suspended in mid-air is still flapping his wings, but so slowly that you can barely see the movement. However, Zak, and anyone who is touching him when he activates hyper-time is moving at what appears to be a normal speed.Zak is stunned at first but eventually realizes what has happened and, as a typical teenage boy, proceeds to have some fun with it, along with the girl he wants to impress!  Some of the tricks they pull are hysterical and lead you to imagine what you might do if you got ahold of this watch!Of course, there must be an evil plot behind this somewhere, and we soon learn what that is.  This leads to grave danger for Zak, his dad and Zak's new girlfriend and also provides for some fun car chase scenes.The movie, of course, requires you to suspend disbelief and if you aren't capable of that, skip the movie!  Otherwise you are only going to spend the hour criticizing the scientific aspects of hyper-time and annoying everyone around you who has some imagination and is having a good time.The movie is directed by Jonathan Frakes, who played Commander Riker on Star Trek, the Next Generation.  He apparently learned a lot during his STNG days and puts it to good use in this science fiction fun-fest.  Thanks Number One.  You made it so. "},{"Title":"Awesome Nickelodeon Movie","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are people out there saying negative stuff about this movie, but what people are not realizing is that is is a family movie. It's for kids and family. Jonathan Frakes did a great job directing this movie. Jesse Bradford was good as the main character. Michael Beihn was just awesome as the bad guy in this movie. Nickelodeon is just down and out awesome. I love their movies. This one had lots of really really cool special effects. great acting and lots of fun. Oh yeah, lots of action kids style too. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good family movie. Or for anyone who loves an awesome Nickelodeon movie.  "},{"Title":"For kids","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a fun movie for kids, I went with 7 - 8 year old kids, they loved it  with them around, it interesting, otherwise, don't go with adults, they'll find it kinda stupid.By the way, it's paradoxal to see a movie based on a plot very close to an old Star Trek  episode (Wink of an eye) directed by Jonathan Frakes...!  "},{"Title":"A Refreshing Change","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm really glad to see such a good kid movie again. The music went along great with the movie, all fun. The special effects were fantastic, (although it was The Matrix that re-defined bullet-time photography), those in charge of special effects did a great job with what they did. French Stewart was great! Glad to see Jonathan Frakes do such a good job and hope he'll come out with more. "},{"Title":"this is a cool movie","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm not just saying this because this is a movie to watch to waste your time; I really think this is a cool movie. It has good Sci-Fi movie quality, especially for a Nickelodeon movie. And it asks you the question, What if you had the power to stop time? I mean, there would be a lot of opportunities in that category. This is a real treat, and the best way to watch it is along with some Back to the Future movies. It's not the best movie I've ever seen, but it really redefines adventure. I totally recommend this movie if you want to rent something that will please you. As I have said many times with other comments, there will never be another movie such as this. "}{"Title":"I wish i had a watch like that to stop time to get some popcorn and not miss any of this great movie!","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Clockstoppers is the best movie EVER! I was scepticall that it was going to be so good when I first heard about the movie because it was a Nickelodian movie, boy was I wrong! I went with three of my friends (we are 13) and we all loved it. The movie about a scientist(French Stewert) who invents a watch that makes time stop. He sends a watch to a Zaks (Jesse Bradford) father (Robin Thomas), who is a scientist, and Zak finds it. Zak and a friend Francesca (Paula Garces) find out its power and decide to have some fun with it. But soon they find out a secret band of tecknologically advanced government agents are trying to steal the watch back at any extent but Zak and Francesca wont give it up and they must escape them before the agents kill them! I give it a 100 stars out of 10! Itz a must see. So go see it!  "},{"Title":"Very high tech","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw the trailer for Clockstoppers, I knew that I had to see it.  I went to see it one day, and 17 minutes into the movie, the theatre had a blackout.  So I saw it again.  And I got to see it all the way through.  I liked this movie overall, but some of the stuff that they did in the movie was totally impossible.  You could never have a watch that could speed up your body into hyper time!  You would fry up within an instance!  I have nothing against this, but if you think about it, it is impossible.  I think what I liked the most was the way that they showed how they sped up their bodies.  That was neat.  So see it for yourselves.  It is worth your money to see it at least once.  I rated this on IMDB a 10, but come to think about it... I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hey!! I believe Clockstoppers was a pretty good movie. The plot was kind of childish but it turned out good. The cast was good and the action was good.I dont have much to say about it but I do recommend it to anyone looking for a good movie. My rating-8/10.  "},{"Title":"This is a cheesy PG film, but Jesse Bradford makes it ride.","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You can't expect much from a movie aimed at children if you are over the age of 12, and that's the only way to really enjoy this movie. It has one story line and truly underdeveloped characters, besides an unbelievable plot. In addition, they never really use the watch to the full extent. In the beginning they do some interesting stunts, but the watch seems to disappear from the plot and hypertime becomes normal time since everyone seems to have a watch.Also, Paula Garces (born in 1974)is sometimes hard to imagine as a teenager. However, Jesse Bradford is the shining star who is completely believable as a teenager and the role seems to fit him. Yet, he seems bogged down by the other character and could really do a lot more challenging roles.This movie also drags on for awhile. It is fun at first, but then the plot seems to try to go to deep and be more than it is suppose to be. The child-parent-problem-relationship is truly overdone. (See how it ruined The Babysitters' Club?)Yet, I will re-emphasize how truly amazing Jesse Bradford was (definitely seeHackers and Bring It On). The reason I went to see this movie was for him, and for that it was worth my $7. Otherwise, this movie would have been a total mess. But, as I said before, you can't expect much from a PG movie aimed at pleasing children who want to be adults. For that reason, young children and most adults might get bored with this movie. It drags and has little redeeming qualities like special effects or a lot of humor. But, I assume, that is not what this movie is about.My overall opinion, is that it is cheesy but enjoyable, especially, if like me, you are a huge fan of Jesse Bradford. But do not expect too much or you will be let down. It is enjoyable if you let it be. Don't over analyze it and, most of all, don't think like an adult. I, myself, will most likely go see this again in theaters and buy it when it comes out on VHS. "},{"Title":"MY 7 & 5 year old loved it!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was great. There were explosions and crashes but nothing worse than regular television. The only concern was the young love romance scenes. Too much importance placed on each other to have just met. Overall though it was good entertainment and kept my kids attention. It gets *******, 7 stars from me because I like family entertainment that the whole family can go to and the adults or the kids don't get bored. "},{"Title":"Doesn't stop the clock, but a good solid kid movie.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My husband and I were looking for an evening's mindless entertainment and this was it.  Nice special effects which don't dominate the movie, a far-fetched plot with some pseudoscientific background, and directing which doesn't present teenagers as hip monsters, bizarre brats, or improbable geniuses.  In fact, I'd say my only complaint was that the teenagers were maybe a tad too wholesome.  Nice to see the gravel-voiced French Stewart with a good part.  My husband (who normally likes decadent movies) said enthusiastically as the lights rose, That was really excellent.  I don't think I'd go that far, but consider this  the theater was full of 10-year-olds but I didn't hear any noise or anyone talking during the performance.   "},{"Title":"I'm an oldie but I had fun...","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remember seeing the TV ads for this when it was  at the movies, though here in Australia we never had all the TV spots with Zak and Francessca.I'm an oldie, yet I had a lot of fun watching this.I thought the special effects, were indeed special and they did quite a competent job of the slow time effects. Favourite effect was the water from the hose Francessca had. That was great.I wanna be a teenager again.  She was quite adorable and even cute...If you have kids this is a great movie for them as it's fun and non offensive. You can sit your whole family in front of the TV and not find anything offensive in this movie unless you're a total sour puss.I enjoyed it  6/10 "},{"Title":"Family fun flick - good rental","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had not taken my teenage children to see this in the theatres because it sounded too much like a remake of The Girl, The Gold Watch, and Everything from the previews.  Why spend the big bucks when it'll be in Blockbuster in a few months?  I was right about that part.So we rented it recently.  It really is a good movie for the whole family to watch.  My kids really liked it, and it gave us something to talk about in our family discussions - especially the relationship between Zak and his father.Several of the comments posted here rave about the physics of the situation, and how unreal it is.  Guys, it's a movie.  A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away is just another way of saying Once upon a time.  Commenting that air friction would burn up anyone in hypertime would make for a really short movie.  And how do you know that QT labs didn't generate a force field with the watch to prevent friction?If you want to nit-pick the physics, then avoid the movie.  If you want to spend some fun time with your teenage children, then watch the movie.  "},{"Title":"Worth the time...","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was fun for kids and adults. The actors are good and make the story believable. There is just enough funny and suspenseful parts to keep the story interesting. I recommend it for anyone ready to have a good time! ) "},{"Title":"A cute film","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I found this movie to be an all round fun movie for everyone to see. Though the actors are far from the best I've seen, they do their job, especially Paula Garces (Francesca), who looks more beautiful than ever. What really caries this movie is the incredible effects when time stops. Anyone who has ever seen the Charmed-series, and then sees this movie, will know how 'time-stopping is supposed to look and how it is not supposed to look. "}{"Title":"If you don't think about all the plot holes...","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  and all the scientific mumbo-jumbo, then this movie can be entertaining. I mean, it's about everyone's fantasy, to be able to stop time and do what you are doing while everyone else is frozen.  Except in this movie the people really aren't frozen, it is just that the people with the stop watches are able to speed themselves up so it looks like everyone else is standing still.  A pretty cool idea, but when the bad guys show up with the special watches, a bunch of plot holes show up.  And it was amusing, especially the dance party scene when Zak and Francesa spin their DJ friend around, so in real time it looks like he is a really good dancer.FINAL VERDICT  A fairly entertaining kids movie.  I think 9-13 year olds will like it, plus it isn't a total bore for adults. "},{"Title":"Family Fun Fastpaced","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jesse Bradford plays a high schooler who just wants wheels.  His father is a great scientist who wants to stop time.  Michael Biehn heads a company who wants the glory & profits.  French Stewart plays a man who just wants out. After Bradford finds a watch and discovers it can stop time for others while not for him, he has fun at first until he discovers that others want the watch as well.  The special effects are especially fun as are the colorful characters and sets.  This little gem is great for the whole family. "},{"Title":"A few flaws. But not a bad movie.","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was entertaining, Givin I was driving around looking for a parking spot for about 10 minutes after the movie started so I missed about the first 5-10 minutes.  So anyway, basic story goes.  He finds a watch that can stop time.  It dosn't really stop time, it speeds you up so it seems to stop time, but time is just moving at a slower rate then you are.  There was one sceen that was a little unbeliveable.  One of his friends is on stage spinning, and he's trying to dance. so he hits the button and the start to move him around to make him dance.  Now, for me.. its like, uhm, how is that possible without sitting there doing it for hours and hours when time is moving so slow.  Anyway. bleh. yeah.  That was really the only part that bothered me, otherwise it wasn't too bad of a movie.  But they could have done a lot better with it. "},{"Title":"A prime example of fast food filmmaking","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Clockstoppers begins by introducing us to Quantum Tech Corporation (QT Corporation), which has developed a new project called Hypertime, allowing a user's molecules to reach lightning speeds, giving the appearance that everything around him or her is standing still. Hypertime can be activated by wearing a particular wristwatch, and despite the NSA stopping the project before it is fully completed, QT's CEO Henry Gates (Michael Biehn) still wants the watch for his own power.Unbeknownst to Gates, one of the leading scientists behind the project sent the watch to Dr. George Gibbs (Robin Thomas), a teacher at his son Zak's (Jesse Bradford) school. Zak, who keeps pining his father for a hot new Ford Mustang, winds up getting his hands on the watch, and, upon discovering its true powers, uses it to impress Francesca (Paula Garcés), the new girl at school from Venezuela. It doesn't take long for the two of them and their other friend Meeker (Garikayi Mutambirwa) to abuse the watch's power and cross paths with Gates, who desperately wants that watch back.Clockstoppers is simple entertainment; precisely the kind of medium-budget production you could envision Nickelodeon Movies putting out in the early 2000s. It takes a lot of similar vibes from Back to the Future, and it focuses on familiar teen tropes in order to momentarily capture the attention of pre-teens. It has an attractive lead actor with a rebellious swagger, a beautiful foreign exchange girl who sticks closely by his side after initially showing her claws, and the rowdy sidekick, who adds a more comedic spin on his buddy's serious perils.Throw that all in a blender and you get Clockstoppers, basic cable's best friend. A film good enough to take up a two hour time-slot with commercials, but not good enough to have any retaining or lasting value outside of basic cable entertainment. Despite both Bradford and Garcés boasting enough charisma to make them worthy of the two leading roles, it's largely the way the film surprisingly handles the material in an unexciting way, right down to crafting a boring villain who feels about as uninspired and as cookie-cutter as they come. For a film about stopping time and momentarily stunning and transforming the space-time continuum, it's a film with shockingly low energy.Bradford and Garcés do manage to be pretty charismatic screen presences throughout the film, making you wish they did more of these tween adventure films for the sake of their appealing nature. This was a time when Disney and Nickelodeon films based around brand new, live-action properties were being churned out and nearly every young, white actor was getting their shot at centerstage for whatever project the studios wanted to concoct. Clockstoppers isn't uniquely bad, which in itself is a bit of a disappointment because at least it would provide me with something noteworthy to say. Unfortunately, the film is just a simple case of fast food filmmaking, movies you can quickly watch and just as quickly forget.Starring Jesse Bradford, Paula Garcés, Garikayi Mutambirwa, Robin Thomas, and Michael Biehn. Directed by Johnathan Frakes. "},{"Title":"childhood O' Mine","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched this as a kid and I loved it. It was actually not easy to find again considering it's age. This teenager, who sells everything he can on Ubid (at the time it was actually a thing 02), is saving up for a car. While going through his father's old junk from down stairs, he stumbles upon an old wooden box that he knocks off a shelf. In the box is a watch. When he presses a button on the watch it slows down time not actually stopping it. Moving so fast thru time, accelerating at the speed of a hummingbirds wing flapping, (google it). His father had explained what it does at one point but not explaining in full detail but calling it Hypertime.His father is the main creator of the watch and knows how to duplicate it but says instead (like all movies) What would happen if this got into the wrong hands?As he figures out the watch, a group of men want it to use for their own purpose. (go figure the bad guys). As the teenager uses the watch, he also learns of it's side affects. When in Hypertime, the body is actually accelerating at hyperspeed as well, causing the cells of the body to age faster. 1 minute in reality is close to something like 5 or 10 minutes. 1 hour? almost something close to 2 days or more. As for a story line, a hero like based movie, this is a really good movie and deserves a 2nd film but never happened. If you like the concept of Time manipulation you will like this movie. "},{"Title":"Awesome premise, decent effect, alright movie.","Date":"18 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Clockstoppers isn't exactly great film making. But it just so happens that I love one thing more than I love anything else, pretty much, and that is the thought of being able to stop time.Actually I love slo-mo, super slo-mo, time freeze, bullet-time, all that. I first saw bullet-time (as in time freezing and the camera panning around) in an animal documentary once, I remember it totally blowing my mind. And of course, we all know The Matrix made it very popular. And lots of other movies following. And then comes Clockstoppers, a whole movie about just that one thing! I'm in heaven!Well, alright, the movie isn't super great, and the time freeze effects aren't super good, but I still think it gets the job done. I love putting myself in their place, being able to stop time! The possibilities! (Mohahaha!)The movie is pretty decent though, it's has some exciting parts, it's a pretty short and rather entertaining thing, the story isn't half bad either. It has one very silly scene that totally goes against the rules it has set for it self, but this is a movie for the younger crowd, so you know. There are plot holes here, but children wont care! "},{"Title":"kids movie mixed bag","Date":"18 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Dr. Earl Dopler (French Stewart) is forced by Henry Gates (Michael Biehn) to work on a mysterious project. Teenager Zak Gibbs (Jesse Bradford) is scrounging for money to buy a car. His father (Robin Thomas Grossman) is a college professor and his former student Dopler sent him a watch. Zak finds the watch in his father's stuff. He and new girl Francesca (Paula Garcés) discovers that the watch slows down the world until it comes almost to a stop. Meanwhile the NSA is closing down Gates and his research. They're afraid of national security implications. There's also a problem with aging in hypertime. Dopler tells Gates that he sent a watch to Gibbs. Gates is now after the watch.As a kids spy action movie, it's relatively functional. Jesse Bradford is playing the brash young teenager. He's not funny and he's not particularly likable. He's just the stereotypical self involved teen. It's less flashy than Spy Kids but is still intended for a tween audience. It's stupid at times and at other times, it's a reasonable movie. There is some action and some spraying of liquid nitrogen. It's a relative mixed bag and not recommended for the older teens. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Clockstoppers seemed like a Back To The Future rip off to me, but I'd wanted to see the it because I am a Sci-Fi geek and it was directed by Star Trek's Jonathan Frakes. My expectations weren't very high and the story, based in Science Fiction, had the potentially of being too hard for audiences to understand. The writers decided to go another way with it and put this unique, experimental technology in the accidental hands of a teenager, and then marketed the whole package to young adults. It sounded a bit sketchy to me too and that's why it took me almost ten years to see it, but what I learned from this film, you can never judge a DVD by it's cover. Clockstoppers combines Einstein's Theory of Relativity with teenage rebellion in an action packed film that will really leave you on the edge of your seat. The story starts when a former student of Prof. George Gibbs sends him a prototype, of a watch, that speeds up your molecules to the point where it looks like everything else is standing still. Prof. Gibbs soon leaves to go on vacation when his son finds the watch and wears it out, thinking it's a normal watch. Once he learns the truth, other Clockstoppers show up to try and kill him, and that's when the film really gets going. The acting and special effects aren't really what draws you into Clockstoppers, it's the story, which throws you in every single direction and leaves you craving more. This was a film that was at the bottom of my list, that I watched because it was short and it was streaming. I was just looking for something to watch before bed, and what I found instead was a terrific Science Fiction adventure that fell way under the radar. "},{"Title":"Speeding Up While The World Slows Down","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It may not be ground-breaking cinemas and the screenplay is loaded with flaws but that doesn't stop 'Clockstoppers' from being a fun little film. If a movie has heart, it's easy to like and that is the case here. In addition it's got style and is pretty cool to look at. The younger generation would particularly be drawn to it. There are some amazing special effects, very cool ideas (like the main theme itself which is about manipulating time) and plenty of humour, action and energy. While the main storyline is interesting but there are a few plot holes that needed some filling. But then again, it's not a movie that was meant to be taken too seriously. The acting is brilliant. Jesse Bradford, Paula Garcés, French Stewart, Michael Biehn, Robin Thomas, Garikayi Mutambirwa and Julia Sweeney are very good. Garcés looks supercute. She and Bradford (who is always dependable where good acting is concerned) make a nice couple. It would be fun to see them pair up again. Overall 'Clockstoppers' is a fun movie targetted mainly at the younger audience but who says adults can't enjoy it? "},{"Title":"Go with it","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Clever kiddie movie that harks back to such lighthearted 1980s fantasy fare as Weird Science and Gremlins. Jesse Bradford, playing a Zach Galligan-type teenager, borrows his scientist-father's weird watch that allows the wearer to speed up his molecules, so that everyone and everything around him appears to slow down and freeze. He and his new girlfriend have some fun with the device, until they realize they are being pursued by some very unpleasant people who are after the watch. Familiar TV actor French Stewart plays a wacky scientist who comes to the kids' aid. There's really nothing here you haven't seen before, but it is fun while it lasts. Great special effects. "}{"Title":"Drastically Underrated","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Nickeloadean movies either produces crap or art, and this is art, it has a great premise, I mean, a watch that can stop time, I would love to have that. The action is really good, it has one of the best car chases in movie history. Have you ever seen a cars going the speed of Sound. The actors are also underrated, they can be funny, serious, or anything, this is a highly underrated film.It certainly isn't perfect, it doesn't have as much action as the Transformers movie, not as many Special effects as star wars, or the brilliant writing of Harry Potter, but if you want a nice family film, than this is for you. "},{"Title":"Frakes - did you just dupe me?","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Clockstoppers is one of those simple PG plots which involves a boy, a watch, and no need to corrupt the system. A kid, unlike you or I, finds a watch from his super-genius father that can literally slow down time (actually, speed up his molecules so that time seems to be going slower). Instead of stay in that time forever, growing old and experiencing the powers of invisibility, he uses it to win over the heart of an unknown girl and stop the world from catapulting into utter annihilation. Yep, something I would do if I could stop time. Like any other film of this nature, I am sure you know what ultimately happens in the end. Helmed by Star Trek's very own Jonathan Frakes, Clockstoppers boasts the talents of Jesse Bradford, Michael Biehn, and French Stewart &#150; with a cast like this, who needs enemies. Using amazing CGI to bring this story from the page, where Frakes falls short are the characters and his inability to grapple with the technology he is filming. I am not going to cover my issues with the molecular speed-up, because I am sure they have been nauseatingly been said before, but they did force you to consider the unmentioned possibilities. Why wasn't this whole film done with slowed time? How could some inanimate objects fly through the air in slow time, while others fit into the pattern of going slow? Why didn't Bradford fall through the floor? Age issues &#150; don't make me go there! Again, this could be a whole topic of conversation, but instead, lets talk about the other pivotal downfalls of this film, and how they related to me feeling decent after watching this.I must admit, Frakes does a decent job behind the camera. He has learned from his acting lessons and can tell a complete story. Without the science fiction plot holes, the story itself for Clockstoppers was pretty cliché, yet straight forward. He didn't try to overdo it, while his actors might have attempted to gobble every line they could, Frakes kept the story simple and the CGI impressive. I have to applaud him for his work here, he could have made this a very dark story, but instead kept it suitable for a teen audience. This wasn't the original Agent Cody Banks in any way, but it did attempt to stand on its own, and I must applaud Frakes for his attempt. The acting, as mentioned before, was horrid. French Stewart was possibly at the lowest point of his career with this film. His attempt to be a honest scientist was goofy at best. He was never mad, just loony with his approach to this character. Jesse Bradford was middle of the road. Consistent with the standards of this film, he never went above where we wanted him to be. Oddly, his Ebay selling reminded me of another character from Transformers, but I don't want to think the two films plagiarized. Julia Sweeny, well, just don't make me go down that tunnel. Paula Garces was middle of the road as well, she played off Bradford with ease because there was nothing they needed to attach themselves to. Could I be any more vague? When I finished watching this movie, I wasn't feeling upset or happy about the results &#150; this was a mediocre film, and I can applaud it for staying within that genre.Sometimes I listen to music half my age &#150; this film is a prime example of music that is half my age. There was an attempt to take it even further up the tween channel by employing the music of Blink 182 to heavily dominate the scenes of joy, empowerment, or victory. There was the overuse of Smash Mouth, which seems to plague every tween movie today &#150; but oddly, that was allowed this time. Typically, I find myself yelling about how one-sided these releases tend to be. Focusing their marking towards a singular audience instead of just pushing the boundaries, but with Clockstoppers I felt their average outing calmed me. It worked I shouldn't have worked, but it did. Frakes subdued me, and I cannot argue with him. The special features surrounding this film were pathetic as well, staged behind the scenes which only showed how fun a film like this could be &#150; it was disgusting. The music videos didn't fit, and the Saturday Morning interruptions also included were vile as well. See this language, yet I am going to give this film at least three stars. See, Frakes did dupe me.Overall, I gotta stop this review before I stick myself in a deeper hole. Agents with no names, bad villains bent on total domination using everything in their arsenal outside of the weapon of choice, a cool watch that may have sold well over the holidays, and plot holes the size of Miami. I hate these features on a film, but again, Clockstoppers filled a hour and a half of couch time well for me. I never laughed, but I never got bored with this story. Call me a quitter or a lackey to the cause, but Clockstoppers never came out of its shell, and I am happy for that. It was pathetic, but delightful in the same sense. I cannot suggest this movie to friends, but if it rained one afternoon and we needed something to kill the time &#150; I think Clockstoppers would find its way back to the DVD player! Thank you Frakes &#150; you duped me again! Grade *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but...","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Once again we see that a story might not sparkle in itself, but when the same story are combined with wild effects it can make a decent hour or two of escapism. As with Clockstoppers. The problem is that the idea behind the time-travel-like ideology that bears the movie is to far-fetched for even the most fanatical phantasm-believer to swallow. Please give us a little more credit next time. Don't expect us to just accept stupid lines and ideas anymore. Be fantastic with a realistic viewpoint. Now I will not be the one to say that I could have done it better. Because I couldn't. But if you had asked someone before you made it, to sift away the unbelievable stuff, the movie would have been better off... "},{"Title":"Better than I'd expected","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Watching the commercials for 'Clockstoppers' before its theatrical, then its video release, I was never too thrilled about seeing it.  Just didn't look all that great, really.But it'd been renting well at work (i.e. video store), so I decided to try it after all.  I was pleasantly surprised - a movie aimed at teenagers that's actually good?!  Wowzers!!!!The major problem I have with this movie is the soundtrack.  It's just horrible, horrible, horrible.  Granted, I realize this movie itself is geared toward MTV slaves.  But still - Blink 182?  Ugh.That gripe aside, the plot to the movie, as well as the casting and everything else, is rather superb.  As a general rule, I don't care very much for many films - if any - directed at a young audience, as this is.  But I'm happy to report that 'Clockstoppers' is an exception.  It actually is good, and worth the time and money to rent. "},{"Title":"Good simple fun, not for the prudish.","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love physics and I'm a self-admitted - and usually self-effacing - geek. I keep up on every scrap of news I can about nanotubules, quantum entanglement and whatever else about physics I can lay my hands on. With this in mind, I always have to check my logical thought at the door for most science fiction regardless of how close the writers are to existing theory or application. The thing to keep in mind with Clockstoppers is that it's a bit like a live-action cartoon - as most light-hearted scifi is. Regardless of the hefty amount of cliche and cartoon physics, Clockstoppers is an enjoyable spin on an old science fiction concept. There are no pretentious Speilbergian  epiphanies or insights on a grand quantum design - just some simple adventurous fun, enjoyably above par special effects and several genuinely funny moments. Even the few spotty-acting moments are passable. I'm not usually one to go for cute movies, but Clockstoppers has me. After enduring 'A.I.' and a string of badly executed, over-serious adaptations of several of my favorite Philip K. Dick stories, seeing something that's just fun was extremely refreshing. "},{"Title":"Its an enjoyable film, so why are people so hard on it?","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is extremely well made, the special effects are awesome, the acting is great, with the main cast all providing entertaining portrayals of their respective roles, but special mention to Michael Biehn who I thought was excellent in the film. Great to see him on the big screen, haven't seen him since The Art of War in 2001. Hope Adventure Inc brings him more success. This film is great escapism, people criticise it for being done before, but c'mon, hasn't everything? It's aimed at a younger audience, and if you're an adult in your 40's or woteva, this probably won't be your kinda film, does that mean its all that bad? If you watched Sooty when you were little, you'd think it was the best thing since sliced bread. If you watched it now, not going to like it as much, cos it would seem childish, but there are people out there who love it!  This film was well made, well acted, the direction was very good, and I rate Jonathan Frakes very highly as a director!  I really enjoyed the film, was skeptical as I was worried it was going to be bad, and I took 12 other 17 year olds to the cinema with me, so they were all going to blame me if it was bad. But they all enjoyed it, and I'm very pleased to say I've seen it on the big screen! 7/10 easy "},{"Title":"Pretty good for a kid's film","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I usually like thinking films more than mainstream ones. This was actually good, though.A teenager who desperately wants a car finds a watch that enables him to enter hypertime, where everything around him stops (or goes rrrreeeeaaalllyyy slow). But there are (what else?) people after the watch, which actually stops his antics with the watch, and puts his life and his father's at risk.Some things aren't right. For example, if you were moving so fast, than how come (I think) a television set isn't moving as fast as him? (It would be constantly remaking the image, not showing it just as slow as everything around him.) Also, if the watch allows anything touching him to go into hypertime as well, and he's touching the ground, than how come everything doesn't go into hypertime minus the airplanes in the air? And, a car going at over 200 mph has everything outside of it looking like it's standing still? You'd have to go 186,000 miles per second for that to happen.But that's not the point of the film. The point is to have fun. And I enjoy relativity, so the time freezing makes the film better than it would be without a quick explanation on going faster than everything else.Rating 4/6 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Entertaining","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, first off, if you're going to walk into the theater as one of those smart-alec know-it-all physics whiz who nitpicks about everything, then forget it. You won't have fun at all. That's right, just leave it all at the theater entrance. There you go.Now, once you get into it, the movie is actually OK. Although some of the jokes are corny, and the family roles are a bit stereotypical (eg. the worried mother, the overworked father, the attached-to-phone sister, etc.), all in all, it could have been a lot worse. Definitley aimed at the 12-16 crowd.Best Part about the movie The cool special effectsWorst Part The cliche characters and the (kind of) lame jokes.Final Word It's not horrible, it's not anything very special. Plenty of other better movies to choose from.6/10 "},{"Title":"stupid plot; stupid movie","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  who came up with this crap? Not only was it lacking in everything but disneyesq comedy but the idea of a watch slowing down time like this it insane. the action of those not slowed down by the watch would be so fast that the friction of the movement would make the area burst into flames. a major crash could almost result in a nuclear explosion, well maybe not that drastic. Despite being science fiction it had to many realistic holes, not to mention it was really bad, i'm sorry i took my little brother to it. ugh.  "},{"Title":"Half decent","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is part Disneyque,part Micheal J. Fox in Back to the Future minus the DeLorean,and part of a TV-Movie designed for kids in mind. Since this is a kids movie by the way,I wasn't impressed. However,I was impressed by the special effects and not the acting here(case in point) which could have been more better,thanks in part to its director here Jonathan Frakes(aka Star TrekNext Generation,General Hospital,etc.). However,the leading guy was very good here,but his female counterpart (played by Paula Garcias)looks like a teenage version of Angelia Jolie. However,since this a produced by Nickelodeon,it was half decent. "}{"Title":"A good movie with a twist of fun!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a good movie to see for all ages! It's funny, and has a good plot to it. The actors are pretty good as well. I think that this movie deserves 4 stars! If you like movies with adventure, comedy, and fun, you should see Clockstoppers. I encourage everyone out there to see this movie soon. "},{"Title":"I loved this film","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed watching this film.  Unique Storyline, great special effects, good actors.  Michael Biehn made a brilliant villain, I wish he had been in more scenes in the film as he was the best actor in the film.  I loved the special effects when time was slowed down, they were very convincing.  Jonathon Frakes has done a great job of this film. "},{"Title":"Embarassing.","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  (spoilers?)This is just a really stupid movie.  Little to no plot line.  Ending is horribly confusing.  There is one bright spot, the actress playing the love interest seems to be pretty good, but I knew, the moment the hero started acting like a jerk, that he wasn't up to par.\4/10Quality 3/10 Entertainment 5/10 Replayable 5/10 "},{"Title":"Totally boring, Re-Release Girl, Gold Watch and Everything","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dumb.  Dumb characters.  Dumb plot (if it has a plot).  Don't waste your time.  The only good thing is that if it is successfuly enough, perhaps they will re-issue The Girl, the Gold Watch and Everything on VHS, this had the same concept of a watch that would stop time, but was a lot more fun. "},{"Title":"If only if they jazzed it up and slapped a PG-13, it would have been an awesome sci-fi flick.","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You got to love sci-fi films. The complex plots and the CGI are just 2 great reasons to stay tuned to them. One of the latest and greatest sci-fi films to come along is I, Robot. With its intriguing plot and its amazing CGI, there's no way you can't love this film. However back in 2002, Clockstoppers came along. Unfortunately, Clockstoppers is a severely missed opportunity for a great sci-fi film. The creators had to keep it appropriate for a PG rating in the U.S so the kids would get a loving sci-fi film that they could actually enjoy. They had to tone down the possibly great plot and turned down all content away from making any movie good. It's too bad really.Zack Gibbs (Jesse Bradford) is a busy high school kid as he desperately sells everything he can find for a quick buck. The guy is saving his money for a car. While looking in the basement where his father (Robin Thomas) works, he finds a cool wristwatch. However his father is a top-secret scientist who works for an evil corporation. Back to his daily routine, him and his best friend, Meeker (Garikayi Mutambirwa), are at the paintball shop where he works and they meet a new Spanish girl named Francesca (Paula Garcés; yeah I know a lot of no-names). Zack hits on her and volunteers to go to her house to do chores so he can get to know her better. During the chores, Zack accidentally toggles his watch and it freezes all of time as everything and everybody have come to a stop. Zack has discovered how to use the device as the special time is called Hypertime. But when Zack realizes he wasn't supposed to take the watch from his dad, agents fro the corporation come after him. Now him, Francesca, and Meeker have to escape the evil bad guys.French Stewart probably is one of the main reasons to look forward to this film. He's a great comedian and he does a nice job on-screen as Earl Dopler, a scientist who works for the same corporation as Dr. Gibbs. The head of the evil corporation is Henry Gates (Michael Biehn; GATES! Microsoft should sue!) as he hardly is a good villain.The opening sequence is probably one of the best scenes in the movie. If they had driven the film with the caliber from the first scene, it would have been more enjoyable.Analysis time. First off, if this film was PG-13, they could have accomplished so much more. If they had forgotten the kid content, it would have been a worthy sci-fi film of mention. Just think can you imagine what kind of power you could have if you had that kind of watch on hand? You could do so many things not demonstrated in a PG film. Instead, the film shows what could happen if this were in the hands of a desperate teenager. This is particularly noted in one scene when they pull minor pranks on the town. Oh, big man now! If French Stewart would have had more screen time, he could have made the film more enjoyable and he'd seem more in place if this were PG-13. All the characters talk as if they don't know English. The action violence is revolved around a lot of biking or running and the running concept only worked for Minority Report. Honestly put, Clockstoppers is a major miss for the sci-fi genre.Overall, Clockstoppers is a good family sci-fi film. If you pause and take 10 minutes to realize that this film is PG, you might enjoy it more. Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed this film but it was lacking from my particular audience. I definitely would enjoy this film if I was much younger but how can that satisfy everyone? If someone can take this concept and put it in a PG-13 context, I'll be willing to pay $5 for the move ticket.My Rating 5.5/10 (A Mid 5.5)Eliason A. "},{"Title":"Difficult to Watch (Possible spoilers)","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not an impossibly bad movie, I didn't stop watching before the end, but I was wincing through most of it.  I didn't notice the dialogue so much, I was mostly distracted by the totally unlikely physics.Normally I consider myself to be quite good at suspending disbelief.  The thing is, I could conceive of something like a cyborg coming from the future to change the past.  What I can't conceive of is the science posited in this movie.Fine, you can be accelerated so fast that everything else seems to be standing still.  Wouldn't it be difficult to draw unaccelerated air into your lungs?  Wouldn't your shoes melt just from the friction of walking?  Why do the leaf-filled garbage bags fall at accelerated speed?  Why are the vehicles they drive able to run at accelerated speed?  When they move the DJs, the movements happen in realtime.  The lead characters are accelerated, not invisible.  That process would have been more like stop motion animation, ie. very tedious.I guess I just couldn't get past those inconsistencies.  For a better timepiece-stops-time movie, find the TV movie from 1980; The Girl, The Gold Watch, and Everything. "},{"Title":"exciting and intriguing","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  clockstoppers is one of the most exciting movies i have ever seen. its special effects are realistic and its plot is rather interesting and thrilling. this movie includes comedy, sci-fiction, thriller, adventure and a little of romance. clockstoppers is a must to watch.  "},{"Title":"Terrible Movie","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The previews for this movie were VERY misleading. Some critics deemed it Back to the Future for a new generation. To me, this statement is blasphemy. Back to the Future is a classic. The fact that people would compare it to this film is offensive. This movie was not entertaining AT ALL. Am I wrong, or are movies supposed to be entertaining? I respect Jonathan Frakes, but he made a bad decision in directing this terrible movie. Poor acting, stupid plot, and no entertaining elements. Granted, the idea that one could stop time using a watch is somewhat interesting, but the movie did not make it interesting at all. To quote Dave Chappelle as Rick James, I wish I had more hands, so I could give this movie four thumbs down! "},{"Title":"WoW, This movie is for dummies!!!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First of all, almost entire movie is one big plot hole. I don't understand how the filmmakers can think that audience could be stupid enough to not notice how impossible this whole movie is. This movie has a story that gives rules but don't play by the rules, and I can tell you, I HATE THAT!Acting, directing etc... are in basic collage movie level.If you are 12 years old, and guys in school tells you every week that you are genius or clever (and you don't know why they call you that), this might be your movie! Otherwise avoid at any cost! "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Clockstoppers'","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" GOOD NEWS - This had a very interesting premise having time stopped, except for one person wearing a special watch enabling he or she to move around and do anything while everyone else was frozen in time. There were fun special-effects in here, too.BAD NEWS - The dialog and the humor in here was so stupid, so California-like teeny- bopperish that it was almost impossible to watch the entire film....if you are past the age of 18 or have a brain. It was filled with annoying no-name teen actors and filled with plugs for scuzzy magazines like Cosmopolitan and other assorted other soft-sleaze stuff. OVERALL - An extremely unlikeable, overrated movie unless you from the age of 11-14 and have poor parents as role models. "}{"Title":"Great movie, if your 8 years old.","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie last night with my soon to be nine year old son.  He seemed to enjoy it.  I, on the other hand, think I would have gotten more enjoyment from watching snow melt in the winter.The acting is horrible.  The science fiction is lame.  The only near redeeming quality is the special effects.If you want to watch a great sci-fi movie about time, watch Time After Time. "},{"Title":"pretty good.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i thought this movie was pretty good. i would probably see it again. it was funny, romantic and had a little bit of action in it. i usually prefer movies with more action but this was pretty cool. it's great to go see with your entire family! the main girl character kinda annoyed me tho, because she changed her outfit in every scene. lol! "},{"Title":"Same idea, 20 years later...","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Appears to be an updated (but uncredited) rehash of TV movie from 1980. Better f-x, of course, details modified to suit today's teen audience, but it's still a WATCH that makes time stand still as the plotline, and of course the bad guys want to get their hands on it, and our hero has to save the day.See The Girl, the Gold Watch, & Everything. http//us.imdb.com/Title?0080792'Nuff said.  If you haven't got anything else to do, it's worth a matinee ticket. "},{"Title":"Its like The Matrix mixed with Back to the Future.","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jesse Bradford(Best known from Bring It On)plays Zak Gibbs, an ordinary teenager, who one day finds a watch in his fathers laboratory. And when he puts on the watch and pushes its buttons, He discovers that everyone around him suddenly freezes in time. Zak desides to have some fun with it. But he soon discover that a bunch of scienctists want the watch. And not for good purposes. The best speical effects I,ve seen in years. Jesse Bradford and the young cast are charming. But its Michael Biehn who is memorable has the guy who will stop at nothing to get that watch. French Stewart is also good. "},{"Title":"Hollywood plot recycler in full effect","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Anyone remember the 1980 made-for-TV movie The Girl, The Gold Watch, and Everything (http//us.imdb.com/Title?0080792)?  The creators of that item must have time-travelled forward to watch this movie so they could reverse-steal its content, but didn't have the budget for a digital watch back then, so they made it a pocket watch.  sigh  But of course, if we're talking about stopping-time-at-will-for-everyone-else, we have to consider the fifth-season (1963-64) Twilight Zone episode A Kind Of Stop Watch, too.   "},{"Title":"The best movie since 'Back To The Future'","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The only thing that I regret about this film was not seeing it when it was in cinemas. I was doing the HSC at the time and I didn't hear about the film until it was on video. This film is great comedy and and sci-fi film. The concept of freezing time with a wrist watch was excellent! Jesse Bradford was very good in this film and Paula Garces was gorgeous, I wish she'd appear in more films to my taste. I also thought it was great that the film was directed by Jonathan Frakes, whom 'Star Trek' fans know as Commander William Riker from the 'Next Generation' series. The film even uses a common quote from the series Make it so Number One. Jonathan Frakes did an excellent job directing this film and I'm sure he will do a spectacular job with his direction of the 'Thunderbirds' movie which will be released later this year.  "},{"Title":"A film that lacks in laughter, but not entertainment.","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  At first, when I first heard of Clockstoppers, my reaction was very typical. I kept saying to myself every time I saw a commercial, God that movie looks like a pile of crap. When my dad got the DVD, I watched it, just to see if it was as bad as I thought it would be. I was very wrong after the film ended. I expected to see the typical Nickelodeon movie, bad acting, terrible writing, and no story. What I got was a very entertaining, and visually stunning movie. Sure, it attempts to be funny, but fails horribly, but I factored in the fact that this was a kids movie, so naturally, children would find this movie funny. Jonathan Frakes also proves to be a very good director when working on something other than Star Trek. The acting wasn't as bad as I thought it would be, but it still wasn't very good. The story actually impressed me, because it actually had some complexity applied to it. The story is also very creative, and clever. Like I said earlier, this movie is VISUALLY stunning, and I have a few reasons. The main part of the story, was that a teenager finds a watch that can stop time, so, if jumps in a puddle of water while the watch is active, the water will just stay in the air. So my point is that whenever CG effects is involved with water, it looks good. Overall, I would strongly recommend Clockstoppers to adults, and children. 9 ½ out of 10. "},{"Title":"They called it Clockstoppers because it's an utter waste of time...","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  They called it Clockstoppers because it's an utter waste of time...OK, I know it's largely for kids or maybe young teens. That's no excuse for plot holes as big as the waistband in Michael Moore's Fruit of the Looms. What does Jonathon Frakes think young people are, half-wits? And what about those of us adults who accidentally rent this movie, thinking it just might be of some fun? Science fiction. Comedy. That's what it was billed as. Great, thought I -- I might just get something a touch like Back to the Future. Instead, I found neither science fiction nor comedy. There are a few scenes that are, um, memorable, but the DJ scene has to take the absolute prize for being just awful. It's so bad, you may want to actually watch it, just for the hell of it. Do yourself a favor and watch the rest of the movie in fast-forward. That way, you'll experience the general idea of the film (they speed up their own time while leaving you on normal time) without having to suffer through the droning details.I give it a 3-1/2 to a 4.  "},{"Title":"It's been done!","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The idea was done in the original Twilight Zone TV series the one where the guys drops the watch, while in stop mode, and it breaks trapping him there, plus it was done in the Wild Wild West TV series except in that story it was a liquid that was swallowed.I did not like this movie.  "},{"Title":"Good idea, weak movie","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I like the idea of stopping time (there's a very good twilight zone episode of this concept) but its a lame movie.Stupid bad guys and stupid humor, the dj-contest sequence had to be cut out.Pity now its just 5/10. Really wanted it to be 9 or 10.  "}{"Title":"Cool, Fun Movie For All Ages","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  WoW! This movie was much better than expected. It is funny, cool, and amuseing for all ages. This is a definate buy or rent. Jesse Bradford and Paula Garces rally showed that age doesn't matter with their mature acting skills. This is a great movie. Starring Jesse Bradford, Paula Garces, Garikayi Mutambirwa and French Stewart MPAA Rating PG for action violence and mild language My Rating PG13 for action violence, language and brief sensuality "},{"Title":"So much potential, wasted","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You know, this could have been a pretty good movie. Really! The concept is kinda cool, and the casting was pretty good.Too bad Number One failed to materialize a good movie out of all the potential.Look, the whole geeky-guy gets cute-chick thing worked fine in all the other thousand movies it was used in, like say War Games. But hey, there are geeky girls out there too, and if they don't look like fashion models, at least they're real.Spoilers ahead, beware.What are the odds that our hero will be in hyper-time at the exact moment as the villains? Oh... they switch from hyper time to real time during a car chase, but the bad guys can't just switch back into hyper time to catch them? Sigh.That's what everyone else here was commenting on... plot holes big enough to plant corn in. But hey, somehow it just doesn't matter, because it's only fantasy aimed at kids, right?Wrong. Moviemakers need to pay attention to these kinds of details. Details are the difference between a mildly amusing movie like this, and a truly awesome movie like the original 3 Star Wars, or War Games, or Star Trek II.Fix the details, at least try to explain it to us. This could have been a great movie. Instead it was mediocre. I rated it a 5.Frakes, you were a mediocre director during your Star Trek days, and you're a mediocre director now. Why not buy some skills with the money you're making? "},{"Title":"Very weak plot..","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This review contains minor plot spoilers.  This movie started out alright...maybe a 6 out of 10, then got progressively worse as it went along.  About halfway through the movie it seemed like they started making stuff up on the spot; like they threw away (or never had) the script.  The whole idea of using frozen hydrogen to put hyper accelerated people back into real time, and when the kid accelerated while he was already in time, he was able to go through stuff and fly??????  With all these moronic things just kind of happening, it turned what might have been an ok movie into a bad movie. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Difficult to review in my shoes","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Clockstoppers poses a quandry on my critic mind- what do I really think of this movie or what do I think of this movie for other audiences such as kids under and at 13?  Well, I cringe during these movies that are chock full of chiches and characters as thin as Joey Ramone, but during this one there were some good tricks utilized in editing (or is it visual effects, either way it's good) and it had an imaginative premise.  So, if I was 6 or 7 years younger, I would've adored it, however there is not that much for the older audience to partake in outside of camera tricks and such.  Michael Biehn makes a good villain though.  B- "},{"Title":"some people said it was sad.... the saddest part was the six bucks I threw away","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Since I just read I cant curse, I will keep this as nice as possible. If somebody were to give this DVD to me as a present, I would just as soon use it as toilet paper as I would a movie. It made horrible attempted jokes like when whats-her-face goes you wish to the main dude. It was like a train with no..... um.... train. The previews were misleading by making you think that it was funny. In the commercials, it made it look like the friend had a good part... but when you saw it, you realized that he had 9-10 lines max.If they took out the pointless, useless, horrible scenes, the movie would not be a movie at all, and just one of those five-minute specials in between mediocre TV shows. To avoid this, the director (who is hopefully out of a job) added stupid pointless scenes like the dance scene. 100% pointless. You might say it was to show you what the watch could do. but we know what it can do!You don't need to put retarded scenes in to lengthen the movie and make the actors feel that they have a good part. So, in conclusion (much rejoicing that its over) I spent 6.50 on some comfy seats that were good for naps. "},{"Title":"Can you say plot holes?","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  from the beginning I didn't have the highest of expectations for clockstoppers; I knew it was going to be a fantastical fiction that was far from reality. I was simply hoping to sit down, turn off my brain, and be entertained. But come on, this is just insulting. The entire movie is riddled with so many plot holes, I am troubled to think that somebody actually sat down and wrote it. However the acting and special effects are all you could hope for from a Nick movie, and to be honest the ideas behind it are very entertaining. In short, not a bad movie to watch with a young kid, but if you find yourself constantly screaming, Whhaaaaatt?!? at your TV, don't say I didn't warn you.  "},{"Title":"Poor adaptation of weak idea","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jonathan Frakes once again demonstrates why he shouldn't be directing any film, let alone one that's supposed to keep you awake for an hour and a half.Even ignoring the obvious scientific issues surrounding hypertime, this film makes no attempt to be of interest to anyone other the most juvenile of 13 year olds, and even they were pretty restless judging by the audience in the theatre I saw this in. By the time fifteen minutes had passed, I wished I had a hypertime device to make the film pass more quickly.If you're after an entertaining family film, watch the little seen Meteor Man and give this one a pass. "},{"Title":"Bad film","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is from the Nickelodean Movies branch of Paramount and is aimed squarely at young boys... the tale has  Jesse Bradford (much more effective as Kirsten Dunst's love interest in Bring It On) as a teenager who finds this watch that his scientist dad is working on... of course the watch sends him into hypertime which enables him to move really fast.. or in our case, make it seem like everyone else is either frozen or moving incredibly slow. While the visual effects team did a rather good job with the look of the hypertime sequences, the storyline (involving evil government agents and a battle of the DJs (!)) is just plain stupid with some of the most inane dialouge ever heard in a major motion picture. Bradford is terrible as well in this film, though I think it is primarily because he was made to say such awful dialouge. Paula Garces plays his love interest, a role which involves wearing skimpy outfits and speaking in a fake foreign accent. The teenagers in this film all appear to be in their late twenties.. further hampering the believability quotia. A misfire that only the young ones will like. GRADE D "},{"Title":"Dial H for Hypertime","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Handsome bicycling student Jesse Bradford (as Zak Gibbs) accidentally acquires an unusual watch. No, it doesn't signal the arrival of Superman, bring back The Legion of Super-Heroes, or even explain why Mr. Bradford is still in high school. But, the watch does have the power to speed up the molecules of Bradford's body, making the world around him seem to stand still. It's called Hypertime, after a concept discovered by Bradford's dad, Robin Thomas (after DC Comics' Mark Waid).With awesome power comes awesome responsibility...The watch impresses gorgeous exchange student Paula Garcés (as Francesca), who also seems to have come unstuck in high school. Naturally, Bradford wants to hook up with Ms. Garcés. Meanwhile, funny French Stewart (as Earl Dopler), mad Michael Biehn (as Henry Gates), and other enemy agents want to wrest the watch from Bradford's wrist, putting Garcés and he in grave danger. Clockstoppers is an obviously limited-in-appeal effort from Star Trek actor/director Jonathan Frakes.***** Clockstoppers (3/17/02) Jonathan Frakes ~ Jesse Bradford, Paula Garces, French Stewart, Michael Biehn "},{"Title":"Fun movie","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I actually read about this movie in a trade magazine where they talked about how they did the effects, and had been interested in seeing it since then. When I saw it on Joost, I decided to finally watch it. It's younger than I expected, but overall I had a good time with it. There are a couple of things that bothered me about it, though, and here they are, hence the spoiler warning.I love science fiction and love taking an implausible idea like this and making a set of rules about it. The filmmakers had well-defined rules, I thought, about how the watch worked. And then they promptly broke them in one completely unnecessary scene. The scene I'm talking about is the DJ scene, where the kids move the DJs and make them dance. Now, according to the rules set up, the watch doesn't make the people invisible, it makes them go really fast. So if you sit there and hold a pose for what would be one second in normal time, people would be able to see you. Yet they operate the DJ's invisibly as if they were puppets (also way too fast, if they were really moving them at the speed that they were then their dance moves would be a blur); that scene had the feel to me that someone who didn't write the original screenplay decided to add to get some extra human element into the film, because everything else was so well thought out. The second thing that bothered me initially was the car chase in hypertime, but they did explain that the cars were in hypertime (and since it's a molecular level phenomenon that did end up fitting into the rules set by the filmmakers.) In spite of this, though, I do recommend it and give it a 5 out of 10 rating. Between that one scene, and kind of a lame attempt at creating family tension between the father and son, it only gets 5. But it does get 5, not 3 or 2, because it still was a fun movie. "}{"Title":"In the tradition of Bernard's Watch","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is aimed at kids but having watched Bernard's watch as a youngster and once i heard a similar idea had been implemented into a movie, i thought it wouldn't do much harm to go and see it. I wasn't overly impressed but still, a good bit of fun for 90 mins. Basically its about a kid who gets hold of a watch his Dad has invented that has the ability to stop time. He starts to have fun using it but then gets in to trouble along the way. The movie stars Jesse Bradford and the good looking Paula Garces. A fairly enjoyable movie that doesn't have you wanting to pull the plug at any stage. "},{"Title":"Just one thing to say","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ---SPOILERS--- I remember only part of this movie, and here's what it was Zak is some kid whose dad works as a professor, teaching science to high-schoolers. (Or was it college?) He claims that if something was moving very fast, that everything else would seem slower. So, he invents a watch to test it. His son, Zak, steals the watch (I think that's what happened.) and makes him and his lady friend speed through time- which makes everything else seem slower.So, what I remembered about this movie was how unrealistic it was. There were two scenes that were this way.The first one was when their in the garden. The people supposedly go so fast that everything seems slower. How is that possible when the to characters experiencing super-speed hardly move at all? The second part was near the ending. Zak somehow speeds up the watch or something, to go even faster. Hyper-speed? Super-time?Well, this part just about messed up the whole movie. If he's going so fast, how does he get caught in a net? When they were slower, everything else showed no sign of motion. Now, when he's in hyper-time he gets caught in a net gun. Why? How? To make a story? I think the kids might enjoy it, but the adults should stay far away. That's all I really have to say.Feel free to send me a Private Message regarding this comment. "},{"Title":"Great premise, great first act, mediocre movie overall.","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am a sucker for science fiction movies. One of my favorites (along with about a billion others) is 'Back To The Future.' As soon as I started watching 'Clockstoppers'  I felt that it had a 'Back To The Future' feel to it. Watching the extras on the DVD, those in the movie thought so too. However there is no comparison. This movie uses a group of B-grade actors and a great, novel concept of certain persons becoming able to greatly speed up their time, rendering the world and people around comparatively in extremely slow motion. The problem starts right after that great concept is introduced, as the writer and director were not able to develop any substantial story line to go along with it. The result is a cute, mostly fun little movie that uses the hyper time mode for silly things, and when it is all over we realize the hyper time concept was the entire movie, with a silly script strapped on to make it look like a movie. I was highly entertained by the hyper time concept, I was mostly bored with the story surrounding it.SPOILERS -- We get the first glimpse that something is askew when a highly disguised Dr Doppler (great name!) is trying to get quickly onto a plane for Central America, only to get invisibly jerked off the tarmac platform right before boarding. Later we figure out that it was the two bad guys operating in hyper time, moving so fast they couldn't be seen. A professor had invented the circuitry, disguised as a watch, the government was realizing the hazard of this getting into enemy hands and not wanting to terminate the project, the bad guys need Dr Doppler to finish the design, because as it stood everyone operating in hyper time ages very rapidly, which defeats part of the purpose.  The professor's son accidently gets the watch, figures out how to use it, helps his friend win a DJ contest, foils a bike theft, gets back at an over-eager meter maid, and various silly uses for such a fabulous technology. In the end, of course, the bad guys are foiled, and the professor's son drives away in his new Mustang, and goes into hyper time as the cops chase him. he had kept one of the watches! "},{"Title":"Ehh...","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was an ok movie.  Not that funny, but entertaining enough to let me at least finish it.  But one thing that BUGGED me the most is Bradford's love interest in the movie, I don't know the character's name.  Anyways, was I the only one who heard that at the beginning of the movie, she had a Spanish accent or some kind of accent and then as the movie progressed, the accent was gone?!  I thought that she put on the accent and lost on purpose because it had something to do with the rest of the story.  But NO!!!  It was just bad acting!!!  I mean, there was a clear accent in the beginning, then there was just a little bit of the accent, and then there was no accent!!  That left me confused and angry that that actress did that.  Didn't the editors see that while they were supposed to be doing their job? Anyways, I give it a 5/10 and if I graded it based on the accent, i would've given it a 1/2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Average...","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Clockstoppers is basically very average. A few good idea's are mentioned, but never delved into. Clockstoppers is basically very plain; which is why I have next to no comments on it. Probably a too complex topic for the target audience...ps. Worth it for any Jesse fan though! "},{"Title":"Nice flick for youngsters and perhaps for some olders too...","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Basically the movie is pretty much ok for kids but maeby a bit older people would consider it watchable.There story itself is really not that interesting and there is lots of flaws but still its entertaining and i found it pretty funny in the morning 4am. "},{"Title":"Definitely made by Nickelodean","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I won't even delve into the scientific errors, we'll simply accept that a watch could be invented that does what the watch in the movie does.  That would be cool.  No, not the way they use it.  We don't get to see the kids try to use the watch to help anybody, they just use it to play practical jokes.  Right away, I don't like the kids.  Now there is of course some bad guys around.  For some reason the bad guys drop out of hyperspeed, there is no reason to.  Just stay in fast mode until you catch them.The dialog, plot, etc. are all standard Nickelodean fair.  4 stars. That's it.  I'm being generous. "},{"Title":"OK film for one-time viewing","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I expected more out of this film, considering it was directed by Jonathan Frakes.  For one thing, there were too many special effects.  It just seemed like it was trying to show off a little bit.  The story was pretty shallow, but hey, this movie is basically for kids, right?  The main thing that brought this down was the script.  The dialogue was HORRIBLE.  I would comment on the acting, but how can you comment on that when the script the actors had to work with was so awful?   5/10 "},{"Title":"Great fun for the whole family! Kids and adults will love this adventure!","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Nickolodean did a great job on this film! Really outstanding. Story was really good, and the special effects were really well done. A great movie for the whole family.Zak is a boy in high school, whose father is a science professor at the local University. When an old student of Zak's dad sends him a strange watch, Zak and his family get into alot of trouble. The watch is able to stop time. However, there are others that would like this watch back in their hands.Great movie, great cast of unknowns (except for French Stewart and Michael Biehn). Francesca is a very good looking girl. She's gonna be a heartbreaker in the future.Enjoy this one with your children. One of the few kids movies this year that can entertain all age groups. "},{"Title":"A Movie for Everyone","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is much better than Get a Clue it's a good spy movie. It has sweet special affects. The Real treat in this movie is Paula Garces she is a hot mexi babe!!!!!!!!!! Jesse Bradford is cool but looks like a geek with a helmet on his head. It's more of a kid version of Back To The Future but it is a rad movie.  "}{"Title":"Too many flaws but it's okay cause kids will see this movie yeah?","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Why is this movie even called Clock'STOP'pers if it's not even stopping time and just makes it go faster then everyone else. This movie clearly has many flaws but I guess it doesn't matter because the makers of this movie probably thought Hey, Mostly kids are going see this and they probably won't think too deeply so they'll probably buy what they see! or the makers are just plain stupid. Older audiences will clearly stress over this movie on how cheesy it is and how it violates laws of physics and with many other flaws.This doesn't give away anything so I'll just tell you this one pointless scene where Zak's friend Meeker enters this DJ contest where he does horribly and Zak and Francesca decides to use the watch to go into hypertime to control Meeker's movements. Everyone at the dance club thinks Meeker is dancing on his own because Zak and Meeker are invisible because supposably they're going really fast. Now if they're going really fast in hypertime how is it that they don't end up making Meeker dance when the DJ competition is already over? Or if they are keeping up with reality but going a little faster, then they shouldn't be invisible! Flawed? Don't be surprised. And the DJ competition scene was too long with lame moves by both competitors, you can totally tell the actors weren't scratching the records at all.When Zak was at Francesca's house gathering leafs and enables the hyperwatch for the first time, he thought he's been outside for awhile and after disabling it and being back to reality, for Francesca she thought he was only out for a couple of seconds. Now does the watch stop time or move faster then everybody?! The maker needs to makeup his mind! They just had to make things confusing with flaws with making it we're moving faster then reality instead of we stopped time even though the plot says a machine that enables them to make time stand STILL and the title of this movie referring to Clock'STOP'pers. Also the tagline pointing out FREEZE the time also referring to stopping. This movie is very flawed. No wonder a kiddy television program like Nickelodeon supported this movie. They probably thought what a brilliant idea it is without realizing it makes no sense.Another flawed scene where everyone becomes in hypertime, Zak turns on his own hypertime watch that enables him to go double hypertime or whatever but the people in single hypertime sees him go really fast but can STILL see him. Why isn't it the same with reality and single hypertime? So many hard to believe acts happening without giving us any reasonable idea that it's possible, it just seems like they had no script and made stuff along the way.When Zak met Francesca for the first time she seemed really cold to him but after Zak shows her what special ability the watch has, she starts giving him hugs and kisses? And later on even though Zak sounding like a lunatic running away from the cops she helps him with some new clothes and a beamer to get away? C'mon! If the hypertime isn't realistic enough, what is up with the relationship between them?Obviously they had to hire gorgeous Paula Garcés with such scenes where she's about to get undress or just in a rapped around towel to cover up the flaws and lameness of this movie and along with visual effects and a car chasing scene.I think the director Jonathan Frakes from Star Trek was out in space too long! Wait till this movie shows on television or something. Or if you payed to see Paula then okay but do not see it for the story.Overall Rating 5/10 (with added bonus points because of Paula) "},{"Title":"Now Where Have We Seen This Premise Before? . . .","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Many people commenting on this film have made references to an old Star Trek episode, as well as The Girl, The Gold Watch and Everything. However, I can see another antecedent  the Twilight Zone episode, A Kind of a Stopwatch, from its final season (1963-64).  Obviously, Clockstoppers is more for the peach-fuzz set, not to mention that this newer entry has the kind of special effects that were simply unavailable when the aforementioned Twilight Zone installment was made.  Personally, I'd go for the TZ episode in question, instead. "},{"Title":"didn't they already do this","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If I remember this correctly, didn't Duck Tales do an episode of this? The nephews even used a watch to stop time, when in fact they were going faster than normal people.  Next time you guys pick a story for a movie, try to pick something more original.  I thought that this movie would be different than the cartoon, but it turned out that I just wasted my time and money with this piece of trash of a movie. "},{"Title":"For adolescents","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You might enjoy this mindless movie if you're a young teenager. The premise (stopping time) is hackneyed. The rest of the plot is equally unimaginative. Should have been a single TV episode. One of my gripes with this kind of premise is that it flouts too many laws of physics. If they've slowed time down so much that they're effectively moving at over 1000 miles per hour, there would be, from the point of view of bystanders, sonic booms, problems with acceleration, lethal impacts and so on... but I guess that's all part of the package deal of the premise. Pi on 10 - and then, only if you're a little on the dumb side.  "},{"Title":"I guess I might have enjoyed it more if I was thirteen...","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is (obviously) a kids movie, though it was a bit entertaining, if you just get over the childish humor and a few ridiculous scenes. I liked Michael Biehn as a villain, that was pretty good. His presence pretty much saved the movie for me. All in all, I guess it's not too bad, if you're either a kid, or you're willing to to watch a childhood fantasy made into a movie. For kids, I'd rate it 7/10. For everyone else, I rated it 5/10. "},{"Title":"It really did slow time down. *spoilers*","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Zak finds an unusual watch which manages to make time stand still, and finds it very useful to impress Francesca, the new foreign exchange student. But soon they realize that the fate of the world is in their hands. This movie was meant to be exciting, but I find cleaning my room far more exciting. And this should give you some idea, because my room is about the size of a football pitch. This movie really did slow down time. 0/10 "},{"Title":"Hey man, I just noticed a plot hole. Cool man...me, too.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What a nice little movie. I gotta admit that I enjoyed watching Clockstoppers even though I'm 19 years old and this movie clearly is aimed at a younger audience. The whole idea behind the concept of Clockstoppers might be kinda dumb and for some situations it doesn't work at all (e.g. the disco scene which even if you take the idea of people moving a thousand times faster than everyone else for granted is entirely impossible. Watch the movie, you'll know what I mean) but it sure is fun to watch if you can check your logical thinking at the door.The only thing that really bothered me was the never ending rant about ebay. Damn, I don't even want to know how big a sum they had to spend in order to get mentioned that often in the progress of the movie. C'mon guys please give me a break. But oh well kids are said to be easy to manipulate so I guess the commercials just *had* to be put in between somewhere.As for me I would watch Clockstoppers again even though it's highly flawed and contains plot holes bigger than America. "},{"Title":"OK for youngsters; boring for adults","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  `Clockstoppers' seems perfectly designed to appeal to the pre- and early-adolescent audience that is so obviously its target.  It offers a clever gimmick, cool special effects, teenage heroes, puppy-love romance, a blaring rock soundtrack and even a mildly dysfunctional father/son relationship to help give the film its requisite patina of `social relevance.'  Adults, on the other hand - for all the reasons listed above - may well wish they could `hypertime' themselves through most of this tale about a crazy watch that has the power to stop time dead in its tracks.For a concept like this to really work (as it did in, say, `Back to the Future'), it has to be developed using a great deal of ingenuity and creativity.  That is definitely not the case here.  Indeed, the writers, once having come up with the gimmick, seem to have no idea what on earth to do with it for the hour and a half that the film is required to run.  Predictably, when the youngsters discover the extraordinary power of the object in their possession, they spend most of their time using it to play dumb practical jokes on the unsuspecting citizens living in their obviously studio back lot town.  Then, when the novelty of that wears off, the filmmakers trap them in a tedious plot involving stereotypical rule-the-world villains and kidnappers who are bent on retrieving the watch even if it means liquidating all the main characters in the process.`Clockstoppers' works well enough for prepubescent audiences primarily because both the violence and the lovemaking are kept on a purely prophylactic level (there's also no bad language in the movie).  I suppose I must applaud the moviemakers for that.  Yet, the film, just as assuredly, offers little that will interest anyone over the age of 15.  "},{"Title":"Just doesn't work.  No. 1, you've made it so bad!!!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Sorry, but this one missed it entirely.  This movie was just plain bad, and bad in the bad sense of the word.  I mean, the girl was lousy, the accent faked at first, then not even an attempt.  Stick to star trek Mr Frakes. Its a proven formula, which apparently, you need badly. .2/10 "},{"Title":"Excessive special effects and incomprehensible plot combine for a flawed time-stopper","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Clockstoppers, brought to us by Nickelodeon Movies and helmed by Star Trek alumnus Jonathan Frakes, is a prime example of an auspicious premise that goes flat faster than a set of Firestone tires. It's like a wad of bubble gum; the longer you stretch it out, the thinner and weaker it becomes. The much-recycled storyline about the accidental discovery of a special gadget and the heroes who have to keep it out of the hands of the villains who want it for their evil purposes can only be stretched so far.Somewhere, amidst the jumble of special effects, cliches, blatant absurdities and ethnic stereotypes, a comprehensible, logical plot got lost in the process. Despite the fact that this film is aimed at the young crowd, the plot of Clockstoppers will fly over kids' heads while leaving the older audience in the dark. Without the visual effects, this would probably wind up in the same ignominious 2002 class of awful films alongside Resident Evil and Death to Smoochy.Clockstoppers insults its audience, both young and old, with a cliche-loaded script. Zak Gibbs (a miscast Jesse Bradford, who, at age 23, is too old to be portraying a high school student) is your average suburbanite who can't get enough of performing bike tricks, strumming a flying-V guitar and butting heads with his scientist father/college professor, George (played by Robin Thomas, while Julia Sweeney portrays Zak's mother). As he takes out the trash one day, he stumbles across a magical watch that George had been working on after it was accidentally knocked into a garbage can, and soon discovers that it can send its wearer into hypertime, meaning time and space around him suddenly freeze. It turns out that Zak is actually moving super-fast through time while his surroundings appear to be moving ver-r-r-y slowly, in the vein of Einstein's theory of relativity. Or something like that. (Never mind that Zak would be rapidly burned to a crisp like cheap bacon due to the resulting friction, but since it's a kiddie flick, we can't be bothered with such minute technicalities.)Once Zak gets hold of the watch, there are the obligatory scenes of he and his buddies testing it out in mischievous ways, including getting revenge on a crotchety meter maid in a most unpleasant way.Soon enough, we're introduced to the bad guy, Gates (Michael Biehn), who wants the watch for his own evil deeds, which are never really made clear. Now it's up to Zak and his friends, Francesca (Paula Garces) and Meeker (Garikayi Mutambirwa), to keep the watch out of his hands. Add to this already languid plot a kidnapping scene, the ridiculous usage of paintball guns to fire liquid nitrogen, and a confusing subplot regarding another scientist, Dr. Doppler (French Stewart), and it all adds up to a big headache.Once again, here we have another annoying case of the kid clashing with the well-meaning parents. It's about time someone realized this schtick is about as appealing as a pile of used Pampers. This time it's simply because Zak keeps hedging George to buy him a new car, but George keeps sitting on it due to a project he's working on. Zak complains that he's always too busy with his work. Hey, bucko, he's working in order to put food on the table and to satisfy your selfish desires.One of the worst parts of the film occurs at a DJ contest, where Meeker is an unadulterated embarrassment. (The record scratching is pretty lousy as well. Watch much better DJ-contest scenes in the 1992 Tupac Shakur movie Juice. Now, back to our review already in progress.) Zak and Francesca use the watch to, naturally, help Meeker win the contest. Big surprise. Zak and Francesca move Meeker around in hypertime, including having him do a handstand on the turntable with one hand, which he uses to spin his records. Nobody in the audience is fazed whatsoever by such an outright violation of the laws of physics.It's hard to fathom ethnic stereotypes playing a formidable part in a children's movie (amidst shameless product placements for Pepsi and Nikon cameras), yet it certainly does here. Francesca is very cold towards Zak right up until she discovers the powers of his watch. She's essentially nothing more than a gold-digger, always a positive image of Latino women. Meeker is the customary jive-talking, loud color-wearing Black kid, because all Black kids talk that way nowadays and still dress like TLC circa 1991. Two Caucasian boys, who serve as our heroes' temporary enemies until the main baddie comes along, are given the white trash treatment with dreadlocks, grunge outfits and facial piercings. (One of these guys has his nose ring affixed to the spokes of his bike as Zak experiments with the watch.) And, when Zak comes across two of Gates' agents who have broken into his house, one of them is an Asian woman who proceeds to madly karate chop and kick the air before attacking our heroes. It's somewhat disturbing, considering that kids are a very impressionable bunch.Yes, the term became cliche eons ago, but Clockstoppers winds up falling way short of its potential and proves to be a disappointment. I genuinely wanted it to be a slam dunk, but it instead throws up an airball. Don't get me wrong, I didn't hate it in the least, but at the same time this serves as a sobering reminder that special effects alone cannot carry a movie, no matter how dazzling they are. If you're in desperate need of a time-travel fix, stick with the original Back to The Future while dodging its inferior sequels. 6/10  "}{"Title":"Oh, come on.","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yeah, okay.  So the movie was pretty bad.  But you have to look at it as what it is supposed to be.  A fun movie for kids.  No one expected it to be the next Gone with The Wind.  And you're an idiot if you did. I love this movie because of Jesse Bradford, my neice loves this movie for everything in it.  And I think that it's great for its moments of comedy, yes, they are few and far between.  And of course Jesse's face does not hurt. If I have to watch a movie while I babysit, this is the one that I pull out. I'd much rather pick it than Bob the Builder or any other crap. "},{"Title":"Cheesy","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Very Cheesy teen flick, Full of various clichés. The story line has been done before namely in the UK Children's TV show Bernard's watch.Its probably only the exceptional CGI that keep it from going straight to Video.Saying that, I want one of those watches.  "},{"Title":"Brains off!","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a film without any sense. It's really boring and badly. I haven't got any reason to save this work. Jonathan Frakes kicks to me with his awful direction. The cast is horrible, specially French Stewart and the 28 years old Paula Garcés who plays a teenager! The leader actor Jesse Bradford is grey and he is not funny. I can't understand to the writers. do they have any brain? No they don't. They know to Albert Einstein but they don't know the Mechanics. How can you drive a car in the hypertime without problems? you are in and out the hypertime and there's no problem with your bones? OK, it's a movie made for the kids but only if they are five months old or less. "}]