[{"Title":"Avoids the Stereotypical and Worn Roots of Previous Girl-Power Comedies...","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"73 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't go into Legally Blonde expecting too much. I rarely go to actual movie theaters to see a film (I usually rent videos/DVDs), but I got an advance on this one, and I was kind of sad it had to be this film I was going to see, but I had been invited along with two other people to see it and I wasn't going to say no for no reason. So I went. One of the persons I went with just wanted to see Reese Witherspoon in a Playboy bunny costume, so I figured I was in for another average run-'o-the-mill sex comedy. But I was very surprised with the outcome.So many girl-power comedies these days are made just for the sake of trying to prove a point that women are equals to men (I suppose that's the message behind it--what else was Now and Then made for?) and/or support for women. Fortunately, the 2001 hit Legally Blonde is not only a pleasant surprise, but an intelligent film, as well. (Sorry, that was my main gripper for this review and I had to leave it in.) Reese Witherspoon plays California sorority girl Elle Woods. Unlike other people her age that are worrying about grades in school, Elle only worries about what toilet paper is the softest. But after her boyfriend dumps her and goes off to Harvard Law School, Elle is determined to go to Harvard and get her man back. So after putting together a very shallow video for the chairmen of Harvard, they accept her into the prestige college (because of her innocent sexuality, no doubt, as we see them gaping at Elle in a bathing suit on the video), and she packs her bags and heads off to Harvard with her little dog Bruiser; as the ads say, Boldly Going Where No Blonde Has Gone.Legally Blonde doesn't give up on the plot and completely divulge into dumb blonde/sex jokes. This film not only has a funny--if ridiculous--plot, but the jokes are, surprisingly, NOT crude sexual jokes. This film is not another Scary Movie made for teens It has divinely orchestrated comic timing. Sometimes the plot gets a bit too heavy--the whole teacher-hitting-on-Elle thing is a bit stereotypical for a film like this--but in the long run it seems to break away from the typical girl-power comedy.Reese Witherspoon tends to play the same characters a lot, but hey, if she can pull them off, good for her. I don't mind if all her characters tend to be the same (to a certain extent) because they tend to be quite funny and cute--who can't laugh at her Elle Woods persona? The film has a very nice co-star cast Victor Garber (Titanic, Sleepless in Seattle), Luke Wilson (Blue Streak, Charlie's Angels), and Selma Blair (The Sweetest Thing, A Guy Thing--pretty much anyTHING).In the end, not only does Legally Blonde come off very funny, but also very witty, good-natured and sweet One of the most pleasant surprises of 2001, indeed.4/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon's Best Performance","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"61 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  	Don't judge a book by it's cover.  An old saying we've all heard so many times it doesn't seem to mean anything anymore.  But it does mean something, and it's important; and, before we proceed, go back and read it again.  In fact, let me help you  Don't judge a book by it's cover.  There.  Now take a moment to think, really think about it.  And if it still doesn't mean anything, take a couple of hours and check out `Legally Blonde,' a comedy with some real teeth in it, directed by Robert Luketic and starring Reese Witherspoon.  The premise of the story has to do with upscale sorority girl Elle Woods (Witherspoon), who instead of getting the long awaited, much anticipated marriage proposal from her boyfriend, Warner (Matthew Davis), finds herself jilted as he prepares to leave for Harvard Law School.  Elle, it seems, just doesn't fit the oh-so-serious, somber profile that the wife of a future Senator must have.  It's all about image, and Elle's own 4.0 grade average earned in her `frivolous' curriculum apparently doesn't carry any weight.  Being outgoing, positive, beautiful AND intelligent just won't do among the `serious' of the `upper crust' elite.  So, because she looks good and enjoys her life, Elle is given the gate, and she just can't understand why.  She's devastated.  But she's also smart.  Smart enough to pick herself up and make a decision that stands them all on their ears.  With the grades and the wherewithal to swing it, she enters Harvard Law herself, initially with the intent of winning back Warner.  But along the way she  learns something important-- about the way things really are, about people and about herself, as well.  And she sets out to prove that if there is any `shallowness' around, it's only in the minds of those who perceive her as something and someone other than what she really is.  And, for the viewer, right out of the gate this is someone you want to see succeed in her quest, because her triumph-- whatever it may be or however it comes out-- is going to be one you share right along with her.	Make no mistake, this is one funny movie-- in fact, it's downright hilarious at times.  But beyond the laughter it evokes, there's a flip side to the same coin.  Because beyond all of the comedy there is some serious issues at the heart of this film, and anyone who's ever been subjected to trials and tribulations simply because they didn't happen to fit a certain `mold,' or coincide with someone else's `opinions' of the way things should be, will be able to identify with Elle's situation.  And it's something you have to be aware of, because even while you're laughing at the funny stuff, at the same time it's almost painful to watch Elle endure the senseless, heartless, unnecessary and unwarranted acts that are perpetrated upon her.  At the core of the matter is not only the need for tolerance and understanding, but the necessity and importance of keeping an open mind about everything that transpires around you.  Who knows what monumental contributions an individual is capable of making in this imperfect machinery we call society if they are prejudged into oblivion?  So there's a lot more to this film than meets the eye; `dumb blonde' jokes get nipped in the bud, and by using a comedy format, the filmmakers here have produced a film that is not only entertaining, but thoroughly thought-provoking, as well.	Reese Witherspoon opens herself up and gives a dynamic performance here as Elle; she conveys such a full-of-life spirit that it is easy to empathize with her, and when the hurt comes, you feel it with her.  And through it all, the way she takes it on the chin then moves on with her life makes her a role model for those who may find themselves in a similar situation.  On one hand, when Elle finds solace by getting a manicure at the local beauty shop, it makes for a falling-on-the-floor moment of hilarity, and yet you're always aware of that other side of the coin, as well.  And it makes you root for her all the more.  Witherspoon has a perky, vibrant screen presence that makes her perfect for this part, and she makes Elle a flawed and therefore very real person.  When she gets knocked down, you feel for her; and then there's that feeling of triumph when she gets back up and stands her ground.  There's no question that this is Witherspoon's movie, and it's one of the best performances of her career.	The supporting cast includes Luke Wilson (Emmett), Selma Blair (Vivian), Victor Garber (Professor Callahan), Jennifer Coolidge (Paulette), Holland Taylor (Professor Stromwell), Ali Larter (Brooke Taylor-Windham), Jessica Cauffiel (Margot), Linda Cardellini (Chutney), Alanna Ubach (Serena) and Oz Perkins (Dorky David), with a special appearance by Raquel Welch as Mrs. Windham-Vandermark.  An entertaining, accessible film that should be embraced by a wide audience because of the clever way in which it gets across it's message, `Legally Blonde' can be enjoyed by just taking it at face value and soaking up the jokes, but offers even greater rewards to those who really delve into it and see it as an examination of human nature.  Not always, but occasionally, a movie is so much more than what it appears to be on the surface, and this is one of them.  What makes it so good is the fact that it can really make you laugh, while at the same time it's subtly telling you that there is no place for cruelty within the realm of human relationships.  It's a film that's worth seeing many times over, and that's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 9/10.      "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"35 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A fun if totally unbelievable flick that plays like a college version of CLUELESS at times. Beverly Hills airhead Reese W. enters Harvard to win her boyfriend back, only to find she's got the right stuff to be an ace Harvard student. This is a actually an empowerment flick disguised as a fluffy comedy -- which makes it wonderful viewing for impressionable young girls like my youngest daughter, who is 14. Well acted by Reese W., who is now a major star, and Stiffler's Mom as a shy, subservient beauty salon worker. Some may find it similar to MISS CONGENIALITY as well, another empowerment flick disguised as a fluffy comedy. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Clueless Goes to Harvard","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"46 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In `Legally Blonde,' &#150; which could well be re-titled `Clueless Goes to Harvard'  - the delightful Reese Witherspoon stars as a ditzy, fashion-obsessed airhead who winds up (through plot complications too elaborate to go through) taking that Ivy League law school by storm.  Needless to say, there is not a single believable moment in the film, but that is generally the case with most fish-out-of-water scenarios anyway.  What `Legally Blonde' does have is a warm spirit, a bubbly demeanor and a breezy charm that reflect to a tee the personality of its main character.Although the film does not exhibit the same level of comic genius we found in `Clueless,' Witherspoon's letter-perfect rendition of the bubblehead stereotype earns the film a great deal of audience goodwill, a factor that helps us to get over some of the movie's flatter moments.  For indeed, throughout the course of this tale, we do hit a number of arid stretches where we feel that we should be laughing an awful lot more than we are.  In fact, `Legally Blonde' occasionally feels more like a concept in search of a movie than a full-fledged work in its own right.  But, just as you are about to give up on it, the filmmakers hit upon a hilarious concept, sight gag or line of dialogue, which help to set the movie back on track.Clearly, Witherspoon is the big selling point of this film.  As an actress, she exudes such an air of intelligence, confidence and compassionate goodwill that she invests even her dumb blonde character with those seemingly paradoxical traits.  `Legally Blonde' isn't always at the top of its form, but Witherspoon wins the case for the film hands down anyway.  "},{"Title":"an adorable movie with a great show from Reese Witherspoon","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My rule when rating movies is to review it all by itself....don't compare it to something else that's completely different from itself. That's the mindset you have to have when watching Legally Blonde, the movie that Reese Witherspoon managed to get a Golden Globe nomination out of. No kidding here. It's really an adorable movie that is appropriate for any age....a very light PG-13.Elle Woods (2006 Oscar Winner Reese Witherspoon) has it all....the perfect boyfriend, Warner, who is handsome, charming, and driven, the perfect life, awesome friends, and a really cute dog. But all of this seems minuscule to the fact that her boyfriend has just dumped her because she is not serious enough, and he wants a girl that is well received by the public when he begins his political career. So, Warner enrolls at Harvard University, leaving Elle (it sounds like the letter 'L') disheveled and sad. Then, 'going where no blonde has gone before' (good use of tagline, right?), Elle decides to work extra hard to enroll at Harvard to win her man back. Well, Elle (funny rhyming there) achieves the requirements in tests and community service, and sends in a very interesting video essay, and gains entrance to the prestigious university. She quickly finds out that not only is her dream man already engaged to another woman (Selma Blair), but Elle is not widely liked around campus. She finds her calling in law, and with the guidance of a friend (the likable and funny Luke Wilson), proves to be a talented prospect in the field.The film is a very watchable film from start to finish, as the movie's opening theme song (Hoku's hit song Perfect Day) is catchy and likable. Reese Witherspoon's performance is so great and hilarious, yet so true to herself as a person. She shines like the sun in this movie. It can be a little silly at times, not to mention a tad unrealistic and dragging, but Witherspoon's ability overshadows those unfortunate facts. The supporting cast is also good, with Selma Blair and Luke Wilson leading the bunch. Also in there is 'Waiting...' star Alanna Ubach, Matthew Davis, Jennifer Coolidge (NBC's 'Joey'), Ali Larter, Victor Garber as Elle's law professor, and 'Scooby-Doo' star Linda Cardellini.This is the ultimate 'girl power' movie that every person without a Y chromosome will love. Not all men will like it, but I enjoy it whenever it's on television. It's not something I'd buy, but one that is a great rent for the whole family. Also, a word to the wise watch this one, and this one only, for the sequel is probably the most disappointing sequel in history.7/10 --spy "},{"Title":"Feel-good in pink","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" From the opening credits and Hoku's superb 'Perfect Day' (even had me dancing) to the very last shot, this film never disappoints. It may be totally fantastic, slushy nonsense but the 'feel-good' factor is high and once again, Witherspoon gives a flawless performance. As my other reviews will show, I do have a bit of a thing for Ms W. - and Selma Blair - partly because I know any movie with which they're involved will be worthy viewing. They have very different qualities and this is exploited to the full in their on-screen rivalry.Once again the teen movie scores a hit, and once again the supporting cast excels - not a poor performance in sight. Although fairly superficial the plot hangs together well, and benefits from some beautifully crafted characters. Even the dog never puts a paw wrong.Very easy on the eye and the ear, and one of my most-watched DVDs because no matter what mood I start with, I always feel better after a dose of legal pink. Buy the DVD and get the gorgeous and talented Hoku too. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"I Love Reese","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" How can a man of seventy fall in love with a movie star? Well, I did and it's easy when it's Reese Witherspoon. Legally Blond is not a perfect film - the script has more holes than Swiss cheese and the sub-plot is as old as the hills - but who cares when you are looking at Reese Witherspoon who lights up every scene as though she were Times Square personified! What a doll! Of all the current stars she is the ONLY one who really hearkens back to the Golden Age of Cinema and she especially reminds me of Carole Lombard who was the ultimate funny lady who was a knock-out too! As far as I am concerned, Reese can do no wrong - she obviously has brains besides beauty and the two are a lethal combination. "},{"Title":"Reese Goes To Hah-Vard","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde finds Reese Witherspoon in one of her breakthrough roles as sorority queen Elle Woods who is dumped by her preppy boyfriend Matthew Davis. He's moving on to Harvard Law School where he will get his law degree, marry a woman of good background in Selma Blair and claim the family legacy of public office. So there's no time for his homecoming queen Reese although I'm sure he'd arrange something on the side later.She's totally floored by this, but our intrepid girl vows to fight fire with fire. If he can go be a Hah-Vard Law School Graduate so can she. I mean she's got a 4.0 GPA even if it is in fashion design.But beneath her Barbie Doll personality, she actually does have a brain. She aces the law boards and sends a unique video essay that is something different for the admission committee to ponder. She gets to Harvard to be with Davis, who's unfortunately there with Blair.At this point the charm of Reese Witherspoon really takes over and dominates the film. I'm not sure anyone else could have pulled off the part of Elle Woods. With that wonderful combination of charm and guilelessness, Reese Witherspoon has created an endearing character, one she's already done a sequel film with.She's nicely aided by Luke Wilson as an attorney and crony of one of her law professors. Another performance that I liked was that of Holland Taylor as a feminist law professor who's initially put off by Witherspoon, but gradually comes to appreciate her worth. In fact in the end just about everyone in the film comes to appreciate her worth, some to their regret.I don't know about you, but I'd like to see a Legally Blonde 3. "},{"Title":"Only In Hollywood!","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"35 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A bimbo becoming a top lawyer only in Hollywood!! That's the premise here and a winsome Reese Witherspoon pulls it off in a charming way, which she would have to do to make this ludicrous story watchable. It's a bit on the feminist side with most men pictured as shallow but there are women pictured the same, too. In an era PC baloney, at least this film pokes fun at everyone, not just select groups.Witherspoon and Luke Wilson both play good, nice people and it's nice to see a Wilson brother NOT playing someone stupid. There are stupid parts in here, but you get that in any comedy. There are also some very clever lines in there, too, but overall it's pretty low-brained material.....just played for fun. It would have been more innocent without a needless off-key or profane remark here and there. "},{"Title":"Deep down, it's shallow","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The heroine of this film is Elle Woods, an undergraduate studying fashion design at a Californian university. Elle is rather cruelly dumped by her ruthlessly ambitious upper-class boyfriend, Warner Huntington III, who has just been accepted by Harvard Law School and intends to be a Senator by the time he is 30. Warner considers that Elle is insufficiently serious and intellectual to marry a man like himself; as he puts it I need a Jackie, not a Marilyn. (What Warner fails to consider is that, with Marilyn Monroe as a potential First Lady, JFK might have been elected by a landslide instead of having to rely on highly contentious results in Illinois and Texas to put him in the White House).Actually, Warner's misgivings about Elle seem to have some foundation in reality, as she gives the impression of being a shallow, superficial airhead, concerned about little except her appearance and her clothes. (Elle appears to be from a wealthy family; I found myself wondering whether her character was modelled on Paris Hilton, especially as, like Paris, she has a pet Chihuahua). Elle, however, is determined to win Warner back and applies to Harvard Law School herself. Surprisingly, she is accepted, largely because she impresses the male admissions tutors by wearing a skimpy bikini while making her admission video. Once at Harvard, Elle discovers that Warner has now got engaged to Vivian, a snobbish upper-class brunette. After a difficult start, however, she finds herself coping surprisingly well with her academic work, wins an internship with a prestigious Boston law firm and even helps to defend Brooke, an old college friend charged with murdering her elderly husband.James Berardinelli said of Legally Blonde that it takes a talented performer to make a dumb character likable as opposed to irritating, an opinion from which I would not dissent. Reese Witherspoon is, of course, a very talented performer, as evidenced by her well-deserved Oscar for Walk the Line. Even she, however, (and here I would dissent from Mr Berardinelli's view) is unable to make Elle a character one can warm to. The script might tell us that beneath Elle's shallow exterior there is a highly intelligent and resourceful individual. Ms Wetherspoon, however, seemed unable to show us this; her demeanour, her ridiculously overdone dress-sense, her constant changes of hairstyle and (worst of all) her irritatingly high-pitched voice only served to reinforce the impression that beneath Elle's shallow exterior was an equally shallow interior.Elle is the sort of character who in the eighties or nineties would have been played by Melanie Griffith- the film, indeed, has certain similarities with Griffith's Born Yesterday, another film about a seemingly-dumb blonde with hidden depths. Griffith has always struck me as a much less versatile actress than Witherspoon, but in Born Yesterday she succeeded where Witherspoon failed, making her character Billie Dawn surprisingly likable.Moreover, for a film which ostensibly has a don't judge a book by its cover message, there was a surprising amount of sexual stereotyping going on. According to this film, lesbians are all plain, dowdy and politically radical; gay men are all camp, narcissistic and hysterically over-emotional. They also, apparently, know everything there is to know about fashion designers, a subject about which straight men are woefully ignorant. Indeed, with the exception of the token good guy who becomes Elle's new boyfriend, straight men do not come out of this film any better than gays. Apart from the arrogant and self-obsessed Warner, there is a male law professor who turns out to be a creepy sexual predator, an unattractive nerd who cannot get a date without Elle's assistance and a poor-white-trash deadbeat living in (of course) a run-down old trailer. With the exception of Brooke's oddly-named stepdaughter Chutney, all the female characters are portrayed sympathetically. The formidable-seeming female professor turns out to be more decent than her male colleague, and even Vivian, who is initially portrayed as a social and intellectual snob and a prize bitch, goes through a change of heart and becomes Elle's best friend.Legally Blonde is essentially a one-joke film, the joke being that although Elle might look, dress and behave like a dumb blonde bimbo, the sort of girl who (as Pamela Stephenson said about Kate Bush) needs an intellect like she needs a hole in the head, underneath the surface she has hidden qualities- not only academic intelligence but also kindness and strength of character. The problem with the film is that, unlike its heroine, it has no hidden depths. The dialogue is flat, the humour is forced and the characters are all stereotypes with whom I could not sympathise. Deep down, it's shallow. "}{"Title":"Believing In Yourself NEVER Goes Out Of Style!","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'Legally Blonde'is one of my favorite movies, and I watched it for countless times.(and no, I am not a rich platinum blonde girl) The story itself is very silly,but I really don't care about the bad reviews and I found it very delightful to watch.Elle Woods is a beautiful blonde woman who has as a boyfriend called ''Warner Huntington III'', a guy who is so popular,beautiful and rich as her. She has a great life, she is the queen and the president of her sorority called Delta Nu, and she does not have to worry about anything. Her big dream is to marry her boyfriend, and one day, when they are having dinner, Warners tells her something important He is going to Harvard to be a Law school student,but he foes not need a Marilyn....he wants a Jackie! Or in a easy way He will not date Elle anymore, because he wants someone who is more serious and less futile.Elle stays angry and devastate,but during her depression, she had the idea about studying and going to Harvard to be 'more serious'. There, she finds out that Warner is engaged to Vivian Kensington, a brunette girl who starts to become Elle's rival,and she also meets Emmett, one of the professor who work in Harvard. With the help of Paulette(the manicure) and Emmett, she will show the real power and the things she is capable to do,since people always think that she get things only because of her looks.One of the things I love in this movie,is Elle's change for a new girl with new purpose in her life, and even her personality's transformation without loosing her charisma. One of the coolest messages about this movie is with your internal power, you can always be much more of what other people think.aka Legalmente Loira - Brazil "},{"Title":"An enjoyable girl power flick with a mainstream message.","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde is all about Witherspoon as a totally val blonde from Beverly Hills who goes to Harvard and makes good. Predictable formula fun, LB gets off to a good start with the freshness of Clueless, pushes its own envelope of believability in the middle, and ends with a major feel good moment. Along the way, this fun family flick makes some good points about life's priorities. Enjoyable stuff for 13 and up. "},{"Title":"Ditzy blonde makes good!","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As a middle-aged bloke, a ditzy, frothy blonde who dresses in designer pink and who has as a pet a Chihuahua, who also dressed in pink would have me running for the hills, screaming and violently pulling out my own fingernails.Unless it's Reese Witherspoon, for whom I do have a soft spot for especially when she's exactly like Miss Elle Woods here. The story itself is really rather far-fetched but even this aspect is sort of sorted by some generous bending of unwritten rules and smart legal jargon.Legally Blonde will always work better for me, when Miss Woods is gaily arranging sorority parties and being just ridiculously OTT about fashion choices and tartly responding when others try and make her look ridiculous. This comic timing is perfectly suited to the bubbly and vibrant Witherspoon and she remains a tonic throughout.The court case that she falls into defending might be essential to the story of how she gets her legal qualifications and to prove all her doubters totally wrong, but for me, this plays second fiddle to the comedy I mention. The romance angle, an essential premise, as at the start, her boyfriend Warner, who she was absolutely sure was going to propose to her, dumps her, essentially because she's a 'dumb' blonde.He's off to Harvard and so, naturally, Elle scrapes through the preliminaries with the skimpiest of appropriate qualifications (majoring in obscure fashion, for example) so that he could no longer hold that reason against her. He, though, is already dating the surly Selma Blair.I've probably seen Legally... three times now. The sequel/s don't command any great affection for me but this original is one that is both a great comedy and has a real feel-good factor too, without resorting to the gross-out and toilet humour that's unfortunately seen as an essential ingredient in today's US comedies. "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As several reviewers have said already, I wasn't expecting too much when I saw Legally Blonde, but it was for me surprisingly good. The plot may be a little predictable and heavy-handed, but everything else was nicely handled.The film does move quite quickly, the script is nice and fluffy like a soufflé, the soundtrack is authentic, the pacing is efficient as is the direction, and the scenery and costumes are lovely. And I enjoyed the acting, Reese Witherspoon is really beautiful and charming, not to mention funny, in the title role, while the supporting cast especially Victor Garber and Selma Blair is very nice.Overall, this was a surprising film in a good way too. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Drops her life to spite her ex-boyfriend, how courageous!","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When my girlfriend finally convinced me to watch this movie, I still had extremely low expectations for it, and I am sad to say that I was still disappointed.This film is a giant hypocrisy. It tries to claim that women are just as powerful and smart as men, which I really don't need convincing of, but this film actually made me question that idea instead of support it. The only statement that it makes is that women have to manipulate and lie to men in order to succeed. Sure, Elle may have gotten into Harvard without doing so, which, of course is possible, but the film makes it seem impossible, especially with the stereotypical Harvard students that she meets and cannot manage to get along with. The worst part is that she works so hard to get into Harvard for all the wrong reasons. In the end, it tells young women that they can succeed in life even if they live inside of a little bubble that disregards all other life forms, even their own pets.I almost ripped my own arms off during the 'bend and snap' scene, in which Elle teaches a beauty salon full of women a move that is sure to catch the attention of a nearby man to get him to talk to you. So, in a film that is 'more than just another Girl Power Film', the main character teaches other females how to get a man's attention by showing off her breasts and butt. How innovative.I live in Southern California, and if I see another dog dressed up and being carried in a purse, I am going to move to Sri Lanka. To anyone who thinks that that is cute, please see South Park episode 812, which features Paris Hilton's dog committing suicide.In all, this film obviously appeals very well to young women and I can maybe even see why many would like it, but it also contributes to the growing number of messages the mass media is sending to young women that make me worried about the future. I suppose, however, if it does encourage young women to aspire to achieve something or inspires them in any way to better themselves, then it is a good thing, just as long as they aren't going to prove something to their ex-boyfriend. Do it for yourself, what's so hard about that? "},{"Title":"I found it funny (which is fine), but nothing more","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you are searching for a lightweight comedy with some clever acting (especially Reese Witherspoon) then I can recommend this movie. If you are searching for a film with any insight about overcoming stereotypes (even the usual banal Hollywood offering), then look elsewhere. Although the plot was predictable, there were some funny moments that I enjoyed. Reese Witherspoon is a talented actress (both comedic and dramatic) and I look forward to seeing her in future roles. But, beyond the level of a predictable comedy, no one should look for any depth in this movie. SOME SPOILERS FOLLOW.  For those of you (and apparently there are a few) who feel a desire to find a message in this movie, I need point out only one fundamentally flawed character (amongst many possible choices) for whom we are apparently supposed to feel compassion (because she is being stereotyped), but who is in fact detestable -- Brooke Taylor-Windham (played by Ali Larter). A woman who marries an older man (apparently because she likes the sex) but feels no compassion for the man's daughter (who is seemingly distraught about having a step-mother of about the same age as she). A woman who deceives her clients in order to make money. A woman who demeans her employees (she makes the pool man wear a thong because she likes the way he looks when he bends over). And yet we are supposed to cheer when she fires her lawyer (played by Victor Garber) because he is a creep (which he is). Talk about the pot calling the kettle black. The movie itself contains so many stereotypes (e.g., Dorky Dave, who can't get a date without Elle's noble intervention, while she herself only dates good-looking guys) that there is no reason to look beyond the comedic element for something deeper (it doesn't exist). Enjoy it for what it is, nothing more.  "},{"Title":"Hated it.","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie is a pale copy of Clue less how can anybody love it??? I mean the plot sucks, the acting is terrible, the characters are faked... And the funny parts are not at all funny. I mean, the movie really sucks. It boring like hell. It's tasteless, pointless, & has no charm. It's not even interesting. You know exactly how it will end, you don't even have to watch it!... "},{"Title":"Whoever said orange is the new pink was seriously disturbed.","Date":"19 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Blonde sorority queen Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon) is dumped by her politically-ambitious boyfriend because she's a Marilyn, not a Jackie. So she enrolls in Harvard Law School in hopes of proving to him she is smart and winning him back. Reese is charming and lovely as ever. It's impossible to dislike her in this movie. Holland Taylor, Victor Garber, Luke Wilson, Selmer Blair, Matthew Davis, and Ali Larter are all part of the wonderful supporting cast. Jennifer Coolidge is the movie's scene stealer, which will probably come as no surprise to anyone who's seen her in anything. Well-paced with a good script and solid direction. It overcomes its predictable elements and exceeds expectations. Sure it's light and fluffy but there's nothing wrong with that. It's the kind of movie that puts a smile on your face right from the start and never lets you down. "},{"Title":"Legally Witherspoon.","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde (2001) Dir Robert Luketic / Cast Reese Witherspoon, Luke Wilson, Selma Blair, Victor Garbor, Jennifer Coolidge Comedy about misconceptions and reels them around to finger point the accuser. It stars Reese Witherspoon as a none too bright blonde who is full of life. In her senior year of college she anticipates a proposal from her boyfriend but is met with rejection when she states the need for a serious relationship. She decides to win him back by attending Harvard Law School as he did. Directed by Robert Luketic with a hilarious performance by Witherspoon who pretty much carries the film. With her inability to fit in and her frilly pink fashion she uses her own wit in dealing with a crucial case. Luke Wilson is the obvious love interest who will assist her with the case and he can do nothing to bring life into it. Selma Blair plays the serious girl engaged to her ex-boyfriend. She is typical and totally lifeless. Victor Garbor and Jennifer Coolidge are two veterans that cannot elevate above where Witherspoon thankfully takes it. Witherspoon is the only element that presents any fresh vibe to this recycled story. We learn that success does not rest on another person. Where this whole dumb blonde bit originated is not known but this comedy stresses that it isn't the colour of your hair that make the grade but a better screenplay might have helped. Score 7 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Cutesy guilty pleasure","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde may not be the funniest movie I've ever seen, but it might just be the most cheerful one. Everything about it is just so damn sparkly. If you can watch this movie without cracking a smile, you're somehow even more of a cynical bastard than I am. The story isn't too inspired and you see pretty much every plot element coming from a mile away but who the hell cares, that's just the movie's way of staying in your comfort zone. Of course she's going to choose the right guy in the end, of course she's going to win the case nobody would want it any other way. Even Jennifer what the face Coolidge can't ruin this movie, that's how charming it really is. Prepare to fall in love. "}{"Title":"Blond Ambitions","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde rates as one of the best 'chick flicks.' This clever,sophisticated, but above all hilarious, fish-out-of-water comedy concerns a shunned sorority doll who refuses to take no from her boyfriend after he dumps her. Elle (Reese Witherspoon) is the smartest Delta Nu Sorority sister and she decides to follow her ex-boyfriend Warner Huntington,III to Harvard Law School. No sooner has Elle arrived than she is made the butt of jokes. Warner's fiancée Vivian invites Elle to a party and lies that it is a costume party. Appropriately, Elle shows up as a Playboy Bunny and realizes that she has made a complete fool of herself. Eventually, Elle meets to kindred souls, a sympathetic law student Emit (Luke Wilson of Home Fries) and Paulette, a manicurist. A stuffy Harvard professor Callahan (Victor Garber)assigns Elle to be a part of the defense team with Brooke Taylor Windham (Ali Larter of Final Destination) who is charged with killing her wealthy husband Heyworth. Eventually, Callahan makes a pass at Elle and she quits. Brooke fires Callahan and has Elle takes over the case. She uses her knowledge of fashion and hair care to exonerate her client. As it turns out, Heyworth's jealous daughter shot him because she found it disgusting that Brooke was her age. Elle graduates with top honors while Warner gets by without honors. The romance between Paulette and the UPS delivery man is amusing. Reese Witherspoon bares wattage with a winning smile.Don't take Legally Blonde seriously because it isn't serious. Nevertheless, the leads are cute and the comedy is crisp enough. Nobody is miscast in this memorable chick flick.Legally Blond proves that you should never judge a book by its cover. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Surprised","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought oh no - another dumb teen movie, but I was pleasantly surprised.  The main character is extremely likable, and you can feel sorry for her plight - once you get over her superficiality she appears to have at the beginning.  I am not usually a fan of such movies, but found this one to be acceptable.  (Then again maybe it's because I watched the horrible All the pretty horses just before viewing this and anything would have looked good.) "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Saying this is a good movie may not sound like much, but after watching all the other summer movies, this is a breath of fresh air. Reese Witherspoon is proving to be one of the best young actors of our time and she makes this movie something fun to see.  Other than The Sexy Beast, this was one movie that was any good so far this summer. "},{"Title":"How sweet movie Legally Blonde is!!","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love this everything about this movie including its storyline, actors, actresses and so on. I think this movie is very sweet. Why do I think so? There are some reasons.First of all, Reese Witherspoon who is acting the heroine Elle Woods is very cute, not only cute but also her fashions are so charming. Secondly, I like Elle's character. She is always positive with everything, even if she faces serious or difficult situations. My favorite scene is that where Law School students including Elle, Elle's old boyfriend, Warner and his girlfriend Vivian are taking a class. As Elle's opinion is praised by professor, and her opinion is better than Warner's, Warner and Vivian look each other with chagrined face. When I saw the scene, I felt refreshed, and I wanted to say to Elle that You did it, Elle!I really like this movie! The storyline, all of fashions are cute, and actors as well as actresses are suitable for their characters. This movie is not only sweet, charming and delightful, but also Elle Woods told us that a lot of important things for human's beings. In particular I want many ladies to see this movie, but I recommend this movie to to everyone including young boys!! "},{"Title":"I'm Not Going To Lie To You, I Adored This Film!, It's Extremely Cute,  And Puts A Huge Smile On Your Face When All Is Said And Done, Reese Witherspoon Is Incredible!","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm not going to lie to you, i adored this film, it's extremely cute, hilarious, and puts a huge smile on your face when all is said and done, Reese Witherspoon is incredible!. All the characters are wonderful, and the story is simply adorable!, plus Reese Witherspoon is simply incredible in this!.When i rented this i wasn't expecting much just an enjoyable chick flick, that you forget the next day after right away, however what i got was a film that's now one of my favorite movies period, and i look forward to seeing the sequel big time!, plus The dog is just plain hilarious!. All the characters are all extremely likable, and the opening is just plain hilarious!, plus The finale was just awesome!. Reese Witherspoon continues to amaze me with her incredible versatility,and beauty and You will find yourself rooting for her, as Elle, is just so incredibly likable! (Even in a ditsy way sometimes!), plus Reese and Luke Wilson had very good chemistry together!.This should be much much higher then 6.4 in my opinion!, and it's something the whole family can enjoy!, plus Selma Blair was awesome as the bitch (well at the start anyway).Sure It's Predictable, but it just has a certain charm that you can't help but fall in love with!, and everyone was perfectly casted!, plus The Soundtrack is just brilliant!. Jennifer Coolidge is wonderful in her role! plus The ending was fantastic!. It's good natured,and it's extremely well written and made as well!, plus Ali Larter was also fantastic!. It's quite original, and deserves all the good credit it gets!, plus Reese had some fantastic dialog as well!. It never gets old, and remains fresh and hilarious throughout!, plus i think it's one of the best comedies of all time!. This is not for everybody,and not all guys will like it, however i believe it's something everybody can enjoy, and it gives you characters you root for!, plus i loved it when Elle made Professor Callahan(Victor Garber), look like a fool! at the end!. I realize my review probably won't be too popular,and i may be over rating it to some, however it's just that i loved this film in all aspects, i had no idea i would like it this much!, plus it's the best Chick flick i have ever seen!, along with Romy And Michelle's High School Reunion!. Matthew Davis didn't impress me all that much though, and i wish the film could have been a bit longer, however those are minor things, as i loved this film!. I'm not going to lie to you, i adored this film, it's extremely cute,hilarious and puts a huge smile on your face when all i said and done, Reese Witherspoon is incredible!, and if you haven't seen it what are you waiting for Do so immediately, if your into these films(and i'm not!), you probably won't regret it!. The Direction is wonderful!. Robert Luketic does a wonderful job here, even if he is an asshole(supposedly)with wonderful camera work, and keeping the film fresh,lively hilarious, and at an extremely fast pace!The Acting is amazing!. Reese Witherspoon is amazing as always, and is incredible here!, she is incredibly gorgeous, extremely hilarious, lovably perky, and energetic,incredibly likable, played one of the coolest characters ever!, has a certain charm,that's impossible to dislike!,and was born to play this role!, she was incredible!. (Reese Rules!!!!!!!). Luke Wilson did great with what he had to do, he was very likable, and had great chemistry with Reese i liked him a lot!. Selma Blair is very cute, and did excellent as the bitch at 1st, however she turned out to be quite likable, she was really good!. Matthew Davis is very bland, and didn't convince me at all, he was also kind of annoying!. Victor Garber is great as the professor, and did his job very well. Jennifer Coolidge is hilarious in her role, she had good chemistry with Reese, and was enjoyable to watch!. Ali Larter is stunningly gorgeous, and did excellent with what she had to do, she had a cool character and was into her role!. Oz Perkins is very funny, i loved him!. Rest of the cast do awesome. Overall this is now one of my favorite movies of all time!, and if you haven't seen it do so immediately, you probably won't regret it!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Terrible, insulting, vapid","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is just a hash of worn-out cliches from other movies. It's so formulaic as to be insulting. 'Predictable' is too kind a word. And the faux-girl-power trappings fail to hide the fact that the main character spends the whole movie trying to win back the heart of a horrible boy who insults and humiliates her regularly, or that she succeeds in law only because of her knowledge of fashion and hair care. And the bend and snap scene is so painfully idiotic as to cause chills to run up your spine.If you're looking for a light, breezy comedy about young blondes rent Clueless instead. Legally Blonde is only good as a drinking game-- Predict what's going to happen next and take a drink when it does. Be sure to have plenty of booze handy. You'll need it. "},{"Title":"Clueless meets Billy Madison","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" But in a lot of ways, better than both of those movies. That said, overall, it's not as good as either of them, but this is a lovely little film. I enjoyed it thoroughly, and felt it had a positive message, dealt with it's plot and characters very respectfully, and ultimately did what a good comedy should, which is make me laugh. I enjoyed it more as a movie than I did as a comedy though. I would say it's a A- movie overall, but only a B in terms of the comedy. But if they went for more jokes, it would have severely inhibited the tone and/or story, so bravo to the filmmakers for hitting this out of the park. "},{"Title":"Such a great movie...","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is so great. I can't believe I only recently saw this, and that it took me so long to actually watch it. I think the cast portray their characters very well and overall, it's just a very funny, light-hearted movie, with a lot of emotion.This movie is about Elle Woods. She has it all. She's the president of her sorority, and she has a great boyfriend. That is, until he dumps her. Because she's blonde. Not literally because of the hair color, but because she portrays a dumb blonde girl. So, to get him back and make him see that he was wrong, she decides to become a law student, like her ex- boyfriend. Since he's going to Harvard, she works so hard to also get accepted. Recommended for Comedy fans, romantic comedy fans, Reese Witherspoon fans, getting- back-at-your ex fans.Overall, I give this movie a 7 out of 10, which in my ratings book is Great. "},{"Title":"How Elle Woods changes my life.","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's a totally girl-power movie. It was the first movie I watched as a child which don't make girls look like a fool. It teaches you how to stand for what you want in life and to never give up. What I really like about the movie is that Elle Woods never changes her personality or her being she is the same person and adapts herself to every problem she has so it can be solve in her way classy and chic. It makes girls look powerful not for being girls, for the power in the decisions. It make look like a silly movie, but it's not. Totally recommended for when you are down and want some inspiration. No more to say about Reese, she a queen. The sequel is really good too. "},{"Title":"legally blonde","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" legally blonde is a fun movie to watch. it does not take it self too seriously and i don't think it expects us to either.the whole movies about a blond girl who by getting herself into harvard law school treis to get her ex back by showing him that she too can be serious. through that the movie tries to show case a major social problem of indignity suffered by blond's.the movie plot was average but along with few hilarious comedic takes and good acting it made for a really entertaining watch. acting performances delivered by reese witherspoon was good. i have always liked her acting and this movie she's at her best. other than that rest of the performances were pretty average even by selma blair who i've seen do better in a lot of other movies.legally blonde is a fun movie to watch and is definitely entertaining. "}{"Title":"A Movie That Catapulted Witherspoon Into Stardom","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde is comedy that stars Reese Witherspoon as a sorority girl who struggles to win back her ex-boyfriend by earning a law degree.This film is an adaptation of novel by Amanda Brown.Luke Wilson,Selma Blair,Matthew Davis,Victor Garber and Jennifer Coolidge co-stars with Witherspoon in this film directed by Robert Luketic.Elle Woods is the president of her sorority and a Hawaiian Tropic girl.And above all, a natural blonde. She dates the cutest fraternity boy on campus and wants nothing more than to be Mrs. Warner Huntington III. But is Elle is too blonde? So, when Warner packs up for Harvard Law and reunites with an old sweetheart from prep school, Elle rallies all her resources and gets into Harvard, determined to win him back. In her journey,she must wage the battle of her life, for her guy, for herself and for all the blondes in the world out there.This is a fun movie about a bombshell who discovers a brainy aspect of her personality.Witherspoon provides a great performance and catapulted her into stardom in this original and refreshing movie that definitely provides entertainment and excitement from beginning to end.She definitely made Elle an engaging and vivacious personality that one will remember her and guys would not taker their eyes off her.No question that this will be enjoyed endlessly by the viewer. "},{"Title":"Totally blonde","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In a film that is far more engaging than expected, Reese Witherspoon's character in Legally Blonde, Elle Woods, speaks blonde. According to this movie blonde is more than just a language or even a state of mind, it's a philosophy.Elle's boyfriend, Warner Huntington III, dumps her because he thinks her blondeness equates with vacuousness. Not a woman to take being dumped lightly, Elle successfully enters Harvard Law School to impress him with her worth.By the end of the movie, Elle not only achieves her aim, but also shows the non-blonde, and somewhat unattractive alumni of Harvard that there is very little that cannot be achieved by the earnest application of pink nail enamel and rigorous accessorising. This process is helped by the liberal use of the adverb totally to emphasise every second point.Legally Blonde is beyond normal notions of criticism. It hits its target market so effectively that its formula &#x96; and there totally is a formula &#x96; should be the basis for serious study in marketing institutions. Legally Blonde has a message for teenage girls dealing with school, puberty, parental expectations, oppressive, all-consuming peer pressure and the paralysing choices between Moschino, Gucci and Dolce & Gabbana. Elle Woods demonstrates that there is infinite power in an almost total absorption in how one looks and what one wears.At Harvard, Elle not only grasps the intricacies of complex legal argument, but also becomes an intern in the legal firm of one of her lecturers. Much of Elle's success comes through the judicious application of blonde philosophy, which according to Legally Blonde, gets to the root of a problem quicker than Decoré Blonding Creme gets to the roots of dull brown hair.Her legal firm is defending a woman accused of murdering her wealthy, older husband. Elle is the only member of the defence team who believes she is innocent, Blondes don't commit murder, she states, basing her faith in the woman's innocence on the fact that she runs a successful body sculpting gym.Contrast is used to great effect in Legally Blonde. Against Elle's ensembles of pink and emerald, her fellow students at Harvard, including Vivian Kensington played by Selma Blair, are a colourless lot. For the most part they wear jackets, skirts, pants and vests of varying shades of grey and brown. Although for the most part, dark-haired, they are not dark-skinned. In fact, there are few black people in this movie at all. Of course, in a film that establishes blonde as such a preternatural force, it is hard to accommodate what is after all, the exact opposite look.Reese Witherspoon is perkily appealing in Legally Blonde , and the film does not overstay its welcome. Despite a degree of predictability, it has enough wit and energy to propel its story to a satisfactory conclusion. "},{"Title":"Carried by a performance, and we're left with a subtle yet favorable impact","Date":"31 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It is very rare that films are carried almost solely by one character's charisma, but Reese Witherspoon throws herself into the role of Elle Woods in Legally Blonde, one of the most genial and unoffensive comedies I've seen in a while. Elle is a goofy, girly woman who enrolls into Harvard Law School after her boyfriend (Matthew Davis) breaks up with her at an attempt to lead a life of utter seriousness. Elle is a shamelessly blonde California girl, used to having others think for her, but she is not witless and without a brain in her head. She just prefers not to work it too hard.After breaking her back to become accepted to the school, she quickly becomes exiled by her peers because of her bubbly nature and transparent naivete. She too notices her boyfriend's new stuck-up fiancée, Vivian, played by Selma Blair, as always, doing some fine work. Meanwhile, she also becomes acquainted with fellow law student, Emit (Luke Wilson), and her connections with him and her teacher will eventually land her a spot defending her former fitness instructor, who is on trial for allegedly murdering her husband.One must be careful as accepting Legally Blonde as a film trying to motivate blondes, and not ostracize or provoke them. They are often labeled as slow, incompetent, and unable to perform simple tasks, but Elle puts many redheads and brunettes to shame with her quick-witted nature, her lovable quirkiness, and her beautiful and expressive smile. Witherspoon was born to play this role, and after seeing her as a venomous bitch in Alexander Payne's wonderful Election, it seems we needed her to appear in a film like this just to remind audiences of the good-natured woman she can be.Legally Blonde, which would later spawn a sequel, a spin-off, and a Broadway musical, may become overbearing for some, because so much of the film is weighed on Witherspoon's shoulders and if one tires from her fast, the experience could very well be a tedious one. I was left fulfilled and never bored from this, and can always respect a film that is able to shred my cynicism and offer compelling insight that could definitely prove factual in today's society. What can I say? It did the job, in more ways than one. But then again, why trust me? I'm a blonde.Starring Reese Witherspoon, Luke Wilson, Selma Blair, Matthew Davis, Victor Garber, and Jennifer Coolidge. Directed by Robert Luketic. "},{"Title":"A funny, interesting and nice movie","Date":"30 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have only 1 word to describe this movie EXCELLENT!!! Certainly excellent. This movie is comedy-romantic, and it should be watched by those who like funny movies. The movie stars Reese Witherspoon, one of my favorite actresses, as the major character, Elle Woods, who, a fashion-loving girl, after being refused by her ''serious'' boyfriend, decides to be serious too, and then leaves fashion and gets herself admitted to the Law Department of the Harvard University. Selma Blair plays Vivian, a girl who first becomes an enemy of Elle and later becomes her best friend. Selma gave a wonderful performance! As did Luke Wilson, who played Emmett, a boy who likes Elle. Matthew Davis played Warner, the selfish ''boyfriend'' of Elle, and however unpleasant the character of Warner might be, Matthew gave an excellent performance in the movie. Jennifer Coolidge also gave an excellent performance in this movie! Jennifer played Paulette, a middle-aged woman who becomes a good friend of Elle. Jessica Cauffiel and Alana Ubach's funny performances made me laugh. They played Margot and Serena respectively, the two stylish and funny friends of Elle. In short, the casting was excellent! I also liked the music. The story was wonderful. It's one of the best movies I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Witherspoon and Larter in the same movie... Gotta be Good.","Date":"12 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I first saw this film in the cinema I realised what a talented comedy actress Reese Witherspoon is. Add Ali Larter into the mix and what have you got, two actresses who know how to use a script. Factor in some strong support and you have a film that will have you laughing out loud in places and cheering at the end just like you were back at the Saturday morning flicks.The storyline revolves around initial impressions, not of the intuitive kind, but of the purely spiteful judgemental kind, and how they can be so utterly wrong. In an era of the dumb blonde joke this film turns the humour on its head.Enjoyably funny throughout, and a great feel good ending, in the way all good romantic comedies tend to pan out. Don't expect a masterpiece or masterclass just a mainstream attempt to tickle your tonsils. "},{"Title":"Two actresses make this funnier than expected","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Reece Witherspoon rightly gets a lot of credit for her strong performance, but I think the whole dynamic between Elle and Vivian is great. The two actresses do a great job -- their performances overcomes a fairly perfunctory script. For instance in one scene Vivian shakes her head, parodying Elle's chipperness, and she gets it just right -- perfect parody and perfectly mean. And the extended scene where the camera stays long on Elle's face as her former boyfriend tells her she's not smart enough for law school . . . Witherspoon's subtle changes in expression are classic. The script is silly, but thanks to the great performances of the two main female characters, at its core Legally Blonde is an unexpectedly funny, charming light comedy. "},{"Title":"Adorable blonde movie","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK, I am sarcastic, bitter and overly critical. My equally bitter friend and I went to see this movie on a whim, and ended up with it as both of our guilty pleasure. Reese Witherspoon is too cute, too blonde and too funny not to like. It's a solid feel-good movie, you can't help but laugh at some of the stupid parts and you feel proud for Elle at the end of the movie. Now I refuse to buy this movie, and I'll rarely admit that I like it, but it is a worthwhile film for all little girls and women alike to see. Especially when you're getting over a boyfriend who has a I'm-too-good-for-you-now complex going on. In fact, in that case, I would recommend sending a copy of this to him. Just for kicks though. Besides, he'll probably watch it just because he thinks Reese is hot. "},{"Title":"funny but a very cliché movie of all times!!!","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie is funny and very light to watch but helloooo!!! I've seen so many times this type of film. The characters are OK, and it gives a transition for Reese from her previous roles, this one really made her one as a great actress. OK she did a great job here, she justified her role but the totality of the movie is so cliché!!...nothing's new, sad to say, it is. Very stereotyped, the plot is very predictable! The mere fact that she cannot accept that her boyfriend dumped her to achieve his ambitions and she's just nothing compared to his dreams are so used as a theme for god sake! OK, she's projecting some kind of girl power here like the girl rules and the boy drools but there's something about the ending of this movie that made me hate this movie. As if by making the happy ending of this movie really sucks! the way it narrates about the destinies of the other characters are really traditional.Gonna rate this movie 4/10. Sorry, not satisfied.  "},{"Title":"Predictable in the extreme","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is a feel good movie.... I suppose.But it's main problem and maybe I am just too cynical is that the film was way to obvious. Once Elle Woods meets the bloke (can't remember his name) on the bench you know they are going to end up together.You know she however unlikely is going to be the best lawyer in her class and is going to be the one that saves the day while not betraying her ideals and routes.It passed the time, it entertained in the most basic sense but not a movie I would recommend to anyone over the age of 10.I expect more of the same from the sequel so I guess I will not be watching it.... EVER.  "},{"Title":"BIG SURPRISE! Its really good!","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, I'm a 54 year old male and one of those who put off seeing this movie for a long time. I did find the trailers interesting, but a syrupy movie about dumb blonds? Forget it! In the end there wasn't much else on the pay-per-view and we didn't feel like going to Blockbuster in the rain so we finally watched it. Surprise! We were all really impressed. Its really funny and it moves along well. I was contemplating seeing the sequel while watching an interview with Reese Witherspoon the other day when it hit me just why this flick was such a raving success. REESE WITHERSPOON. She just loves this role and she is a really fabulous actress. I'm sure that her own life fuels the power she delivers in this role of dumb blond, I mean she looks the part doesn't she? You'd never know by looking at her that both her parents are doctors, she was a straight A honors student, was accepted into Stanford and might have easily have become a doctor herself if she hadn't decided to follow an acting career. Makes ya' kinda' think doesn't it? Odd that the greatest number of really negative comments and poor votes come from the group of 18-29 males. Come on dudes, just take a deep breath, forget that excess testosterone for a minute and actually WATCH the movie! "}{"Title":"What the? (somewhat spoiler)","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was so sure this movie was bad that I got suckered into seeing it, since no one else wanted to see Shallow Hal for some reason.  Anyway, by the time the movie ended I couldn't believe that adults wrote the script for this one.  I mean c'mon it sounds like a kindergarten story of the little blonde that could.  This movie actually makes blondes look worse.  I mean how can you show up at a place with a bunny costume?  I was always indifferent to Reese Witherspoon's acting ability.  I mean she was real good at getting harassed and beaten by Mark Wahlberg in Fear but after that I was like Reese who?  Anyway, I think it's the end of the world when two Starbucks open on the same street and a sequel to a movie this dumb comes out! "},{"Title":"Best movie of all time!!","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is undoubtedly the best movie I have ever seen. I watched it when it first came out in 2001, and throughout the years, I have re-watched it numerous times. Recently (in May of 2012), I re-watched this movie and it seriously NEVER gets old. 10 years after watching it for the first time, I have not been able to find a movie that is more entertaining and meaningful than this one. It truly has stood the test of time. At first sight, it is an extremely hilarious movie that makes you laugh and laugh even harder. But, when you look deeper, it contains so many thoughtful, useful and applicable messages and themes. The ending is so satisfying and leaves you with a positive feeling and great joy that you will never forget for the rest of your life.A MUST WATCH FILM. IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN IT, GO OUT AND GET IT RIGHT NOW. YOU WON'T REGRET IT!!! "},{"Title":"Blonde ambition","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Unbelievably, a Hollywood rom-com from the Noughties that I actually quite enjoyed. Too tired to switch channels after a sports programme, Legally Blonde fell into view and I warmed to it before my well-founded bias against this type of film got the better of me and I could zap to something else.Of course the story is pure fluff, comprising not so dumb blonde Reese Wotherspoon's unlikely attempts to win back her snooty society boyfriend who's stomped on her matrimonial plans by dumping her for an altogether more up-market wealthy college girl. This leads to her winning a place in Harvard Law School where naturally with a combination of looks, determination and street smarts she overturns everyone's preconceptions of her to triumph to the extent that she can kiss off her now adoring ex when he comes running back after her by the end. The American Dream in microcosm...! I'm joking of course, and while making some fairly gentle digs against male prejudices and basically anyone else who ever cracked a ditzy blonde joke, the film doesn't take itself too seriously and propelled by an effervescent lead performance by Wotherspoon, ably supported by just-getting-noticed Selma Blair and Luke Wilson, it packs enough amusing lines and situations to keep you watching.I hesitate to call them highlights and thus elevate the film above its station, but you will undoubtedly smile at Elle's stretch and snap tutorial to get a man's attention, her bunny-costume appearance at the bogus party called by her rival and her Perry Mason meets Petrocelli courtroom demolition of her client's accuser's evidence (in a fetching fuchsia pink twin-set, indeed!).I could have done without the too-modern-for-my-taste music soundtrack and one or two of the risqué lines, both obviously inserted to cater to its primary target teen audience, but directed with zip, I was pleasantly engaged over the course of its 90 minute running time as I think anyone would be. "},{"Title":"Not only ugly, boring, serious people go to Law School...","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde is a guilty pleasure of mine. The story of the clever Barbie girl Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon, in the role that turned her into the highest paid actress in Hollywood), who decides to go to Harvard Law just to impress her ex boyfriend and win him back, is silly fun, full of memorable jokes and quotes, and is great to watch when you don't wanna think much and just laugh a little bit/forget about your problems. Legally Blonde was recently made into a hilarious, very successful Broadway musical, that should be enjoyed by everybody who enjoyed the movie. Avoid the unnecessary sequel made in 2003, which might not be as bad as some people say, but it's definitely far from good. If you want a popcorn flick for a rainy day, this is a perfect pick. A much deserved 8/10 in my books, for it always makes me laugh without being offensive (even if it's not Woody Allen-ish humor, but then again, it's good to shut your brains off for a second every now and then, isn't it? Thank God for movies like Legally Blonde and Napoleon Dynamite to cure a headache caused by a brilliant, but extremely intense, Lars Von Trier's experience, just to give an example). Plus, you will learn that exercise gives you endorphins, endorphins make you happy, and happy people don't kill their husbands; if you want to be a Senator, you need to marry a Jackie, not a Marilyn; and that Aristotle said Law is reason free from passion. Bend and snap! "},{"Title":"Legally blonde - best film Eva","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ￼Don't judge a book by its cover. Yet again an extraordinary humorous performance bought to us by Reese Witherspoon which makes Legally Blonde a true winner. The film was released on the Thirteenth July 2001 and produced by Mark Platts. It was directed by Australian director Robert Luketic, who made his name directing the award winning short film Titsiana Booberini in 1997. Legally Blondewas Luketic's first mainstream Hollywood film, it took the world by storm being nominated for two golden globes and winning six awards. The screenplay by Karen McCullah Lutz and Kirsten Smith is inspired by the book Legally Blonde written by Amanda Brown. The Legally Blonde soundtrack is very girlie and if you listen to the lyrics it's also very strengthening. It is full of songs telling girls that they don't need a guy to tell them they're pretty, to make them beautiful and that they can be a 'one girl revolution,' this is the second song featured on the soundtrack and is sung by a group called Superchick. This soundtrack is a very feminist CD and any girl would love it. Elle Woods, a Hawaiian tropic girl, played by Reese Witherspoon comes across as a stereotypical dumb blonde. She is president of her sorority Delta Nu and has everything any girl would want, including the hottest boyfriend, on campus and dreams of being Mrs. Warner Huntington III. She is Miss June in her sorority calendar, and all above she is a natural blonde. She grew up across the street from Aaron Spelling in LA and this emphasises on how moneyed a background she comes from. Elle is a fashion major, which is so obvious from the beginning but she makes it emphasises on the point even more when she says And last week I saw Cameron Diaz at Fred Segal, and I talked her out of buying this truly heinous angora sweater. Whoever said orange was the new pink was seriously disturbed. She absolutely loves shopping and getting pampered, she cares about her looks and her boyfriend a lot and is shocked when he dumps her. Elle has a pet Chihuahua called Bruiser who is also pampered just like Elle and goes everywhere with her, she even throws him birthday parties, and in my opinion this dog lives Elle's life. In Elle's live friends, (including bruiser of course) family and beauty are the three main things and no matter what they always will be. Reese Witherspoon had to prepare for her role as Elle Woods by spending two weeks studying the behaviour of real life sorority girls, as she was concerned that she may portray Elle as a stereotypical airhead. In the DVD commentary Reese points out on how polite and kind these girls actually were and she says she really enjoyed the experience. To emphasise on Elle's blondness Reese Witherspoon went through an amazing forty different hairstyles throughout the duration of the film. In this film Elle wore some absolutely stunning outfits which most girls would dream of and luckily for her, as agreed on the contract she got to keep every single one of them. Witherspoon's acting within this film is a hallmark for her career, and she is still known for it today Warner Huntington III is played by the very much admired actor Matthew Davis. Warner grew up in an east coast blue blood family, and much like Elle is surprisingly rich and spoilt. In his life his parents expect him to go to Harvard Law School to become a future Senator. The only problem is that Warner doesn't think Elle will be smart enough, this shows how shallow his personality is. "},{"Title":"The best film ever!","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think that this film has to be one of Reese's best, she is so ace and funny its unbelievable! I love the part when she discovers who murdered Brooke's step daughter killed her dad. Especially when we see that the cleaner is gay that is great! My favourite quote has to be when Elle says to Vivian You Too. Except when I dress up as a frigid bitch, I try not to look so constipated. Also did you know that Selma Blair who plays Vivian also stars in Cruel Intentions alongside Reese? Also with Reese's husband Ryan Phillipe and Sarah Michelle Gellar? I love Legally blonde first and second! I also would like to say who agrees that Luke Wilson (Emmet) is quite cute? Even though he is a bit old still i think he is really gorgeous for his age! Love Carly xx "},{"Title":"Predictable yet classic","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is one of the reasons why I became a girlie girl. It sent a good message to me hair colour doesn't change how smart you are. t was kind of obvious what was going to happen for me; she really does prove to everyone that she's really smart and then turns her ex boyfriend down. These type of films hold the same ending; they reach their goals successfully. Although I knew these things were going to happen, it was a classic nevertheless.the best thing about this movie is that it proves blondes are NOT dumb!!! even though I'm a brunette, I prefer blondes because I don't like my hair colour on me. All my friends call me the blonde bimbo because I say such bonehead things and it takes me around 2 minutes maximum to get a joke, but when I saw this film with all my friends I started proving to them that I'm ditzy but definitely Not dumb. I love what Reese Witherspoon brought to her character and how she acted like her; the way she walks, talks and gets a perspective of something, and I loved what she did at the ending when she solved her own case. It was really clever to refer to something as girlie as hair. And then the more obvious bit the guy who likes her at the firm (Emmett) ends up with her, and happens to propose to her. Although this movie was in my top ten, the sequel was a mistake, but thankfully it didn't ruin the first one. It will always stay a favourite for me. "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a piece of crap it turns out Elle Woods is getting engaged to a guy named Warner and she has to go shopping to buy something special. Warner shows up at the mansion in his limousine and they go to a restaurant and she finds out that instead of proposing Warner wants to break up with her she asked Warner if her breasts we're too big he said if he we're going to be a lawyer by the time he was 30 he needed to marry someone serious and she's all heartbroken awe boo hoo. She sleeps in bed for weeks. So they go shopping and in order to win her precious Warner back she decides to become a lawyer. She finds out he's engaged to a lawyer named Vivian so she goes to a salon for help. I couldn't stand this movie another minute. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Girl power gone wrong","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, if this movie claims to be in favour of girl power then I really pity girls the whole world over. This films basic message is it's okay to be ditzy, because you may have a brain underneath. And even if you don't, then you'll definately end up with the good looking bloke in the front row.My girlfriend makes me watch quite a few chic flicks, and with the exception of What Women Want (which was truely abhorrent - even she didn't like it!) this is the worst I've ever seen. Avoid. Even chic-flicks (c.f. Shakespeare in Love) can be made with an element of humour, which even this film lacked "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie had promise at the beginning but rapidly dissipates as it moves into the second half.  The problem with the movie is that the characters stop acting and reacting in any manner that suggests reality, with the possible exception of the slimy defense attorney.Reese Witherspoon has maintained her record for poor choices with this weak script, and the supporting cast fails abysmally to deliver.  Luke Wilson seems earnest enough but winds up being an expensive cheerleader.  Otherwise, everyone else is eminently forgettable.** SPOILERS **In the beginning, the movie reverses the tropes of the outsider movie; the person who you'd think would be the popular one instead becomes the object of derision, and you feel for Elle as she realizes that she's the school joke.  However, instead of following this to more interesting insights (which is possible to do even in a broad comedy), we get a very lame courtroom drama that recalls the stupidity at the end of Big Daddy.  At the end of the film, you could retitle it to Everyone Loves Elle, and even the where-are-they-now screen crawls leave you with the fact that Luke's gonna propose.  IS THAT THE PURPOSE OF THE MOVIE??  Gee, what a rush, after 90 minutes of sisters doin' it on their own!!Watch the first half of the movie if you must, but turn it off about the time Elle realizes that the defendant is a sorority sister.  It's all downhill from there, sisters and brothers alike. "}{"Title":"Funny but slightly hypocritical","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I loved this film, it is extremely funny and fantastically performed by the breathtakingly wonderful Reese Witherspoon. There was great humour and an extremely imaginative but gripping storyline. However, I did find it strange that throughout the whole film, the idea was that Elle was discriminated against because she had blonde hair, when in reality, it was because she was a very ditsy little rich girl who didn't know anything about anything other than fashion. If you watch the film closely, I don't see any of the students having blonde hair, this is obviously a trick to make Elle stand out more in the crowd as the dumb girl. The only line which suggests the film is discriminating blonde's is 'you're breaking up with me because I'm too blonde?' Which was never actually said by anyone other than Elle, that was her interpretation of him calling her too stupid really, throughout the film, the only one who makes any suggestion that blonde's are stupid is the blonde in question. However, other than this, it was a great film and a fun watch for all the family to enjoy "},{"Title":"Have fun with this Blonde!!","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood's stereotypical blonde protagonist, usually is quirky and not very self assured, and lets the joke evolve around her in a mannerism that is quite self insulting. However this movie, changed that tradition- and never has a blonde female lead played such characters which dealt with empowerment. The reality of this movie makes it worthwhile watching- nothing is too blonde, but just enoughReese Witherspoon is simply without a doubt TERRIFIC. Her performance as Elle Woods, gives all blondes a drop of faith, which after such indignities of being air heads, it is something which they can use. Not only has Reese Witherspoon become as Hollywood Mega Celebrity after her starring role in this movie, but she has created an ICON in Elle Woods- a blonde who believes in herself and knows she can go on. We have seen quirky characters in movies before- Cameron Diaz usually plays them, well they always overdo it- Reese has a style where she limits it, but knows her boundaries, and this is something which is very rare. The fact that the other actors in this movie, are just average, and it's only her that gives a solid performance, has to be kept in mind. Luke Wilson's acting skills have never been broadened ever since I saw him in 'Home Fries', Mathew Davis, may suit the character of Warner Huntington through the perspective of personality, but nothing more than that. Selma Blair tries too hard to be the stuck up Vivian Kensington, Ali Larter is lesser than average and Jennifer Coolidge's performance is very wavy, but her character's transformation into a stronger woman via the influence of Elle Woods, acts as a good deed for the movie. However, the only other supporting cast, which should be given credit was Jessica Cauffiel's performance of Margot &#150; Elle's Delta Nu sorority sister- which looked as if she was born to ply it.Having been so influenced by the film, I decided to read the book of the same name by Amanda Brown. The book had a lot of things different- including the names of characters, the university where Elle goes to, and there was also additional characters which the movie came nowhere near mentioning- however this makes me congratulate Kirsten and Karen- the 2 screen writers of this movie, who did such a great job, changing, adding, and subtracting details from the book, which were not necessary and doomed to have had a mal- effective on the movie.Robert Luketic's first time directing- is AMAZING- his style of directing, makes the movie flow peacefully, without stagnating on certain issues. From all the interviews, I saw on Legally Blonde, one identifiable trait is that he is serious and knows what he is doing - it is obvious that he is soon to be taken very seriously in Hollywood, and without a doubt be very successful.Getting a Golden Globe nomination for best motion picture comedy and Best leading actress in a comedy, adds the last layer of icing on the great tasting cake. Reese Witherspoon, is soon to be hailed as the next Julia Robert &#150; as this movie does for Reese, what Pretty Woman did for Julia.All in all I believe this was an a BRILLIANT movie, a TERRIFIC comedy and undoubtedly one of the best movies I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"This movie is not boring (any of the time) or ugly (any of the time) or serious (most of the time).","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie that officially made Reese Witherspoon a star (though hopefully the sequel won't have tarnished her too much), Legally Blonde isn't quite as delightful as Clueless the movie but it's several million light years ahead of Clueless the series. Both function from a similar premise, i.e. good-looking blonde girls aren't automatically evil, stupid or whatever (Law school is for people who are boring and ugly and serious).Moonlighting once had an episode where David found a complete babe for a client looking for a wife while Maddie found a plainer type for the same client; the client fell for the plainer one (which sort of vindicated Maddie), but they turned out to be murdering bad guys (which definitely vindicated David). This movie doesn't go quite as far, and it does sort of hammer its message into the head of the viewer a couple of times too many, but it's got a lot of charm on its side, both from Miss Witherspoon - who has to carry the whole movie and does it without breaking a sweat - and from Karen McCullah Lutz and Kirsten Smith's script, which goes surprisingly smoothly from college comedy to legal comedy-drama and has us on our heroine's side all the way up to the courtroom climax; Selma Blair, Luke Wilson, Holland Taylor, Victor Garber and Ali Larter also do well.The movie doesn't really put any feet wrong with its fashion-savvy main character and her adventures, helped along by a lively soundtrack (both in terms of songs and of Rolfe Kent's score), although the Bend and snap scene doesn't quite work; funny and sentimental in all the right places, it's not going to be a classic of comedy (although you never know), but only a blondophobe could hate this one. Marc Platt also produced Josie and the Pussycats, and this is less fun but not a disgrace either. We find for Reese Witherspoon and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.Whoever said orange was the new pink was seriously disturbed. "},{"Title":"A pleasant summer comedy","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It would seem strange for me to like a pleasant summer comedy, but I think this one is actually watchable and even gives laughs sometimes.  It is John Grisham meets um, should I say Clueless?  A ditzey yet very smart college girl gets dumped by her boyfriend, and figures out that if she becomes a law student and perhaps even a laywer, she might win him back (even after she realizes he's engaged).  Clumsy at times and of course cliched (aren't they all nowadays), but also fun in a brainless dead-zone way. B "},{"Title":"Born to be blonde.","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"19 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Take it from me, I hate Girl-Power. From the female motivation of being stronger and more powerful, the Girl-Power genre never appealed to us men. Suffering occurs when this sub-genre is inserted with chick flicks. During dates, men have to go witness these bantering, young (and a lot of the time anorexic) woman who cheer for whatever the hell there are cheering for in the movie. Even some of the time, some men have the free time to view these enigmatic acts voluntarily as they explore the unknown attitudes and motives of these women who are classed as girly. Girl Power however has become a thing of the past and is dyeing fast seeing that the Spice Girls revolution ended years ago.Still to this day, we see these movies being made and headed by the teenyboppers who have taken many MINUTES of attention away from Hollywood (i.e. Hilary Duff, Lindsay Lohan). However, when it comes to chick flicks, there can be substantial surprises.Well substantial is a bit of an overstatement however Legally Blonde was a slightly pleasant surprise. When my sister picked up a copy of Legally Blonde, I wasn't that interested. Typical Chick Flick. I said to myself. However when the film ended, it actually was pretty good.Reese Witherspoon plays Elle Woods, a sorority queen from Beverly Hills. She is the typical dumb blonde, I mean if there were any example of a girl of this category, Elle Woods would be it (and Reese Witherspoon nailed the performance). She has everything, friends, make-up, and all that girly crap. However when her perfect boyfriend (Matthew Davis) dumps her after she originally thought he'd purpose to her, she falls apart. The news spreads so fast in her girl club it's not even funny. The thing that is sad is this kind of thing is true in real life as there truly is some kind of girl system that spreads vital and shocking info within minutes. *Shudder* *Shudder*.So her ex-boyfriend moves to Boston to continue his family legacy of law as he's accepted to go to Harvard and become a lawyer. As a desperate attempt to win his heart back, Elle takes the qualifying exams to get accepted as a lawyer and drops her dreams of becoming a fashion specialist. When she gets accepted, she moves to Boston and sticks out like a sore thumb as she dresses for school like a fashion model. However, her attention attracts friends and she learns the law ropes. When a case of an exercise expert is accused of killing her husband, Elle's professor and his best students get to use this real life case as a final test. The students include Elle, her ex-boyfriend Warner, and Vivian Kensington (Selma Blair). Luke Wilson plays the older law student named Emmett Richmond who helps the class and starts becoming good friends with Elle. Finally, Jennifer Coolidge plays Paulette Bonafonté, a beauty shop employee who becomes fast friends with Elle when she needs her weekly dose of nail polish and whatever.The thing about Legally Blonde is that it isn't a stereotypical film as it avoids most of those elements. It has some solid comedy and good performances, especially from Luke Wilson's charm brought. One of the film's last scenes shows the cleverness Elle learned as her fashion skills pay off with her newly acquired law skills.Overall, Legally Blonde isn't just a stereotyped chick flick, as many would assume. It's also a good comedy for men too as it combines a good law film with a film for many women to enjoy. The film lacks and drags but it is pleasantly surprising with its appeal to men as well. It's not even guilty pleasure material; it's just surprisingly watchable. Legally Blonde will bring the blonde out of all of us as we witness a not-so-dumb blonde in law action both in and out of the courtroom.My Rating 6/10 Eliason A. "},{"Title":"A Legally Cute Film","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was ready - ready to hate this movie for its dumb blonde jokes, senseless humor and bad acting. Instead, I found myself joining the ranks of Reese Witherspoon fans, marveling at the way she could take such weathered humor and make it something fresh. It was as though she were saying to us, Look, at this bit of nonsense, and let's have some fun, and make a couple of important statements at the same time. And fun we had. Actress and audience alike can appreciate that Legally Blond isn't going to win any awards, but Ms. Witherspoon and company work effortlessly to keep this film from becoming a haven for moronic one-liners and stupid sight gags. Legally Blonde tells the story of Elle Woods, a Silicon Valley Girl and Sorority Queen who's twin goals in life consist of getting her man while looking FC (fashionably correct). Early in the movie, we get a glimpse of just how smart our blonde sister is, when a smug saleswoman attempts to sell her a shoddy knockoff at full price. This is not a movie about a girl has guy, girl loses guy, and then girl wins him back at the final curtain. Instead, Blonde becomes a journey of a young woman who grows into a three-dimensional diva by exploring an unlikely career option in a foreign setting. Our West Coast fashion maven heads east to win back her man by proving she can be smart enough to get a law degree (well, long enough to get him to say I do). West meets east with unpredictable results. In the course of about 90 minutes, our heroine manages to realize her ex-boyfriend is a joke, earn an internship, win a court case, and become valedictorian of her graduating class. Along the way, she also inspires one working-class friend to become more assertive, demonstrates her compassionate nature by accepting a former rival as a sister in spirit, and exposes a male professor as a pathetic letch. And while the circumstances that Ms. Woods finds herself are a bit of a stretch, the enthusiasm and energy flow effortlessly towards a happy ending (with Luke Wilson) and its predictable sequel (Red, White, and Blonde). "},{"Title":"Legally Blonde","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I had obviously seen quite a few adverts about this film, so I thought I might as well give it a go. Basically Elle Woods (Golden Globe nominated Reese Witherspoon) is a sorority queen (and she knows a lot about fashion and make-up), and her rich boyfriend Warner Huntington III (Matthew Davis) has dumped her to go to Harvard Law School, and he thinks she's not that smart to be a good wife (she thinks it might be because she's blonde). She decides to try and win him back by attending the law school herself, and proving she can smart if she puts her mind to it. With her love of the colour pink and naivety she sticks out from the crowd even if she doesn't always want to, and Warner has found a new fiancée with bitchy Vivian Kensington (Selma Blair). Soon enough though Elle shows that she can learn and become smart by studying hard and answering well in class, and she also finds a new man who has a crush on her, Emmett Richmond (Luke Wilson). Eventually she gets the opportunity to prove herself as a near-real lawyer by helping to defend murder suspect Brooke Taylor Windham (Ali Larter), suspected for the murder of her husband. Brooke trusts her to believe her innocence, and in the concluding court case scene (after the traditional film depression moments), Brooke fires real lawyer Professor Callahan (Victor Garber) and lets Elle take over questioning Brooke's sister, and her knowledge of beauty products proves an asset to find the true murderer, and she graduates. Also starring American Pie's Jennifer Coolidge as Paulette Bonafonté, Holland Taylor as Professor Stromwell, One Million Years B.C.'s Raquel Welch as Mrs. Windham Vandermark, American Pie 2's Kevin Cooney as Head of Admissions and Stripshow's Tane McClure as Elle's Mother. Witherspoon is very good, even with the sometimes distracting chin action (LOL), and this is quite a good comedy. It was nominated the British Comedy Award for Best Comedy Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy. Good! "},{"Title":"Legally Blonde","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ATTENTION ALL GUYS! If you are in the doghouse, this could be the movie that gets you out. If you take your girlfriend/wife to see this film, she will forget the reason she was mad. This film is the perfect girl film and she will love it. Legally Blonde shows that first impressions are not always the best. In the film, Elle (Reese Whitherspoon) is the typical sorority girl that everyone loves and admires. Just when everything seems to be going her way, her boyfriend Warner Huntington III (Matthew Davis) breaks up with her because her intelligence level is not up to par with what his family expects him to be with. This makes Elle furious and she sets out to prove him wrong by enrolling at Harvard Law School. When she arrives at Harvard, she finds out that Warner is engaged to Vivian Kensignton (Selma Blair). This gives Elle another mission that needs to be accomplished while she is attending Harvard. She needs to break up Warner and Vivian and win Warner back. Although her goals start with winning Warner back, her college experience opens many new opportunities in her life.The director, Robert Luketic, supports this theme by using a long establishing shot. In the scene where Elle is in the hall going to her first class at Harvard Law School she ends up passing Warner in the hallway. Knowing what he thinks of her, she passes him until he stops her and then she replies with one of the famous quotes from the film, I totally forgot you go here. By Warner knowing that Elle got into Harvard Law School was not enough to change his mind about her. They have a brief conversion and then they both go on their own way. This long establishing shot of Elle walking down the hallway presents that Elle is confident and that she will prove everyone that portrays her as the typical blonde will be wrong.Legally Blonde has numerous references to The Paper Chase, directed by James Bridges. Both films take place at Harvard Law School. The scene where Elle is in the library looking for a study group she approaches Warner's study group. She asks to join the study group with the line, I brought you sustenance. In The Paper Chase, the main character complains to his girlfriend that she failed to bring sustenance. Another reference that is made is Elle is a sister of the Delt Nu sorority and the Delta Gamma is the sorority that is mentioned in The Paper Chase.Legally Blonde is the ultimate girl movie. This film presents a good moral standard that first impression are not always the best, so we must not judge someone on the first impression but get to know them first. Although the theme is presented through comedy, it gets the point across to the audiences and will affect the audiences that watch it. "},{"Title":"Perfect and Vintage Reese Witherspoon","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you're not a fan of Reese Witherspoon before this movie, you will be. She like totally shines as Elle Woods, a girl who struggles against the odds to follow her boyfriend to get her boyfriend back, the love of her life, and instead finds the true more fulfilling love of her life. She becomes a lawyer and wins a murder trial just by being herself. Any other actress would have played this role with all the horrible blonde stereotypes, but Reese shines through them and bends them in her direction as a sort of mortal Aphrodite in the human world. Topped by a good cast, Luke Wilson, Selma Blair, Ali Larter, Alanna Ubach, Raquel Welch and one precocious nervous chihuahua, this is definitely one movie I can watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"A great movie for everyone!","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a terrific movie! It shows that you can do anything you put your mind too. It is a top 5 movie of 2001. Reese Witherspoon played the part of Elle Woods perfectly. In addition to this movie a second one was introduced,Legally Blonde 2Red,White,and Blonde. I would like to see a third movie introduced to the public. I believe that another title for this would be Elle WoodsAttorney at Law. Though Legally Blonde as a title is an attention getter and it describes the whole movie based around a so called dumb blonde going to Harvard Law School,and becoming a lawyer. We see that Elle Woods doesn't only help herself,but also her newly found friends that surround her! "}{"Title":"Brilliant Movie!!","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Unlike most movies; Legally Blonde is one of the few that makes me want to watch it over and over again. Every time I watch this movie its like I'm watching it for the first time again. This is by far one of my top favourite movies. The power that Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon) has at the end of this film is intelligent,astonishing, and moving! I love how she solved the case with her own knowledge of her own interests. The story is well thought out; very original. The acting is suited well for the plot. I'm so grateful I got to watch this movie at a young age; so I can learn from the huge mistake that Elle made in the beginning that turned into a huge accuracy! Reese is outstanding in this film. This film covers romance, intelligence, and especially fun comedy. "},{"Title":"Fun, Ditzy, intelligent, determined, sexy, and  good American sweetheart comedy!","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde to me clearly isn't a classic yet it's worth a watch due to the fun and most of all the charm of America's sweetheart Reese Witherspoon. Reese stars as a sexy and young blonde California college girl named Elle Woods who really underneath is intelligent and determined as ever to achieve her dreams and goals of success. Yet she's devastated when she's dumped by boyfriend Warner(Matthew Davis) who's on the way to Harvard law. So guess what a girl must do she should follow her heart and love and go enroll in Harvard law! Elle then goes off only to discover a new snob world of prep and proper on the east coast, but yet that's common in the college world of the power and money hungry elite. Never fear though this girl will make new friends and learn new ways to get along in life as she earns not only love, respect, justice, and honor, but becomes legally educated and breaks the stereotype about the dumb blonde! Really a nice cute comedy that's fun and enjoyable a must watch really for the sweetheart Reese Witherspoon. "},{"Title":"Like your average chick flick but Funner!!","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Thinking just your standard chick flick? No way. This film one of the best chick flicks you will find out there and, hell, with Reese in the lead role why wouldn't it be. This is one movie that you HAVE to see, it will just cheer you up -period- It makes no difference what mood you are in at the start of the movie I can guarantee that you will be bubbly and optimistic by the end of the movie. Reese Witherspoon is charming and Laugh-out-loud hilarious as Elle Woods (or Woods, Elle), apparently just your average dumb blonde - but appearances can be deceiving. Selma Blair is great as stuck up Harvard bitch, Jennifer Coolidge is Funny and Lovable as the troubled nail manicurist and Luke Wilson is great in his role. Everything Elle does is so damn Lovable (Partly due to Reese) and all you want to do is jump into the movie and back her up in every single scene. Jessica Cauffiel and Alanna Ubach are perfect as Elle's sorority chick friends who don't know anything that isn't about fashion and who doesn't want to look at Ali Larter in a tight black lawyer style suit? Seriously. You HAVE to see this movie if you haven't already, Especisally if you like 'Clueless' and 'Miss Congeniality.10/10 and Nothing less! "},{"Title":"An Experience Of Mine","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My first impression to Elle Woods is She spent a lot of time on dressing up herself. AS a young girl, I used to wear my mom's clothes secretly just wanted to be graceful and elegant. Therefore, when I grew older I started to wear my mom's clothes whenever I want to(Of course, with my mom's permission first) and I spent more time on my hairstyle and fingernails, too. Sometimes, I even put on some cosmetics. Aithough this sounds quite stupid and funny(because I was only ten years old), I just want to be more attractive. Thus, I started to fall behind the class. My parents were worried about me, but I just answered them coldly Whatever! After months went by, I a little girl fell in love with a boy in our class. This was a real turning point in my life. Because the boy who I like has always been the first place, that didn't made me felt frustrated, instead it awoke me from my beautiful dream. I told myselfIf I don't study hard, he will never notice me even if I dress up like a super model. In the end , I didn't express the feeling in my deep heart,though,I thanked him for leading me to the road of success. Hence, when I saw this movie Legally Blonde I saw a little bit of myself in it unexpectedly. So if you haven't woke up from your dearest dream. Do,now! Face the reality, a wonderful and bright future is waiting for you! "},{"Title":"Legally Blonde","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde is a wonderfully self raising film. It has taught me not to listen to people who tell me I can't do it. Elle's detirmination reminds me of myself. And Emmet is a very clever man. Legally Blonde can be classified as 7/10.Legally Blonde is about a girl called Elle who is very girly and loves things like boys and make up. At the beginning of the movie, Elle's boyfriend Warner Hunington III decides to take her out dinner. She wrongly believes that he is going to propose but instead he breaks up with her because he believes that because he is going to Harvard Law School, he needs to marry someone serious.So Elle not only proves that she can get into Harvard, she can really kick butt as a lawyer too! "},{"Title":"Bend and snap.","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A woman named Elle who is blonde and supposed to be stupid is dumped so she goes to law school for revenge. Then she finds out that she is really smart and succeeds at law school. I thought that this movie was going to be like Clueless but Elle was actually really smart. Cher in Clueless was a total idiot with no direction. Elle had brains and confidence but she was blonde and liked to go shopping too. It wasn't that bad of a movie. It could have been worse. It wasn't a great movie either but I liked Elle. She didn't let anyone get her down and she had a strong support system. Her friends gave her advice and she helped them out too. Her dog was cute too. I liked that they made her so smart and not totally stupid. That's what made the movie great. "},{"Title":"Amusing fluff for little girls who still need empowerment","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Since nearly ALL movies are made to make money, there's certainly nothing wrong with the film makers here taking the single funniest scene in a successful comedy (MY COUSIN VINNY - where the oddball girlfriend knows something which the smart lawyer boyfriend doesn't and solves the case) and building an entire film around it. The conceit probably wasn't even original with MY COUSIN VINNY, and it certainly isn't in LEGALLY BLONDE, a sexist farce pretending to be enlightened, but more or less saved by a passel of above average performances from a very appealing cast.Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon in a less brilliant but just as surface starring follow-up to her break-through appearance in ELECTION) is an air-head Valley Girl waiting for the expected proposal from her preppie boyfriend (the appropriately smarmy Matthew Davis) when he announces that he's going to Harvard Law enroute to the U.S. Senate, and while she's been a great college lay - excuse me, girlfriend - she isn't good enough for a prospective senator's wife. Well, um, yeah . . . but it is sort of changing the rules Elle had been led to expect mid-game.This sort of plot can go one of two ways - Elle can go for revenge (the funny but nasty SHE-DEVIL or DEATH BECOMES HER) or she can set out to get him back - and frequently find someone better in the effort (the vastly underrated ADDICTED TO LOVE). LEGALLY BLONDE tries to have it both ways. She'll get herself into Harvard (the best line in the film What? Like it's hard?) and SHOW him how good enough she really is.Predictable, shallow but frequently funny complications ensue - along with some very nice performances from Luke Wilson (as a low-key associate attorney) and Holland Taylor (as a professor/mentor) and less impressive ones from Victor Garber (as a dour powerful attorney), Jennifer Coolidge (as a class-free beauty shop friend) and a mildly irritating chihuahua (as an irritating chihuahua). The funniest bit, exposing a lying witness (remember the bit from MY COUSIN VINNY?) also comes across unfortunately as homophobic - though it probably wasn't intended as such. The film makers simply didn't know any better than to pander to what they assumed were the continuing biases of their target teenage audience. The film would have been funnier if they had respected their audience more.As it was, it was successful enough at the box office (very, actually) to generate a sequel (yawn) and in 2007, a Broadway musical comedy version. The script and score for the musical were sort of second rate (rather like the musical version of THE WEDDING SINGER and the silly movie which spawned it), but a first rate director/choreographer was able to work much the same alchemy on LEGALLY BLONDE The Musical that Robert Luketic was able to work on LEGALLY BLONDE The Movie and turn so-so material and an all right cast into something resembling gold. A good time was had by - well, if not all, enough.Don't expect great art or even great comedy, but the movie's a nice diversion for a slow day or for little girls who need empowerment (the musical too). "},{"Title":"a lot of fun!","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde was a big hit in late 2001 when America was reeling from the World Trade Center attacks, and something breezy, fun, and distracting from real life was the order of the day. Unlike several rather unwatchable movies that went through similar success at the box office during that period, Legally Blonde is actually good. It tells the story of Elle Woods, the penultimate blonde sorority girl with everything going for her and her future fully mapped out, until her perfect frat guy boyfriend skips town for law school and another woman. What's a girl to do, but chase him down and give law school a crack? Thus sets off the humorous, satiric, heavily pink landscape of Legally Blonde, a film that is as light and wispy as Reese Witherspoon's blonde locks, but has a genuine, winning, upbeat personality. "},{"Title":"A Delight!","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This was one of those films that just makes you feel really good about yourself when you watch it. It is about a blonde, ditzy girl who decided that to prove herself to her boyfriend, she will try to attend Harvard, a prestigious law school. She meets a whole host of confrontational characters including the delightfully funny Paulette Bonafonté. This film started off a little slow for me but i was soon plunged into it's quirky charm and great acting skills. Its one of those films that makes you care about the character. Reese delivers a full-proof display as Elle Woods and shows that she can adapt herself to play any character. A real treat, I recommend it for a gay guys/girls night in xxx "},{"Title":"Amazing!!!","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Awesome movie, my favorite!!! You have to see it!!! I like it because it 's so funny you have to see it (as I've said before). I mean If your a blonde it will be extra pleasing because of the humor and the amazing thing she says and does is amazing. I mean I could tell you the whole movie off the bat but I don't want to spoil it because after my review you should be convinced. Also my favorite actress (the best in th world) is in it, Reese Witherspoon. I adore her if I met her I would be so dumbfounded and just maybe seeing her real signature would make me have to die or something like that. I may be young but people say I have a good sense in movies. Even my little and older like the movie Leagally Blonde(remember you have to watch it). "}{"Title":"Love it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Oh My God! This is one of those films that you just can't help loving from start to finish. The music is great there is so many catchy tunes that you can't help but dance to.Then of course there is the fabulous acting by the lovely 'Reece Witherspoon' who is always amazing and does not disappoint in this film. With her great blond hair and gorgeous pink outfits who wouldn't love this film?And don't you just love Brusser isn't he just the cutest little dog you have ever seen(I love his outfits)So this really is a must see film!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Great Teen Movie!","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde is a fun, goofy, entertaining movie about a dumb blonde who learns that she is smarter than she thought she was. There is something that sets this movie apart from others...I don't know if it's the quirky humor, the great acting, the silly-yet-interesting storyline, the lovable characters, or maybe it's just all of the above. But it's a great movie, and it's one that I would recommend to any girl, although I'm sure that every girl has seen it by now. I'd never seen Reese Witherspoon much before this movie, but since seeing this movie she has become one of my favorite actresses. If it weren't for her, I don't think this movie would have been as successful. But it IS successful, and rightly so. I give it two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"The best movie in the entire frickin universe","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OMG FREAKIN BEST MOVIE EVER MADE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! OK, I walked into my parents room one night and found them half way through legally blonde so I sat on their bed and watched and loved it!!!! So I decided to watch it all the way through and have been addicted ever since! The very talented Reese Witherspoon does a terrific job in this great comedy! Bruiser the dog is just so adorable and Emit is a sweet guy. I still don't really like Vivian cause each time when I watch the movie i see her being so cruel to Elle and I want to slap her across the face! P But this is just the greatest movie in the entire world and I urge every girl, whether BLONDE or not, to watch it and give it a try!!! "},{"Title":"Totally fluff","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I totally enjoyed this movie because Reese Witherspoon totally carried it off. Totally. I don't know how. She is supposed to be a totally rich blond who is totally superficial but she manages to get into Harvard law school. You have to be totally willing to go along with this totally far-fetched premise. If you can, and I did, totally, the movie is a totally okay way to spend 90 minutes. I have to say that although this is totally a comedy I actually didn't laugh out loud once. Raquel Welch is in one scene which is totally not needed. Jennifer Coolidge is good as a totally clumsy manicurist. Selma Blair is totally good as a totally snotty law student. Jessica Cauffiel is totally cute as one of Reese's girlfriends. And Reese is totally good as a totally optimistic totally superficial heroine. Totally. "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon Shines","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was surprised that going to see Legally Blonde turned into a family outing. When I mentioned that I was a fan of Reese Witherspoon my older son piped up that Reese is hot! and that he'd seen previews of her in a bathing suit, while my husband enthusiastically leaped at the chance to go to the movies on a beautiful sunny day. And judging by the reactions of the many other guffawing guys in the theater, I can't quite call this a chick flick, though my husband insisted that all the tween girls also in the theater must have benefited from the message of female empowerment. So I guess in this day and age Cosmo Girls are family entertainment.The pre-lawyer and lawyer in the family managed to concur on the movie's locale, education and legal accuracy, when they could think besides ogling.Witherspoon doesn't have the advantage of the writing or satire of Clueless (which capitalized on a classic work of literature as its source material), but she captures the screen as effectively as Julia Roberts and is the whole reason to see this fun movie. It helps that we really do know and can tell that Reese is one smart cookie under that hair, plus she sure looks good for a very young woman who had a baby a year ago. Who knew that rich California Girls are really an oppressed class that we could root for her as an underdog, er, under-Chihuaha? The sisterhood solidarity angle is used effectively and amusingly, especially in that great class leveler, the beauty/manicure parlor, and not all the guys (or other women) are jerks.I look forward to an episode of Sex and the City when she'll come to Miranda's law firm.The soundtrack is a missed opportunity. The guys plopped themselves on the couch to watch The War Channel as soon as we got home, so they weren't permanently damaged by seeing a chick flick. (originally written 7/14/2001) "},{"Title":"Bimbo grows a brain and finds herself in the process.","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" On the surface, Elle Woods seems to be your stereotypical blonde air-head. She loves pink, carries her little dog around with her and she has, like, big boobs. But when things go wrong with her boyfriend Warner she chases him all the way to Harvard Law School to win him back. This film is packed full of laughs and Elle is so lovable you can easily get past the fact that she isn't always the sharpest tool in the box. But be warned! You have to watch it past the first couple of scenes because the voice takes a bit of getting used to and your first instinct is to hate Elle's character and switch it off. However, if you don't take it too seriously and take all of the legal scenes with a pinch of salt, it's a great film. Just give it a try- what have you got to lose? "},{"Title":"little self-consciousness","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The way I see this film is quite different from others. Though we are impressed by the passion and kindness of Elle Wood, she didn't have her own idea about her future. Even though every time there was a big frustration, it turned out to be a better change in her life, bringing big success and honor, she never really knew the things she really wanted. I will give further explanation on this point. For instance, in order to get so-called her love of life back, she took all the pains to get to Harvard law school. Then what happened? She dumped Warner. I think Elle's choice is right, but why didn't she get to know him well enough before she thought Warner deserved her love and decided to waste her time to earn him back? I think it is because she didn't have life planning. She was used to approach problems and make decisions with heart rather than brain, which lead to easy give-up in front of unexpected frustrations. She always said Law school was a mistake and she wished she had never gone to Harvard after so much work and efforts.It is what I'd like to call little self-consciousness. "},{"Title":"Excellent Girl Power Comedy!","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love this movie it is definitely a feel good girl power comedy. It shows you the following things You can do anything you set your mind to.Women are equal.Give people a chance and things will be better.I love Reese Witherspoon, Selma Blair, Luke Wilson, Holland Taylor, Ali Later, etc. They all do a great job acting. Kudos to the cast, crew, filmmakers and all others. 10 out of 10 stars. Two Thumbs Way Up!Note The sequel is also very good see my review on hat one also. If you think that the second one is at all cheesy, your are so wrong and need to see it again. "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon works her charm!","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is so cute and funny. As always, Reese Witherspoon works her charm as an actress. How could she possibly be bashed? She was definitely made for the upbeat role of Elle Woods. Legally Blonde is a comedy, but it is also a movie that encourages people to make a difference in life even when obstacles get in the way. For this reason, it is a comedy that can truly be taken seriously. This movie can serve as a great inspiration for anyone making any kind of important decisions in life pertaining to career goals, etc. If you haven't checked this movie out because you figured it would be an immature comedy, I encourage you to rent it and watch it when you have the chance. It's full of moments meant for laughter and smiles, but it also has it's emotionally touching side as well. So, ladies AND GENTS--get together with your friends and enjoy the movie! "},{"Title":"I think this movie is great movie and i found it to be very inspiring.","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is especially inspiring for women who live in societies were man are the ones who are supposed to get things their way and rule all the time.Elle was there to prove that beautiful woman can also make it to the top despite the fact that most people asscociate beauty with idle minds!!!!.I loved that part especially.The only bad part about that movie is that the plot is somehow a predictable fairy life were the least thought of person ALWAYS makes it and in the end and is very successful which is not quite true in real life. The summary at the end is also not very interesting considering that almost all the people who were suppose to like in the movie all had happy endings and lived happily ever after.Ican give it a rate of 8/10 considering that it ispired me as a beautiful woman!!! "}{"Title":"Contrived, formulaic, fun feel good movie.","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oh dear. Firstly may I just say that I watched this while doing the ironing...I mean, it just happened to be on.It was also very lucky that the ironing kept me there, for if it hadn't I wouldn't have made it through the tedium of the opening scenes. I mean until Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon) actually gets to Harvard the story is dull and uninteresting. I really would have switched off at this point.However, stick with it and some, I do say some, humour comes out. Not great belly laughs, but still funny nonetheless. It's a fun feel good movie, extremely contrived and very formulaic, and guess what, it works for those reasons.Still, it barely works. It could have been a lot better if it hadn't been so spoon feeding, but it helped me through my ironing!  "},{"Title":"I loved it!  Reese is the perfect Barbie","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you don't like the cute perky California beach bunny image, this movie may not be for you.  Reese Witherspoon's adorable, outgoing and not-so-dumb blonde routine dominates at the start of this wonderful movie.  Later, the Barbie doll personality shows up just enough to make people happy, but not enough to annoy.  Elle is confident and intelligent but a little on the naive side as she leaves her familiar environment for the uptight Harvard Law School.  Arriving with an entire moving van and getting stares from everyone!Unlike the stereotype, Elle is not self-absorbed, even though she seems like she would be.  She shows how much she cares about other people, particularly Paulette, her manicurist, and Brooke, a client of Professor Callahan's law firm and a fellow Delta Nu.  In many ways Elle reminds me of Rachel Blanchard's Cher in the TV version of 'Clueless'. In addition to Witherspoon, this movie has plenty of good acting performances.  Holland Taylor is the demanding but somewhat friendly law professor Elle meets in the first class she attends.  Taylor should have been on screen more, because she was great.Another law professor with high expectations was played very well by Victor Garber.  In some ways he reminded me of Christopher Plummer's Von Trapp character in 'The Sound of Music'.  He pushed his students hard but didn't come across as particularly mean.Selma Blair did a nice job as Elle's romantic rival Vivian--brilliant and attractive, somewhat nasty and conceited but not exactly a ... witch.  The ice princess melted as the movie progressed.Sure, there were too many convenient coincidences, and the ending was one only possible in Hollywood.  But this was very enjoyable.*************************SPOILERS***************************Another dimension to Garber's performance  Elle was not hired as one of Professor Callahan's interns because of her intelligence, but due to her looks.  Poor Vivian ended up getting coffee while Callahan seemed to value Elle's opinions and input.  Later, Callahan proved himself to be sleazy, but Garber did not come across as sleazy.A classic moment  When Elle was hired as Brooke's lawyer--as a first-year law student trying a MURDER case--two of her sorority sisters showed up just in time to hear Elle question her first witness.  Their comments were so cute!!!And the evidence of Witherspoon's acting ability included not just her confident moments, but also her character's nervousness, quickly replaced by the ability of Perry Mason or Ben Matlock as she realized that the witness could help her win her case.  "},{"Title":"well-done","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sunshine filled the room and smiles lit up my face as I was part of the most enjoyable and refreshing films of year. Legally Blonde is a textbook definition of how true comedies should be made. With a combination of comedy, smart writing and great comedic performances, Legally Blonde is a surprise hit everyone will enjoy.2001 has been the year of incredible films, breakthrough performances and great writing and this streak didn't end with Legally Blonde, there was no doubt that I would be entertained. It is an honor to watch a film like Legally Blonde that contains intelligent writing, great performances and unique concepts because the audience will always be guaranteed a great film when these elements are in order.Reese Witherspoon has always been one of the brightest and talented actresses in Hollywood, so it came as no surprise when she turned in a performance worthy of oscar consideration in the best comedic performance category. Previous performances in Pleasantville and Cruel Intentions, gave me proof that Witherspoon was the only actress capable of pulling off this role.With her role in Legally Blonde, Witherspoon brought her toolbox of talents, which is filled with charm, beauty, enthusiasm and sense of humor to create an exciting and fun atmosphere for audiences to enjoy the movie. Furthermore, she makes it possible for everyone to sit back and relax using facial muscles to smile and laugh. Witherspoon has come a long way since The Man in The Moon and will continue to give incredible performances in the years to come and take home awards along the way.This film highlights outstanding supporting comedic performances from Matthew Davis, Selma Blair, Ali Larter, Holland Taylor, Victor Garber, Jennifer Coolidge and Luke Wilson who combine to complete one of the best ensemble casts of 2001. Each member of the supporting cast brought their own special and unique style of charm to each role they played; furthermore, there was nobody else I could think of to portray the characters in the film than these seven actors because the roles seemed tailor made for each of them.Writing is an essential key for the success of every film because it is the foundation for which a movie is made. The writers came up with one of the finest scripts of the year using unique concepts and great comedic writing to entertain audiences. Legally Blonde is loaded with refreshing scenes that will leave the best Hollywood screenwriters scratching their heads asking themselves, How were these writers able to make this script funny and successful at the same time? Aside from refreshing scenes, great character development and imaginative script concepts; this film boasts a cheerful underlying message, which is dreams come true when people put their minds to something. This touch was appreciated because it adds a dimension, which is lacking from films such as Legally Blonde.Though each scene in the film was great, there were two that stood out in my mind above the rest as evidence of some of the best writing in recent films. The first scene involves a health spa being described as Elle's mother ship and a murder trial, which was decided through hair care products.The cast is to be commended for turning in incredible performances, writers applauded for laying the foundation for a film that has the courage to be called a dumb blonde comedy and have legions of fans enjoy the film at the same time and the director deserves a standing ovation for directing a refreshing comedy as well as giving the audience something new and creative to watch. Legally Blonde is a light-hearted and charming film that should be seen with a smile. Audiences are guaranteed to be entertained with fun surprises and great comedy. "},{"Title":"I love this film, its a girly, feel good chick flick, fab!","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this film is in my top 5 fave films ever. its great to watch when you're feeling down as it cheers you up and makes you think that you can acheive whatever you want as long as you dont give up.It also shows that just because you're blonde doesnt mean you're thick.it is a well made film, ithink elle's mind works the same way as a lot of young girls such as myself can relate to. she is the sort of girl you dream to be but after watching this film you realise her life isn't all perfect.i love the way she rises above all the other university students who are making a fool of her when she first arrives at harvard. its a great film that everyone should see, it even made me want to become a lawyer when im older!i love it! "},{"Title":"Light, funny parable on being yourself","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised to enjoy this movie as much as I did.  It is a light-hearted comedy about a classic dumb blond who goes to Harvard Law School, and turns out, of course, to be brilliant under the plastic exterior.The real irony of this, though, is that Elle comes across as the empty socialite at the beginning, but she is still the same character at the very end.  Instead of being either destroyed or transformed by the stuffy and repressive environment of Harvard Law, she stands up to it, and ends up making a mark on the school itself.Her character represents the epitome of shallow, and she is rejected by the man she expects to marry because she is shallow, yet by holding true to herself through some pretty unbearable situations, she is able to work through her circumstances.  As she does so, we begin to see her develop depth that flies in the face of the stereotype.   She begins to excel without losing her facade.  The characters who spurned her for being shallow are shown themselves to be shallow and inauthentic, while she develops considerable depth while remaining herself.I like the way it makes fun of the stereotypes while pushing through them in a demonstration of strength of character.  You can be as out-of-the-tree as you want and make it work, if you believe in yourself enough.Besides all of that, it's a fun movie.   Favorite line the one about the hot tub.   "},{"Title":"My wife made me watch this.","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Actually my wife didn't make me watch this but if anyone finds out I did that is what I will say. My wife is an independent film script writer and we watch all kinds of movies. This one came up and I started for the door. But since I had nothing better to do I turned around and stomached this.This movie was actually pretty OK. Ah...Reese Witherspoon! Every school boys dream. Don't you just wanna eat her up?? Well, you get her and a fairly decent back up cast and it turns out to be a light airy comedy with an occasional very funny line or situation. Definite Chic-flic!I'm not going to analyze this movie at all. I enjoyed it and wasn't completely annoyed that I saw it. I recommend it for teen girls mostly but watching with the wife was a bonding experience in a way. Let's just not get too many of these in a row on the old VCR and everything will be just fine. Maybe follow this movie with 'Hellraiser' to balance things a little. "},{"Title":"A Blonde of a different color","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In general, Hollywood comedies have not been kind to blondes.  Often their appearance in a film is for the purpose of throwing in a few dumb blonde jokes.   When a blonde female is given the lead, they often overcome whatever obstacles the plot devices may put in their path in spite of their seeming lack of intelligence.  An actress such as Marilyn Monroe, made playing the dumb blond a true comedic art form in films such as Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, Monkey Business, The Seven Year Itch and Some Like It Hot. She was also able to go beyond those roles and stretch her dramatic legs at times, though it was a struggle for studios to her in that regard.  Some actresses are never that fortunate.In the character of Elle Woods, Reese Witherspoon gives us a new kind of blonde.  She is every bit the pampered rich girl, can recite chapter and verse on fashion, makeup and hair styling, and.....she wants to go to Harvard.  Elle fully expects her longtime boyfriend, Warner Huntington III(Matthew Davis)to propose just before he goes off to Harvard Law school.  Being from a strait-laced New England family however, marriage to Elle is out of the question.  As Warner puts it, If I want to be elected Senator by the time I'm 30, I need to marry a Jackie, not a Marilyn.  So instead of a proposal, Elle gets the big kiss off. Undaunted, and believing that getting into Harvard is the key to Warner's heart, Elle decides to follow a new career path and it's off to Harvard Law School.Some of this is your basic fish out of water story.  Elle Woods is not what one would expect to find walking the halls of Harvard or any other law school for that matter.  She dresses in blazing pink, dresses her always by her side chihuahua Bruiser in pink, and takes her belongings with her in a moving van.  Indeed for someone whose previous big problem was what kind of toilet paper was being used in the college restrooms(the kind that chafes or Charmin), Harvard is a whole new world.Legally Blonde also gives us a lesson in not judging a book by it's cover.  Yes, Elle may be a naive socialite, who may have had no aspirations beyond marrying Warner and making sure her outfits are color coordinated, but she is certainly not dumb.  It is obviously that what Elle had previously desired in life was influenced in large part by her socialite upbringing.  Trying to make an audience care about a spoiled rich blonde is not an easy task, but thanks to Witherspoon's performance, a clever and funny screenplay by Karen McCullah Lutz and Kirsten Smith, and skillful direction by Robert Luketic, we not only like and care about Elle, we root for her throughout.  It was important that since Elle is being constantly misjudged by her peers, that the character would be just the opposite, sympathetic and understanding.  Nothing could be more important than a film where the main theme is judging people for who they are, and not what others think they are. As Vivian Kensington, Warner's new fiancee, Selma Blair gives a good performance as the woman whom we, along with Elle, are supposed to hate.  Because of Blair's ability to give the character some depth, and the crafty screenplay, Elle along with us, learn there is always something more to a person than meets the eye.  As for Matthew Davis's Warner, there is never any mistake about his true intentions.  Also on hand is Jennifer Coolidge, as the ditsy hairdresser Paulette that Elle confides in, and Paulette does likewise.  The role is memorable enough that Coolidge was brought back for Legally Blond II.  Victor Garber plays law professor Callahan, an overbearing I Can Do No Wrong type.  Luke Wilson as Emmett Richmond gives Elle some sympathetic advise, and believes in Elle when others don't.  In truth, the entire cast of this film is running on all cylinders to make it work, and it all runs as smooth as a shiny pink Rolls Royce.There have been many formulaic comedies that I may have had a few good laughs while viewing.  A week later, I'd be hard pressed to remember the title let alone what the film was about.  Legally Blonde may be a situation comedy also, but in giving us a memorable story, wonderful well defined characters, and a sharp witty script, we'll remember it for a long time.  For that you get my grade which is an  A.     "},{"Title":"Film surprised me","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I sat down to watch this one and was prepared to be slightly amused at best.  I was very pleased by the end of the movie to have been entertained by what is a good comedy.  It's a fresh approach to the blonde issue - especially since it starts with the stereotypical ditzy California blonde and ends with a confident young woman, ready to take on the world on HER terms.  The steps that Elle Woods (Reece Witherspoon) take in growing up are humorous, touching, and quite affirming that there is something inside all of us that we can bring out to become confident adults.  *Minor Spoiler* - It was only when looking through the deleted scenes that we realized that the ex-wife was Raquel Welch.  And the two California girls coming to see Elle at the trial - 'with a judge and jury people and everything' - is sidesplitting.*Minor complaint* - The deleted scene (shown on the DVD) where Emmett tells Callahan he's an ass because he hit on Elle should have been left in.  That would have given the scene later in the courtroom a little more background. "},{"Title":"blondes everywhere will like the smart one!","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon does a great job representing all the blondes that feel that they need to do something serious and worth while. i found that some circumstances where the movie does make the point that pretty people are unable to focus on issues beyond parties and fashions. since the girl that was playing reese's supposed competition for a guy that truly was a jerk did do an awesome job being the snotty girl that only had time to study her brain's out.  the blonde friends that werent really blonde were so annoying in my opinion, but were needed to back up reese since the movie wanted to poke fun of sorority girls. but, since i liked the movie, and agreed that girls can do whatever they put their minds too.  so go reese, and kudos to luke wilson, who i find rather attractive and add some kind of BAM to the whole movie!  (B+ B)  "},{"Title":"A very funny movie.","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the best comedy films I've seen in a couple of years.  The story line is one that's been done before, but the way it's handled by an excellent cast and film editor makes it a very entertaining movie.Reese Witherspoon plays a blond sorority girl in Los Angeles who decides to go to Harvard Law School in order to win her rich boyfriend back.  Her valley girl persona clashes immediately with the snobbish law school culture, but through intelligence and a good attitude, she wins everyone over, and dumps her jerk boyfriend in the process.Reese Witherspoon is terrific in the lead role.  She's really from the South, but she affects the L.A. character perfectly.  She's both funny and touching, and when she needs to project intellect, she does so naturally and makes the transformation during the film believable.  You definitely find yourself rooting for her.The editing is very tight and there are few wasted moments in this hour and a half film.  There are also a few side stories, like the manicurist's romance with the UPS guy and the relationships between Reese's fellow students and law professors that add to the depth of the film so that it's not too linear.  A sign of a good comedy is when the secondary characters are funny also.Easy to see why this was so popular in the theaters a few summers ago. "}{"Title":"Charming and cute.","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde is a fine film that has so much sweetness that it could sicken you but will give you a great time as well with a charming performance by Reese Witherspoon and a great supporting performance from the rest of the cast.   The plot is simple enough but it's the spunk of the main character that will win you over and put a smile on your face.Hey, it's a chick flick but it's a pretty good one.  "},{"Title":"An enjoyable movie","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Rating *** out of ****. When I first saw Legally Blonde in the theatre, I ended up leaving. But I gave it a second chance on video and I enjoyed it. Its not a great film but it is an entertaining one. For the most part, the film is not annoying, like it could have been. Reese Witherspoon is perfect as this character, she does a good job on making Elle likable and not annoying like many other actresses probably would have. Selma Blair is okay, so is Ali Larter. Luke Wilson is fine here. Most of the cast pales compared to Reese's performance but they all do mostly ok jobs. The one problem I saw with Legally Blonde is that although it has humor in it, there were a couple of instances where I saw it was trying to hard to be even more funnier. For instance, when Elles come into court and say that stupid line about the judge. That scene was trying to add humor but it didnt, it came off as really stupid. In fact, they really didnt need to have Elle's friends come into the courtroom at all (they were the most annoying of all the characters). However, the script mostly avoided really stupid lines, it wasnt great writing but it was fine. I will see the sequel but I dont really think it necessarily needed a sequel. Its the same way I feel about the Fast and the Furious it doesnt really demand a sequel. But I will see the sequel and see what I think about it.   "},{"Title":"one of the better films of this category","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a twenty-something male and I found this pretty entertaining. This movie doesn't try to be more than it is. It's fun, fast-paced, entertaining fluff. Much better than the dozens of Meg Ryan romantic comedies, each one seeming like it's the sequel of the prior. "},{"Title":"Too Screechy","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Even though Reese Witherspoon is one of my favorite actresses, I did not like Legally Blonde because it was too screechy.  This movie is strictly for teenage girls or those who saw Clueless.  The one thing that stood out was Witherspoon's little dog.  Whatever.         "},{"Title":"Legally right on the place!","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Actually, I'm a little bit under estimated on this, because I think it is supposed to be a shallow and corny chick flick right. I mean, c'mon, being blonde it self is always be stereotypical for a shallow human being. We got no blonde here in my country, but I got the news! Therefore, however, I got a copy of this, and I watch it with a low expectation. But, what a surprise! I truly enjoy it even from the very first minutes. Reese Witherspoon deliver a catchy performance here, and so with the plot and film's construction. It is so well developed, that makes us, as the audiences, never loose a good moment.In my opinion, Legally Blonde succeeds as a good satire and definitely a-must-see for both social drama and comedy fanatics. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon in pink perfect","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Who could have pulled off the airhead/smart-ass gig better than this vibrant girl in pink? We can't keep our eyes off her, and it's probably in part because she's so consistent in her character, whom she embodies fully and consistently. Brilliant co-stars as well, though there _is_ the compulsory element of sappiness for the sake of a happy ending. "},{"Title":"Fun, witty... and for what it is, really entertaining!","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a fun movie. I think that everyone who is either depressed or bored should be made to watch this one. It's a happy go-lucky film, and it brings a smile to your face when you watch it, which in my opinion is the whole reason for watching a movie!Take some time outta your hectic schedule to watch this one, you won't regret it.7 flaps out of 10 "},{"Title":"legally get it if...","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I highly recommend this movie, but not just to anybody. If you are not open minded (meaning you don´t discriminate beauty, smiles, and optimism as a life-style) perhaps you shouldn´t see it, or just maybe you´d  end up finish loving it as I do. How ever this title might not only make you laugh, but if you are perceptive enough it can show you the importance of beeing yourself and enphasize your courageous, dinamic, polite, working, perfectionist and happy attitude. The colors, acting (except for the actor who did Warner), and context are totally according. The result, a movie whish can put you in good mood! "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a piece of crap it turns out Elle Woods is getting engaged to a guy named Warner and she has to go shopping to buy something special. Warner shows up at the mansion in his limousine and they go to a restaurant and she finds out that instead of proposing Warner wants to break up with her she asked Warner if her breasts we're too big he said if he we're going to be a lawyer by the time he was 30 he needed to marry someone serious and she's all heartbroken awe boo hoo. She sleeps in bed for weeks. So they go shopping and in order to win her precious Warner back she decides to become a lawyer. She finds out he's engaged to a lawyer named Vivian so she goes to a salon for help. I couldn't stand this movie another minute. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Good message --- sometimes","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The message of the movie is confusing.  See, I guess the message that the character Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon) tries to show in this movie is that anyone can achieve what they want, no matter how others judge them.  Thing is, in this movie a lot of what goes on is --- unbelievable.  Like for instance --- do you think in real life Elle would have been able to achieve the scores she did and get into Harvard Law?  I'm thinking no, but then again you never really know.  I guess that's why this movie is ficticious. The cast is decent in this movie.  I mean it's not an A+ cast, but it sure comes close.  With a bunch of actors and actresses teens adore nowadays --- including Ms. Witherspoon as well as Selma Blair and Luke Wilson.  A cast like that really draws in an audience. Also, the storyline is weak.  I've basically outlined part of what goes on in this movie.  Although the storyline is weak, there are tons of laughs to be found.  I was crying because I was laughing so hard in some parts of this movie. Basically, this is one of those comedies that some adore while others dread. I myself adored this movie.  Sure, there was an overuse of pink and a crappy soundtrack, but the movie was cute.  Not Oscar worthy, but sure was MTV Movie Award worthy, and that's all that really matters with teens nowadays anyway.  So check it out if you like silly comedies aimed towards younger audiences.  "}{"Title":"Legally Funny!","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film was hilarious and heart-warming without being raunchy and tasteless (i.e. American Pie, Scary Movie). Reese Witherspoon's performance was witty, cute and vivacious as Elle Woods. I thought that she was a bit ditzy to apply to Harvard Law School only to win her man back, but by the end, she proved that she didn't need Warner Huntington III to complete herself. This film has a great motto for young girls Believe in yourself, a guy does not complete you! "},{"Title":"Go Reese Go","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This was a fun movie...sure it's fluff, but it's good fluff. It reminded me of WORKING GIRL with Melanie Griffith where the under dog comes up a winner.It's thoroughly enjoyable with good performances, especially Jennifer Coolidge who steals almost every scene she's in. The bend-and-snap scene was one of the funniest bits.Reese has a shot at becoming an A-List box office star and hopefully we will see many more diverse performances from her. She is certainly capable of more than what we see here, for example her performance in Freeway which was about 180 degrees from this role. "},{"Title":"This is should be a bad movie, but it isn't","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I saw the trailers for this movie, I couldn't believe that Hollywood would have rolled the dice and made a movie like this one.  I figured it had to be a horrible movie.  I was surprised to see to doing well in the theaters and even more surprised to hear people telling me that they liked it.I finally went to go see a movie that I dismissed as just another chick flick.  I actually liked it and was surprised to find myself enjoying it.  The jokes all worked and the story was decent.  The only part that had me cringing were some nail salon scenes.I hear they are making a sequel to this which is a huge mistake.  The joke is going to wear thin-there is only enough humor in this concept, I think, for one movie.  I doubt the second one will be any good, especially since this one seems to have been good by accident, if there is such a thing. "},{"Title":"Turned out to be a good movie","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OVERALL MOVIE RATING *** stars. A good movie.LEGALLY BLONDE REVIEWI was really surprised with how well this movie turned out. I was really expecting some stupid teen movie with bad lines and bad actors. It actually wasn't until a friend told me that it was good before I went to see it. Believe me, this movie deserves the awards it got.I was glad to see Witherspoon in this movie because she is a really great actress and I like several of her movies. Wilson proved once again to be a rather good actor, he adds some comedy to the movie and I think the role fits him perfectly. He also does really well in The Royal Tenenbaums.Legally Blonde is about Elle Woods, a popular sorority girl who's boyfriend just dumped her. She is really upset because he tells her that she isn't bright enough for him. She decides to go to Harvard Law School and prove herself to be smarter than her ex thought she was. But even after she does so, she realizes that he is engaged now. She still pursues to become smarter though, and gets to become part of a murder case, but it is shocking to her, especially when she finds out that the suspect is someone from her sorority.A really impressive film, this was one of the better movies I had seen in a long time. It's not the greatest, but it is something that you could watch more than once, that's for sure. This movie mixes comedy, drama, and law very well. "},{"Title":"Not too bad at all...","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Having Pay TV gives you the ability to watch the same file multiple times.  It can be a both a blessing and curse.  In this case a blessing.At first I was dreading watching this movie.  But in the end I loved it.  Yes the movie is predictable and yes it works on sterotypes.  But that is the charming aspect of it.I loved the detail that they paid to this movie.  For example when Elle was asking to go to law school the camera shoots were great.  She was in the pool asking daddy like a little poddle would.  Look at her posture at that moment.Then the part when she walks by with the computer and the others stare at her.  Notice how everybody has a Starbucks grand size cup of coffee in their hands.When you first watch the movie you do not notice those details.  But watching the movie two or three times you see them.I love comedies and I tend to be very critical about them.  But this one is nice...And for those that say this is too sterotypical.  Well guess what most comedy works because it is sterotypical!! "},{"Title":"There is a sequel ???","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Once every now and then you come by a movie that is sooo bad you can hardly believe it. Legally Blond is one in this category. Since I started quoting movies on IMDB, only Turbulence 3 got a lower rating.It is too hard to start describing this here. If you feel the need, go ahead and watch this movie - it is amazing. And now there is a sequel as well ? The horror...  "},{"Title":"The Plight of the Pretty Girl","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Final Score 5.6 (out of 10)I don't really feel either way about Legally Blonde. It's uneventful, but inoffensive. It's visually vibrant, Hoku's Perfect Day is catchy and fits well as the theme song and it's kind of cute. The biggest asset, and only real reason to see it, is Reese Witherspoon. Gorgeous, delivering impeccable comic timing and with a depth & variety to her character, Witherpoon successfully turns Elle Woods into a memorable girl worthy of a star vehicle. It's everyone around her that seems to be going through the motions. I just didn't like the thing. I didn't think it was funny for a second. I sat there waiting for a joke to even be set up and it seemed like nothing  never was. The movie relies so heavily on the theoretically humorous contrast between pink, scented, frilly Woods and her serious, uptight Harvard Law surroundings that they forgot to actually write jokes.But I'm a guy and this movie wasn't made for me. It's a girl-power movie and not the studio assembled, commercially constructed girl-power label used to sell things like the Spice Girls and Charlie's Angels but a real celebration of girldom. The movie says that even the girliest girl doesn't have to give up her femininity to make it in a man's world, but establish it her own way. That's great, that's something femenists don't even get. Elle Woods is charming, fast talking and bright...but is she really Harvard Law School material? And here comes my biggest problem with Legally BlondeThis movie is not, as advertised, one that debunks the stereotype of the ditsy, dumb blonde. Elle Woods is bright, but not exactly a genius. Instead, it seems like she doesn't get ahead because she works hard and is intelligent as much as life just seems to wind around so that everything around her is about clothes, men and shopping.  She solves every problem including saving the day in the climactic trial scene like this. She gets her job at the law firm because she's pretty and a higher up wants to sleep with her. The movie does a disservice to the character by making her world so small and forcing everything else to conform to her, instead of her branching out and challenging others. Let's face it, life is pretty easy for Elle Woods and it&#145;s nothing new that gorgeous girls have things handed to them as often as possible. That's just the way men are and society is. But `Legally Blonde' celebrates this. The message seems to be that if you're a girl and you're pretty you can stumble successfully through life on the backs of others blissfully unaware of the world around you. Elle's problems of trying to be taken seriously and not have everybody automatically think that she's wonderful are problems that most people would kill to have. Watching this movie reminded me of the Preston Sturges satire The Palm Beach Story in which Sturges made fun of this very thing. What he called The Aristocracy of Beauty. Unfortunately there is no hint of satire here, just a melting pot of silly writing, non-existent direction and mixed messages- all scented nicely so they will impress people. Tracy Flick would've eaten Elle Woods alive.     "},{"Title":"8 out of 10; very good","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a fan of dark and critically acclaimed films (The Ice Storm, Last Picture Show, 2001, Apocalypse Now, etc.), I was not excited about seeing Legally Blonde.  The key to watching this movie, like Charlie's Angels, is not to take it to seriously and just enjoy it.  In fact, I thought the story was interesting and the characters well developed.The plot, of course, is predictable. We know Elle is going to win in the end.  I think that is part of the fun, however, and leads to some very touching and funny moments.  Maybe if this was an art-house movie, Elle would have been crushed and defeated.  But it isn't and so the plot has to be obvious.  I had fun rooting for Elle and genuinely enjoyed seeing her come out on top.The sad part is that for every well made fun movie like Legally Blonde, Hollywood releases 50 crappy ones in the same genre.  Don't be fooled, however.  This movie is very good.I think those who didn't like Legally Blonde see too much of themselves in the snobby, pretentious, and prejudiced intellectuals the film so accurately portrays.  As a famous Clint Eastwood character said, It is what people know about themselves inside that makes them afraid. "},{"Title":"Legally Blond","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon stars in this hilarious funny movie about a blond who has always been stereotyped to be dumb, but is able to hit back when she works very hard to get into Harvard Law School in an effort to win her boyfriend back.Witherspoon is fantastic when the script is up to scratch and even when it's not, she tries her best to keep us entertained.The rest of the cast work well. The film works well as a treat and it will be wrong to see this film as just a chick-flick. **** "},{"Title":"Clueless at Harvard Law","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie reminded me a lot of Clueless and I mean that in the best possible way.Just turn off your yeah,riiight detector and enjoy some laughs.Witherspoon does a great job as an apparent ditz who turns out to be not so dumb,after all.Not deathless cinema by any means,just a funny movie well worth your time.  "}{"Title":"Not everyone's cup of tea.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I will have to say that not everyone will agree with this 'blonde comedy'. But I thoroughly enjoyed it. It takes back most of the dumb blonde jokes and actually gets down to the message that everyone has real potential in life! Here and there they have some real good quirky comments and gives us humour lovers a good laugh. It sends out a good message to all young people Be who you are and believe in yourself! If you haven't watched it yet, do yourself a favour and have a night of good fun! "},{"Title":"Totally cute and sends a message","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon is my favorite actress under the age of 30 and I tremendously enjoy all her movies. In this one she's a girlie girl with a strong belief in herself and her ability to win a boyfriend she lost back by getting admitted to Harvard, his school, as a law student, because she thinks he wants a serious girl.And she manages against all odds to become that girl, even becoming more than she thought she could ever be. Fantastic supporting cast, especially the gal who is her manicurist and sympathizes with her situation.Funny, light-hearted, great script - I have known sci-fi and action movie people to even like this great movie. Since I like Reese and love comedy, I will give it 10 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While Ms. Witherspoon does not convince me that she is a beauty queen in the beginning, she does win me over when she wins her first point in law school.This movie is very entertaining. If you want to have another Hollywood fun-ride, go see this movie. However, get back to reality after you see this bit of mind-candy. 8/10- Zafoid "},{"Title":"`Clueless with brains'","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is not a fantastic film however it is much better than I predicted, only the elaboration of a very basic plot makes the film work.It begins with Elle, (Reese Witherspoon) a college student who anticipates receiving a marriage proposal from her boyfriend Warner (Matthew Davis). Unfortunately Warner has bigger plans and wishes to study law at Harvard University and only has plans to break up their relationship.  In order to prove that she is not just a stereotypical blonde bimbo with no brains, Elle successfully applies to Harvard whereby she attempts to charm over her ex-boyfriend by proving that she has the brains as well as the body.Apart from annoying girls obsessed with shopping and beauty parlours (hence my connection with Clueless) and the part of Elle being overwhelmingly irritating the film does have some comical parts.  During the film you can also play a game of spot the instantly recognisable B-list actor. You will find yourself shouting aloud - `oh that's the guy from 'Titanic' (Victor Garber) and `oh he's from hmm can't remember' (Luke Wilson).and `oh wasn't he in 'Bring it on' (Richard Hillman). `Oh, oh and she was in Final Destination' (Ali Larter).Many have congratulated Reese Witherspoon on a splendid performance in this film, but I'm not quite entirely sure she was not just playing herself. I have seen her similar style of acting in American Psycho and one does have to wonder.Nevertheless it is better than your average teen flick film but is not cracked up to be one to remember.  6/10. "},{"Title":"AWESOME!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love it!  I love it!  I love it!  The concept that women can do anything men can do is so strongly accented in this movie.  Reese Witherspoon does an outstanding portrayal of the persuasive blonde*****possible spoiler******that shows up her evil ex by going to Harvard. Selma Blair does a wonderful job at making you hate her guts near the beginning.  By the end, you really end up caring for all the characters (especially Elle!). And Bruiser's just the cutest.  "},{"Title":"?????????","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde was originally branded as a cute movie that Reese Witherspoon was trying to make a comeback in, but it is not!  Elle Woods is an aspiring lawyer who was stereo-typed as a Victoria Secret's Model before she got a chance to prove her self.  This movie is a great pick -me - up for anyone who loves non-blonde or fashion humor. "},{"Title":"Better than it has any right to be","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A man I knew growing up would often describe a film as being, `Better than it had any right to be.'  I found the expression clever at the time, but had forgotten it&#133;until I saw Legally Blonde for the first time.  If ever a film could be characterized as better than it had any right to be, it's this one (or perhaps Bring it On for similar reasons).  I must reluctantly add my name to the list of reviewers who found this movie rather more clever and charming than we care to admit in public.Of course, let's not get carried away.  Legally Blond is not Citizen Cane.  It is a trite, silly film, and certainly not responsible for any great cinematic innovation.  However, it's blessed with a very funny script and an extraordinary comedic performance by Reese Witherspoon.  Reese's timing and delivery are impeccable, and she pulls off making vulnerable and endearing an ostensibly superficial protagonist who has been handed the world on a silver platter.  The fact that she's also remarkably easy on the eyes is not a good reason to see a film, but it's definitely a bonus.For all you skeptics out there, I challenge you to give this film a chance the next time it comes on HBO.  If you don't find yourself cracking a smile in spite of yourself, feel free to write me a nasty-gram. My fearless prediction Legally Blond 2 will be heinous.  Pleasant surprises do not merit sequels in the almost certainly vain hope that lightening will strike twice.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"No-brainer and Predictable, but fun all the same","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon is starting up a nice career starring in fun romantic-teen-comedies for people my sister's age. This will stand as her first foray into the world of sweet, easy-on-the-mind comedy films, a type of film that will dominate the rest of her acting life. I find it slightly disappointing that we will probably rarely (if ever) see her again in something like Election, but Witherspoon is now slowly becoming America's sweetheart, and if she can live up to the standard that is all we can ask of her. The movie itself involves Witherspoon getting into Harvard Law for the sole reason of winning back her snob boyfriend. Selma Blair shows up for the 18th straight film as the other girl, Luke Wilson is Witherspoon's new love interest (which is obvious the first time you see him), and the rest of the cast is a bunch of character actors no one knows the name of.It doesn't really matter, seeing as the film is solely a vehicle for the beautiful Witherspoon to work her charm on us. She is not a cynical hero like most teen movie characters are, but a sweet, naive, and utterly determined young woman who succeeds in the end by her very get-to-itiveness. Although much of Legally Blonde is rarely in doubt, it provides and hour and a half of silly fun. And sometimes we need that when we're taking a break from Fight Club and American Beauty.  "},{"Title":"Not very funny","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The main problem with this movie is its banal and severely childish and stupid humor, filling a solid half of the movie. The other part, mostly taking place at Harvard university is made up of smarter and funnier jokes and there are even some bright moments that make the movie less painful. But still, a comedy that doesn't know if it wants to be smart or just plain blonde.  5/10 "},{"Title":"Fun, Feel Good Movie","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a fun comedy that most people would enjoy.  While it certainly holds its own as a funny comedy, it has a very motivational underlying message for us not underestimate ourselves.  This movie will keep you entertained and basically give you a good time despite the slightly farsical nature of the plot.  I even liked the valley type songs that accompanied it, especially Hoku's Perfect Day. "}{"Title":"like, yea!","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this movie was a blast to watch at 4 in the morning!  it's funny and the entire idea of a total airhead gettin into harvard law was just hilarious!!  it's great for people who have serious insecurities when it comes to waiting for college and grad school acceptance.  this is just a really fun movie to watch.  this is good to watch by yourself or with a bunch of your friends at 4 in the morning.  this is really on the chick flick side of the movie spectrum but i guess guys can have a fun night watching it too; reese and ali aren't bad to look at either.  and there's a good lesson for them to learn too! "},{"Title":"Not worth seeing this Harvard airhead get revenge on her ex. Case closed.","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Elle Woods is a somewhat annoying dumb blonde played by Reese Witherspoon. Elle's ambitions are limited to getting married to the man of her dreams, Warner Huntington III (played by Matthew Davis). But on the night Elle expects Warner to propose, he takes the opportunity to break up with her! He's going to Harvard Law with the aim of being a senator by the time he's 30, a schedule that mandates that he marry a Jackie, not a Marilyn. Miffed, Elle decides to go to Harvard as well, and is accepted, in the name of diversity. She arrives with her scented, pink resume and her tiny Chihuahua Bruiser. The Harvard crowd are somewhat amused but patronizing.Along the way she meets the kind and mature Emmett Richmond (Luke Wilson) who is one of the few who take Elle seriously; stuck-up Vivian Kensington who happens to be Warner's new fiancé (Selma Blair); Brooke Taylor Windham (Ali Larter) as a lady who decides on Elle for legal representation late in the movie; and Paulette, an unconfident manicurist who gets a little inspiration through confiding in Elle (Jennifer Coolidge, best known to most teen movie fans as 'Stifler's Mom'.) The rest of the movie is spent as she tries to succeed at law school, get along with everybody, and let a bit of her favorite color 'pink' rub off on everybody.Much of this film's selling point is due to Reese Witherspoon, who was willing to throw herself completely into the bubbly role of Elle Woods. Perfectly suited to this, she's a confident actress who has risen up the Hollywood ranks and can now sell a flick with her name and face alone on the poster. Her performance is entirely convincing, but this sort of dumb-blonde humour is a product wrapped up nicely for mass-girl-appeal that just doesn't work for a guy like me. I guess it's really not even trying to. So when I say I didn't enjoy it, I've only got myself to blame for hiring it.It seems Elle has figured out where she wants to go and exactly what she wants to achieve, but I don't think this film can. The movie seems to want to make us completely aware that she is so out of place in Harvard, and many scenes are devoted to demonstrating this to the audience, some of which earn no laughs at all, only humiliation for our central character. Once Elle is settled at Harvard, the movie can't seem to decide which direction to take us in. I can't continue to explain the plot, as there are very few plot surprises left to reveal.One thing that studios need to avoid is revealing the whole plot line in their trailers. As the movie went along I realised I had already seen every key scene in the trailer. The movie had no more surprises to give me.The script has weaknesses, with characters changing their attitudes at the drop of the hat. One teacher gives Ella a hard time in her first class, and then the next time we see the teacher, she's convincing her not to drop out of law school and that anything is possible. She is obviously completely out of her league in class, but the script seems to be able to allow her to turn it all around with what seems to be one night of cramming. If only it was that easy in real life! Does Elle have a higher IQ than we are led to believe?The acting, set designs and direction cannot be faulted. They were all capable enough for this film to be a huge hit, especially with the targeted audience of teenage girls who, I suspect, are attracted by the pink poster and themes of female empowerment. The film was targeted well towards them, and the marketing surely helped this movie along its way in grossing over $100 million. Expect a similar commercial success for the sequel.Robert Luketic was given the job as director on the strength of his short film, Titsiana Booberini, which was well received at short film festivals across the U.S. such as Sundance and Telluride. Legally Blonde, his first feature film, debuted at number 1 on the U.S. box office ahead of Robert De Niro's The Score & Steven Spielberg's A.I. We will surely see Luketic directing more Hollywood productions after the commercial success of this. Let's hope he's given the opportunity soon to direct a creation of his own.Out of 5 stars A 'truly heinous' 2. "},{"Title":"wicked!","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i love this film! at first i didnt know whether i wanted  to see it as it looked a it too bimbo like for me. however i was pleasently surprised! i think that Elle is a very loveable character and that Reese does a great job acting this caharcter.i thought that all of the characters in this film are great and are well acted. so a big well done to all the cast! "},{"Title":"hmm ... hottie.","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented this - for some reason, and the only reason I sat through it was to keep my eyes on that cutie Reese.  Shes stunning in this movie, a total knockout.  She's amazing, so cute and preppy - blonde ).  That's the only reason i'd suggest this film to anyone. "},{"Title":"10 out 0f 10","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  a Californian blonde who's head of her sorority goes to law school chasing after the man of her life. facing tough opposition, Elle Woods overcomes her struggles making her a top lawyer. this film is full of laughter and excitement you don't want to miss it. great actors. a film for teenagers.  "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was funny.  It is very entertaining.  Just watch this movie and you will love it!  Reese Witherspoon makes a great actress for this movie. She does a great job!This movie is about a girl who is into herself.  She will stop at nothing to gain Warner after he dumps her.  To end up forgetting all about Warner and falling in love with someone else. "},{"Title":"The bend and snap is unforgettable.","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Every time I see a UPS delivery man, I think of the bend and snap in this movie.  It cracks me up!  Caught this movie again on cable.  It even good the second time around.  We will have to get the DVD on this comedy. "},{"Title":"Legal Blonde theme drives under the influence of other movies.","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde is one of those zany throwbacks to comedy of the simpler, more innocent time of the 1940s or 1950s.  If you liked this film, its premise, and its humor, then you probably will like a Disney movie using much of its plot and storyline.Cadet Kelly is about a teenage girl forced by the remarriage of her mother into military school where her stepfather is the commandant.  Like Elle, Kelly is totally out of her element as she competes for the attention of the most perfect guy who just happens to be the ranking student cadet.In order to impress him, Kelly must find a way to help him win a drill team medal, and that involves throwing around rifles like robots, to quote Kelly.  She is way in over her head, but somehow, like Elle, she rises to the occasion.This film uses many of the same techniques; instead of the legal profession, the humor focuses on the military, with much of it aimed at adults. since the lines are over the heads of youngsters.Camera angles, gags, and two of the same songs are used in both movies. An example of a gag scene from Legally Blonde has Elle talking on the phone to her sorority sisters with the bride-to-be taking a fall.  A parallel scene in Cadet Kelly has Kelly's father doing the same as he talks with Kelly.The two films are very similar as both stress females winning male approval by achievement.  However, Cadet Kelly leaves a much more positive message about female success, as the two females are only eight years apart, and the younger one appears to be more savvy about how the world works by the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"a pointless but nonetheless fun comedy","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While this movie is, as many teen movies are, entirely pointless, it is the perfect thing for a fun night.  Of course the movie has very little plot. However, it is full of humorous lines.  Reese Witherspoon is adorable, and does a great job making you love her character.  Unbelievable as she is, you simply have to laugh.  This is one of my favorite movies ever! "},{"Title":"Not Your Average Comedy","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's so refreshing to see comedy that doesn't contain idiotic teeny bobbers misplacing their car or blowing up their car or playing with sausages and eating mice, etc.  In this comedy, Reese Witherspoon takes laughter to a whole new level.  This movie is not filled with silly stunts; instead it plays on the fashion conscious and makes a joke out of it.  I especially loved the part when Reese turns in her pink scented resume and when she teaches the girls at the salon to Jump Back and Snap.  I thought that part was especially cute.  No, the movie is definitely realistic, that's what makes it a comedy.  I'm looking forward to seeing the 2nd one; there's to be a part two.  I definitely think this movie is worth watching with a bunch of your girlfriends-oh, it is a chic flick, so you girls are going to have to force your boyfriends to watch! "}{"Title":"Barbie goes to Law School.","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a surprisingly good story, given its premise.  Basically, a Barbie doll gets dumped by Ken for being (can you believe it?) too superficial, and finding that she isn't taken seriously by anyone, ends up taking herself seriously, and in the bargain discovers that Ken wasn't quite the doll she previously thought him to be.  Yes, it seems simple minded, and could have been tediously trite except that it's actually quite witty and intelligently written.  There is a fair amount of character development, and even a rather encouraging message.  To that extent it is almost a kind of underdog story, turned upside down, playing on stereotypes of the way-too rich and pampered.  There is much silliness, therefore, but the story holds together nicely, and it proves to be a very entertaining fantasy. "},{"Title":"So much fun!!!!","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I remember seeing previews for Legally Blonde and i said to my friends Oh God, talk about worst movie of the year! Then i gave it a shot with my mom I walked out of the theater amazed on how great this movie is!! It had some very great acting in it and not to mention some hilarious moments! I would definatly recomend this movie for your whole group of pals!! It will become an all time favorite! "},{"Title":"Cheesy but cute","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ignoring how unrealistic this movie is, it's so cute!  I loved it.  Elle Woods thinks she has the perfect life. she has a cute boyfriend, she's the president of her sorority, and there's Bruiser, her adorable little chihuahua.  Her boyfriend ends up dumping her because she's too blonde.  Determined to win him back, she enters Harvard University to overcome the blonde stereotype.  Well, I don't like saying what happens at the end of the movie(i'm sure you could guess already), but it's still a VERY CUTE movie.  and it's not another chick flick so i recommend this to anyone who just wants a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Really Not Bad","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon stars as Elle Woods, president of her Southern California college sorority, straight 'A' fashion major, dating the BMOC, and greatly admired by her large ditzy cohort. After her beau dumps her because he feels a woman like Elle won't help further his planned political career, Elle decides to fight to get him back. But he's about to depart for Harvard Law School. Elle figures she'll prove her worthiness by going to Harvard Law also. And so begins the movie.One good thing about this above-average romantic comedy is that it is almost entirely lacking in romance. There's not a tremendous amount of comedy either, but guys, don't quibble.   This is better than most women's movies in the video store. And if you're pressed to rent one you can certainly do worse, and this one is not bad.  "},{"Title":"Clever, light-hearted fun","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon) is the quintessential Valley Girl.  The story of 'Legally Blonde' is highly unbelievable, and yet enjoyable at the same time.  Witherspoon easily becomes her character and is able to portray an ultimate stereotype with a new freshness.Holland Taylor is perfectly cast as one of Elle's law professors at Harvard.  Taylor is a judge on TV's 'The Practice,' and so her character is immediately recognized as being law-savvy.  Victor Garber also does well as a colleague of Taylor's and partner of a prestigious law firm.  Finally, Selma Blair portrays the role of a seemingly snooty, uptight intellectual well.  Obviously, 'Legally Blonde' won't be winning any Oscars.  Nevertheless, it's a clever film that lightheartedly pokes fun at law school and its overall environment. "},{"Title":"so close...","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a very cute movie. Reese Witherspoon's performance was fantastic... not award winning, but very fun to watch. What really hurt this movie was the court room scenes. They were shot with such a disregard for court room proceedings that it ended up being very distracting. Otherwise, the movie was very fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Singapore","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed watching this film.  It's rare that a mainstream Hollywood production can excite me into raving about the film the way I do for this, but clearly, this film is good, absolutely fabulous and totally entertaining.  This movie is so feel-good and inspiring it just inspires you to get up and do something for what you want!  Reese Witherspoon's ditzsiness, cluelessness and fashion-obsession are cute traits, which she brings into Harvard Law School, and even though no one believes that she could last in that school, despite the problems she meets, she is always so cheerful, so optimistic and so blithe about everything that eventually, she solves her problems and helps others along in the process, earning herself popularity and a social network.  How cool is that?  The best movie of 2001.  Enough said. "},{"Title":"Fun, Cute and of course, Blonde","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, I'll admit it, I am sick and tired of blondes being the end all beat all of proper female existence. I had no intention of seeing this film but I had a cold and nothing else was on cable. This film really surprised me. It was fun, cute and very blonde. Here she was, Miss Wonderful in America, all ready to settle down with her Ken doll and guess what, he tells her she's not serious enough for him for now he was off to Harvard Law School. All she was to him was a fun and pretty gal to be around but when it came down to marriage, he needed a serious, studious brunette witch type. This film had every blonde element I hate, and I turned out liking it! Why? Because even though she appeared to be a dumb blonde, she was actually a very smart resourceful girl who didn't know she actually had it in her! No blonde hair, cute clothes and perfect body to get her through, although sometimes, not all times -- it helps. This film begs one to think that first impressions and looks about women are not everything. Get to know them without the sterotypes of blonde, brunette or redhead you may be surprised. With this film, I was. "},{"Title":"Cute revenge of the bimbo movie","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A movie that goes to show there is more to a person than what appears on the outside.  A little far fetched perhaps, including a ditzy blonde straight from fashion merchandising major to Harvard law school via some video essay to valedictorian.  Unless she is the Einstein who's been hanging out with the wrong crowd, it might be the case in the 1940's, but hardly nowdays.  Even so, the acceptance to Harvard was still far fetched, and we never really see her transform to a serious genius.  The court case was just more of applying her knowledge from her ditzy undergraduate days.  But Witherspoon seem to have enough to most of it off.  Any other ditz like Denise Richards would absolutely not work.Still, it is a enjoyable movie with a typical happy ending, just don't put too much thinking into it, during or after the movie.  "},{"Title":"Adorable!","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a darling movie, whoever said it was the worst movie ever made is nuts. If you're a Reese Witherspoon fan, see The Man in the Moon -- she's amazing and nothing in it like Elle Woods! "}{"Title":"Is It Really Legal?","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   In the 2001 release Legally Blonde, director Robert Luketic uses a play on words mocking the show Star Trek by using the lines, `Boldly going where no blonde has gone.'  This tagline really does a good job of explaining the plot of the movie.  Actress Reese Witherspoon, who plays Elle Woods, fits the part perfectly.  She's the natural so-called, ditsy blonde.  She's the hard core sorority girl who has the hot fraternity guy whom all the girls drool over.  Elle Woods is the sorority girls idol.  Everyone brings their fashion problems to her.Elle's life is soon turned upside down when her dream boyfriend Warner (Luke Wilson) breaks her little heart.  She's just too blonde for his rich blue collar blood.  He need someone more sophisticated if he's going to be a lawyer.  But that doesn't stop Elle.  She soon finds a way to get him back. All she has to do is be accepted to law school. Elle is accepted by Harvard.  The ironic thing is that her beautiful looks and lovely blonde hair are what actually got her accepted.  (One thing I noticed is that there are no blondes attending Harvard Law School in the movie.  I'm sure that there are plenty of blonde law students.  The way it is depicted in the movie though, Elle is the only one.)  Once in, Elle's one and only goal is to prove to Warner that she is more than just blonde hair. It's difficult at first, but Elle soon proves that there's more upstairs than just sailboat fuel.  Elle has made a breakthrough for blondes everywhere.I would recommend this movie to anyone who would like a good laugh.  This proves blonde jokes are wrong. "},{"Title":"ELLE YOU'RE SWELL","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Apart from her looks, Elle is as normal as a young juicy sorority queen can be. All this changes when her boyfriend dumps her to pursue his law career in Harvard. He claims that Elle isn't sophisticated enough to be his girlfriend and he needs someone who hasn't got a major in Fashion Design. He needs someone who attends Law School. After the tears on Elle's cheeks have dried, Elle has the perfect idea on how to getting back her boyfriend. Applying for Harvard Law School! This film is a feelgood film. Enjoyable, funny, amusing and there's a message behind this film. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"VOTE FOR ELLE!","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Only one word can truly summarize this film starring Reese Witherspoon as a stereotyped sorority girl turned lawyer....FANTASTIC.it is a rare occurance these days that a comedy does not rely on trick gags and disgusting grossness to make the audience laugh, but Legally Blonde has neither and is still the funniest, most heartfelt movie i have seen in like forever.Movies such as Not Another Teen Movie, Deuce Bigolow, Something About Mary and all the other's like them that have come out within the last few years have nothing on Legally Blonde.  None of the above named movies had any real longevity to them.  Sure you watch it once and you laugh, but the jokes are boring the second time around.  Legally Blonde differs from this.I have a two year old nephew that i watch once a week, and everytime he comes over he goes straight to the DVD rack and pulls out this movie and we watch it.  I think he likes the dog.  I must have watched this movie close to a hundred times by now and i find myself still able to laugh all the way through....i even find myself reciting lines and laughing to myself in the super market.Excellent flick, i can not stress this enough, full of laughs, not generic tricks, and a very heartfelt and truly uplifting story.What i find great about this film is Elle, played by Reese Witherspoon, who is the blonde in the movie, but despite having stereotyped traits, is not typical in any way.  She is not stupid, rather she is not as serious about some things as she is about others, which is the case for everyone in the world.  She knows what she wants and gets it.i recommend this movie to everyone and find that after a crappy day, it is great medicine for life. "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Contains Spoilers Reese Witherspoon, (Elle Woods) Luke Wilson (Emmett Richmond) and Matthew Davis (Warner Huntington) lead an all-star cast in Legally Blonde. Directed by Robert Luketic in his second feature film, the story is about Elle Woods who has a degree in fashion merchandising and her true love Warner Huntington who wants to be a senator by age 30. One night Warner takes Elle out for a romantic diner to talk about their careers, but it doesn't turn out to be so romantic.Elle thinks that Warner is going to propose to her, but instead he breaks up with her because Elle is not `serious' enough for him. This is one of the most memorable scenes in the movie and it is shot in such a way that it is believable. This is just many of the hilarious parts of the film.Elle can't believe that Warner has done this to her so she decides to get Warner back by going to Harvard Law school and being `serious'. She quickly changes from a fashion merchandiser to the top law student at Harvard. But before Elle can get Warner back she needs to get rid of Vivian. (Warner's fiancée) During the film you can see the competition between Elle and Vivian to be with Warner. Vivian lies to Elle in the movie to make her seem the bitch, but with what happens to Elle at the party we see who is the real Bitch.After studying hard and being the top law student at Harvard Elle gets a job offer to represent Brooke to prove that she did not murder her husband. After some funny moments in the courtroom Elle in the end wins the case, but I wont tell you how because it will wreak the ending of the film. In the end after graduation (2 years later) Elle realizes that Warner is a jerk. So she had been dating Emmett for a few months and Emmett is planning to propose to her on the night of graduation.I have to say that the actors in the movie are perfectly cast for their character and all the characters were great and they each had different views on things. Overall Legally Blonde is definitely one of the hit films of 2001 and I rate it 7.5/10 and I recommend it to people aged all ages who want to see some blondes and have a good laugh. I greatly look forward to the sequel Legally Blonde 2, Red, white and blonde which is due to hit Australian cinemas early 2003.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"funny in pink","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  (SLIGHT SPOILERS)  This is a pretty good movie that does produce some laughs. RW is very likeable as Elle Woods, a stereotypical rich SoCal blonde who loves pink and decides to chase her ex to Harvard law school.  There she shows everyone that you don't have to look like a brainy nerd or basically even know anything about law to make a great lawyer and solve a case that the best defense attorney in the state couldn't crack. So the plot is a little unrealistic, but it is funny to see someone solve a case based on the finer points of hair care.  And as you would guess, she finally dumps her no good ex in the end and starts going out with about the only other guy in the movie she even talks too.I really liked it when she shows up for her first law class and pulls out a heart notebook and fluffy pink pen while everyone else has a lab top. Cute.FINAL VERDICT  Pink, cute, funny. What else can you say! Definitely one of the better films of 2001. "},{"Title":"screw the stereotypes","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After reading many of the other users comments I am a bit shocked of how seriously people take this film. Sure it makes fun of stereotypes, but cant you just ignore that and take it for what it is, a shallow feel good movie. It sure made me feel good, and I hope it will do the same to you! "},{"Title":"Cute, Funny, Sassy and Illegal Fun!","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer for this movie, I thought it was going to be another one of those dumb teen trash movies, don't get me wrong, i enjoy teen movies, but most of them suck these days. Legally Blonde is a really fun movie about a blonde named Elle Woods that no one takes serioulsy because of her looks. After she gets dumped by her boyfriend because he finds her too immature and blonde, she decides to apply to the same harvard law school he's going too, to show him what she's made of! Reese Witherspoon couldn't get any cuter, she did great in this movie. You should definetaly see Legally Blonde if your looking for a fun time. I would give this movie 8.5/10 Can't wait for the sequel! "},{"Title":"Bubbly and fun","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Generally, this is not the type of movie I like.  It's teeny-bopperish and rather shallow.  Well, that's what I thought.  But then, much to my pleasure, it actually makes fun of the shallow people.  I basked in that as I watched Legally Blonde.  Legally Blonde is sort of a Clueless Goes To College.  Reese Witherspoon is just adorable in this role, and she does a great job.  It's not laugh your ass off funny, but it's pretty funny, and an enjoyable ride.  According to imdb there's a sequel coming out next year, so let us see what's in store for us next!  -) "},{"Title":"Pay back becomes a big payday.","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Tongue-in-cheek look at law and the courtroom. Reese Witherspoon is terrific as a ditzy blonde that decides to attend Harvard Law School when her snobby boyfriend(Matthew Davis)dumps her for a more appropriate woman for his future. Interesting, but the comedy wears thin too quick. Not just a chick flick...sometimes getting even can be fun. Also in the cast are Luke Wilson, Selma Blair and Victor Garber. The jury is in and Witherspoon is charming as ever. "},{"Title":"Ditzy blonde, with wit....","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was expecting to lose interest in the first half hour, but my attention was not wavering.  Reese Witherspoon is definitely the Goldie Hawn of present-day Hollywood.  If you like Foul Play and Seems Like Old Times for Goldie's performances, you'll enjoy this movie.Sci-Fi Blonde, I call it.  And, it always works! "}{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a funny movie.  I laughed all the way through this one.  Reese Witherspoon is such a delight to watch.  This one was even better than Sweet Home Alabama. I have been a fan of hers ever since 1991.  She keeps getting better and cuter every movie.   "},{"Title":"One Of My Faves","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is an awesome movie. It is a hilarious and great movie. Any age groups (kids,      s, teens) would like this movie! This is one of Reese Witherspoons best movies and I can not wait to see Legally        2 Red, White and       . It is a great movie and you guys should definitely check it out.I give it a 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Cute Movie","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If this is a chick flick then it's perhaps the only one I like. In my opinion this was actually a pretty decent film. It was both charming and funny. And of course it stars the beautiful and Legally HOT Reese Witterspoon. 3(***)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"The one that made Reese a star isnt bad at all","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Chic flick or not, this movie is sometimes very witty and full of fun. Not for everyone, of course, but watch this with an open mind and youre bound to get something out of it.  Something good. B, 7/10, **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Sweet little bottle carrying a message to you!","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While this flick may be many things people didnt expect or wanted it to be, it sure did a fine job at presenting to its audience, one of the most important messages to people in doubt of themselves. It might have been delivered in a shallow box, but maybe that was just what it took to get the message through to you.I doubt Elle Woods would be a success in cases not regarding some sort of fashion related situations. But thats not the point here. The point is that it doesnt matter who you are, how you look, and what you like to do with your time. Its all just a matter of how you do the things you do.Making sense of your passions is what life is about. "},{"Title":"all praises","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this movie was so great, it's a great illustration of how being blonde doesn't always mean you're dumb.  Reese Witherspoon does a great job of portraying the strong yet bubbly Elle Woods.  This movie was Really cute, can't wait to see the sequel! "},{"Title":"Reese is the word!","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This second cousin, once removed, of Clueless features a far less sophisticated script, but an equally charismatic and charming lead performance.  Witherspoon is a seemingly shallow and materialistic sorority girl whose socially prominent boyfriend dumps her because she isn't the type of wife material he envisions for himself with his political aspirations.  She decides to show him what she's made of by following him to Harvard Law School where she's either dismissed or reviled by the faculty and the other students.  Naturally, she sets out to turn the situation completely around.  The film is cliched and rather poorly written and utterly predictable.  Much of the acting is VERY broad.  However, Witherspoon is so completely likable and captivating that it matters very little.  She crafts an effortlessly light and heartwarming persona.  A few of the supporting players make an impact (Blair is a good match for Witherspoon as a drab, snotty classmate, Coolidge adds another zany concoction to her resume, Davis is just right as the boyfriend and Taylor scores with her customary command of the screen.)  Some of them wear out their welcome pretty quickly (the two sorority sisters.)  Others aren't given an opportunity to shine (for a leading man, Wilson has almost nothing to do and has little chemistry with Witherspoon and the still-striking Welch has one scene with her face obscured and then is almost entirely edited out of the film!)  Chief assets would be the creative costumes, the use of music, the varied hairstyles, the production design and of course, the most adorable, amazing little Chihuahua who is jaw-droppingly cute in an array of teeny accessories.  Drawbacks include the aforementioned script and the editing choices of a new director.  Pace, characterization and story coherence suffered slightly from some of his cuts while the opening scenes drag on a bit.  (The audience KNOWS she's going to Harvard or there'd be no film!  Just get her there already!)  Still, the film is relentlessly fun and uplifting and sparkles with enthusiasm.  It's great non-think entertainment. "},{"Title":"Full of Laughs!!!!","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Contains Spoiler!!! Legally Blonde was a great movie.  It was very entertaining and full of laughs!!  Reese Witherspoon did a great job and filled the part perfectly. I that the plot was very weak and didn't have much menaing to it, but that is what made it so funny.  This movie is great for a girls night out.  It is definitely a chick flick!!  Overall this movie was about a stupid blonde who ran to a hair salon everytime she had a problem, but in the end she was the one who made it through law school and ended up better of then her boyfriend.  So it just goes to show that all blondes aren't stupid and some are actually incredibly smart!!!!! "},{"Title":"They just made one!","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  That's the answer this film provides when you hear people say that cliche statement They don't make 'em like that anymore.  Legally Blonde may proudly stand next to the most delightful screwball comedies, and it is all because of its star  Reese Witherspoon.Ms. Witherspoon is poised to be mentioned as one of the great screen comediennes.  Her performance is vintage Judy Holliday, yet remains intensely her own.  She is an actress extremely gifted at caricature; she breathes depth into her roles and does best when she can make us laugh at ourselves, as her characterizations indict OUR perceptions of where her characters go and who they should be.  In Born Yesterday, Judy Holliday left an intimidating wake very few actresses attempt to surf in  the dumb blonde.  Witherspoon takes that character and armed with the feminism of her day, slashes at the notion that blondes are dumb and simply put on this earth for sex.  Her enthusiasm to show us up is infectious and right away we are laughing and rooting for her success.  Name another actress who could have both cringing and guffawing at her application video along with hoping she gets that damn 174 (sic) on her LSAT.The screwball comedies of yester-year were escapism for a depressed nation. Gable said it best in It Happened One Night when he called there's a simple story for simple folk.  Comedies were for the lowest common denominator, and it is by that standard we should judge other comedies. Their plots are tried and true, a standard formula.  To mess with that plot is heresy, as well as their characters.  These filmmakers may sometimes cross the line, as in their homage to The Graduate, but they can be forgiven because they were showing us that they were in on the joke.  This IS a simple story, they have an actress who will wrap us around her finger.Witherspoon's career has some interesting choices  Freeway, Cruel Intentions, Election, and the upcoming Sweet Home, Alabama.  It is her risky performances that stand out and make us pay attention.  Freeway is Little Red Riding Hood, with her literally stealing the picture from a game Kiefer Sutherland.  She's P-U-R-E white trash, but doesn't let that character element sway us from being on her side she's been wronged, and this wolf is big and bad.  You laugh at first because you don't know if she's really that awful or that brilliant.  Election should have sent her into the stratosphere, but American audiences are stupid (hence the success of Legally Blonde simple story, simple folks), and her mental tete-a-tete with Broderick will be studied in film history classes.  In cinema, audiences can SEE you thinking, and this film is a brilliant mental case. Only in Cruel Intentions does she seem ill at ease with a more morose character.Oscars being the popular standard by which most audiences rate success and artistic achievement, it is a shame that Reese was not even nominated for this role.  (If Julia can get a nom for Pretty Woman, then it shows you how arbitrary the Academy really is.)  She will most likely NEVER get rewarded for what is her gift selling a SMART blonde, unapologetic and sweetly defiant.  Oh, she will win someday, maybe win 2 or 3, but expect it for a Virginia Woolf type role years... from now.  Which is too bad. She's the best actress of her ilk since national treasure Judy Holliday and she deserves more credit that she gets.So, watch this dumb movie again, and see just how believable she is in it. You'll agree that she wuz robbed of something.  You'll wonder if she'll ever be that great again, and that, my folks, is great acting. "},{"Title":"Blondes in High Places","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde is a highly entertaining Romantic comedy produced by MGM studios. My expectations for this flick were extremely high, and it was just as I anticipated.Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon) is a blonde college student aiming to become a supermodel. But when her boyfriend, Warner Huntington III (Matthew Davis), decides to dump her in order to become a senator by the time he's thirty, Elle decides to try and win him back by applying to the same law school that Warner goes to. She arrives at Harvard Law School only to find that Warner has been reunited with a friend from Prep School, Vivian Kensington (Selma Blair), his soon-to-be wife. &#145;Was it worth the trouble getting into Harvard?',' Elle would be thinking right now. It would certainly seem so, especially since Elle's TV exercise instructor, Brooke Whindam, has been put on trial for shooting her husband. Can elle prove that Brooke is innocent? Or is her heroine really a cold-blooded psychopath? Watch and find out!Legally blonde is extremely funny, despite a couple of boring scenes. Not once do you ever think &#145;hey, that's reese witherspoon poorly pretending to be a dumb blonde.' You're always focused on the characters, not the actors. It never occurs to you that the characters are just actors. It's almost like watching live events. Also, seeing the twists and turns in the character's personality is highly enjoyable. You see elle turning into a renowned lawyer instead of a dumb blonde, and Warner changing from a loving boyfriend to a sneaky jerk more interested in money and power than anything else.If you're looking for a movie to watch at the weekend that will make you &#145;bend and snap' with laughter, see legally blonde. Rent it out, but don't buy it because of the lack of replay value. If you're eleven or over, this film is for you, but for those of you who are ten and under, or you're often offended by low level coarse language and mild sexual references, you'd better steer clear of this one.9 out of 10  "}{"Title":"(to quote a blonde) LIKE TOTALLY COOL","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  got to give this one 9/10. I'm actually a blonde so i thought this was going to make me feel kind of stupid but it so did not, there were some bits that you kind of thought hey cos its not very likely there would only be one blonde in the whole of Harvard Law! The acting was great, Reese Witherspoon's best performance to date and Victor Garber is good too. Owen Wilson and Selma Blair come close 3rd and 4th. The story line is good too, if not a bit predictable. But I've got to say CANT WAIT FOR THE SEQUEL! "},{"Title":"I wanted to gouge out my eyes","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After about an hour, I was searching my (blonde) wife's head for a hairpin so I could gouge out my eyes. The scene that did it was the bend and snap scene in the beauty parlor. It was so unbelievably stupid that if space aliens saw it, they would immediately conclude that humans were a threat to the universe and would eradicate all of us -- and I couldn't blame them.Leaving aside the completely unbelievable plot, the characters are thoroughly shallow, and the script lacks any kind of wit or even cleverness. Harvard Law School is apparently just like high school, and murder trials are fun! Arrgh.  "},{"Title":"Why Why Why ???","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A typical teen-yawn which once again raises the common question associated with these types of movies - Why are these beautiful, glamorous college-aged actors and actresses getting paid millions of dollars to turn out such dull, useless garbage? "},{"Title":"Weak comedy with a few humorous moments","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Since I'm a guy, its obvious that I would be immediately prejudiced to chick flicks like these and I'm still waiting to be surprised with one that is so funny that my gut bursts. Even though its a comedy, it didn't succeed well in its purpose, at least to me it didn't. There were some bright and funny spots, but the overall production didn't succeed to rank high in my book(its not a book with high expectations in comedies either). The comedy is also too cute and what was funny was few and far between. Reese Witherspoon's sharp wit helps the film out somewhat, but I just didn't see what was so hilarious about this production. Overall D+ "},{"Title":"Pretty In Pink","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think the bored-sounding director, producer, and star (Reese Witherspoon) in the commentary track on the DVD say it all. Which is, there is not much to say about this Reese Witherspoon vehicle. Her clothes are hot, her behavior at Harvard Law School is camp, the plot is unbelieveable to the point of causing a few genuine laughs in itself, apart from all the situations Witherspoon's Elle gets herself into. No, this movie does not take itself at all seriously, and some of its jump-the-moon plot twists are funny just for their sheer chutzpah.The chief appeal of Legally Blonde is in seeing Reese Witherspoon play a variation on the fatuous yet good-hearted character she's played before in her more lighthearted work. If you've already seen Election and Freeway (both far better movies), and you need a Reese fix, rent this. The supporting characters (especially Jennifer Coolidge as Reese's manicurist, Holland Taylor as a law professor, Oz Perkins as a tic-afflicted nerd, and Luke Wilson as an easygoing hottie) provide an interesting sideshow. Jennifer Coolidge, in particular, gives a very impressive performance, and when you find out she created all her own costumes from thrift store finds, you'll be even more impressed. "},{"Title":"So FuNnY!!!","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i admit that this movie did kind of make fun of blondes and as one i was meerly offended but after i started watching it, i loved it!!!it gives blondes like me a good rep for maybe being smart, i hate all them blonde jokes that they give us, its very very annoying but after most guys watched this, they stopped givin us crap for being blonde, so all blondes and brunetts and red heads and whoever, go see it!!!!! "},{"Title":"I thought that this was a great movie","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think that reese withspoon was great in this movie i also think i had a good point that not all blondes are dumb etc. but i thought it was a very funny movie and i suggest that you see it, but there is some gross humor... out of 10 i would give it a nine "},{"Title":"A disappointment.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Possible spoiler included. I had high expectations of this movie, but they were never met. Now that's a pity, because I like Reese Witherspoon a lot. She was terrific in Election, Cruel Intentions and Pleasantville. Yes, I realize this is light-hearted comedy, definitely not to be taken seriously. But this has very little to offer, regardless of how one takes it. The biggest culprit here appears to be the script. There were some huge lapses in all of the boutique scenes, and the Jennifer Coolidge character was just wasting screen time in all of her scenes. The courtroom drama contains a very weak revelation that comes nowhere near the similar, yet more powerful and convincing element in My Cousin Vinny. Finally, Luke Wilson grimaces just a few too many times, suggesting perhaps that he was enjoying the whole affair even less than I was. Sorry folks, but this is definitely not Reese at her best. "},{"Title":"Clueless 2","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon is great fun in this watchable comedy. Teenage girls will love the dumb humour, silly jokes and the whole  `Clueless' vibe that the film gives off, although if you are not a teenage girl like me, then you will probably find it just too plain silly to fully enjoy. At times its just far too sickly sweet, typified by the `nice and neat' ending to the film. Reese though is on fire in her best performance since `Election', she clearly enjoys the role and revels in it. "},{"Title":"My Cousin Vinny with a sex change","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a criminal defense attorney who attended a top (Rutgers) law school, I should watch this movie, alternating with My Cousin Vinny, weekly.  I'll leave 12 Angry Men for holidays.  I enjoy this movie.  It is clever, uplifting, simple, (in an effective way), and has the SAME courtroom underdog victory that I've had the honor to experience in life, and that is duplicated in Vinny. "}{"Title":"Very funny!","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is hilarious! This a great film about a fashion obsessed blonde working hard to get into law school to get the love of her life.Plot is simple and easy to follow. Warner dumps Elle. Elle goes to Law school. When she gets there Warner is going out with a girl Elle really hates.MAY CONTAINS SPOILERS At the end of the first year Elle gets to assist on actual cases. Unfortunately she is defending her friend but it looks like she is going to be done for murder.This is really funny and thankfully it isn't that stereotypical about males, unlike Bridget Jones Diary.Thankfully the casting is good unlike Bridget Jones Diary. The best performances are by two sexy women, Reese Witherspoon and Selma Blair. Witherspoon playing the blonde and Blair playing the girl Elle really hates.  I'd give a 7 outta 10.  "},{"Title":"Bring out the Blonde in you!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Watch this light hearted funny movie. I watched this funny show at a sleep over, I'm just 12. It really made me laugh and it brought out the blonde in ME(Natural Blonde, Natural Airhead)Reese Witherspoon was the Ditsy yet sharp Blonde Beauty that was just a loveable character. Watch it I guarantee you will luv it! "},{"Title":"Illegally Enjoyable (or, a hopelessly incoherent confession of how I hopelessly love movies)","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This derivative article of largely-unthoughtful fluff inexplicably provided this time a particularly potent re-emergence of the loopy epiphany I have nearly every time I watch a bad movie what a meaningfully complex art form the technology of the motion picture did breed at the curb of the nineteenth and twentieth century! Despite its ho-hum sentimentality, its hackneyed procession of events, its deathly professionalism, I am won over by two splendorously simple things (a) my unavoidable love for Reese Witherspoon, an actress whose victorious bravery in the face of the pervasive anality of the ever-present method approach--a bravery expressed by her super-natural facial expressions (what a poetically exhibitionistic mouth!) and below-the-chin movements so controlled that they could only be spontaneous--must somehow be personally rewarded (or so my libido's morality would have it); and (b) the dark, unintended, common details (not exclusive of (a) come to think of it) that dialectically compromise perfectly the excessesive artifice of false melodramatic emotion for instance, following a predictably preposterous speech of unqualified optimism, in what is too-clearly intended by the filmmakers' collective consciousness to be a celebratory moment, a camera of perversely apt long distance records the (doomed) ascension of a group of Harvard graduates' pitch-black caps, only, due to the brutal laws of nature, to fall back down upon their naked heads, inevitably awkwardly, indicating that their dreams of success and happiness, regardless of the individual variation in fulfillment, are short-lived in the beautifully harsh scheme of things. Thank you, cinema and Hollywood hacks, for outing my latent unconscious poetry. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable cheese-fest","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon does everything she has to do in this neat, satisfying, feel-good exercise. The film is cliche-ridden, but in a way too insincere for it to be a flaw in the overall effect. The director clearly revels, as do the characters, in the quirky stereotyping in the fashion-school scenes near the beginning, and in Witherspoon's part as the dim-looking-but-actually-very-sharp blonde law wannabe. The plot is not meant to be taken seriously, and should not be if it is to be enjoyed. There is little likelihood of the heroine succeeding in getting into Harvard on a whim, and in the charismatic way that she does, and the courtroom scenes must be viewed with a serious pinch of salt. But I don't think we as the audience are meant to bother with the minutiae of this piece - it is simply to be enjoyed. You can see the ending coming from a mile off, and nothing in the now-dated text 'fill-ins' at the bottom of the screen at the end for each character contained any surprises for me. Some critics (who have clearly looked far deeper into this film than is sensibly possible) claim the film to contain a message of hope for blondes everywhere, or even a moral that charisma will always triumph over the all-encompassing greytone colours against which Witherspoon's gloriously colourful character is set. And yet this is nonsense. If anything, the film is more of a light-hearted dig at the charismatic 'blonde' mentality than a defence of it. But this is besides the point; there is no philosophy in 'Legally Blonde', other than the shameless shot at the class-obsessed socialite mentality of Witherspoon's college sweetheart in the movie. You do not come out of this film having learned anything, or been made to think. You just come out of it feeling happy, entertained and amused (the script, if predictable and surreal at times, is dynamic and boisterously good fun), and that to me makes it well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon Is Over The Top Funny","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The real trick to appreciating this movie is not to take it at all seriously. If you analyze this too much you'll hate it. Quite honesty, the storyline is virtually non-existent, and where it does exist it's really quite nonsensical; the acting is ordinary at best, with only two exceptions Reese Witherspoon put on an over the top performance as the blonde law student Elle Woods, and Victor Garber was notable as Professor Callahan (notable because, without giving too much away here, I was actually quite convinced through most of the movie that he was a reasonably good guy.) Anyway, with that introduction, this movie doesn't look too promising so far.Except that you have to remember the rule don't take it seriously. It's full of dumb blonde jokes and stereotypes, it's sexist and it's deliberately silly. This isn't meant to be Gone With The Wind. It's meant to be fun, and for the most part it succeeds. Just learning about the snap made this worthwhile viewing!I really had only two significant criticisms. I would have liked the movie to have focused more on Elle at Harvard. We seem to get only a brief glimpse of her at Harvard, but I really think that would have been funnier than Elle working at a law firm and Elle in the courtroom, and the plot twist in the last quarter or so of the movie was just totally unbelievable (I know it's hard to say that anything could be unbelievable in this kind of movie, but this went a bit too far even for this.) If it weren't for those two weaknesses, I'd probably rate it higher. As it stands, I still think it's worth a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was made out to be the best movie of 2001. When I saw it, I thought it was really good, but that's probably because I'm into those kinds of chick flicks. Reese Witherspoon is excellent as Elle, but I guess the storyline was a little too ... not really my type. But all in all, I really liked this movie. It's great to watch if you're upset or just broken up from your boyfriend. ) "},{"Title":"Clueless only Better! (possibly one of the funniest movies ever!)","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, Clueless was  a total let-down which didn't deserve the good ratings it recieved, but Legally Blonde was amazing!! It was funny, exciting, had some court-room drama with a myster, gossipy, and just one of the best movies!! TWO VERY ENTHUSIASTIC THUMBS UP!! "},{"Title":"This Look Familiar to Anyone? (Possible Spoiler)","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Elle Woods, sorority girl extraordinaire, has just been dumped. What, no proposal? Dumped by the man of her dreams, Mr. Prestige (who has an attractively wide tongue). He claims she is too blonde. So, she treks on up to Harvard Law School, where she finds he has passed her up for an old girlfriend, who he also has proposed marriage to. I'm sorry, I was just hallucinating. So, she decides to try and show him, and his snobby girlfriend, up by outsmarting them and becoming an intern to Harvard's most demanding professor. Piece of cake, right?A promising idea, but the product is somewhat tainted by a lack of purpose. Witherspoon is great in the lead role, but the written material is about as meaningful as a Britney Spears music video. This fore mentioning the horrible music soundtrack (not the score). What attempts to be CLUELESS, more closely resembles a dark gaping void centering a pink border.As a comedy, it's not very funny. As a story of revenge, the actual story takes back burner to the superficial chick-flick quality of popular film in this new millennium. Here, vengeance is every bit as sweet as a dill pickle (yuck). In short, this movie won't appeal to the demographic it portrays, and that's barely legal in my book. "},{"Title":"frisky fun","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  reese is a comic genius. it is her show, and a fine one. it's not for people looking for serious art film. it is light and fun. i think it's better than clueless mainly because reese is much better than alicia stone. enjoy. "},{"Title":"Brunettes beware.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After you see Legally Blonde and fall in love with Elle Woods, and her cute wardrobe and her helpful interior motives, you might want to do exactly what this movie's tagline This summer, go blonde! Blondes may unjustly be the center of countless dumb blonde jokes and California-Barbie-bimbo stereotypes. Even though this movie pokes fun at those generic clichés, however, its message is more real than those assumptions and beliefs.Reese Witherspoon plays Elle Woods, a bubble and witty sorority sister originating from the sunny California. She fits in perfectly with her sisters, due to the fact it's perfectly clear that they all spend the same amount of time on their hair and nails as she does. But when it comes time for Elle to leave her girls and roots in pursuit to follow what she believes to be the love of her life all the way to Harvard Law School, one might think she would have to do some serious readjusting. But in actuality, Elle makes the transition a breeze. She wows the admissions committee at Harvard, thanks to her extremely clever admissions video where she lays in a pool in a sequined bikini and convinces them that she would make a perfect lawyer. And, to surprise everyone she knows, SHE GETS IN! This is where the only downfall of this movie comes in. Maybe this storyline might be a little predictable with plot twists that aren't so tricky, but in the context this fun and cute story, this works just fine. When she arrives at Harvard, Elle becomes the center of attention. Her pink pleather suit, Porsche convertible, spiky rhinestone heels and bouncy blonde hair don't exactly fit in with the argyle socks and sweater vests that the Harvard Law Students choose to sport. Unfortunately, these differences don't bring Elle the attention she wants. She learns that gaining the man of her dreams back will be more than she bargained for.The story provides Elle with an open mind and a warm heart. No matter what might get in her way, she puts that behind her and allows nothing to stop her. Reese really puts this character all together into someone who isn't artificial, a fake, or even a heartless person. She teaches women to be strong and follow what you believe. The audience can't help but love her and her little pooch, Bruiser, that she decks out in all the latest doggy attire. This girl really has it all. This movie is pure fun, and one could sense that these actors and actresses had a blast making it. With a cameo from Raquel Welch, Elle's big-man-on-campus jock of a boyfriend, and countless scenes in a nail salon, this movie also comes with a ball of laughs and an enlightened frame of mind. Even at this movie's premiere, the stars walked out onto a pink carpet and free manicures were provided for all. Whether you are looking for a date movie, or just something you can crack a few smiles at, go see this film. But beware of its deeper meaning and how long you keep that bleach in for! "}{"Title":"Yep, that's H alright&#133;","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Very nice and scarily accurate portrayal of the typical WGU* brat that feels entitled to anything and everything on this planet.  (I can say this, not to be unkind or insulting of those who go to that revered institution &#150; yes, I don't admit this to many people, but I, too, went there &#150; this is kind of like my own loving-slash-critical tribute.)  The movie itself is rather chintzy on its own, but I was more impressed by the fact that names were dropped no holds barred &#150; I cannot imagine what the filmmakers had to do to get Massachusetts Hall and the Offices of Trademark and Licensing and the General Counsel to agree to have the H name used.  Bottom line, silly and funny and all, but if you're familiar with the place, you'll appreciate the subtle nuances that abound throughout the movie.  (*p.s. for outsiders, WGU is the not-so-pejorative-nor-loving nickname of H as the World's Greatest University &#150; or so it and some people like to think).  =) "},{"Title":"Legally AWESOME!!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oh I'm Elle and this is my dog Bruiser and were both Gemini vegetarians. Quite possibly the funniest movie EVER! Reese witherspoon is oscar material in this movie! GO see this! "},{"Title":"I LOOOOOOVED IT!!!!!!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde is a movie you can watch over and over and never tire of it. I am 12 almost 13 and love romance, action, thrillers, horror, comedy and old timey films. Most people would say, oh it's another teenage ditsy movie, but it is not.She is just a determened girl trying to get the love of her life back. It has a great storyline and Reese Withererspoon was amazing. I love this movie. If you are looking for a great movie, here it is. "},{"Title":"Be true to yourself.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What makes a movie great is it's ability to communicate universal truths, no matter what the setting.  Reese Witherspoon does a marvelous job portraying a character easily derided in our society, a very feminine, even girly, young woman who doesn't seem to be smart enough to realize her own limits; but who goes on to show that you can't judge a book by its cover.  This is a fun, light and uplifting movie.  For the girl in all of us. "},{"Title":"Legally Bad","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much, really, so I can't say i'm dissapointed. LB is a dumb movie, without much to highlight. Witherspoon is OK for this role, and as much she's quite pretty, but nothing else. And the message is as plain as the script or the acting something most (smart) people know, the looks are deceiving, and blonde doesn't mean stupid. Just see it if you're trying to get a chick, like i did, and it worked ) "},{"Title":"Comments on story line and actors.","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Very good film with a catchy story line, Brilliant cast couldn't have got better actors for each part! Reese Witherspoon and Luke Wilson act brilliantly alongside each other they should do it more often. Watched it twice now and it just gets better and better each time. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A sub par script by Karen McCullah Lutz and Kirsten Smith (based on a book by Amanda Brown) sabotages Reese Witherspoon's star-making turn as a valley girl who heads to Harvard Law School in pursuit of the upper-class snob who has dumped her but ends up spearheading the defense in a high-profile murder case. It's a cross between `Clueless' and `My Cousin Vinny' but there aren't enough solid laughs to live up to those pedigrees and outside of Witherspoon's lovable blonde-with-a-brain (which owes a great debt, of course, to Alicia Silverstone; it'll be interesting to see whether Witherspoon can avoid Silverstone's subsequent career missteps), the other characters are stock Hollywood caricatures. Everything's predictable, including its smug undertone although it advocates feminist empowerment, it still gets its greatest satisfaction lampooning lesbians and frigid Ivy League coeds and is only ready to conclude when our heroine gets Mr. Right. The director is Robert Luketic, making his debut; apparently he has trouble distinguishing California from Massachusetts--they both look exactly the same.   "},{"Title":"Bah, overrated,unrealistic, and flat-out stupid.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After reading several of the user comments, I was beginning to wonder if I saw a different film than the one that many people were touting as a masterpiece and brilliant.Well, that wasn't the case. Legally Blonde is a poor excuse for a movie. The story has trite written all over it. Character development was poor for in some parts, and that murder case is the most unrealistic piece of trash I've seen in a movie. It's not witty either, it just has plenty of dumb blonde jokes, and follows stereotypes.This film isn't brilliant or a masterpiece by any stretch of imagination. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Feel Good Movie","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde is a brilliant film.It really gives you that Feel Good feeling at the end credits.Reese`s smile just adds to the Feel Good factor. Great Acting from everybody who starred in Legally Blonde.You don`t often seem to get many Feel Good films throughout a year so this was well received. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, my favourite movie","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i love this movie,it's my top movie.Elle woods(reese witherspoon) joins Harvard law school and it isn't going well,her professors first reaction is that she would be well suited in a job involving fasion. Now she's not only fighting  a case,but for respect for blondes everywhere!Reese witherspoon's performance is brilliant. A great movie. "}{"Title":"Like, it was hard??","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Nope, this movie is unchallenging, and very easy to take.  If you saw the coming attractions, and still wanted to see it, you will not be disappointed.  It is silly, unrealistic, and quite enjoyable.  Holland Taylor has an excellent bit as a challenging law professor.  But Reese Witherspoon is the whole show as the Valley Girl who gets into Harvard Law to win the respect of her ex-fiance.  She plays it perfectly - in the Goldie-Hawn-style tradition, and has a ball with it.  Nothing deep, but it is amusing. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Fluff","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie delivers exactly what it promises in its trailers.  Intelligent-but-underchallenged blonde valley girl goes to Harvard Law School.  Witherspoon is perfect in the title role, and has enough energy, earnestness, and timing to make the film seem better than it is.  Victor Garber and Holland Taylor are very good as two other professors.  The comedy is well-paced and good-natured. "},{"Title":"Ugh.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Occasionally, I will find teen movies charming, if not good. Examples that spring to mind are Clueless, Heathers (which actually is good) and Crazy/Beautiful.  Given that I have been impressed with Ms. Witherspoon in the past, I thought this one would be worth a shot.  It was not.  This film is tired from the first frame on, and never relents in its unfunny cliches.  Don't bother with this garbage. "},{"Title":"TEENAGE MISS- NOT BLISS?","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is highly recommended to parents who have survived the 'teenage years' with their children. I saw this movie in a cinema with predominantly teenagers present. Being a middle aged man and a parent of two, and having experienced the wild fantasizing and idealism that teenagers tend to possess, I found this movie to be extremely funny, much to the chagrin of the teenage audience who failed to see what I was so raucously laughing about. Perhaps my laughter was hitting upon sensitive chords within themselves, and that they were being drawn to recognize too, the subtle send-up of themselves in this great little movie.Look for the subtlety that tends to go over the heads of those who have not experienced teenage parenting yet. If you're in this category, as a viewer, I think you'll agree it's a real send up of the young, that many, judging by the comments read so far, have failed to observe.  "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  solid but uninspired drama","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde is more a drama / comedy than a comedy. The movie isn't exactly bad, but nothing about it stands out. The plotting is generic and transparent and there isn't much at stake. For an action movie guy like me who likes it when stuff blows up, it was a little slow-paced.You might think, with the premise being a little original, that the film would be a little original too. Nope. The main problem with the film is that the humor comes from the protagonist's extreme of being dopey and self-involved with glamour. But to pull that off and to also have a glimmer of brilliance that makes the obvious and inevitable direction of the film work for the viewer was apparently beyond Reese Witherspoon.Thus, there's a romance, but it's given little screen time and didn't work for me. Also, the well-used finding yourself theme wasn't powerful.Who should see this film-- law school students (but see The Paper Chase first)-- comedy movie lovers who know what they're getting into,but only on a rainy day with nothing better to do (but first, see power woman movies Fried Green Tomatoes, Working Girl, Nine to Five)-- sorority sisters with hair in pigtails looking for a way outI reluctantly give Legally Blonde a same-old same-old 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Could've been much better","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I hate these candy floss teen films that popped out nowadays from the Hollywood factory. They got we are here to make a quick buck labels all over them. But upon seeing the the premise of this movie, I thought the potential is there - in Tinseltown, being a blonde female who also happens to be smart means a lotta power (and admirers) and it seeks to destroy the myth that all good-looking people have no brains. Interesting, I thought - the chance for social commentary is vast, as well as its entertainment value. So I went in to see it.At first, I enjoyed it and laughed a few times. On a side note, Reese Witherspoon is one of those rare actresses who always manage to deliver intelligent performances (see Election, where she really shines). There's a spark that makes her good to watch.But alas, after a reasonably good start and several funny moments (the Bend down ... and snap! routine is particularly amusing), the movie plunges headlong into your typical movie. I suppose, what else can they do? It IS just another teen movie, with an ending that I haven't already seen a billion times (dear lord, not another courtroom showdown again! jeez). I can only blame myself for walking in expecting something different. "},{"Title":"Release your inner girly girl! (may be a spoiler or two)","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When Legally Blonde first came out, I rolled my eyes because it seemed like yet another half-witted teeny bopper movie. When I saw it at a friend's house, however, I was very pleasantly surprised!!Legally Blonde is most likely to draw comparisons to Clueless or Private Benjamin, but yet in many cases, it has style all its own. Reese Witherspoon sparkles as sweet, if slightly vapid, Elle Woods, who improbably has a 4.0. G.P.A. Her perky demeanor is crushed (for a while, anyway) when her pond scum boyfriend, Warner Huntington III dumps her on a big date. When she finds out that he's going to Harvard Law, Elle decides to enroll too in order to win him back. After hard work and good old dumb luck, Elle is accepted and goes to Harvard with her cute little dog in tow (Bruiser the Chiuaua, who steals every scene he's in). More obstacles come in Elle's way, however, from the fact that Warner has met someone else, to tough -as -nails classmates and teachers.My only two complaints in the movie? The occasional waste of a stunning supporting cast. Selma Blair, who plays Elle's nasty rival, does nothing more than sneer most of the time. What a shame, considering she was so wonderful as Cecile in Cruel Intentions. Another waste is Holland Taylor (The Practice) as Elle's tough love teacher. Taylor is only in three or four measly scenes, and she's luminous in every one she's in. Final gripe? The mean classmates; c'mon, they're in college, not high school! College kids are so much nicer than that.Is Legally Blonde high art or completely intelligent? No. Is it great fun and 2001's best mood-lifter? You know it. So ladies, release your inner girlie girl, put your feet up, and enjoy Legally Blonde! "},{"Title":"I never thought a movie with Witherspoon in it would last in my video player!","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When my partner brought this home, i held it at arms length, with fear in my eyes. But I really enjoyed it (maybe it was the wine). But none the less i found it quite entertaining. A blonde who looks dumb as gets dropped by her man who doesnt want a blonde partner.(are we tacky yet!) He leaves for Harvard law school, and our distraught blonde decides to use her Fashion studies brilliance to follow him into a law degree. Her entrance film is great and the rest of the film is pretty much. Blonde gets hassled, blonde fights back, blonde gets accepted, blonde wins court case blonde finds new man. her dog is the only thing that picks up on people bagging her, cool touch i thought. Good to watch if your drunk. "},{"Title":"I really tried to like it!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I usually like this type of movie if done well. Fast Times (watched part of it the same day actually) Hilarious (Sean Penn is Comedically Mesmerizing as Jeff Spicolli), Clueless (under rated I believe) but I could not see the appeal. It just wasn't funny. The cast was O.K., the writing alright and it sort of kept my attention but it wasn't funny at all and definitely not rememberable. If you want to see a clever funny court movie I recommend From the Hip an 80's flick starring Judd Nelson when he wasn't bored with acting! "},{"Title":"Deligthfull","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I did not hear of this movie before and did not see clueless with which people seem to want to compare this movie to. So when I was travelling on a long train trip in Germany I watched this one on my laptop. (I do this a lot, had one of the first DVD laptops, and have to say, everybody who makes long journey's I can recommend it very much) I have to admit, much to the annoyance of a fellow traveller. He was irritated because I kept bursting out in laughter, I could not help it. What brilliant one-liners! This is a perfect &#145;throw popcorn in your face movie'. One could not want more in a movie of this kind. I you are an art-house buff, the kind that only only likes six hour movies from Farawayistan, Weitfortistan or Achteraffie about a goat herder who gets her first period and a deep inner human portrait is painted you will not like this movie I take it. However, If you just want to be humoured, you will enjoy this movie. "}{"Title":"I love this movie!!!","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all I have to say that I am a major fan of Reese Witherspoon.  I think she's an amazing actress.  She didn't disappoint me in this movie...It was so funny and it was just a really cute movie.  I can't wait to see Reese Witherspoon's next movie. "},{"Title":"This movie gives blondes a good name!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have not dated a blonde, never really saw the need to pick on blondes, or had a blonde in my family, but this movie has helped me appreciate how intelligent blondes really can be. This is a great comedy movie and has a underlying theme, that you can achieve anything you want if you believe in yourself.She's a Beverley Hills beauty who'll do anything to keep her man. Even if it means going all the way.. to law school! Elle Woods is a California blonde with the couture clothes, fabulous friends and the hottest boyfriend on campus. So when Warner Huntington III suddenly dumps her and heads for Harvard law school, Elle takes matters into her own perfectly manicured hands. She enrolls too! Now getting Warner back should be a snap, right? Wrong! Elle's about to begin the toughest fight for her life - for love honour, justice and respect for blondes everywhere!Well this movie has a wonderful cast, with the star of the show being the gorgeous Reese Witherspoon. I can only praise her role in this film . I will go as far too say that this is one of her best roles, and that is a big statement considering that she has starred in movies like Election and Cruel Intentions. I love the way she allowed her character to be so silly looking on the outside, but shows that she is someone not be reckoned with. This was a truly wonderful performance by Witherspoon! Yet there are other great members of the cast. People like Luke Wilson, Selma Blair, Matthew Davis, Victor Garber, Ali Larter, Jennifer Coolidge ('OH Stifler's Mum' lol) and Holland Taylor all had a great impact on the movie. In fact they all made it the perfect movie. I can not forget to mention the wonderful little cast member,`Mooney',  the Chihuahua dog  who played Elle's dog, 'Bruiser'.I feel that the people behind the scenes had a great impact on this movie. The director Robert Luketic, (a first time Australian director by the way) made a impressive debut and can only go from strength to strength in the movie industry, if his movies to come are anything like this one. The producer, Marc E. Platt also did a great job, as did the screenwriters Karen McCullah Lutz and Kirsten Smith.  Legally Blonde is a funny comedy, that has some dramatic scenes rolled into it. My favourite scenes would have to be in the courtroom where Elle and her lawyer friends certainly do strut there stuff! Yet, I also enjoy the way that Elle stands up for herself against Warner and realises that he is not the person she wants in life, with the final scene between the two hilarious. Sure this might look like a girlie film, but I feel both men and women can take away something from it. Considering that this film is based on a book by a blonde (I think), Amanda Brown titled 'LEGALLY blonde', I feel that the story was brought to the screen beautifully, with some very clever additions by the crew . Legally Blonde has a wonderful soundtrack, with the main song of the film &#145;Perfect day', by Huko just brilliant.I recently returned back to school for a year. While I did very well, I felt I was not good enough to be there. But after watching this film, it gives me the confidence to try and make university a real part of my life.  If you are feeling unsure of yourself and think that you can not make it, then watch LEGALLY blonde, cos it will give you the confidence to do anything and....... to even be yourself.Rating 9/10 or 4.5 Stars "},{"Title":"Almost unwatchable for anyone who is interested in film or the law","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think Reese Witherspoon is a very talented actress and did the best she could with this role. In fact, the cast was thoroughly the best part of this film. The remainder is so trite as to be excruciating. The plot was both cliched and implausible (I always love it when witnesses on the stand confess as soon as they have the opportunity - I can't wait to litigate!) and the ending was a relief in its predictability. My vote 5/10 "},{"Title":"Good teenage fun","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The plotA blonde beauty called El Woods has lost her boyfriend as he thinks she isn't serious enough about the future, and so El Woods decides to study hard to get into a Law School where her ex is attending, and win him back.The viewAn often funny, but really strictly fiction story that gives orignal, yet unoriginal jokes all the way through. That doesn't spoil the fun as the film is enjoyable throughout but you have to ask yourself, Have I seen this somewhere before? *** "},{"Title":"very funny...you wanna watch it over and over again","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I dont get it why people compare this movie with Clueless... The story is so different... it has nothing to do with Clueless based on Emma by Jane Austin and totally different from the story of Legally Blonde. "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found this to be a delightfully funny movie. Reese Witherspoon is perfect as a slightly ditzy sorority blonde who is dumped by her boyfriend and follows him to Harvard. I thought this movie had several downright funny moments, and it might remind you of My Cousin Vinny. All in all, a really funny film.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Cute, Brainless fun!!!","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This cute, little comedy, about a sorority queen who-in order to win back her `THE ONE'- decides to study Law at Harvard!!!, is so Formulaic and clichéd you can't bear in mind &#133;.. but it's endlessly sweet and enjoyable that for at least once in the last few months you decide to forget everything & feel havin' fun. The central character is so sympathy- arousing ,`Determined' and Maddening  that you once forget the famous cliché LIFE'S A BITCH!!!! (Ignore the deep holes in the script too, SVP!!!).....Have fun,if you have plenty of time .... "},{"Title":"Not so dumb","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie, like its main character, might look dumb on the surface but really isn't. It has a lot to say about how people get stereotyped by their appearance and how they dress, but makes its points without being preachy and getting in the way of all the fun. And what a fun movie it is! I found it completely impossible not to like Elle and cheer her on. She was spunky, kind-hearted, and pretty darn smart underneath all the fluffy blonde hair. I was smiling all the way through. This is one box office hit that actually deserved to be one. "},{"Title":"Endorphines!","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was awesome - it's been a long time since a good movie tried to make you all smiley and stuff when it was all over.  What's not to like?  Reese Witherspoon is a luminous delight, the clothes are fun to watch, the cynics can enjoy Elle's initial discomfort at Harvard (and the blonde isn't having any fun is a simplistic but effective message to just be nice), and the dog, although a seemingly cheap prop, really is cute.  This movie is a lot more clever than most heavy fare out there, and it actually made me want to start working on my university stuff.  Go Elle!  "},{"Title":"A surprise hit.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon plays a fashion student who decides to go to Harvard to become a law student. She is dump by her boyfriend go to law school and follow the boyfriend to law school to win him back. Will she find more to follow a man than your dreams? At first I did not want to see this film, but after a recommendation from friend to see it. Witherspoon's performance as the lead character make worth to see Legally Blonde.  "}{"Title":"Great for an hour, falters at the end","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde was a pleasant surprise for the first hour. It was a smart, witty fun film about a brainy Bel Air cheerleader Valley Girl-type dealing with her first year at snobby Harvard Law School. That should have been the entire plot. In its last half hour, the film takes a silly, TV-sitcom-ish, totally unbelievable plot twist involving a murder trial and it sinks in quality, losing its edge. Still, Reese Witherspoon is a talented actress and Legally Blonde is worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Pure schmaltz...","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" But I liked it. This might be seen as a continuation of Election (1999) as a slightly dingier Reese Witherspoon graduates from 'CULA' (sic) and goes on to Harvard Law School. There's a kind of irony here--the real Reese Witherspoon with her drive and intelligence could actually do it. Her character in the movie I don't think so. In fact, just about everything in the movie requires the maximum use of the suspension of disbelief option on the part of the audience because virtually nothing in the movie is real.Well, the dogs are real, but I think they were drugged, they seem so passive. Witherspoon, of course, is real, but her performance was a little weary in parts, as though she is tired of playing ditzy blonde airheads and would like something more serious. This script understandably was very difficult to turn down since it practically amounts to a vehicle for her, and her character triumphs over every obstacle and ends up with a choice of two attractive men and a fast track career.Selma Blair, whom I recall from Cruel Intentions (1999), provides fine support as the other girl. Robert Luketic's direction while undistinguished is crisp and even witty at times and gets a lot out of a mediocre script. However those who enjoyed Election might find the pandering to a mass audience in this one annoying. Certainly there is no comparing the scripts.However there are some funny bits and if you're a little, shall we say, relaxed, this might wash over you like a pleasant massage.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"A movie of surprising depth.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented this video expecting a cute, mindless piece of fluff for a relaxing evening's entertainment.  What I got was so much more than I bargained for. True, many of the plot twists are pure far-fetched fantasy, but the basic premise was solid, and worked a charm.  The primary conflict of the story line was certainly original - New England conservatism vs Left Coast consumerism is not a motif we find every decade, much less every day, in a film of any genre, and certainly not in a comedy of this nature.  The gradual maturing of a group of college graduates from widely different backgrounds, as they pursue their dreams and goals at Harvard Law School could have been an excuse for a morass of schtick and slapstick.  Instead, it was a sensitive, if amusing coming of age for all the protagonists, including, in the end analysis, some of the older characters.The acting was above average; it takes enormous skill to play a rôle like Elle Woods - intelligent, determined and resourceful while appearing a stereotypical blonde bimbo - and play it convincingly.  And if some (most, actually!) of the serendipities of the plot were less than convincing, some great acting and quite exceptional dialog made up for the poor underpinnings.  I'm not a great fan of Reese Witherspoon, but certainly appreciate the panache with which she pulled this one off. There were also some sterling supporting performances, notably by Selma Blair as the rival, who gradually evolves from a horsey country-clubber into a stunning beauty as the film progresses (with appropriate character development from a snooty bitch to a warm friend).I was particularly impressed by some of the photography in this production.  Pay close attention to the shadows in the poolside scene with the Woods family at the beginning of the film!  Later, the private interview between Elle and Professor Callahan shows just how much can be conveyed in a handful of seconds of outstanding camera work.  And the elevator scene immediately following gets my vote as one of the finest pieces of cinema photography of 2001.There aren't many films that I would consider worth watching more than once, and even fewer that I have liked enough to want to own them.  This one is going to find its way into my personal collection. "},{"Title":"Anyone who regularly watches movies already has seen this ***spoilers***","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Allright, I've seen way too many movies, but these are way too predictable. I mean here you have a blonde main character, (which is very well played by Reese) who you know through the film she is going to be the killer of the dumb blonde stereotype, and then become a strong independant female role model.The film starts off with Reece preparing for what she believes will be a proposal from her current boyfriend, who you know will dump her because she is not good enough.   After this you know she is going to go to Harvard after him like a sick puppy, because she believes he is the love of her life. But then you know that the next hunky guy that comes along (Wilson) is the one she is going to hook up with in the end. You know that her ex is going to get turned down by her in the end, because he's not good enough for her.Of course once she gets there she finds out her dumper is engaged to a snotty enemy of a different, opposing hair color. And you know that this new snotty brunette (if it was a bitchy, snotty redhead, that would have been too stereotypical) villain is going to have one of two fates A) Have some embarrasing outcome to her life or B) Become best buddies with the main character.And then you know that there will be a point where this blonde superhero helps a character of a less fourtunate, unpopular, unpretty side character, realize the beauty inside her, and get the man who she has been swooning over.And then you know that there will be an event, where the result is that her friends lose all trust in her, and she feels like giving up, but then at the last minute she believes in herself and pulls everything into a happy G worthy ending.If you didn't see this stuff coming a mile away, welcome to the magical world of movies. "},{"Title":"Love It Love It Love It","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is great.  It's one of the ones you can get a great laugh out of if you are willing to open your mind to a little good old fashioned fun. Where Clueless did nothing for me( I just thought that one was kinda dumb ), Legally Blonde did it all. Also the film is visually stunning because of Sophie Carbonell's feisty use of colors for Elle's Wardrobe.It's obvious that the film makers intended never to let the film take itself seriously, which in this case actually works in it's favor. I can't wait for this crew to do another comedy together. It will be great.So many films tend to over do it these days. I honestly had never seen a lot of Reese Witherspoon's other work, but I will be sure to watch for it in the future. This is just an adorable film.This film is right up there with Romy & Michele's High School Reunion, Bring It On & Dick!!! I give it a 10!  "},{"Title":"better than you'd expect","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A lot like Clueless as you may have heard, but Legally Blonde is still entertaining. It provides some solid laughs, has a great deal of charm, and rides on a wonderful performance by Witherspoon. It isn't totally believable and probably won't appeal to all tastes, but it's still watchable. It's also smarter than it seems. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Witherspoon showcased as a talented lead","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  `Legally Blonde' is a showcase for Reese Witherspoon that continues to highlight her talents.  The film draws comparisons with `Clueless' since the theme is essentially identical.  Elle (Witherspoon) progresses from a culturally challenged blonde bubblehead to a high achieving Harvard law student for all the wrong reasons.   All the while she has to endure mockery for her valley girl attitudes. Of course, she triumphs over east coast bigotry and over own limitations, but for all the wrong reasons.The story is cute, but lacks the insight and nuance of `Clueless'.  However, Witherspoon outdoes Alicia Silverstone's performance with her sheer energy and determination.  Both were excellent, but Witherspoon is the more dynamic.The acting by the ensemble of supporting actors is very good and helps Witherspoon look that much better.  The cast is rich in aspiring actors with strong talent and little name recognition.  Of particular note are the performances of Selma Blair and Luke Wilson.  Blair plays the uppity girlfriend of Elle's former boyfriend Warner (Matthew Davis).  Blair is wonderfully condescending and catty throughout most of the film, but shows the ability to move into a softer, more likeable portrayal by the end.  Wilson's soft spoken demeanor is perfect for his nurturing role in this film.  His support is the catalyst that makes Elle's transition work.Reese Witherspoon has been gradually moving to progressively larger parts for the last ten years, and at age 25 she made the leap to the lead with this film.  She definitely makes the most of the opportunity.  She simply dominates the entire film with a high energy performance that has as much steel as perfume.  She makes Elle as lovable as she is ridiculous, while instilling her with qualities that you can't help but admire as the film progresses.  If this is representative of the wattage she will bring to films, then her future is likely to be very bright.This is not a great film, but it is very charming and watchable.  I rated it a 7/10.  We may look back on this film as the one that launched a prominent career. "},{"Title":"A fun box-office hit!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The first time that I saw this movie I found parts of it quite boring and bland.  Then I saw it again with one of my friends at the dollar theater and i almost fell out of my seat laughing.  This movie is superb and definetly would get my vote for best motion picture of the year.  This is one of my all-time favorite movie by-far.  I have watched it probably 50 times and still love it.  I reccomend that you see this movie...if you haven't already!! "},{"Title":"Looks great, less filling","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so it's not the cutting edge, biting comedic satire we all know the very talented Reese Whitherspoon is capable of.  Nevertheless, it is still a rather enjoyable, if not overly fluffy, comedy.  Sure you have to sort of suspend your disbelief (I think that's the term) to make this story work, but who cares?  Once you get past the yeah, right, that could happen that a fashion major got into Harvard problem, the film actually moves along providing some genuine belly laughs and ridiculous situations.  Cynics and critics aside, like a creamy pastry, it looks great, and half hour after it's done you've moved onto other things.  But isn't that what guilty pleasures are all about?  3.5/5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Good time-pass","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie with no big stars but only a few known faces. But romantic comedy is a hugely successful Hollywood formula and rarely does it let the audience down. The story is about a blonde who tries to prove the people who belittle her intellectual capabilities wrong, by taking up law at Harvard University. The interesting plot is well-enhanced with a lot of fun-poking at blondes and a bit at lawyers. Added to it are the regular dose of melodrama and a couple of interesting court-room scenes. Reese Witherspoon (Best Laid Plans) carries the entire movie on her frail shoulders, in style. All the other characters just move in and out of the scenes. The movie moves along with hardly any room for boredom, though the end is pretty cliched.  "}{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This one is a good one.  This one surprised me from the start.  I was expecting a dumb blonde stereotype fill film with no real direction.  Legally Blonde is actually a very smart comedy which is refreshing.  The comedy is is original and is clean enough to most of the family to watch.  I would not let small children see this one until they are a little older.  I found myself laughing through much of the movie.  This gives a good lesson to never judge someone on the first impression alone.Over all, this one is worth your while (8 out of 10). "},{"Title":"A Cinematic Masterpiece","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I doubt i could ever again spend nine bucks in a more productive manner. I whistfully walked out of the theater with a skip to my step. This is a movie that i like to categorize as a happy movie. Its colorful, fun and of course charming. Reese Witherspoon really nailed her character down. Playing a blonde must not have been to easy for the 23 year old natural blonde, but dammit she served that character well. And what more can be said about Jennifer Coolidge? I just want to squeeze her cheeks! The plot to this movie was brilliant. And in defense of it I say it stands on its own 2 feet. Enough of these comparisons to Clueless starring Alyssia dont buy fur Silverstone. This movie has a hell of a lot more appeal--and it has my favorite Wilson brother. Damn straight- Luke. Lets end this review on that note. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE IS GREAT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this movie was so good and funny, I can't believe people actually hate it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I watch it all the time!!! The best part is when the pool boy admits that he's gay! It's great!!! The people that hate this movie must be out of their minds!!! Well anyways it is a good movie!!! "},{"Title":"Surprise Movie of 2001!","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I, too, went into this movie with low expectations, but I was pleasantly surprised!  I think saying this movie sucked or beat out another bad movie on one's list is sorely lacking credit where it's due!This movie handled what seemed like a stupid plotline with smarts, laughs, and even heart tugs!  This movie is definitely a power to the little people movie, and it shouts the message that people should not be judged by their outward appearance.I think this movie did an excellent job of getting its theme across with a little fun added in.  I highly recommend it to anyone who's ever been passed over for something because of age, color, size, etc.--in other words, anyone who's ever been discriminated against.It will change your way of thinking forever. "},{"Title":"This is a good movie.","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde is a good movie.   Much of it is light and ditzy, to be sure. Even those parts are done well.  For example, Reese Witherspoon's arrival scene on the Harvard campus is presented as a parody, but, speaking as the father of female college student, it isn't too far off the mark either.However, a solid core lurks beneath all this.  In the pivotal courtroom sequence, Miss Witherspoon bounces in wearing a shiny pink Barbie dress, the epitome of airheadedness.  By the end of the scene, she slowly transforms into a crusading defender of right.  Her whole demeanor and body language changes; the Barbie dress fades to irrelevance.I'm 62, male, and this isn't my usual entertainment fare, but it's a solidly enjoyable movie nonetheless.  Reese Witherspoon reveals she possesses true star power, and, if she so chooses, she can become a force to be reckoned with. "},{"Title":"I laughed out loud... one time.","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So, what's up with the opening title sequence?  Was this thing inspired by 3 Men & A Baby?  It's unbelievably '80s.Anyway, were it not for Reese Witherspoon, Legally Blonde would've stunk, stunk, stunk.  Fortunately, she buoys the lame comedy and manages to pull it all off, even generating a single, solitary laugh out of me.  Also, kudos to Luke Wilson for suffering through his thankless role of appearing at all the right times.  Please do yourself a favor and catch him in The Royal Tenenbaums, a much better comedy than this one.Speaking of The Royal Tenenbaums, I find it highly odd that anyone even remotely responsible for the Golden Globe nominees could find Legally Blonde to be worthy of a Best Picture nod instead of that infinitely more superior film.  What a shame. "},{"Title":"Painful to watch Whiterspoon (desperate for any role apparently)","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm finding this very difficult to write. After a few false starts I realize how hard it is to properly convey the unusual badness of Legally Blond. It's not that it's VERY bad - insufferably bad is the strongest phrase I'd use - but it is, unlike many bad things, INDISPUTABLY bad. Moreover (and this is a different thing again) I don't see how anyone could take pleasure in watching it. The art of acting proves to be non-existent when it comes to Whiterspoon trying to act (hey, not like she's proven with her other roles that she COULD act, as if).  "},{"Title":"Funny movie about stereotype","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't understand why people keep thinking how 'Legally Blonde' and 'Clueless' are similar to each other. 'Clueless' is a satire in which the main character is clueless about herself and her wants. 'Legally Blonde' is a straightforward story about a brainy character who is stereotyped as dumb because of her lifestyle.Anyway, this movie speaks to me because I know a few people who are not really that smart but are viewed as such because of their goals, chosen vocation, how they talk, etc. I also know a few people who are smart but choose to play it unconventionally. I have no problems with either of these types of people. But it is disappointing to find out that a person's lifestyle is used to place weight on his or her words.But enough of that. Reese Witherspoon is great as the brave blonde that could. I recommend seeing this funny movie.  "},{"Title":"Witherspoon Saves The Film!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  `Legally Blonde' has been a film that many critics have liked and it even received a Best Motion Picture Golden Globe nomination. Why this has happened? I am not sure why. I object for this film to receive those accolades because it was simply not that good. Even though I did enjoy Reese Witherspoon's spunky performance, the whole interest premise of the film dyed very early. The root of the film is about a blonde who decides to enroll in Harvard to win back her ex-boyfriend who dumped her because he thought she was not smart enough. The only highlight of this movie was watching the skilled performer in Witherspoon do her thing. Unfortunately, the lame screenplay did not add color to the rest of the film. `Legally Blonde' is the most overrated film of the year and it is simply not that much fun.  *** Average  "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Of course, Legally Blonde is not going to become the best movie of 2001, but it's truly worth the watching. Reese Witherspoon has proven once again that she's a gifted actress. As for the supporting cast(especially Luke Wilson and Victor Garber) superb acting from all of you.The concept of the movie is a tribute to blondes all over the world. Instead of making fun out of them, they are finally being showed as intelligent creatures. Elle Woods, a natural blonde CULA student, is furious when she is being dumped by her boyfriend, Warner. He thinks he has to become serious... and Elle is too blonde!Elle is not going to let him slip away. She follows Warner into Harvard Law School but that's not like good ol' CULA! On top of it, she learns that Warner's new girlfriend (actually, they're engaged!) used to be his ex from a long time ago, and she's not dumb at all...So when everything seems to go wrong,  Elle keeps her head up and makes a total change. She starts to study like she's never done before to impress the teachers ànd Warner of course. Especially professor Callahan (Victor Garber) is interested in ms. Woods' talent. When he wants four associates for an important case, he chooses Elle to become one of them. A real challenge for our blonde, since both Warner and his fiancée are part of the group. All goes very well, until Callahan gets a bit too 'close' with Elle. She steps out of the team and tries to solve the case on her own. Will she succeed? That's up to you to find out, yes, I really recommend all the readers of this review to see 'Legally Blonde'. Excellent movie with an excellent cast and excellent performances. 8,5/10 "}{"Title":"Road trip! - A classic quote from Legally Blonde!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had viewed `Legally Blonde' twice at one of my local cinemas and found it to be quite an enjoyable romp.  Reese Witherspoon had fantastic charisma and carried the picture.  When I saw that MGM Studios had released a Special Edition on DVD, I found I just couldn't resist it&#133;  I went out and purchased a copy.  I must say, I cannot regret that decision.  Despite the fact I paid a bit more than I would have liked, I found that I was compensated for it, by the seemingly endless array of special features that I had the pleasure to discover.  Not to mention I also found a coupon for two dollars and fifty cents off a bottle of Nicole nail polish enclosed.   So, all in all `Legally Blonde' has a quality about it that makes it worth a look.  And although some scenes may be questionable for children, it is generally a feel-good film that can be enjoyed by the entire family.     "},{"Title":"Reese is in it, so yeah, I love this movie!!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not only does this movie inspire those who are judged for who & what they are, but it makes you laugh...alot. This film is bashed by those who don't even give a movie like this a chance. You know, the blondes with their credit cards, their pink outfits, and obsession over shoes. But this film is not just Clueless all over again. Personally, Reese is very talented. So is Alicia Silverstone, but Reese is just so pretty and awesome. Don't judge Reese by this movie, especially if u haven't seen some of her best. Legally Blonde stars a hot young cast including Reese and Selma Blair. This movie starts off about Elle Woods (Reese) getting dumped by her long time beau Warner Huntington III. She loves him, and she thinks he is going to propose to her...but he dumps her instead. And she's not gonna let him go that easily! Elle works as hard as she can to get into Harvard Law, and when she finds out about Warner being ingaged to an awful girl named Vivian (Selma Blair), she goes to the closest hair and nail salon. She meets Paulette, a wonderful nice girl who needs a friend or two, and she helps her out as a friend. Not only does Reese discover she's not just a blonde who 'can just turn out to be a Victoria Secret model', she learns more about herself and the world. She finally graduates Harvard & realises she's better off without Warner, and that she, herself, deserves someone who can respect her for who she is & never give up on their love. If u watch closely, u will see Elle become something that she is, not something she isn't. She may be blonde, but she realises she IS smart, and that she can become something in her life. Don't keep thinking it's impossible for a fashion major to get into Harvard Law School, because if someone's determined enough to work hard to get what they want, you just never know. You have to see this movie if u haven't already. Ignore the negative remarks, most people prolly never even saw this film, they just down grade it, because it's all about a blonde girl who comes out on top. Reese Witherspoon is one of the most talented actresses in the movie business. Not only is Legally Blonde a must-see, but so is Freeway, The Man In The Moon, Pleasantville, Cruel Intentions, and I'm sure the upcoming film Sweet Home Alabama will be just as great as her other movies. 'You must always have faith in people, but most importantly, you must always have faith in yourself'. "},{"Title":"Could have been called 'Still Clueless'","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I knew I would like this movie. However, I didn't realize quite how much of a sequel to Clueless it would be but without Alicia Silverstone.Reece Witherspoon doesn't quite give the performance of a lifetime like she does in Election but her portrayal of the (not so) ditzy blonde in this film is great.Although the film has more substance than you'd imagine you could predict the outcome with half a drunk brain cell. But that isn't the point.You do feel for the characters, even the bad guys Warner Huntingdon III (why do Americans think naming generations the same thing is somehow indicative of class?) played with just the right amount of smarm by Matthew Davis.All in all it's well worth the price of a ticket or rental as you get that feel good sensations after watching it. "},{"Title":"Amusing But Otherwise Inconsequential","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film, heavily inspired by (all right, stolen from) Clueless and Working Girl, is fine if you're in the mood for a silly, entertaining flick.  As always, Ms. Witherspoon is very good, although not as funny as Alicia Silverstone or Stacey Dash in the aforementioned film.  It is, however, probably Ms. Witherspoon's best effort so far.  Academy award worthy, though?  Hardly - I'm sure Ms. Witherspoon has the talent, but this role didn't have enough meat in it.  I agree with another reviewer's comment that Clueless is the better choice of the two.  This movie takes itself too seriously, which is a mistake, since it's supposed to be a parody.  Clueless has much more continuity and has a wry sense of humor this one lacks.  Legally Blonde caused me to roll my eyes one too many times.   "},{"Title":"Excellent Eye Candy","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blond is a lighthearted comedy with a silly and predictable plot (and I do mean predictable, laughably so, you can see what's coming next throughout the picture).  BUT, if you liked the  *EYE CANDY* in CRUEL INTENTIONS---SEE THIS MOVIE...Reese Withersoon is the best young actress around (the next Meg Ryan) and Selma Blair is smokin' (even as the mousey, brainy type).  Lot's of tight, young bods jumping around in this flick boys. Rent it for the girlfriend, enjoy it for yourself.  ;-b "},{"Title":"so cute!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie on DVD on Thanksgiving and I fell in love with it!!! It was so funny!!!  I could not stop laughing.  It has a really good message about overcoming stereotypes and not letting them get in the way of your dreams. All girls should watch this movie!  Even if you're not a blonde! "},{"Title":"A flawed superficial, cliched film that works.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After seeing this movie I read Kenneth Turan's review of it. He is very correct in everything he says but he misses the point. It works. "},{"Title":"clever for a teen movie...","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  some parts of this movie were just kind of stupid but it's only a movie... it isn't so bad though. It's quite funny and clever. though i usually don't watch movies like those but it wasn't so bad... reese witherspoon dosn't do a bad performance... no one actually does... it's an okay movie... i rate in 7 outta 10... i guess anyone who likes reese witherspoon should watch this... "},{"Title":"A serious faritale","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At a first glance this movie seems a non-pretentious teeny-weeny faritale. However, giving it a second chance one discovers that there is a lot more to it than that. It is telling us in an amusing way about social classes in the US, about the university system and about prejudice. Go and discover it all for yourself, it's worth the effort! "},{"Title":"Reece rocks!! So does the movie!!!","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was so surprized when I saw the movie Legally Blonde. People told me it was the college version of Clueless, but a bad one. They were so wrong, about it being bad, although it did remind me of Clueless it had a fresh since of humor about it.Reece Witherspoon did a wonderful job of portraying a not so dumb blonde who overcomes all, even a dickweed ex. The rest of the cast adds to the humor tremendously from the bitchy new girlfriend to the beautician Elle confides in, even the dog is completly hilarious!I would highly recomend this movie to anyone interested in a good, clean laugh. I promise you will enjoy it. "}{"Title":"Better than I expected (1 small spoiler)","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I held back on this movie for a few weeks as I did not think that it would be very funny.   In fact I thought that the beginning was rather like all the other teen movies.   Then all of a sudden a few things happened that made me laugh quite unexpectedly and it got better throughout.   The small spoiler is when she is driving her car and sees a place that does manacures and makes a quick u-turn and causes 2 other cars to have an accident was out of place.   There was nothing funny about a jerk driver.    Otherwise I enjoyed this movie more that I expected.    "},{"Title":"Legally sexy!!!","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great film to go and see with your girlfriend, it'll make you both laugh and Reese Witherspoon is hot. Proving that blondes ain't all dumb may be hard but Reese does it with style, I mean when will reading cosmopolitan help you in a court case, never but anything can happen in films and especially this one. Ladies, keep the bend and stretch movement in mind. "},{"Title":"Legally dumb","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood has always liked making sappy products such as this one here.  They're usually pretty successful and it doesn't take a genius to make them.  Because of this lack of creativity, the storyline and its characters are always very thin.  To keep these movies from becoming a flop, they throw in a bunch of famous actors hired to memorize the most simplistic yet tasteful dialogues.  These feelgood-movies, where everything always turns out ok in the end, are the ultimate popcorn-sellers.  Hollywood has already made hundreds of movies like these throughout their money-making film-history and there's not a single reason why they should stop doing that; not until they run out of success with this very money-spinning formula.  And the fact is I'm one of them!  I'm not a huge fan of this particular genre (and I'll never be), but it's true that these sort of films are very relaxing.  Also, these films weren't particularly made for the big screen, so you can easily rent them on video/DVD and watch them at home.  The year 2001 has already given us two such movies previous to Legally blonde.  In Heartbreakers you have Sigourney Weaver, Jennifer Love Hewitt and Gene Hackman who support the weak script and try to raise the film's quality and in America's sweethearts you'll find the same thing going on only with a different cast Julia Roberts, Billy Crystal, Catherine Zeta-Jones and Christopher Walken.  These two movies walk the exact same path as Legally blonde.Legally blonde is a film about the discrimination against all blondes and a protest against its underlying prejudice that blonde = dumb.  Sometimes it's true however (Pamela Anderson, Britney Spears, ...), but in those cases it's due to their own stupidity rather than the blonde hair. Unfortunately, this film hasn't got too much to offer.  There's the script which is quite original yet very straightforward with its one-dimensional characters and a director who doesn't always know what he's doing.  And then there's the casting which is both poor and good; depending on what actor you're talking about.  On one hand, the film contains a couple of weak performances by wrongfully chosen actors.  On the other hand however, you actually have some good acting as well.  Victor Garber as professor Callahan and Luke Wilson as Emmett Richmond both do a fine job, but the star of the film is without a doubt Reese Witherspoon.  In this film she proves to be much more than just an attractive (and blonde!) actress.  She is absolutely perfect as Elle Woods and one would only go to see this film because of her delightful performance. Although Legally blonde isn't a bad movie at all, it would've been better if they added a little more depth in both the storyline and its characters.  Now it seems as if Witherspoon's performance is the only redeeming factor of this film. "},{"Title":"See before you judge","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You MUST see this film before you say  its good or its bad.I thought it would be the worst movie ever (except for the appearance of Reese Witherspoon), but i was quite surprised when i saw the film. It was funny, had a good pace and was very entertaining.Conclusion  A good movie, but turn brains to zero D "},{"Title":"One of top five comedy this year (but not the best)","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you don't like serious or heavy comedy like `Life is Beautiful' but at the same time not too light like `Scary Movie' or `Road Trip', you will have a good time watching this movie a lot.  Legally Blonde is sure a very nicely done funny movie.  I think it would be about one of top five comedy this year (but not the best). "},{"Title":"What's not to like?","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I saw the trailer for Legally Blonde in the theater, I knew that it would be a total bomb. I recently rented it and watched it and found myself laughing more often than I thought I would. Witherspoon is delightful as Elle Woods, a bubbly blonde chick who plans on marrying her boyfriend. One night at dinner in a nice restaurant, he breaks to Elle that if he wants to become a senator, he has to marry a Jacquie Kennedy, not a Marilyn Monroe. Elle is obviously crushed and decides that if she wants to marry him, she must go to Harvard Law herself. A plot twist involving a murder case involving an aerobics instructor is rather unnecessary. Another likeable character is foul-mouther Coolidge, who plays a divorced manicurist who's obsessed with a UPS guy who delivers packages to the parlor she works in. You may want to check it out! "},{"Title":"See this and have fun","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally BlondeA well made American type student comedy with pretty Reese Witherspoon as a blonde with brains going to Harvard to be near ex boyfriend, funny!Worth the ticket!  "},{"Title":"Silly fun","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love Reese Witherspoon.  The first movie I saw her in was Freeway in which I thought she was great.  While Legally Blonde will never be confused for Citizen Kane, P for what it is, it is cute, funny and fairly clever.  Reese has great presence on the screen.  I've never seen her in any serious role.  I wonder if she would have as much charisma in a serious drama as she brings to this lighthearted, silly movie.  If you are in the mood for a comedy similar to  Clueless, it's a good pick.   "},{"Title":"A breath of fresh air","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had definitely no intention whatsoever to go and watch this when I first heard of it and above all when I saw the trailer. I eventually decided to go and watch a lamebrained movie and that was Legally Blonde a very good surprise. I simply did not expect it to be so deeply funny!I'm a great fan of those crazy comedies of the 40s and here I found some crazy situations that just make me laugh out loud. Reese is perfect of course to float the movie, she shines in that world of nerds and all the sociologically stiffened.In fact the first half of the movie is much more crazy. The rest is sometimes more serious thus less attractive. But overall it's really a breath of fresh air. Very good job Mr Luketic! Hope you'll give us some more crazy comedies of the kind! "},{"Title":"LEGALLY BLONDE is no CLUELESS but I'm sure I'll be recommending this to anyone looking for a fun film.","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had no intentions to see this film when I first saw the trailer. I thought the trailer was terrible, and when the critics reviews came in, and they were mostly positive I couldn't believe it. While at Hollywood Video, I saw this film, and I couldn't resist. I had to see why everyone loved it. I slipped the DVD in, and hesitantly sat down, and watched. Did I like it? Yes. Did I love it? Not exactly. It was a fun, entertaining, and cute film. Very predictable it was, but it did provide me with some laughs, and some solid entertainment. Reese Witherspoon is this movie. Without her, this film would have been nothing. Her performance here is great, and funny, and her character is a riot! But personally, I think it was Jennifer Coolidge who steals the show. She was hysterical in Best in Show and she's hysterical in Legally Blonde! She made me laugh in literally every scene she was in (The bend and snap scene was laugh-out-loud funny). Selma Blair also does great in this film. She plays the bitch perfectly. Luke Wilson did fine, but something was missing with his performance. What is was, I don't know. The very hott Ali Larter had a little part in here, and I loved her.The film does have it's flaws. It wasn't always funny (but when it is funny, it's hilarious (I loved the scene with the gay guy in the court room... very funny), and at some points I was getting a little bored. Also, it's just so predictable! You know exactly what is going to happen right before it does. But overall it's a good film. Very funny at times, and very entertaining. It's nice to see a movie that lets me just relax, and not think for a while (The last film I saw before this was CHASING SLEEP which had me thinking the whole way through). LEGALLY BLONDE is no CLUELESS, but I'm sure I'll be recommending this to anyone looking for a fun film.Legally Blonde 7/10, B+   "}{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon shines","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If it weren't for Ms. Witherspoon this movie would have been a bomb. A silly plot and an uninspired direction don't help the movie at all. Reese Witherspoon though lights up the screen with a delightful and wonderful performance. She is funny and intense. Reese proves that she is one of the best American actresses of her age.  "},{"Title":"Blondes really do litigate better!","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What could have been a very funny comedy about overachieving underdogs and how to get back at your man, instead turns into sappy, unrealistic, and rather boring cheap laughs. Reese Witherspoon, although cute as a button, can not save this movie from the doldrums, even with her perfect nails and perky ... um, hair.  Although cute and funny at times, Legally Blonde does very little than show that it's actually easy to get into Harvard (and get a 179 on your LSATs with minimal study time!), rich stuck-up guys aren't worth the trouble, and everyone likes cute perky blonde girls -- even judges and other lawyers. Mildly entertaining at best. Aggravating and boring at worst. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining, But Not Exceptional","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In short, Legally Blond is starts with a Clueless feel, but breaksbeyond that into a fairly witty film.  While it isn't thought provokingand is rather predictable most of the time, it manages to be a wellpaced, entertaining film.   A great rental as well as a great datemovie, it is worth the price to see it once. "},{"Title":"Funny, relaxing and just plain sweet","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the type of movie I would seriously consider seeing for a second time.  If you haven't seen this one I would strongly urge you to make time in your schedule and just go and enjoy the movie.  Reese Witherspoon is fantastic in her role of Elle Woods, the homecoming queen blonde who realizes that there is a lawyer hidden under all that hideous pink outfits.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Joyful, smart, fairly on-the-nose as it should be, wonderfully acted, and in what other movie does the art direction gets a laugh? (Elle's pink, fluffy phone). Talking of which great costume design for every one of Elle's moods. Definitely one of the best movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Even my girlfriend liked it!","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ever since I saw the trailer for this film I was somehow attracted to it. Even though I like watching ALL kinds of films from historical documentaries to Nepalese dramas (checkout Himalaya, BTW) I have a particular attraction to silly little comedies. I think comedy is the most underrated kind of film in the modern world, the reason probably being that so few script-writers, actors and actresses are actually able to excel in it!  Well, my girl-friend -- a non-blonde that feels appalled by the crazy, school/student/party-time kind of comedies -- was somehow persuaded by me to come and watch this film. It turned out she even liked it! (as did I , of course) It's not the kind of film that will make you fall off your seat, rolling laughing on the floor, but you sure get a few good laughs and you have a constant grin on your face throughout the movie. Reese Witherspoon turns out to be a great comedic actress. The comments I've read in here about the script are... laughable in my view. This is a COMEDY people, not an historical biography!  7/10 from me.  "},{"Title":"outstanding performance from Reese!","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am not an official commentary person. But I am so delighted by the film and watched it twice (at one time!!) (never done that before). Reese Witherspoon is so appropriate for this leading role Elle Woods. Her acting surely is outstanding and leaves people feel - wow!!!! Her lovely facial expressions, her eyes, her lips, body movements are so appropriately  well in bringing out a kind-hearted, trust-worthy, some how naive but strong and faithful Elle Woods and her transforms to success without giving up her faith. She simply just acts alive Elle, whom is such a lovable character.And Reese is so well spoken and firm and nice pronunciation in English (I am a non native English speaker, I just love Reese's way of speaking)that makes her a very plausible lawyer. I guess Director Robert Luketic has good eyes picking Reese. And it is a pleasure to see her acts very naturally that does feel like she is acting at all (sometimes you feel it with Gwyneth Paltrow - personal opinion, no offense) Reese surly is talented and you would just start to love her too!!  "},{"Title":"She did it for the money and definitely not for the script.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What can I say.  Reese is good as usual, Most of the actors manage not to embarrass themselves.  The script is, well, lousy.  A certain amount of suspension of belief is necessary with most comedies and usually, if it's funny, I'll forgive some plot holes and jumps in logic.  Not only is this a rather dull, unfunny movie, some of it is just too incredible to believe.  Come on Reese, you can do better than this. "},{"Title":"I was doubtful, but pleasantly suprised","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At frst I didn't want to see this film because I thought the cutesiness would be too annoying. But the filmmakers portrayed all the cutesiness and corniness very satirically, so it was all amusing and hysterical rather than annoying. I haven't been able to stop laughing at the Bend, snap! lesson in the beauty parlor! Reese Witherspoon is one of the most underrated actresses of this generation, although I would like to see her break the stereotype role she gets in order to get the full depth of her acting abilities. The film also had a good variety of dofferent characters, something that is rare to find in these types of silly movies. "},{"Title":"Legally a sit-com","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  2/10 only for Reese Witherspoon and her ability to carry this overblown valley-girl-is-smart sit-com.  This is a made-for-TV movie if ever I saw one, and I've seen plenty.Reese decides to follow her totally hollow boyfriend into Harvard Law after he dumps her because of his budding political career.  She manages to get into Harvard (and she is right - it's not that hard) and is immediately laughed at by most of the students.  She learns the rules of the game quickly and by movie's end you just know a spin-off is waiting.In truth, I fell asleep for about five minutes during this cutting-edge masterpiece, so my review is of the movie I was able to comprehend. Sorry.What could have made this feature better?  It could have been a musical for starters.  The producers could have thrown in some graphic sex and violence.  And on and on.Holland Taylor and Luke Wilson attempt to rise above the material. I'll be looking for this on tv next season. "}{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A lot of people have been saying that this film has no credibility that it's unrealistic for a dumb blonde to get into Harvard Law School. That really isn't the issue, I think everyone knows that it's unrealistic, there's no point stating the obvious. You gotta have a sense of fun and be able to laugh from time to time, films are meant to be entertaining. If all films were to be realistic, half the people in Hollywood would be out of their jobs! There are different categories of films, some psychological where a bit of thinking is involved (which is not a bad thing) some arty-farty films ;0) (no offence to anyone who likes them - free world!) and then there are feel good, entertaining films like Legally Blonde or American Pie, which are not there to be broken down for psychoanalysis etc, you're meant to go and watch them, have a few laughs and unwind and in my opinion, this is exactly the category that this film falls into. Lighten up! Have some fun! For those of you who haven't watched it, ENJOY! "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon Comic Genius?","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a very entertaining movie, full of great laughs and a bit of pathos, but not too much. Yes, it is quite corny but fun. My legally blonde wife was howling with laughter.  The rather silly premise that a person like Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon) could get into Harvard Law School is a little much; only certified jackasses can be admitted to Harvard(as her fiance from the movie demonstrated.)  I was watching the star, Ms. Witherspoon, with much interest. I think she is a wonderful actress, perhaps a Lucille Ball for the new century? This judgment was formed after seeing her in Election with Matthew Broderick and now this movie. She is also very beautiful. Watching her admission video to Harvard is worth the price of renting this movie! I look forward to seeing Ms. Witherspoon in anything in which she appears movies, tv shows, lingerie, swimwear, etc.   The other interesting thing about this movie is the brief presence of Raquel Welch. It's good to see her in something other than Seinfeld reruns.    "},{"Title":"Oh, My Goodness!!!!!!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have expected the story will look a bit stupid, but at least laughable. However, it has disappointed me to an undescribable extent! The film is stupid, and cannot make me laugh at all! First of all, ok, the girl, Elle, is 'legally blonde', but can they cast a better looking girl? Maybe that's what the director look for, but I think they can find someone better!!!!! Blonde girl?! I think Tara Reid is a better choice! And the first hour of the film make people think that all girls from LA is stupid and silly! And after an hour, Elle was incredibly lucky that she guessed the guy was gay, and the girl have washed her hair after she's done her hair!!!!! So silly!! The only good climax is that sexual harassment thing! "},{"Title":"Pretty funny, who knew?","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Don't ask me how I ended up seeing this movie, but at the end I actually didn't feel like I had totally wasted my six dollars. Reese Witherspoon is actually pretty damn funny, and though the plot is totally hoaky, you do find yourself laughing.  "},{"Title":"Go see this movie, but only if you are tired of vapid teen-flicks starring the shallow likes of Freddie Prinz Jr.!","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I must say that I was pleasantly surprised by this movie.  It's not a dumb teenager romance.  It's not some Shakespeare or Jane Austin story pathetically modernized.Granted, you might not think so given the protagonist Elle Woods -- dumb, rich blonde sorority girl who gets into Harvard Law School -- but Reese Witherspoon gives her Malibu Barbie Doll character both charm and substance. This movie could easily have taken a campy turn for the worst, but it doesn't.  It's sticks to its theme -- be true to yourself and believe in yourself -- propelling the protagonist along a path she never would have chosen for herself, a path none of her family or friends would have encouraged her to take.  This movie could easily be compared to another coming of age film, RISKY BUSINESS.  Both protagonists have very different futures planned for themselves at the beginning, both encounter obstacles and unexpected twists of fate, resulting in their characters growth and development.  Both Joel and Elle are changed by their experiences in the real world -- in the end, the naive teenager is gone and the young but maturing adult who is ready to face life has begun to emerge.In my opinion, the casting of this film was spot on.  Leave the rehashed, MTV-soundtrack-inspired, teenage romances to Rachel Leigh Cook and Freddie Prinz Jr., because Reese Witherspoon is far too busy acting like an airhead to actually be one.  "},{"Title":"Dumb blonde? I don't think so.","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was excellent. Ok, so some parts were a little cheesy but the whole outlook of it is brilliant. I've seen so many trailers for it, which inspired me to see the movie.  Reese Witherspoon plays an excellent part, along with Selma Blair and Luke Wilson. The cute little dog has no lines but is crucial to the movie. The little clothes it wears is so sweet!I think it can be aimed at mostly females. I'm 15 and really enjoyed it. It was a great laugh and my aunt even thought so! So what if it's directed by a guy, it's still a good flick to catch. Go and watch it, and enjoy it! There's not a dumb blonde in sight! "},{"Title":"Blonde Ambition","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's a little crazy to think that Reese Witherspoon's character is totally braindead in this film, because she's not. From the outset we are led to believe that she does have the capabilities to go to Harvard Law School and that she can do anything if she tries. Indeed throughout she shows that it is possible to be whoever she wants in a world that takes everything at face value. Tripping up on the way is just part of the enjoyment value of this film and not an excuse to believe the character is stupid beyond belief.Many people who have thought this movie rubbish have appeared to fall into the very trap that Reese Witherspoon's character is trying to escape from i.e. that being blonde doesn't mean being dumb.On this level the film works very well and can indeed be compared very favorably with films such as Election and Clueless. Many funny moments throughout really rule out the need to question any gaping plot holes (and there are some)as this is a refreshing and likable romp from the  'transition to college' film brief. "},{"Title":"A Poor Man's My Cousin Vinny","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Cousin Vinny is a classic story of unexpected legal brilliance in two very-ethnic everyday folks.  Now take the seriousness of the crime (murder) and change it to a chipped nail on a Valley Girl, and you've got Legally Blonde.  It was painful to watch Reese Witherspoon wither on the vine, with a predictable plot, shallow supporting characters, and blindingly unattractive clothes.  At least it was just a rental -- I would have hated to pay 10 bucks to see this B film. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I normally don't go for happy Hollywood teen comedies - I usually dig dark and gloomy foreign art movies that make me feel bad, or at least confused. But yesterday I went to see 'Legally Blonde' (dressed in a black turtleneck so as not to give the impression that I am a habitual viewer of Hollywood pap).It's a great movie - it achieves what it tries to do. The script works, and the performances of the actors are wonderful. Reese Witherspoon plays a happy, blonde, fashion-obsessed girl without turning it into a caricature - not easy. The other actors played well too. Selma Blair goes from an antisocial geek, to a snobby bitch, to a nice girl, all in 90 minutes.If you want good fun that's not too insulting to your intelligence, this movie is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"nice movie, could be better!","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  **SPOILERS AHEAD**This is a nice light hearted movie to pass time. There are of course a few glaring holes in the story line (like would first year law students be asked to give key help in a murder trial? Would the much experinced senior professor handling the trial omit to investigate the background of the key witness and not know he is gay?). Another criticism I have is Reese Witherspoon overacts in a few scenes, giggling and grimacing and trying to be too girly.  But the overall drift is good and entertaining. I would give a rating of 6/10 because it is overall a nice movie. "}{"Title":"I like it better than Clueless","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Clueless bored me to near tears, but Legally Blonde didn't. I sat through the whole film highly entertained. Granted, it's bit like Clueless, but it's a funnier and more entertaining version of the former. No one should see this movie expecting an original plot or original jokes, because you're not gonna get it. The plot's nothing we've not seen before, and the funnies aren't anything we've not heard before, but Legally Blonde manages to pull the whole thing off pretty well. And that's mainly due to Reese Witherspoon. She delivered an excellent performance as Elle Woods, and deserve some kind of MTV award for it.  As annoying as Elle Woods can be sometimes, you can't help but admire her determination at proving to everybody that she too can make it at law school...although it's unbelievable that she even got in. But it's a light-hearted film that's supposed to entertain people who don't feel like using their brains, and that's exactly what Legally Blonde does. The greatest thing about the movie is that it doesn't take itself seriously. Almost everything it does, it pokes fun at itself. It makes fun of girls like Elle Woods without going overboard to offensive, and it works, because it *is* funny, unless you're a diehard Clueless fan. Legally Blonde may not be deep or serious or thought-provoking, but it's not supposed to be. It succeeds as what it intends to be, and that is, like I said, a light-hearted and entertaining movie. Don't expect too much of it, but don't expect too little either.(spoiler) As a side-note, my favourite part was the trial scene, when Emmett was questioning the pool boy. What's your boyfriend's name? Chuck. (I think.) Hilarious.  "},{"Title":"Funny and entertaining","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was a good way to spend an afternoon. It was a funny movie without being obnoxious. I could actually watch an adult comedy with my kids in the room and not have to worry about language or sex.Reese Witherspoon did an excellent job, as usual. The supporting cast wasn't up to her level, but the were definitely quite competent. Elle was at least not as completely shallow as we were led to believe in the beginning and she seemed to honestly have a good heart.I'll definitely recommend it to others. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and fun, but Reese Witherspoon carries it","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first heard of Legally Blonde this past summer, I thought it was just another Clueless rip off, and decided to pass on it. I usually read up on movies, but I didn't even other to read up on it. Later on, as it was released on video, many people started telling me, No, it's funny as hell, you gotta see it. So I broke down and rented it at Blockbuster last night. I was expecting pretty much nothing, but I got something very funny. By the time the credits rolled around, I thought, What a very good thing. What a shame I passed over it.Of course, it deals with a girl named Elle Woods who transfers to Harvard to try to win back her jerk of a boyfriend Warner, who wants to be a Senator at thirty and, in his own words, needs to, Marry a Jackie, not a Marilyn. And as such, discovers she has more legal savvy than she knew. A few people here said that it was totally unbelievable, which it was, but come on, guys! Movies' first goals are to be entertaining, not believable. If movies were meant to be believable, Arnold and Sly would be out of a job! Forget the unrealistic plot, just enjoy this funny movie.That said, this is Reese Witherspoon's movie. Many people said when Clueless first came out, that Alicia Silverstone's performance would make her a huge star. It did for a while, but it didn't last long. You know why? Because she is limited as an actress, and people realized that one good movie doesn't mean you're worth 20 mill a picture. Witherspoon, on the other hand, can play a wide variety of roles and she is deserving of star status. And it's a shame she's married with a kid, she's HOT!I also liked the fact that Elle did not start out as an uncaring bitch like most girls like her do in movies. Elle was warm-hearted throughout the whole movie, and a good example of this is a scene when she pretends to be a geeky law student's scourned ex so he'll land a date with his dream girl. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Pleasant surprise. Enjoyed it a lot.","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was put off by the german translation of the title (which reads naturally blonde) and feared a lot of really stupid jokes and cliches, but within minutes I had a smile on my face. This movie made me feel good. It was well written, had very likeable characters and the lead actress gave a very good performance. I rated it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not horrible,..not great either, its an ok 5.","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally blonde was saved by a pretty decent performance from a beautiful and talented Reese Witherspoon.  Without her, this movie could have been legally bad.  The writing was occasionally funny and there are some laughs.  The cast does a good job and the direction is decent.  The one thing that really disappointed me was the lack of intelligence in the courtroom.  The ending was rediculously simple and seemed rushed.  I dont want to give a spoiler but really wouldnt the murder victims daughter know that her alibi was stupid!!!  Hell, Ive never had a perm in my life and I know that you shouldnt get it wet an hour after getting it.  OH well, on a whole I enjoyed this movie a lot more than I expected and it was much better than the Jennifer Lopez fiasco, The Wedding Planner, and isnt that all a guy forced to watch a chick flick ask for?  The difference was definately Reese Witherspoon. "},{"Title":"Illegal","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst movies I have ever had the misfortune to view.  Not only does it totally lack credibility (does anyone really believe this Barbie doll bimbo could get into Harvard Law?!), it manages to stereotype and insult about every ethnic and social group known to mankind enroute, from lesbians and gays to blue collar workers to, well, blondes. Save your money and blow it on something important, like lottery tickets (at least that way you'll be paying my taxes!). "},{"Title":"REECE WITHERSPOON IS TREMENDOUS!!!!!","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you enjoy a movie to be entertained, this one is for you! Not a rocket scientist flick, but Reece Witherspoon steals the show. If she is nominated for best actress for her role, then I don't understand what great acting is all about. A MUST SEE! "},{"Title":"Entertaining.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all. I must stress that I don't like comedy movies at all. I think they are just not worthy; However, I saw legally blonde yesterday, and I was amazed seeing Reese Witherspoon's great performance as a foolish blonde, but she is not that foolish since she got into Harvard to study laws. She showed everybody that a blonde can be smart enough to study in the best university of the United States. She strained every nerve to fulfill it, which is extremely valuable to me. It teaches us to be the best we can be to get whatever we want without hurting anybody. It was truly the message that legally blonde left me for my life.  I don't forget about Reese Witherspoon's performance in Cruel intentions with Selma Blair. It was nice to see them again in a thoroughly different movie. Cruel intentions was drama, but it was comedy instead, which makes it more stunning. The writing of this movie is quite enjoyable. The story has an excellent plot and is very different from other comedy movies which really make me upset. But it is incredible that I liked a comedy movie for the first time of my life. Reese Witherspoon made it so great. She should be an academy award nominee for best actress in a leading role. She really evolves herself into the role. This clever blonde really knows how to act. She was very well cast. The dog was also flashy and funny. It made many people laugh in the movie theater. They just couldn't believe that a blonde got into Harvard with her dog, it was funny. The ending of this movie is pretty good since it shows that we all can get what we want doing our best as Elle Woods did. Overall it's a brilliant movie. But those who didn't like it. I just can say to them not to keep bad critical remarks about it and find out about its excellent message that everybody must learn in order to achieve their goals.  8/10       "},{"Title":"My honest opinion","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Nice movie to watch with a friend, a couple of beers, and nothing to do on a monday night. A little predictable, but some good humor. Watch it for Reese Witherspoon!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Entertaining.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all. I must stress that I don't like comedy movies at all. I think they are just not worthy; However, I saw legally blonde yesterday, and I was amazed seeing Reese Witherspoon's great performance as a foolish blonde, but she is not that foolish since she got into Harvard to study laws. She showed everybody that a blonde can be smart enough to study in the best university of the United States. She strained every nerve to fulfill it, which is extremely valuable to me. It teaches us to be the best we can be to get whatever we want without hurting anybody. It was truly the message that legally blonde left me for my life.  I don't forget about Reese Witherspoon's performance in Cruel intentions with Selma Blair. It was nice to see them again in a thoroughly different movie. Cruel intentions was drama, but it was comedy instead, which makes it more stunning. The writing of this movie is quite enjoyable. The story has an excellent plot and is very different from other comedy movies which really make me upset. But it is incredible that I liked a comedy movie for the first time of my life. Reese Witherspoon made it so great. She should be an academy award nominee for best actress in a leading role. She really evolves herself into the role. This clever blonde really knows how to act. She was very well cast. The dog was also flashy and funny. It made many people laugh in the movie theater. They just couldn't believe that a blonde got into Harvard with her dog, it was funny. The ending of this movie is pretty good since it shows that we all can get what we want doing our best as Elle Woods did. Overall it's a brilliant movie. But those who didn't like it. I just can say to them not to keep bad critical remarks about it and find out about its excellent message that everybody must learn in order to achieve our goals.  8/10       "}{"Title":"This, like, SUCKS!!","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Good news for you, Driven- you just weren't the worst movie I've seen this year. Step aside for Legally blonde! I REALLY didn't set my expectations high for this movie, since it clearly isn't aimed at moviegoers such as me (male, 25). But even so, I can tell the difference between a good and a bad teen movie, let it be aimed at females OR males! Now, She's all that is a GOOD movie in this category - and above just watchable for all tastes. Legally blonde manages to suck in its OWN category, which in fact is quite an achievement. They had an idea for a comedy and Reese Witherspoon- how could they simply screw up the rest this bad!? And on top of all- a flick for teenage girls is directed by a GUY? Hel-LO!?Please, for your own sake, avoid this turkey at all costs. "},{"Title":"Relatively harmless comedy, but predictable and only sporadically funny","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't hate this movie, but I don't see what people loved so much about it.  Some of my favorite critics gave this movie enthusiastically good reviews.  And most of my friends who saw it said it was surprisingly good and much better than it looked in the trailers.  Well, I actually thought it looked cool in the trailers.  And I was disappointed by the end result. I think dumb blonde stereotypes on film have grown tired and annoying.  Luckily, in only a few scenes are we subjected to those annoying stereotypes in lame gags.  Yes, stupid can be funny, but there has to be a certain amount of wit behind the stupidity.  For example, I cracked up at Elaine May's portrayal of an airhead in Woody Allen's Small Time Crooks.  Though Reese plays a dumb blonde herself, intelligent only in health and beauty products, she has enough charm to pull it off.  One of my favorite comedies is My Cousin Vinny, and it's hilarious to watch Vincent Gambini (Joe Pesci) as a fish-out-of-water, new to the whole legal system and using his Brooklyn-born street smarts to win the case.  Sure, Vincent Gambini wouldn't really be able to pull off that whole act, but films are not meant to be reality; they're meant to be a depiction of reality.  And the depiction was quite well.  And some of his evidence was quite sufficient, helping us suspend disbelief.  In Elle Woods' (Reese) case, we're supposed to go along with her shallow philosophies and cheer her on  Exercise builds endorphins.  Endorphins make people happy.  Happy people don't murder their husbands.  OK, she's right.  But a chimp could've thought of that.  Her shallow philosophies certainly won't hold water in an actual courtroom.  I'm sure people in the law profession will watch this movie and roll their eyes from start to finish.  Face it, Elle Woods makes Vincent Gambini look like Johnny Cochrane.  The plot is predictable from start to finish, filled with painfully familiar subplots.  Elle gets dumped by Warner.  This Warner guy was obviously a complete jerk from the start, and she's going to do whatever it takes to enroll in Harvard Law to get this idiot back?  And of course, we have that tired subplot involving snooty popular kids and naive geeks.  The snooty kids don't become so snooty after a while and reveal their nicer sides.  The geek boys and geek girls rise to popularity.  Anything we HAVEN'T seen before?  I laughed a few times.  I enjoyed the scene where the pool boy is revealed as gay, and tries to prove otherwise.  Then his boyfriend Chuck rises from the jury and walks out the courtroom yelling You b**ch!  The beautiful Ali Larter is in the cast.  Boy, I love that girl!  And I love that song Perfect Day by Hoku.  Legally Blonde is a harmless comedy that simply tries to undermine the intelligence of its audience, making it not much different from all these other lame teen comedies in past years.  And it hardly reaches its comic potential.  I wouldn't completely overrule this comedy, but audiences deserve better.  My score  6 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"No film should rely on the looks of the lead.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reece Witherspoon stars as a blonde who thinks of little more than what nail varnish to wear, or this seasons shoes, until the love of her life dumps her for being too stupid. She takes on school with new verve in order to prove that she is smart and to get into Harvard, where said love of her life is studying. What follows is a pleasant little tale of good-natured, well-intentioned innocence. Reece Witherspoon is so likeable in this, that I am hard-pressed to say anything against her or the film. But, saying that, it doesn't have an awful lot going for it either. If I gave it an average score, it wouldn't be justice. Something that the film relies on to a certain degree, so I'll have to say that it's some way beneath that.  "},{"Title":"A delightful and satisfying comedy!","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a light-hearted and refreshing comedy! Reese Witherspoon deserves an Oscar nomination for her wonderful (with a capital W) performance as Elle Woods, a young blonde from Beverly Hills. Her boyfriend Warner (Matthew Davis) breaks up with her because he feels that she is TOO blonde and 'un-serious' for him. She proves that she is serious by winning a seat at Harvard Law School. And in doing so, she realizes that she has a impeccable knack for counseling! From beginning to end, you have a great movie that is sure to put a smile on your face!Grade B+Cast Reese Witherspoon (Elle Woods), Matthew Davis (Warner), Luke Wilson (Emmett), Selma Blair (Vivian), Victor Garber (Prof. Callahan), Jennifer Coolidge (Paulette), Ali Larter (Brooke), and Jessica Cauffiel (Margot). "},{"Title":"Excellent Ensemble!","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Watching Legally Blonde is one of the best ways to kill an hour and a half these days.  Two factors contribute to its ability to entertain without straining the audience  its great ensemble, and straightforward screenplay.One of the best things about Legally Blonde is its casting choices.  Reese Witherspoon, without a doubt, makes Elle Woods a likeable character.  It is hard to imagine feeling the same empathy towards another actress playing that part.  She manages to prove that the pursuit for higher education and self-realization and the guilty pleasures of reading and applying information found on Cosmopolitan can in fact co-exist.  Matthew Davis, a relative newcomer, perfectly represents stereotypical East Coast pretentiousness as the politician wannabe; one of his best scenes, however, is his reaction to Elle's rejection from the study group.  Selma Blair's cool attitude makes her a great antagonist to perky Elle.  She portrays very well being threatened by Elle's sunniness (watch out for the sparkly argyle beret).  Luke Wilson is great as Elle's mentor; the chemistry between those two was strong enough to let the screenwriters get away with not writing out love scenes between the two characters.  Callahan, the professor, is another well-developed character; the plot twists concerning him are very well written.  Other characters such as Paulette the manicurist, Professor Stromwell, Brooke Taylor-Windham, and the sorority sisters help round out Elle's transition from fashion management major to Harvard Law student.The writing is excellent.  The screenplay was penned by the team behind Ten Things I Hate About You, one of the few watchable teen comedies released in the last few years.   "},{"Title":"You can't judge a book by it's blonde cover!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A treat to watch.  If you are looking for a film that is entertaining, without being stupid, and trashy, this is the film for you.  Great performances, a great script, and a simple concept carried out very well by the director.  Reese Whitherspoon is a knockout blonde, with amazing talent. Laugh, without the fear of being grossed out. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly refreshing and fun.","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  LEGALLY BLONDE (2001) Rating 8/10Legally Blonde is one of summer 2001's sleeper hits which so far has grossed over $95 million at the US Box Office, well over it's $18 million budget. I didn't get to see Legally Blonde in theaters but I rented it on DVD and I loved it. The movie is so cheerful and happy and cute that it's almost impossible not to enjoy it. The story itself is actually pretty simple, but what puts it over the top is Reese Witherspoon's brilliant performance as Elle Woods. Reese Witherspoon is one of Hollywood's best actresses and it shows with each role she's in. She blew me away as Tracy Flick in Election and does it again here. She deserves some awards already! Reese carries the whole movie on her shoulders and does it perfectly, she didn't lose my attention once. So far, this is the best feel good movie of 2001, it will make you want to stand up and cheer. I had a smile on my face the whole way through and enjoyed every minute of it.Legally Blonde isn't some dumb blonde movie. I dare all of the people that don't want to see it to give it a shot, I bet you'll like it. The movie is like a puppy begging for you to play with it, it's impossible to resist. Reese Witherspoon took a simple movie and made it into something great. I highly doubt any other actress could have played Elle Woods as well as she does, I can't picture anyone else playing the part.Legally Blonde is the most likable movie of the year and I don't see how anyone could not like it. I think people of all ages can enjoy this movie. Reese Witherspoon is just impossible to resist. The movie is basically a Reese Witherspoon vehicle, a movie to show off her cuteness, and it passes with flying colors. The movie is all about Reese. So, if you don't like her, you wont like the movie (but how can you not just enjoy the hell out of Reese Witherspoon). She took this part and had fun with it and we have fun watching her be cute.  "},{"Title":"Just watch the first half of the movie","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For an alleged chick-flick, I admit that even as a guy I liked the first half of the film. I thought back to my days at school when I knew many of the same kind of snobs that give Reese Witherspoon a hard time. It was both fun for me watching them (the stare on Selma Blair is priceless), and seeing Reese put them in their place through her success. It was like a Working-Girl for teenagers.Unfortunately, half way through the entire movie changes. Suddenly its no longer about law school or getting back at her boyfriend, but about a murder trial, low-life lawyers, and some feel good stuff about having faith in others and yourself. Perhaps I just wasn't in the mood for these cliches, but I wish the film stuck to its winning formula found in the first forty-odd minutes. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie Legally Blond was an absolutely horrible movie.  It follows the path of a ditzy California blond as she tries to make it through one of the most difficult law schools in the country.  As a fashion major, it seemed highly unlikely that law school would accept her, let alone even review her application.  The theme for the entire movie is that this blond sorority girl can achieve whatever she wants to do if she works hard even though no one believes in her.  This is evident right from the beginning when her parents tell her that she can't be serious enough for law school.  The entire movie was predictable including most of the jokes.  This film had little redeeming value and was just a way to show of Reese Witherspoon. "},{"Title":"So many themes, too little film","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This had such potential, and could well have been another clueless. But it wasn't..which in its own right was a good thing, the bad thing was, it didn't end up being a very good film.Why? Too many themeswe had, Over coming heartbreak, beating the odds, Finding new love, making friends in a new place, being a stranger in a new town etc...if they had narrowed this down to concetrating on maybe two of these themes then it would have been good.Annoyingly it deicded to sflit between them, going serious to funny, to somewhere in between...And let's face it, whilst it would never be a get up and walk out movie, it is one you would never recommend too any friends. It's a background TV movie, one you can flit in and out of whilst chatting to firends.I was  disspointed with this film, as I am a fan of Reese Witherspoon, and I expcted a lot more from her...perhaps she ought to stick to mroe serious roles?The one thing I am glad about, was the fact that i saw it when in a bad mood, so the (few) laughs it did have were able to cheer me up.. "}{"Title":"A good surprise","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The trailer for Legally Blonde would lead you to believe you are in store for another brainless, bimbo flick.  The notion of this Barbie doll attending the most prestigious law school in the States is a funny concept, but not enough to base 90 minutes of film on.  It needed something more. The idea of 'ditsy girl comes good' was obvious from the start, but the twists and turns of this movie brought it out of the run-of-the-mill genre. Reese Witherspoon was entirely convincing as the bimbo in question, and because of this we were laughing with her, not at her.  The situations presented to her are dealt with thoughtfully and cleverly, and therefore open this film up to a very wide audience, even early-20s educated cynics... So, I would heartily recommend Legally Blonde to anyone in search of good laughs, a good storyline and the ability to be surprised by the expected.  "},{"Title":"Cute, funny, and great eye candy.","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a sweet film.  I'm a huge fan of Reese Witherspoon, and she's as good as ever in this movie.It's a film that doesn't take itself seriously, it's just simply a good time at the movies.You'll smile all through it, and smile when you're leaving. Great example of the feel good movie, and what's wrong with that? "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Blonde","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Right from the beginning I feared this movie would resemble Clueless and be nothing else but a rehash of an already covered topic but I realized quickly this was a whole new world that was created and that lead me to a very pleasant and entertaining space in time.Reese Witherspoon excelled in this movie (as usual) and proved to us once more that she is capable of varying her roles from one extreme to another without any problems, while keeping a humane side to them. There are some exaggerated sides to the movie that are charmingly pushed to a sweet extreme making the movie seem a bit unreal from time to time yet keeping it marvelously entertaining.I would recommend this movie to anybody who is in need of a good time and some good laughs.To those who have already seen it I hope you agree that Reese Witherspoon is one brilliant blonde! "},{"Title":"Cliches Aplenty","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"     As others have said, this is Clueless at law school. There's your plot.     Now, is it done well? Not in my opinion. It has psychic humor.  That is, you can predict the jokes and plot twists well before they actually happen.  And I found Reese Witherspoon's one-note perky performance annoying most of the time.      There are plenty of obvious sight gags involving Reese's cute  little dog dressed up in various outfits. The director might as well have had a 5 minute slide show at the film's beginning to get all of that out of the way.    Only a couple scenes made me laugh.  I liked the two sexual innuendo lines the UPS man had, I chuckled when the students sat on the lawn and introduced themselves on the first day of school, and the sketch artist in the courtroom made some funny drawings. I also laughed when the brunette sadly realized that she had misjudged Reese's relationship with the lawyer. Trying to make this movie the least bit heart-wrenching seemed hilariously absurd at that point.      Also, the stunningly cheesy music in the opening scenes was also good for some chortles.If you are a teenager, you might like this movie. If you have a Reese Witherspoon fetish, maybe you will find it worth your time. Everybody else should avoid it.  "},{"Title":"Hollywood in imagination shocker!","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Excellently scripted, directed, produced, filmed and casted, this film is a pleasant surprise all around.Wetherspoon, the archetypal dumb blonde, applies herself and gets into Harvard law school in order to chase her boyfriend who has dumped her so he can further his own career and image.  A little predictable in the plot from this point on, however it is excellently put together and really worth seeing. "},{"Title":"blondes have law fun","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Gentlemen, an announcement. Legally Blonde  &#150; despite possessing a title worthy of porn and a Racquel Welch cameo &#150; is, in fact, a chick flick. A girly movie, right from its pink squiggly titles through to its `be what you wanna be' conclusion. The kind of thing women enjoy when they've just split up with their boyfriends; like chocolate, or shagging their ex's best friend. No need to get upset, though like the previous girly film from writer Karen McCullah Lutz (10 Things I Hate About You), it's a very entertaining one. Our pretty protagonist is Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon), a prom-Queen, Clueless-type teen from Bel Air who lives for Prada and fluffy pink things. She's blonde. Her primary ambition in life is to marry her boyfriend, the debonair Warner Huntingdon III (Matthew Davis). He's not blond, and he doesn't take her seriously (hiss!), becuase he wants to be a Senator by the time he's thirty, and he needs a `Jackie, not Marilyn'. So he dumps her. And she follows him to Harvard Law School to show him she's more than just a blonde. Except, in the true tradition of fish-out-of-water comedy, she isn't really more than a blonde, because that wouldn't be funny. Instead of changing herself, she endears herself to her contemporaries as the film goes on, which does, at times, create slightly uncomfortable viewing are we supposed to be laughing at this crude caricature, or with her? This is a film that wants us to empathise with a dizzy blonde standing up for the rights of dizzy blondes to be treated as if they weren't dizzy blondes, which is a bit like Bernard Manning asking not to be treated like a fat racist Northerner.Because the character remains so static, Witherspoon never really gets a chance to show what a great actress she can be (as those who have seen the far more satisfying Election will confirm). Actually,  though this is undoubtedly Witherspoon's movie, the real breakthrough performance here is Jennifer Coolidge (Stifler's Mom from American Pie), who, in her supporting scenes as Elle's nail artist, reveals herself as a very capable comedy actress. But these minor points of critique are, like, so irrelevant to the average viewer of Legally Blonde. This is a film that will make a lot of people (mostly girls) very happy. And, to quote Elle's legal advice, `happy people just don't kill their husbands. They just don't.' So us men gain too. "},{"Title":"dont right it off","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Dont right this film off just yet (im speaking for the guys) because its actually quite good. On my way to watching it i was expecting a crappy chick movie but when it finished i was very surprised i enjoyed it. It had some good comedy bits in it and some good preformences but dont expect a laugh out loud comedy like american pie. Just think to yourself that its going totally rubbish and youll probably end up enjoying it, i know i did. "},{"Title":"Light, sugarry sweet and just what's needed to make you smile","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon duets with Selma Blair from their Cruel Intentions outing in something which is a whole lot more lighthearted. And pink.A romantic comedy, the film follows the tale of an American Dream relationship gone sour, with the girl desperately trying to rescue the situation going as far to join law school.Packed with moral fibre and healthy smiles, it pulls no surprises with its rosy view on life. Stereotyping left, right and centre, it can be, at times, a little patronising. But then the film never takes itself seriously, inviting the viewer to do the same too.With a formula that reminds of those feel good, high energy films of the 80's, it comes across as a disposable film, watched once then forgotten. But during its lifespan, it never fails to entertain. Candy floss for the masses, it's light, sugary sweet and just what's needed to make you smile. "},{"Title":"Legally Great","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon is magnetically charming in this cute chick flick (that guys WILL be able to sit through.... trust me) about a never-taken-seriously blonde who makes it into Harvard in order to get her man back!Her boyfriend Emmett (Luke Wilson), however has already gotten engaged to Vivian (Reese's 'Cruel Intentions' co-star Selma Blair) - who just happens to hate poor Elle (Witherspoon).Very funny with plenty of blonde jokes, charming performances and a cameo appearance from Raquel Welch! Go see it. "},{"Title":"2 Gorgeous blondes for the price of 1","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't like Jonathan Ross on most shows but, as the Film 2001 reviewer, I have to admit that I rarely fail to agree with him. Yes, it's not a masterpiece. Yes, the plot reminded me of many other films (at one point, I thought that I was watching a Hollywood version of 'Bridget Jones'). But, compared to the string of poor Hollywood comedies I've seen over the past year or so (Miss Congeniality excepted), this movie delivered on all levels. A fast-ish pace, a good script, not totally predictable, and a good cast. And two of my favourite blondes - Alison Larter, and the marvellous Reese Witherspoon. JR drew vague comparisons with other famous dizzy blondes. This has to be the best dizzy (but far from dumb) blonde turn since Goldie Hawn's best film (in my opinion), 'Foul Play'.Oh, yes, and it was genuinely funny. I can see why it took so much money in the USA. I give this film 8 out of 10. Marilyn Monroe would have liked this movie. "}{"Title":"Legally Blonde is no Clueless and Reese is no Alicia BUT this is a really good teen movie with a difference.","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first heard about Legally Blonde, reading reviews and seeing trailers for the movie, it did look quite like Clueless which is one of the best teen movies around and stars the *brilliant* Alicia Silverstone. I'm not sure if I should say Legally Blonde is in the same classic league as Clueless is, but maybe. I didn't think I was going to enjoy Legally Blonde as much as I did. And, I really did like it. It's a different teen comedy which is fun and sweet all in one. Reese Witherspoon plays Elle Woods, a pretty young blonde girl who gets dumped by her boyfriend, Warner, for being too blonde  and not being smart enough. To try and get him back she gets in to Harvard Law School, the same school he attends. Teachers and students, (Including Warner's new girlfriend, Vivian, who doesn't like Elle (At first.) and who even embarrass' Elle by telling her that a party for the Harvard students is a fancy dress when of course it isn't.) don't take Elle seriously though, until she proves them wrong with the many of the good things she does.The cast in the movie which includes Reese Witherspoon, Selma Blair, Luke Wilson and Ali Larter all do give great performances here. For example Witherspoon, I've never been to keen on her. I don't mind her or anything, but seeing as I've liked her in a couple of movies, I wasn't to sure what I would think of her here, but she does do good here. Jennifer Coolidge who plays Paulette a friend of Elles is also funny here especially with the guy she's trying to get together with.  I also liked the small cute performance from Linda Cardelli, who played Chutney Widman, who played the daughter of a murdered man. (Obviously watch the movie to find out more about that.) If you like teen, comedy, movies then Legally Blonde for you. This is also quite a grown-up teen movie so adults will enjoy it too. This is a really good movie and I'm sure the sequel will be just as good. I give Legally Blonde an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Annoying yet heartwarming","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've never been a fan of Reese Witherspoon,  but her character in this ditzy movie is actually extremely likeable.I would never have chosen to see this movie on my own, but my 12 year old niece enjoyed it beyond belief.At first, it reminded me too much of Clueless with the airhead L.A. rich girlies.  However, the plot and premise did have a bit of originality and the movie ends exactly how I found myself hoping it would.  The fact that even I cared about the characters and the outcome by the end of the movie is what I think makes it a decent movie.If you can stand the stereotypical dumb blond aspect and the superficial pretty girl mentality, it actually wraps up with a pretty good message. "},{"Title":"BIG SURPRISE","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Last Tuesday I went to Cinema for the Sneak Preview. At the moment I've seen the name of the movie, I was on my way out, but my girlfriend has stop me. After the movie, I've thank her, great movie, great actors, fantastic story = Legally Blonde "},{"Title":"One of the most enjoyable movies of the year!","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  LEGALLY BLONDE (2001) Rating 8/10From the ads and trailers, Legally Blonde to me just looked like a bit of fun with a feast of blondes. I was obviously mistaken. Don't get me wrong, the blondes are babes and this movie is a lot of fun, but I thought the movie itself had more depth than busty blondes. The movie actually has a lot to do with fitting in, dramatic times and being the best person you can be. This may all sound corny, but rarely is, and the comedy element is the most important one in the movie, so don't go in expecting a big drama-fest because the comedy kicks hard ass. As does Reese Witherspoon's awesome performance. She is seriously hot, smart and believable in this cool role as the blonde law student. Many are considering her Oscar material, and I couldn't agree more! Every scene Reese is in is an enjoyable one, and she gives the movie more charisma than anyone else. I also have to applaud the writers for coming up with a truly original idea for a script that brings up tonnes of laughs and cool ideas. The movie has knowledge about a lot of things &#150; guys, girls, perms (look out for this one, its classic!) and law school. I just really loved this movie and it was a great time out at the flicks. I haven't enjoyed a comedy so much this year since Bridget Jones's Diary or Heartbreakers. All in all, Legally Blonde is a highly recommendable movie that will appeal to all audiences. So rush to the cinema and prepare for a good chuckle! "},{"Title":"not just a teen movie","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is essentially a one joke movie but unlike the last comedy movie I went to see (America's Sweethearts) it was able to carry the joke with hilarious effect right  through from start to finish. I am usually a little circumspect when I go to what I consider teenie or adolescent type movies but anyone who has raised daughters will especially get a great kick out of this film. Nothing cerebral, just a wonderful riotous romp from start to finish....a bit like my own daughters. 8/10 MIKE "},{"Title":"Clueless goes on a Paper Chase and meets Erin Brockovich","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Light frothy chick (as opposed to chic) comedy which moves at a lively pace and has a stand-out central performance by Reese Witherspoon, the Goldie Hawn of this era. The script abounds with clichés and re-works a lot of old material &#150; Clueless goes on a Paper Chase and meets up with Erin Brockovich - but Reese as the California fashion fanatic turned Harvard Law student, helped by her acute dress sense, manages to keep us both amused and sympathetic. I though our suspension of disbelief was being tested with the notion that our heroine could score 179 in the LSAT (180 is a perfect score and the median for an entering 1L at Harvard is about 170 ), but her getting in with her Coppola &#150;directed video application on diversity grounds was much more plausible. Now here's some trivia. Did you know that Elle McPherson actually got into and started law at Macquarie University in Sydney before abandoning the classroom for the catwalk.Being in the law teaching business myself I tried not to cringe at the classroom scenes. It's true that in a country run by lawyers, law schools are the boot camps of the ruling class, but legal education is a much more subtle process than training people to kill others. Also, in my experience most of it takes place outside the classroom &#150; reading, assignments, informal discussion, student mooting, internship etc. The `Socratic' method pioneered by Langdell (who wasn't much good at it, by the way) and so well demonstrated to Timothy Bottom's discomfort by John Houseman in `The Paper Chase' is only one way to run a class, and by no means the only method used, even at Harvard. But what the heck, this is just entertainment, and despite a mawkish scene or two at the end (the graduation speech really is cringe-inducing), this is a superior example of the light comedy genre. MINOR SPOILER (though this is one of those movies where the plot doesn't matter much)  We are told at the end  that Warner, the guy Reese follows to Harvard, and who wants to be a Senator like his dad by the time he's 30, graduates without honors and without a job offer. Watch out! Poor law graduates from ivy league colleges often finish up in top political jobs &#150; like President for example. A proud `C' student from Yale currently occupies the post. And guess where Bill and Hillary met? It's enough to put a law professor off his job.  "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had heard great reviews from friends on this movie, so I was looking forward to seeing it. I thought some of the gags in there were funny and too be honest I thought what alot of them did to Elle in the beginning was horrible. But the story was weak and they didn't allow some of the characters to really develop such as Emmett or Vivian. Reese Witherspoon is a great actress and I hope she suceeds even further in the future, I hope that Luke Wilson will become more prominent as well he's kewl. Selma Blair is always fun to see, she did a good job playing the new fiance'.I gave this a 6 our of 10 "},{"Title":"In the vein of Michelle and Romy","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Like one of the other reviews I read on here - I loved this movie, it was such a sit back and relax, and let it flow over you kind of movie.  It reminded me a great deal of Michelle and Romy's High School re-union because it was fun!  It didn't need depth - it rocked!  Reese Witherspoon was excellent - and so was Selma Blair - I'm going to give it a 4 out of 5 - so it wasn't a blockbuster - but definitely something I could sit through a second time! "},{"Title":"Free movies at the AAFES movie theater","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure if it's Hollywoods doing or AAFES (Army and Air Force Exchange Service) but starting with this one we are now able to see movies for free in the on-post theater here in Korea.  It's a nice sentiment but it will probably make the place pretty crowded.Oh about the movie itself?  Ridiculous, deriviative, perdictable and occasionally funny. "},{"Title":"Excellent work by Reese","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although some of the comedy falls flat and it can be a little corny at times, I really enjoyed this film.  Reese Witherspoon is excellent as usual. She adds a depth and class to the movie it might not have had otherwise. Her character was a genuinely sweet person and she really won me over.  I also enjoyed Ali Larter's performance and I wish there had been more of her. She's extremely talented but she doesn't seem to get the opportunity to demonstrate it much.Legally Blonde is light and a little silly, but it has its heart in the right place.  One of its virtues is that it challenges stereotypes and makes you think about your unfair assumptions about others. "}{"Title":"Illegally funny!","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It will probably be classified as a girlie movie,or a teenager comedy, but as Elle would so eloquently say, I OBJECT!Legally blonde is a brilliant criticism of stereotypes. There are so many cultural references and intelligent lines... it was never boring or not funny. Reese Witherspoon, absolutely charming. "},{"Title":"best movie ever!","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i thought it was a very good movie and reese witherspoon did a great job (as always), it was very funny and i cant wait for it to come on video (Nov 6) This is the best film reese has been in, and i think they should definately do a sequal.  I also liked Clueless and this is sort of like clueless except it's college and she's proving herself to be smarter then she looks,  "},{"Title":"who would have guessed","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was actually kind of an enjoyable movie.  I never would have guessed.  First of all, it's a Reese Witherspoon movie.  There is nothing wrong with her exactly, she just never seems to be involved in good movies.  i.e. Cruel Intentions, Freeway, Election and American Psycho.  Secondly, it co-stars the repeatedly brutal Luke Wilson.  i.e. Soul Survivors, Home Fries etc.  However, somehow this movie overcomes those two details to be a rather enjoyable little flick.Legally Blonde is the story of Californian blonde bombshell Elle Woods(Reese Witherspoon).  Elle decides that getting into Harvard Law School is the only way to prove to her ex-boyfriend that she can be serious, thereby winning him back.I really thought that this would be a mildly funny movie worth the two dollars that I was spending on it.  However, my friend failed to mention to me that Luke Wilson was in it.  My friend Dr.ben knows that I can't stand Luke Wilson!  Naturally, when I read his name in the opening credits, I became a lot fearful.  However after the fact, I have never seen Wilson so absent of annoyance.  I actually liked him in this movie.  He didn't come across like a dufus.   Reese Witherspoon was really cute.  Her character is such a nice person, and it was nice to see Witherspoon play someone like that.  It was really easy to sympathize with her.It also has a small part from Ali Larter (American Outlaws,Final Destination and Varsity Blues).  She's pretty, but someone should have told her that Legally Blonde was a comedy.  Oh well, she was pretty.This is really just a fun movie.  It's no Adam Sandler or Chris Farley comedy (unfortunately), but it had its fair share of chuckles.  I wouldn't waste $12 on it, it's not exactly a movie that will create conversation on the ride home.  But for a cheap laugh, this is just what the DR. orders. "},{"Title":"You go, Reese!","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow! I saw this movie with my boyfriend, and, the main thing I can say about it is, You go, Reese! There was only one person that I hated throughout most of the film, and that was Vivian (Selma Blair). The reason I hated her throughout most of the film was because she was absolutely snobby! Even though I had that negative thought about her throughout most of the film, I thought this film was absolutely funny, charming, witty, and sweet. It was especially funny during the trials of Brooke Taylor-Windham (Ali Larter). Also, even though Elle (Reese Witherspoon) acted sort of crazy at times, I thought she did, indeed, have a lot more legal savvy than she thought she did. When this movie is for sale on VHS, I'm going to buy it. In conclusion, if you're a fan of Reese Witherspoon, I recommend LEGALLY BLONDE! You're in for a good time and a lot of laughs, so, go out to the theater and see it today.  "},{"Title":"Funny Surprise","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went into this movie expecting a very light, moderate comedy that might produce a few chuckles. Well, it did turn out to be a light comedy, but I laughed throughout. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.Reese Witherspoon is a riot, and she is finally being recognized as a major talent (as anyone who has seen Election can attest). She carries this movie on her shoulders and succeeds brilliantly.Some complain that this movie is over-the-top. Well, of course it is, that's exactly how the producers and the director envisioned this movie. It was never meant to be a serious movie, and that's where the fun is. Everyone involved - the actors, producers, distributors, and the audience - are in the joke and take this movie for what it is a light-hearted, funny, warm-hearted romp. There's certainly more heart and soul in this movie than a Pearl Harbor, Titanic, or any of the other serious blockbusters Hollywood is intent on putting out. "},{"Title":"silly but rather entertaining","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There really isn't much to say about this movie, except that it is a lighthearted, gentle satire with likable characters.  I found it enjoyable. Two little girls who were sitting in the row in front of me stood up and applauded. "},{"Title":"Cute and funny.  One of the more entertaining movies this summer (2001).","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one cute movie.  Reese Witherspoon was perfectly cast as the 'dumb blonde' who ends up being a lot smarter than she is given credit for.  It's a nice mix of 'fish out of water', 'girly-girl', and 'stupid jerk boyfriend gets what he deserves'.  The sexuality is apparent, but not tasteless.  The girly-girl beginning is almost enough to make the average guy throw up, but is necessary to set the stage properly.The story revolves around a sorority princess from Bel Air who tries to win back the boyfriend who dumps her and goes off to Harvard Law claiming that she's not smart enough or 'real' enough for him.  Of course it takes awhile for her to realize that he's not worth chasing after in the first place. But in the end she proves to not only be a lot smarter than he thinks, but also more of a 'real' person than he is. I was shocked to find a film this year that has a good message that's not politically or environmentally driven, and wasn't on special effects overload.  With all the crap that has come out this summer, I was pleasantly surprised with this film.  Everyone had a smile on their face as they left the theater tonight.Although it hasn't done all that well at the box office, I'm sure it's going to do very well when it hits the rental shelves.  If it has already left your town, be sure to rent it when it comes out - you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"I haven't had this much fun at the movies in way too long.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just thoroughly enjoyed this movie. It's not Academy Award material but for pure entertainment you can't beat it.My boyfriend enjoyed it at least as much as I did. We had the pleasure of being the only ones in the theatre (Tuesday @3pm) so we could laugh, guffaw and clap as much as we liked. And we did. "},{"Title":"It's a hoot.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you take this movie seriously, you need help.  And if it fails to amuse you, maybe you are taking yourself too seriously.  This movie is entertaining, and non-threatening, and how many movies are? "},{"Title":"Ok if you want mindless entertainment","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Story line was strange and seemed disconnected to me most of the time.  But as my wife put it, it was cute.  The end of the movie is what pulled it out of the trash can for me.  Recommend waiting for the video release. "}{"Title":"Very Funny, Worthwhile","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  We went to see this movie and I fell absolutely in love with it. Yes, it was a bit contrived, however, it is such a feel good movie, you can live with its shortcomings.  My favorite parts are THE scene in the beauty parlor and the court room exchange between Emmett and the male prosecution witness.  I will be buying this one when it comes out on DVD and I would also go see it again in the theater. "},{"Title":"legally bland....","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't have high expectations for many movies that come out in the summer.  That said, I had fairly low expectations for this movie, and it failed to meet even those.  It was rather predictable and irritating.  I enjoyed Reese Witherspoon for the most part, but this is nowhere as good as any of her other roles.  She is a great on screen talent, but she really should pick better parts.  The screenplay was one giant cliche and I easily guessed everything that was going to happen, even the alibi of Ali Larter's character.  The outcome is not surprising.  Hell, I even predicted the final shot of the movie.  If that doesn't say something about the predictability of this movie, then I don't know what does.  It was slow, and I laughed all but once.  That said, I still like Witherspoon, but I expect better from her.  5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"How many blondes...","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, okay, I will admit it.  I thought Legally Blonde was basically gonna be Clueless all grown up and in college.  Or just another Dumb Blonde makes good story.  I was wrong.  This was intelligent and witty.  It started out like it was gonna just be a stupid, ludicrious movie.  But it turned around, and delivered with a fury.  Elle Woods (Witherspoon), it got it all.  Good looks, great boyfriend, cute dog, and blonde hair.  He is the queen of her sorority, and pursuing her Fashion career.  While on a date with her beau, Warner, he breaks up with her.  He is looking for a girl a senator could marry.  Which he later finds at Harvard.  Well, after a small break down, Elle is determined to get her man back.  She decides to get into Harvard over summer break.  Okay, the way she does it is very cheesy, and would not pass over an admission board at Harvard.  But, still it does make good comedy, and get her into Harvard.Of course, with her LA lifestyle and loud outfits, Elle is scoffed and made fun of.  Through the process of getting kicked out of her first class, she meets Emmett, (Wilson) and he gives her some advice to get through her other classes. Well also  reenter ex-boyfriend with new, senator friendly fiance (Blair).  Sporting the 6 carat diamon ring that should belong to Elle. Realizing what kind of girl she needs to be to win Warner back, Elle goes on a quest to become a typical Harvard girl.The movie really goes in a good direction with Elle becoming not just another dumb blonde, but keeping some of her silly, dimwitted nature through the end of the movie.  The court room scene was especially funny, and fun to watch.  The gay pool guy...the rizzy haired daughter...too much!  Overall, a feel good movie that shows that blondes to have more fun.  And they may appears stupid, but never judge a book by its cover...and that scene in the beauty salon...too funny!8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"You go, Reese!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow! I saw this movie with my boyfriend, and, the main thing I can say about it is, You go, Reese! There was only one person that I hated throughout most of the film, and that was Vivian (Selma Blair). The reason I hated her throughout most of the film was because she was absolutely snobby! Even though I had that negative thought about her throughout most of the film, I thought this film was absolutely funny, charming, witty, and sweet. It was especially funny during the trials of Brooke Taylor-Windham (Ali Larter). Also, even though Elle (Reese Witherspoon) acted kind of crazy at times, I thought she did, indeed, have more legal savvy than she thought she did. When this comes to video, I'm going to buy it. In conclusion, if you're a fan of Reese Witherspoon, I recommend LEGALLY BLONDE! You're in for a good time and lots of laughs, so, go out to the theater and see it today.  "},{"Title":"She goes to Harvard to win back idiot boyfriend -- and comes out much the better without him!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon is delightful in this...... she is on her way to becoming the princess/queen of comedy.... not to mention she could probably do anything else she would like.....Very superficial...... very shallow....... very Valley Girl.... very $$$/image driven......BUT..... she is such fun to watch.  Give it a chance... I loved it and laughed out loud several times...... a whole lot of fun.  And, several lessons on how to treat your fellow man/woman in the process..... this is not the only reason to watch, but it definitely adds to the final reason.... you'll find a slightly higher purpose after the final scene..... "},{"Title":"Go See This!  It's a lot of laughs!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well worth the money! We laughed nearly every scene.  It was of course predictable, but we were there just to laugh.  And we did.  Not a whole lot of script action, not a whole lot of academy award acting, not a whole lot of action, period, but it was funny, funny, funny.  The people behind us laughed more and louder than we did!  The people leaving the movie at the end raved about how much they really enjoyed this film and how much fun it was.  Reese was just fantastic!  If you loved her in Election (and I totally did) - you'll really, really love her in this funny flick!  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Power to the Little People!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is an unusual take on discrimination, and it was done very well. It is the biggest surprise I have ever experienced in a movie theater-- and the happiest.  This was an excellent movie that gives allmisunderstood, prejudged people ho "},{"Title":"Witherspoon Shines, Script Withers!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had heard such good things about this film, I guess I had high expectations. Witherspoon continues her great work with another fine, comedic performance (she is so much better in such a smarter, funnier film, ELECTION)and the premise of this film is strong and it starts out on the right track, but by the time ....SPOILER ALERT      SPOILER ALERT   SPOILER ALERT ....they introduce the court case she is going to intern on, the film tries to be too many things and it collapses under the weight of the ridiculous courtroom antics (He's gay! Next!!! I mean - come on. Yeah, that would stand up in court. I guess the judge had never heard of the term bi-sexual) and then every single cliche is taken care of - her professor turns out to be a creep, she helps the poor trailer trash find love, she becomes friends with her rival and her ex-boyfriend is dumped and then Elle gets engaged. Plus, the fact that the film ended on that note - that she was GOING TO BE PROPOSED TO seems like the ultimate goal for a girl. But, wasnt the film moving along to show that there is more to life than getting married to someone just because everyone else is?? Here she learns to use her mind and her skills and to believe in herself and yet....it wouldnt be a victory without nabbing a fella!!! Sheesh. So, I ultimately was very disappointed in this film. The second half just seemed to have studio notes written all over it, which is a shame, because aside from Witherspoon, Holland Taylor, Garber and Selma Blair give good performances with what they are given to play. This film has been compared to CLUELESS and I just think CLUELESS is a much better comedy. "},{"Title":"compare & contrast","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  if you liked freeway, you'll like this in a different but similar waycheck out her i-wanna-be-a-senator boyfriend do a drive-by homage to kiefer southerland in freewayeven the state of her mascara in that scene is an homage to freeway! "},{"Title":"179!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a pleasant surprise for me.  It seemed not to be the sequel to Clueless, but as a sort of companion piece.  Reese Witherspoon is a talented young actress and did a wonderful job in the role of Elle Woods.  I found myself laughing much more than I expected to and found the story to be sweet and charming.  So if you're blonde or even brunette, go catch this movie! "}{"Title":"Fun, Fun, and more fun...","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First, I would just like to say I thought this movie was great. I went to see it with my daughter who is 21. Not knowing anything about the movie I sat back and waited for it to begin. Robyn, my daughter, wanted to tell me about the movie but I would not let her. And I'm glad. It was funny and smart. I loved this movie. I think Reese Witherspoon will be the next Julia Roberts. She can make you laugh at little things. I really loved this movie and hope to see her in more. "},{"Title":"Bend... And SNAP!","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Am I the only one that realizes that the person that wrote this movie, meant for it to be a sequel to the movie Clueless? Obviously they couldn't get Alicia Silverstone to reprise her role (I've always thought they should make a Clueless 2 but producers waste their time backing sequels to such stupid movies like Scary Movie) or producers thought it was too long of a wait so they rearranged the screenplay a bit, and poof! Another new movie about an over-obsessed glamour-girl trying to get her man back... and thats it right, nothing really new..? Wrong. Legally Blond is creative and fun! Reese Witherspoon (always a great actress) sure gives Alicia Silverstone (also a good actress whom needs another good movie before she is left forgotten) a run for her money as Best Young-Female-Ditz-In-A-Glamour-Girl-Role. This movie is a breath of fresh air... for just when you thought there wasn't anymore just plain fun movies. Lots of humor but there are some very funny parts... everything is to like about this movie... (even if the ending is questionable as to whether it could have been a little less obvious)But Hey! It wasn't meant as Academy Award Calaber... Even if Reese deserves praise for doing a complete turn-around from American Psycho. (ICK!) Just remember... BEND.. AND SNAP!!! "},{"Title":"Blonde Shrek","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Robert Luketic's Legally Blonde is a complete surprise. The movie starring Reese Witherspoon is smart, cleverly written, and flat out funny. From the movie trailer, Blonde looked to be a rip-off of Clueless. The movie stands on it's own, and is a star vehicle for Witherspoon. Legally Blonde is the movie foil of this summer's Shrek in that they both deal with not judging a book by it's cover. In this case it's not judging a Blonde by where she shops. The screenplay by Karen McCullah and Kirstin Smith adapted from the Amanda Brown book is solid funny material with a keen eye on the inflexibility of stereotypes. Director Luketic orchestrates this comedic journey with our heroine, Elle, with an underlying sense of humanity and respect for his characters.Reese Witherspoon plays graduating Elle Woods, sorority sister extraordinaire, glamor princess, with a 4.0 GPA in fashion sciences. She has dinner with her boyfriend, Warner (Matthew Davis who is good here), who she believes is going to ask her to marry him. Instead, to Elle's shock, Warner dumps her. Apparently, she is not the serious girlfriend he requires. Warner is off to Harvard Law School in the fall, and looking at a future in politics. She does not fit in those plans. Then Elle gets the idea that she can win Warner's heart back, if she too attends Harvard. Elle studies hard and aces the LSAT-- remember she does have a 4.0 GPA. She also submits a killer application video to Harvard. Being in a Ricky Martin video is exactly the kind of diversity Harvard is looking for. Welcome to Harvard Law, Elle.Early on we get that flighty and fashion coordinated Elle is very smart and talented. We also get that Warner is a stupid loser. So why is she going to Harvard Law School? Duh! Reese Witherspoon is awesome as Elle. She displays an air of trust, fun, and a razor intellect in nailing this role. Ultimately, her Elle is finding that she is not just a pretty blonde, and that she is a brilliant and talented young woman. That gains her a mentor in Prof. Stromwell (the great Holland Taylor). She is chosen as a law associate by another Prof. Callahan (Victor Garber) for a high profile murder trial. This is where she meets his senior associate, Emmett(Luke Wilson), who quickly sees Elle's brilliance. Wilson is charming, smart, and sufficiently breezy-- which is good here. Then it all comes back to Elle being trapped by her looks, and not being seen as the awesome person she is. Does it work out? Duh! Come on. Luketic's directs this movie with style, a sense of humor, and a big heart. He also has a huge star in Reese Witherspoon. You go Girl! "},{"Title":"Brilliant and Just What Natural Blondes Need!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I heard about this movie I was thinking 'oh god here comes yet another stereotypist movie about a blonde'. I thought that it'd feature your usual ditsy main character and have her say and do the most ridiculous things, therefore adding to the tag dumb blonde. But once I was through watching it I was delighted with it. It's just not what I expected, it was very enjoyable especially for a teenage girl like me. I could relate to Reese Witherspoon's character, the fact they chose a natural blonde over a bleached blonde helped a lot. It's a total turn around from movies like Romy & Michelle and Some Like It Hot with their stereotypical blondes. You should go and see this, enjoy it and marvel at it's diversity from your modern everyday teeny bopper movies. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had originally not wanted to see it, but the commercials for the movie intrigued me. After watching the movie itself, I was surprised at how much better it was than I had anticipated! It had witty humor mixed in with a good moral of how one shouldn't prejudge others and cliche them to stereotypes. Definitely a girl-power movie, but guys would enjoy this as well, what with Reese's lovely wardrobe and other good-looking females starring in it. "},{"Title":"Witherspoon is fantastic, the movie made my day!","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde set out to be a cheesy, semi-plotless extravaganza of blonde fury, and that's exactly what it was.  No viewer can be disappointed.  But then along comes Reese, and you can't help but love the girl.  She's so talented, she's so funny, she's so beautiful, and don't you love that maybe she's smart, too? "},{"Title":"I still don't know why I saw this movie..","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I honestly am not sure why I even saw this movie. If the intention of this film was to break down all stereotypes of dumb blondes then I felt that whoever wrote this film did not succeed to do so. I guess a blonde gets dumped by her boyfriend every day and then follows him to whatever college he's going to and takes up the same major as him hoping that she'll find a way to get him back in the process of solving a major court case that has a fellow blonde on trial and of course you gals click automatically because you know each other from excercise class. And, of course, I couldn't forget that you crack the case because of your extensive knowledge of the rules of getting a perm, you find that you don't need the loser that dumped you anymore because you'd rather stay with the guy who guided you on the path to self discovery. You know this sounds very similar to another movie I've seen before... "},{"Title":"Totally cute.","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Totally cute.One of the big summer surprises of 2001, LEGALLY BLONDE is, although standard Hollywood fluff, a big breath of fresh air from the heavy duty garbage recently made (FINAL FANTASY, PEARL HARBOR, MUMMY RETURNS). The movie is cute and plays that way throughout, never becoming idiotic. A teen movie that does not demand too much, LEGALLY BLONDE gets a good vote.Elle Woods is the typical blonde who anticipates being engaged. Instead, she is dumped from the boyfriend so he can find someone serious while going to Harvard. Elle 's idea of getting her boyfriend back and being serious is leaving Fashion Merchandising to pursue Harvard Law.The usual fish-out-of-water scenario is, although done to death, played well and Reese Witherspoon does an excellent job playing the role of Elle. Reese's enthusiasm into the character and her interaction with others makes a perfect combo. The familiar jokes we all see in other movies are a tiring reality here in LEGALLY BLONDE but the same old formula works great with a positive upbeat ambience and good acting. "},{"Title":"So Cute!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I saw Legally Blonde I wasn't really surprised. When I saw the advertisements for it, it looked so cute, and it was. Men may not like this movie because it would be considered as a 'chick flick', but it had unexpected twists and turns that might change male minds about 'chick flicks'. Reese Witherspoon gave a hilarious performance as the 'blonde' Elle Woods. I think that she was the perfect choice for this role. Her character's entire outlook at life makes this movie one of the funniest I've seen.I would recommend this movie for women who want to see a good 'girly' movie that truly shows the meaning of 'blonde'. I would also recommend this movie for men who want to see just what 'chick flicks' can say to people.Cute movie, at any perspective. "},{"Title":"Funny, Lighthearted movie","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Resse Witherspoon is very funny, and very smart in this movie. She shows that being a blonde, and having breats does not mean you're dumb. With the same style as the movie Clueless, Witherspoon shines, not in the same way she did in her first movie, Man in the Moon, but in a way, that appeals to young girls. Also, this movie has plenty of cute guys to look at. So, enjoy Legally Blonde.  "}{"Title":"What a horrible movie!  Even worse than Miss Congeniality","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow!  Where are the words to describe how horrible this movie is?  Now, I am not an idiot to believe that every movie in the world should be truthful and realistic, but I believe I would meet Jar Jar Binks before I would see a character so idiotic make it into Harvard Law.  I mean, I know that several real-life Harvard grads sent in video essays explaining their knowledge of Days of Our Lives, but in a swimming pool?  That is a little bit of a stretch.  At least they invented some sort of actual Supreme Court decision to allow her to try a case without passing the bar.  This was insipid and insulting, and any young girl who LOVES this movie probably has less brain power than the characters portrayed within.  Do yourself a favor and DO NOT WATCH THE PIECE OF GARBAGE.  Or do, and giggle to your girlfriend, Oh my God!  I can't believe how good that was! "},{"Title":"Pink and fluffy","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A pleasant piece of fluff that never rises above clichés. The girl-power theme will stir the hearts of the 13-year-old girls at which it is aimed. And Reese Witherspoon, as in Election, once again proves herself a gifted comic actor. But that isn't enough to rescue Legally Blonde from mediocrity.   "},{"Title":"WOW!! Two Thumbs UP!","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon can do comedy flawlessly. Amazing!!! This movie gives blondes a recognition!! And to think I'm not a blonde! *giggles*This film is smart, funny, and clever! I praise the writers. I enjoyed this film from start to finish.Legally Blonde did not poke fun at blondes nor lawyers, for that matter. It was a surprised, wonderful , film and the actors are to be commended. Reese Witherspoon is now officially in the top 5 in the best actress category. Election was another clever, funny film I enjoyed her in.This film gives oneself self-worth and determination to achieve where it counts. A lesson we all should realized. Gives those that think they are underachievers ,because people expects them to be one, self-respect to be just as smart as those who are on the honor rolls. Well, this movie will surprised those that think they know it all. Because where it counted you'd be surprised who surpasses the so-called over achievers. And in real life never think the obvious. Always give the benefit of doubt. *SMILES* (no pun intended) *winks*Legally Blonde is one of my top films for the summer of 2001!I'd watch this again and again!Can't wait for it to be on DVD this Christmas!! "},{"Title":"Legally Blonde a great movie hidden in a B-movie outline","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Basic story line; girls loves guy, guy dumps girl for smarter women, girl is smart too, proves it, guy likes girl again, girl smartens up about guy, meets new guy, and then old guy is new loser.  Ok, that was told to you in the previews.  You knew the story line the minute you saw the preview. Right?Well, sort of.  Yes that's part of the story, but then again, there's all the other good stuff.  I blame the marketing department for making this film seem so unappealing in the previews.  It seemed like a silly girl power tale with no actual point.  THis movie has more than a point.  It has a soul.Reese Witherspoon saves this intelligent but a little ditzy movie from being another sub-par attempt at the success of Clueless.  She has the charisma and intelligence needed to convince you that her character is a charming, intelligent ditz.  A Harvard caliber ditz.  A ditz that try a capital murder case.Yes, a little too much of the humor is hinged on spoofing the Malibu Barbie image of Witherspoon's character, Elle Woods.  Sometimes, the film is downright dumb,  but it immediately elevates itself to quirky greatness.I have to be honest, I saw the previews and condemned this movie from the start, then good reviews started piling up when it opened, and then people I know saw it, and soon, I found myself in a theater with not only preteen girls looking for a fun afternoon at the movies, but adult males, teenage males, and lots of girls.  This movie surprisingly has multi-demographical appeal packed into its chick-flick facade.  The only problem is it is sometimes a little too intelligent for its main audience.  This is a great movie with a heart of gold. "},{"Title":"Too cute for words","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, I'm the type of guy who loves those independent movies that usually don't make it out of the art houses. Sometimes they're foreign with sub-titles, sometimes they don't have happy endings, sometimes they focus more on an interesting character rather than a plot. So what in the world was I doing in a theatre watching Legally Blonde and why did I like it so much?It doesn't have much depth, the main character is much too perfect, and the storylines are rather predictable. Still, it's so charming that I really didn't care about that other stuff. It simply is a fun movie with no pretentions or cause. I would've missed out if I had looked down my nose at it just because it's a Hollywood blockbuster and not one of my art-house flicks. Besides, not all of those independent movies are all that great anyway.I read a comment somewhere comparing Clueless to Legally Blonde, and there are some similarities. However, Clueless has a certain dry wit to some of its jokes. There's nothing sly about Legally Blonde, but don't interpret that as a weakness. Like I said, it's a fun movie, and take it like that. "},{"Title":"You go, Reese!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow! I just saw this movie tonight with my boyfriend, and, the main thing I can say about it is, You go, Reese! There was only one person that I hated throughout most of the film, and that was Vivian (Selma Blair). The reason I hated her throughout most of the film was because she was REALLY SNOBBY! Even though I had that negative thought about her throughout most of the film, I thought this film was REALLY funny, charming, witty, and sweet. It was especially funny during the trials of Brooke Taylor-Windham (Ali Larter). Also, even though Elle (Reese Witherspoon) acted a LITTLE crazy at times, I thought she did, indeed, have a LOT more legal savvy than she thought she did. When this comes to video, I'm going to buy it. In conclusion, if you're a fan of Reese Witherspoon, I HIGHLY recommend LEGALLY BLONDE! You're in for a good time and a lot of laughs, so, go out to the theater and see it today.  "},{"Title":"Insidious, horrendous, embarrassing","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't normally go to these kind of films, but I caved and got dragged there by my girlfriend.... What a terrible time to be weak!!. This movie was abysmal garbage!! A stupid story, a cornball ending and nothing remotely funny. I hated all the characters. Reese Witherspoon's airhead, the big hulk of a manicurist, The tom Cruise nosed love interest and icy witch who then becomes her best friend. By the end of this drivel I was crawling in my seat. All I could think of is when it would mercifully end. Witherspoon's endless smile at the end of the cheesy happily ever after ending was enough to make me ill. Those are 2 hours I CANNOT GET BACK!!!! Dont be stupid never watch this movie. I am ashamed I did! "},{"Title":"Undeniably skilled filmmaking, but the movie doesn't know where it's going.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde is obviously one of those silly comedies in the tradition of the much better Clueless (what with all of the air headed blondes and big lawyers), but the film really loses its way in the final act. Elle Woods, a cutesy sorority president at the charmingly named CULA (real creative name, guys), is jilted by her boyfriend when he breaks up with her on the night that she thinks that he's going to propose to her. He arrogantly tells her that he needs to find someone more serious, basically telling her that he is more interested in finding someone that will help him further his career than he is in marrying someone who loves him. Elle goes through a period of boyfriend mourning, and then decides that she'll follow him and go to Harvard Law school (`What, like it's hard?') to prove to him (and the audience) that she really does have a brain underneath all of that fluffy pink exterior. Her acceptance is barely, but successfully, made moderately believable, and she's off to Harvard in her Porsche Boxter and with her tiny tiny dog. As is to be expected, she encounters significant difficulties at Harvard because no one there takes her seriously, because she is obviously not one of the `intellectual' types that are commonly seen there. It turns out that her plans to win back her boyfriend, Warner, have backfired, because he has already gotten back together with an ex-girlfriend by the time Elle gets to Harvard, and this is when we really know that Warner will not be a part of Elle's future. His new girlfriend Vivian (played by Selma Blair, who we remember from a significantly different role in Cruel Intentions), treats her no differently that many of her professor's treat her, as a dumb blonde who doesn't belong at Harvard. As a Harvard Law School graduate, I can completely understand the troubles that she is going through, because it is an intensely intellectual school (disclaimer I never went to Harvard Law). Elle deals with all of her problems at Harvard by keeping in touch with her air headed bimbo buddies from back at CULA (I never went to UCLA either, but I've been there enough times to know that this really is what a good portion of the female population looks like at that school), as well as by forming a heart warming friendship with Stifler's mom (`Bend&#133;and SNAP!'). The overall plot is not really something to complain about. It's the same old underdog coming out on top premise, but Reese Witherspoon fits her role perfectly and there is plenty of comic relief to keep it moving and to keep you entertained. (spoilers)The part where the film really goes wrong is with the trial at the end of the film. It's great to see the progress that Elle makes during the case, but the outcome completely contradicts the rest of the film. There were some hilarious cross-examinations (`You bitch!') on the stand, but the end is awful. We spend the entire film watching Elle struggle through law school trying to prove to everyone, including her parents, that she has the mental capacity to get through it, but in the end, it is her knowledge of the beauty salon that comes to the rescue to help her win the case. Her entire speech as she is cross-examining the murder victim's daughter consists of little to no legal jargon whatsoever. Any ditz straight out of the hair salon could have convicted that woman. It's too bad that the movie got so lost at the end, because it was otherwise a very entertaining comedy. Elle is never for a second made into a believable lawyer OR law student (the scene where she pretends to be Paulette's attorney in order to get her dog back, in which she spouts legal mumbo jumbo that she clearly doesn't understand, certainly doesn't help either), and we're left with a film that amused us for an hour and a half but didn't really do anything. We can only hope that the guilty party in any trial that Elle conducts in the future makes a mistake in commiting their crime that involves some sort of cosmetic augmentation that Elle can latch on to and use to solve the case, because the one we saw at the end of the film was, as they say, dumb luck. "},{"Title":"I have no objections, your honor!","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film has, like, way too many deus ex machinae (like, wow, I, like, used Latin) but it is nevertheless enjoyable.Hearts, neon colors, a little dog, girls going for their MRS degree, Jackie as opposed to Marilyn, and lots more -- it all adds up to an epic battle of the preppies, the manicurists, the blondes, and the nerds vs. the jerks of the world. Who could get mad at a movie in which the main character does a video directed by a Coppola as her entrance essay into Harvard? Someone in the movie puts it this way -- Barbie goes to Harvard. And it's worth the effort.The film has great fun with political correctness, diversity, the law, and everything else that sits under its zany hairdryer. As a member of the jury, I vote -- acquital!!!(Like, in case you don't know what the Latin meant, like, it means that there were, like, too many easy solutions. But, like, who cares? Ya know what I mean?) "},{"Title":"Not what I expected, for better or worse.","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon's delivery is basically flawless, probably due to the hard work of director Robert Luketic who clearly had a vision of how this movie was supposed to feel.  I found a lot of the jokes to be a lot funnier than the audience around me for some reason (possibly because I got the little things that they were making fun of, such Elle Wood's mannerisms and vocal intonation.  People who really act like that wouldn't get how funny it is to the rest of us).  It had a positive message without being overly anti-male (especially offset by how she helped out David).  Selma Blair was realistically antagonizing as Vivian but her character's direction seemed to flow strangely because her part is just there to challenge Elle's mission.  In all, I enjoyed the film. "}{"Title":"Great summetime fun!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went into 'Legally Blonde' expecting a fun, hilarious, enjoyablecomedy about blondes being blondes. And I got exactly what I wanted. Afriend said that it was like Clueless goes to college, and I can seewhat she meant. Reese Witherspoon is adorable and perfect in the partthat let her act upon her naturally flaxen hair. The plot if fluffy andfunny, but all in all I truly loved this film. Great acting, a coolsoundtrack and lotsa laughs (including most coming from the HILARIOUSPaulette--) make this movie a fun summertime treat! My score 9 out of10 ------------------------------------------------------------------------ "},{"Title":"It was a laugh riot!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought it looked funny from the trailer.  But sometimes they show all the funny things in the trailer and the whole movie is a dud.  Not this time! We laughed right out loud through the whole movie.  It was funny without being dumb or tasteless.  I highly recommend Legally Blonde for an enjoyable time out at the movies. "},{"Title":"Great Light Movie","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  It was cute and light and funny. I loved Reese Witherspoon - and she had me laughing the entire time!I recommend it to anyone who wants a laugh!There were definitely some over the top screamy girl moments - but it was still a great movie. "},{"Title":"Do you suppose she woke up one morning and decided 'I'm going to Harvard Law School.'?","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a totally fun, escapist, summer movie.  Reese Witherspoon has great comedic timing and with a good script, first-class supporting actors and a truly fine soundtrack you have a film that, while not a classic, is well worth your time and money to see.This is wholly Reese's movie &#150; she is in every scene and the entire story and plot revolve around her and her quest for what she believes is true love.She takes the &#145;dumb blonde' role that so many Hollywood greats &#150; Jean Harlow, Jayne Mansfield, Judy Holiday and Marilyn Monroe among them &#150; did so well.  Of course, it remains to be seen if Ms Witherspoon has the staying quality of those other blonde icons &#150; but she seems to be well on her way to that status.The supporting characters are all terrific.  Especially Jennifer Coolidge as Paulette Bonafonte &#150; Elle Wood's (Reese Witherspoon) manicurist -- and does wonders with what could be a one-note character &#133; but Ms Coolidge was equally great as Stiffler's mom in `American Pie.'  Another outstanding character was Holland Taylor as Professor Stromwell.  Ms Taylor has a certain regal quality about her that makes her all the more appealing in a light comedy.The soundtrack was good from the opening credits&#133;  It was always appropriate to the scene and, at times, even elicited a few chuckles for the songs that were played.The plot to `Legally Blonde' is simple  Girl loses boy, girl goes in search of boy to make him her own&#133;  However, the outcome, while ultimately predictable, is not exactly as formulaic as it could have been and has some good messages about who we all are and that how we think of ourselves ultimately determines our role in the time and space we occupy.  "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon goes Harvard - entertaining fun and laughter guaranteed","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's thoroughly enjoyable! Happy. Satisfying. Not to worry, it's not sugary all through. There are sprinkles of salt and pepper. Reese Witherspoon anchored the movie well. She is truly radiant. Glamorous. Talented. Lots of fun and heart. Her character Elle Woods is never malicious. She genuinely cares. It's not emotionally deep like Billy Elliot, but it has that common quality that easily brings a smile to your face, or simply makes you laugh out loud cheeringly. You want the central character to succeed.I first remember a young Witherspoon in Robert Mulligan's The Man in the Moon 1991, she can really act at a tender age of 15; applauded her energetic delivery of the modern day little red riding hood in writer-director Matthew Bright's Freeway 1995, playing opposite a quite malevolent Kiefer Sutherland. She is absolutely a shining star in writer-director Alexander Payne's Election 1999, opposite a multifaceted Matthew Broderick. Seeing the glamorous side of her in writer-director Mary Harron's  American Psycho 1999 sure felt natural for Witherspoon to slip right into being Elle Woods in director Robert Luketic's Legally Blonde. She is stunning to look at, alright, and continues to give an effortlessly fantastic performance. She is the backbone of the movie without whom Legally Blonde just might be too cliché and trite. Luke Wilson, who was in the somewhat quirky romantic comedy Home Fries 1998 opposite Drew Barrymore, provided a subtle supporting role to Witherspoon. Selma Blair, four years older, who was with Witherspoon and co. in writer-director Roger Kumble's Cruel Intentions 1998 (a modern day version of Dangerous Liaisons), once again appeared with her in Legally Blonde. Another film that also broke the cliché barrier in spite of its cuteness is Romy and Michele's High School Reunion 1997 with Lisa Kudrow and Mira Sorvino as the impossible pair! The fun is watching the two brainy actors compliantly doing no-brainer stuff. If you want all encompassing entertaining fun, emotional depth, cutting taste of crazy violence (from Ray Liotta), high school reunion, blonde and brunette all at once (from Melanie Griffith), and somehow balancing all these elements against all odds (by Jeff Daniels), try Jonathan Demme's exceptional delivery of Something Wild 1986.   "},{"Title":"Very funny movie! I was surprised!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   Legally Blonde is a very funny movie. Reese Witherspoone is hot, even though she is a ditz in this movie. Well she has to be. The movie is called Legally Blonde. It has a dumb plot but turns into a funny plot. There is two very funny parts in the movie which I can't tell the people who haven't seen this movie. Well here is the plot. Elle Woods (Witherspoone) breaks up with her boyfriend. The boyfriend wants to break up with her because she is not serious enough in the real world. He applies for Harvard Law and Woods decides that she wants to become more serious so she applies for Harvard Law too to get her boyfriend back. But when she goes to Harvard Law she realises that she wants to be a lawyer just to be a lawyer. The movie has a good ending which is similar to Can't Hardly Wait. I would go back to see it again in theatres.  RATING 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Breezy, enjoyable comedy","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Anyone who criticizes this picture on the basis of a dumb plot is missing the point entirely. As another IMDB user pointed out below, the movie knows it is ridiculous and actually revels in it. This works very well.The movie has more wit than it could have gotten away with, it's genuinely funny (as opposed to just having funny surface schtick like so many contemporary comedies), and it has a star-making performance by Reese Witherspoon, who proves herself to be Hollywood's newest comedienne.This is no masterpiece -- just a smart, funny, eye-pleasing little movie which successfully immerses you in its world.   Which makes it the best movie of the summer so far. "},{"Title":"A weak script that does not live up to Ms. Witherspoon's talents, and is shameful in the way it presents gays.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film pretends to be nothing other than silly summer fun, in the way it's promoted.  And that's fine.  But every film has a message, like it or not.  This film stereotypes many groups, obviously striking first at the affluent caucasian sorority women that open the film.Comic art, and some would say all art, depends at least to an extent on stereotypes and 'archetypes'.  But the film's depiction of gay men goes from embarrassingly ignorant at first, to almost hateful, as the film's plot comes to its climax.  That aside -- and it's a strong point in my opinion; I'd like to know what others think after seeing the movie -- the plot is far too simplistic, even for silly fun.  I felt at times as though I was watching a Saturday morning cartoon. (Not Bugs Bunny, mind you; something like Scooby Doo or Josie and the Pussycats.)  Characters speak their subtext Girls like us don't go out with guys like you.  If you like Reese Whitherspoon (I hope I'm spelling her name correctly), and haven't seen Election Day, with Matthew Broderick, I highly recommend you rent it and watch it.  Now THERE is time well spent! "},{"Title":"Very watchable!","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was very cute.  Reese Witherspoon is such a good actress.  Without her, Legally Blonde would just be another dumb fluff movie.  But with her, Legally Blonde is an entertaining story that shows that THIS blonde is anything but dumb.   "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ... so, you know, this movie is like, um, chewing gum? like, it has no nutritive value at all, but you like it .... if the gum is, um, the good kind, not old stale used gum, or, like I remember this girl gave me some Chicklets in high school and they weren't very good? Then she said they were Feena-mints? So this isn't like that at all, this is the good kind of gum? But not like the sugarless kind that leaves a bad taste in your mouth?So there are a lot of things one COULD criticize about the movie Harvard is portrayed as being only populated by shallow nerds; the subplot with the beautician really, really doesn't work; neither do some of the plot twists, and the whole trial scene is like leftover My Cousin Vinnie. But, you know what? If you buy the central premise of this movie (which you will, just because that Reese is so darn good at selling it!), then you have no business picking apart the cardboard plot at all. And there are three things that redeem this movie and made me enjoy it1. Reese Witherspoon. Say no more.2. Her pink fur phone.3. Seriously, the fact that Elle is, underneath the ditziness, a person with integrity and some character. For example, in the scene where Warner's fiance tries to make friends with her (after seeing that Warner is really kind of a creep). Elle could've gotten a few digs in, but bears no grudge whatsoever. It's funny to see Reese Witherspoon protrayed as a beautiful airhead; she brought it off even though she isn't really either. All in all, I found myself enjoying this movie a lot more than I expected. 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Funny and harmless","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, so Legally Blonde isn't the type of movie that sparks deep thinking or meaningful conversation. It won't be hailed years from now as a cinematic masterpiece. In fact, you'll probably forget most of it the instant you leave the theater. You will, however, be surprised how well this funny little throwaway film works.Everyone involved with Legally Blonde knew they were creating a pleasant snack, enjoyed briefly and then forgotten. And on those terms, the film succeeds beyond all reasonable expectations. A silly, predictable plot and zero character development don't diminish its entertainment value one iota.Reese Witherspoon does a particularly good job as Elle Woods, the manicure-loving, Chihuahua-toting, pink-is-my-life sorority chick who battles all the standard obstacles thrown into a film like this. She's not Ellen Burstyn in Requiem For a Dream, but she snugly and charmingly inhabits a role other actresses might have beaten to death in a flurry of scenery-chewing cliches. Witherspoon knows when to squeeze a joke for more laughs and when to get out of the way. She's a big reason Legally Blonde is better than it could -- and probably should -- have been.If you're looking to kill a few hours with some good-natured laughs, this film is for you.  "},{"Title":"Stupidity - ENOUGH already!","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just what we need.  Another movie to make young women want to bleach their heads (don't forget to leave those dark roots now) and idolize stupidity.Sorry.  I gave this one a chance.  I really did.  But what could be cute and funny in another context are dire reminders of some tragic truths of our time.  Women who should love themselves for all they can become, the sheer strengths of their minds and to appreciate the beauty of their TRUE selves instead donne parched straw like hair with 2 roots and actually supress their intelligence and inner strength in misguided adherence to a stereotype.  Yet it goes beyond this to the fact we as a society, for all the information at our fingertips, have embraced the lowest common denomenator of all of us.While there are some cute moments, do we really need another **DUMB** movie?  "},{"Title":"Don't read a book by it's cover","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was thoroughly insulted by the opening of this movie.  It epitomized everything that people THINK blondes are, and being a blonde I was not amused in the least.  When you deal with ridicule for being ditzy and obsessed with appearance, it pains you to see blondes voluntarily behaving that way.  However, as the movie progressed, I really did enjoy it.  The main character came out of her shell as a dumb blonde with daddy's credit card.  She was intelligent, in some way, shape, or form.  In the end, I thought it was a good movie with an interesting plot.  I wasn't expecting some of the twists, so it did keep me interested.  I highly recommend this movie, and I promise if the beginning looks bad, it really does get better. "},{"Title":"Legally Fun","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde, when you see the previews, looks like it's going to be another lame teeny-bopper movie that Hollywood punches out thinking that all teens will love it (which they don't, I know), when in reality it has a lame script, an even lamer cast, and an audience that wonders how this film ever got green-lighted. But that is not the case (no pun intended) for the quirky and funny Legally Blonde.The story begins in California, where Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon) is living on top-she's President of her sorority, majoring in fashion design, has lots of friends, and has a boyfriend, Warner (Matthew Davis II), who she loves dearly. But then Warner dumps her, saying that if he's going to be a senator when he's 30, he needs a girl that's more serious. So Warner leaves for Harvard and leaves Elle with a broken heart. Not wanting to just let Warner leave her grasp, she applies for Harvard to prove she in fact is serious. But when she gets to the school, she has some problems not only are the classes tough, but she has to deal with Warner's snobby fiancee` Vivian (Selma Blair), aka the brunette.This was one of those few teen movies that was actually good. The jokes were funny, the story was good, and the acting was good. Reese Witherspoon was excellent as the smart but valley-girlish Elle Woods, and Selma Blair nailed the cold snobbiness of preppy Vivian.It was a good story, but not 100%. One word predictability. I was guessing things in the movie that would then happen an hour later. Of course, this being a teen movie, that's to be expected. Not all teen movies can be THAT good. But still a good script.All in all, it was fun. That's the best way to sum up Legally Blonde fun. A good way to spend my Saturday.8/10, B+ "},{"Title":"Pleasant Surprise","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Every time I 'm about to give up on Hollywood they surprise me. Legally Blonde is a very enjoyable film. It reminded me of the days when movies were made to be likeable instead of just stupid. I don't need to see any more remakes of Porkys. As thin as the plot was Reese Witherspoon made every frame sparkle. I don't think it's too soon for her to start doing the grownup roles that have been going to Julia. I will be first in the ticketline.  "},{"Title":"Rehashed film but Reese makes it a winner!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Once I started watching this movie and heard that theme song, all cutesy and bubbly, it seemed so familar. As the storyline unfolded I got that deja vu that I HAVE seen this before, CLUELESS! A blonde wealthy chick is Miss Popularity trying to make it and helping others along the way. Only this film takes place in College instead of High School. What a ripoff right?? Right, but the film is saved by Reese Witherspoon performance. She makes it work and totally enjoyable. I saw her years ago in FREEWAY. Bizarre film, Killer film. See it.Sure it's a chick flick, BUT Reese and the girls make good eye candy for any red blooded hetero guy. Plus there's a drag queen, dancing hairdressers and cute Luke Wilson for the gay guys. Something for everyone!!If you loved Clueless you will love this film too. Reese makes another winner here. GO SEE IT!!  "},{"Title":"Comedy + 1","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This week has had a bit of a lull in summertime block busters.  So to be honest I saw  this film out of desperation. The opening scenes left me feeling like the next two hours would be the longest of my life.  To be fair the tone of the film needed to be set.  Overall I thought the movie was pretty funny although some of the scenes were just a bit to saturated with estrogen for my taste.  As the film progressed the Reese Witherspoon took on a smart classy and surprizingly moralistic Cosmo girl role that impressed me.  I liked how her character developed into someone who could be a role model to anybody while still maintaining her Cosmo roots.  The humor was better than I expected.  All in all worth seeing. 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Quite good","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't have high expectations at all for this film. But when I came out of that theater, I was definitely surprised. This movie was much more than a stupid teen love story. Reese Witherspoon was excellent in it, and I'm really glad I saw it. It isn't that hard for me to believe now that she could quite possibly be the next Julia Roberts... "},{"Title":"Second best flick of the year","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am a 20 year old guy, I like Arnold Scwarzenegger movies. I didn't like Clueless or Get Over It or even American Pie for that matter. But I loved this movie. It was hilarious, it had a great story, it had a perfect pace, and it made fun of itself before any critic could have had a chance to do so. This movie KNOWS its plot is ridiculous. It KNOWS that most of the characters are blown way out of reality. This movie is just good, smart fun and I loved it. "},{"Title":"A Fun Movie","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The plot is ridiculous, the characters, for the most part are ridiculous which simply makes the Movie Great. Very entertaining to say the least. The Dumb Blonde, who actually is brilliant, Gets Even. Laura Jean Reese Witherspoon's acting in this movie is simply brilliant. She is the movie. Don't miss this one. "}{"Title":"Except for Reese Witherspoon, dismal movie","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not being a fan of Reese Witherspoon who usually plays an unlovable spoiled brat, I expected the worse. Having a free pass, and being a lawyer who always is curious how Hollywood treats the legal profession, I went to see this one. As usual Hollywood is absurd - a very unauthentic plot as usual. But to my surprise, Reese Witherspoon made this movie bearable. While the movie fell apart all around her, she was great. Although her role was not too different than her previous roles, she showed some acting talent in this movie. "},{"Title":"I Love This Film!!! Completely Hilarious!!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"     I just saw Legally Blonde in the theater, and I have to say that it's brillaint!! I enjoyed Performances from Reese Witherspoon, Luke Wilson, Matthew Davis, Jessica Cauffiel, Jeniffer Coolidge, Ali Larter, and Selma Blair. This film is a hilarious film about a girl trying to win her boyfriend back by going to a serious law school.(Harvard University) The story is funny and terrific, and the acting was superb!!! This film is a must-see for anyone who likes Reese Witherspoon, or is just a fan of comedy movies!!! Reese Witherspoon did a great job as the fashionable and determined Elle Woods, as did Luke Wilson, Matthew Davis as Elle's boyfriend/ex-boyfriend, Jessica Cauffiel as Elle's best friend Margot, Jennifer Coolidge as Elle's best friend and beauty salon worker, Ali Larter as Brooke Tracy Windham who is convicted of murdering her husband, and Selma Blair is great too. This is a great film!!!                           *****SPOILER ALERT*****                       Also, I liked at the ending how Elle discovered  that Mr. Windham's daughter Chutney had killed Mr. Windham (her father) on accident, thinking that the person coming in the house was Brooke Taylor.                          *****END OF SPOILER*****               Overall, this is a must-see hit for everybody!! I give this brillaint and funny film a 10 out of 10!!!!!!!  )     "},{"Title":"Blondes really do have more fun!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde may be the surprise hit of the summer.  Though any of my film school teachers would pick it apart for every little flaw and declare it to be more of the mindless dribble Hollywood has given us lately, I would have to rank it among the top of that mindless dribble.  The characters are well written and well acted.  Reese Witherspoon shows off the talents that made her the star that she is, by making Elle a believable stereotypical dumb blonde who blows them all away at Harvard Law.  Luke Wilson and Ali Larter, two relative unknowns who I'm sure we'll be seeing more of soon, step up to match Witherspoon's high energy performance.  The weakest performance may have been Selma Blair, who seemed unsure how to make Vivian, her character, seem evil and nice at the same time.  Add excellent work by the set designers (Boston has never looked so boring) and the costume designers (I didn't know there were that many colors of sequined bikinis) and a fresh, modern sound track, and Legally Blonde has the perfect formula to keep the audiences coming back for more! "},{"Title":"Hilarious, Moving and Heart- warming!!!!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see the movie with my cousin and we had a blast!! It was down right hilarious and my mom is taking me to see it again this weekend. Reese Witherspoon made you believe she could actually be this kind of person and that people like Elle really do exist. Reese was a brilliant actress in the movie and I don't think anyone could've done the job better. I believe she has opened up a new gateway for blondes and at one point in the movie I wanted to dye my hair blonde because blondes have so much fun and they are just like worry free of everything. I also believe she sort of let the world know that blondes have problems to just not the kind of problems we usually have! They also have feelings and they are just as much normal as everybody else but in their own way. They tend to think differently from everyone else and they want to win just like everybody else. That's what this movie has taught me. I came to watch and enjoy the movie. Not sit there and see where they made mistakes at. This movie is very enjoyable and I give it 6 stars and three thumbs up!!!!! It's the best blonde movie I've ever seen!!! Funny, moving and heart warming is all I can describe it as. You should really see it. It's a fantastic movie!!! "},{"Title":"Barbie Goes Harvard Law!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cute but not the least bit believable. Way too Barbie!!! This one covers just about every stereotype about California girls just like they are true. Then it goes East Coast like they are more real. Geez...isn't it about time that Hollywood gets it! "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie of ALL Time! Even Better than Miss Congeniality!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde was by far the funniest movie of the year . . . the best movie of the year . . . the best movie in history! It was brilliant from the beginning to end and Reese Witherspoon is by far the perfect 'Elle Woods'. Some people say she was shallow and the movie was pointless by they must have gotten up on the wrong side of the bed this morning because that movie was HYSTERICAL from the beginning to end! I went with someone who had already seen it twice and I saw it when it had only been out 6 days and my friend had seen 3 times after we saw it! That proves it gets funnier ever time you see it! This is a must see movie! If you haven't already seen it, go see now! You will be laughing all the way home! "},{"Title":"A movie this summer that did not feel like trash for a change!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I went into this movie ,I was thinking another piece of trash from Hollywood. To my actual suprise I liked it!!In the movie, a college blonde losers her boyfriend. The boyfriend goes off to Havard. She follows him to Harvard after her funny video piece that the Harvard bigwigs watch.The girl leaves for  Harvard so she can get him back.Though a series of funny legal misadventures, she becomes a legal aide for one of the teachers played by Victor Garber. They eventually get a trial.The girl faces several trials while working on the trial.I will not give away the ending, but everyone gets what's coming to them.This movie was very funny and very cute! I liked it a lot!The cast was perfect in their roles! Kudos to MGM!! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So far, one of the more enjoyable, relaxing/funny movies I've seen all year. It brings a number of good laughs, and is worth seeing despite its flaky surface appearance, especially when compared with the other movies that have been currently released. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny, well-written and charismatic; far more than a chick flick","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have hated Reese Witherspoon for as long as I can remember, and this movie changed my entire perspective. I now see and support her tremendous talent, and plan to endorse her, if solely for her outstanding performance in Legally Blonde.Reese Witherspoon is unbearably charming and convincing as a dumb blonde from Los Angeles, which proves how good she is right from the start, given that she is from Tennessee. The movie is full of hilarious one liners and hilarious buildups to one liners, as well as hilarious one liners supporting a hilarious subplot. Every character is developed with the utmost care and creative energy, and every subplot and scene is perfectly shaped to support every tie it has to the characters and story.This movie is definetly more than a chick flick. Everyone involved outdid themselves. The scriptwriters, directors, crew and actors all shone in this hilarious film, and it could not have been done any better. "},{"Title":"Funny lines, average plot, but shallow character development.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Overall, it was a fun movie to watch. However, almost all the characters get no development whatsoever. Other than the lead, you can't identify with anyone. Some characters, like Vivian Kensington, completely change without warning. The only subplot, the manicurist getting her dog back, is a waste and contributes nothing. So, for laughs, it's almost worth renting when it comes out on video; otherwise, it's as shallow as a kiddie pool. "}{"Title":"A Real treat- better than the reviews","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie because I needed escapist fun, and Reese Witherspoon impressed me in earlier work. I had low expectations because of the reviews, which generally said she was wasted in an unfunny comedy. I disagree. Both my date and I were falling off our seats. The visual acuity was on par with classic comedy farce. Perhaps this reminded me best not of a movie, but like one of the really good early I Love Lucy episodes. In addition, the movie played on several levels, dealing humourously but pointedly with stereotyping, taking chances , following your dreams ...all classic themes.Not Doctor Zhivago or Casablanca, but well worth seeing. Reese Witherspoon deserves to be our next great comic lead.  "},{"Title":"Reese scores a 10 - too bad the script can't match!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon is absolutely charming and glowing with cuteness in this fun flick.  It's great entertainment, some very funny moments, albeit there are some parts that just don't fit (like when she escorts her Bekins moving van to the front door of her dorm and is able to be completely oblivious to the many taunts she immediately encounters.)  Does nothing phase this Elle Woods?  Apparently not, and that's what's SOOO fun about this film.  I bought a new shirt today, and I bought it in pink.  Elle's influence? Probably - watch this movie and you'll be getting regular manicures before you know it!!  Good times. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie rocked a lot more than I expected.  I thought that Reese Witherspoon was going to be just a blonde, but she was more than that. I thought Luke Wilson would have looked a lot better if he had shorter hair.  Even my very brunette friend enjoyed this movie.  I definately recommend this movie for all the pretend blondes as well as the legal blondes. "},{"Title":"When the audience in a movie theater applauds there's nothing more to say","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  We went to see this movie not expecting too much more than a minor amusement for a Sunday afternoon. We were wrong. If this movie does not get some awards something is really wrong in Hollywood. Any time you have an audience applauding a film you know it hit the target and this one scored a bullseye!! "},{"Title":"Just Plain Fun!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When you see this movie, take it for what it's worth.  A fun story!  A sweet story!  Just enjoy!!  Reese Witherspoon is excellent, as is the rest of the cast.  The movie is just plain fun.  With a moral....believe in yourself!  The movie is funny, I can't remember the last time I laughed all the way through a movie, maybe it was Clueless.  This movie reminded me a bit of Clueless.  If you liked that one, you'll love this one!  Just sit back and enjoy!!   "},{"Title":"A surprisingly entertaining film!!!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ok, to tell you the truth, I went into the theater because my mom and sister dragged me to the movie. They wanted to see it and I didn't because I hate comedies like Clueless, which is what Legally Blonde looked like. But from the first 5 minutes till the end I was completely and utterly entertained the whole entire time! The movie was incredible! It has comedy,drama,romance...everything you could ask for in a motion picture. I highly recommend this movie to anyone and everyone!~Jenn~ So how are you?  Well my dad died, my mother's a hoare,my brother wants to kill me, and my sister's on crack  Well sounds like your having a better day than I am -Brenda and Nate from Six Feet Under on HBO "},{"Title":"Reese sparkles as Legally Blonde shines","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sunshine filled the dark theater as excitement went through my body and smiles lit up my face as I was part of the most enjoyable and refreshing films of year. Legally Blonde is a textbook definition of how true comedies should be made. With a combination of comedy, smart writing and great comedic performances, Legally Blonde is a surprise summer hit everyone will enjoy.2001 has been the year of incredible films, breakthrough performances and great writing so when I came across Legally Blonde, there was no doubt that I would be entertained. It is an honor and privilege to watch a film like Legally Blonde that contains intelligent writing, great performances and unique concepts because the audience will always be guaranteed a great film when these elements are in order.Reese Witherspoon has always been one of the brightest and talented actresses in Hollywood, so it came as no surprise when she turned in a performance worthy of oscar consideration in the best comedic performance category. Previous outstanding performances in Pleasantville and Cruel Intentions, gave me proof that Witherspoon was the only actress capable of pulling off this role.With her role in Legally Blonde, Witherspoon brought her toolbox of talents, which is filled with charm, beauty, enthusiasm and sense of humor to create an exciting and fun atmosphere for audiences to enjoy the movie. Furthermore, she makes it possible for everyone to sit back and relax using facial muscles to smile and laugh. Witherspoon has come a long way since The Man in The Moon and will continue to give incredible performances in the years to come and take home awards along the way.This film highlights outstanding supporting comedic performances from Matthew Davis, Selma Blair, Ali Larter, Holland Taylor, Victor Garber, Jennifer Coolidge and Luke Wilson who combine to complete one of the best ensemble casts of 2001. Each member of the supporting cast brought their own special and unique style of charm to each role they played; furthermore, there was nobody else I could think of to portray the characters in the film than these seven actors because the roles seemed tailor made for each of them.Writing is an essential key for the success of every film because it is the foundation for which a movie is made. The writers came up with one of the finest scripts of the year using unique concepts and great comedic writing to entertain audiences.  Legally Blonde is loaded with refreshing scenes that will leave the best Hollywood screenwriters scratching their heads asking themselves, How were these writers able to make this script funny and successful at the same time? Aside from refreshing scenes, great character development and imaginative script concepts; this film boasts a cheerful underlying message, which is dreams come true when people put their minds to something. This touch was appreciated because it adds a dimension, which is lacking from films such as `Legally Blonde.'Though each scene in the film was great, there were two that stood out in my mind above the rest as evidence of some of the best writing in recent films. The first scene involves a health spa being described as Elle's mother ship and a murder trial, which was decided through hair care products.The cast is to be commended for turning in incredible performances, writers applauded for laying the foundation for a film that has the courage to be called a dumb blonde comedy and have legions of fans enjoy the film at the same time and the director deserves a standing ovation for directing a refreshing comedy as well as giving the audience something new and creative to watch. Legally Blonde is a light-hearted and charming film that should be seen with a smile. Audiences are guaranteed to be entertained with fun surprises and great comedy.  "},{"Title":"go see it!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Some reviews and reviewers have written this movie off as fluff.I'm not sure what they expect out of this movie - the trailer does not mislead you in any way. This is simply one of the more entertaining movies of 2001. If you like to laugh and be entertained at a movie, go see this.For some reason, critics have also dismissed this as a teen-girl movie - making it sound like a made-for-video Kate & Ashley Olsen adventure in Boston or something - nothing could be further from the truth.Again, if you enjoy clever writing, solid acting and a fun time at the movies - then we should all hope and be so lucky that more movies are aimed at teen-girls (cause frankly, the ones aimed at teen guys are not cutting it).This movie is not an Oscar caliber movie but it sets out to tell a funny story about a girl who gets into Harvard Law to win back her beau - and it delivers it with wit and style. Movies are supposed to entertain us and take you to another place - this certainly does. It also has a nice message without stopping the movie dead in its tracks to lecture us (a nice pleasant surprise!) and this may be the first PG-13 movie in a long, long time without swearing in it (okay, I may have missed a mild one but I believe 'butthead' is about as severe as it gets).Go reward the film-makers so we can encourage more fun, witty, light summer movies such as this.  "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  reese witherspoon was as good as she could be, and her dog was cute, but it was obviously just another little additive that contributed to the almost too cute movie.  a cute movie and nothing more.  that doesn't make this a bad review, though.  just don't expect it to be one to make you think, or furrow your brow (x-files).for what it was worth, it gets 3 stars our of 5 stars from me.o\ "},{"Title":"Fun film but one scene reeked racisism","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought that it was a fun film overall and Reese was perky and delightful to watch as she climbed her way to success but there was one scene particularly that reeked with Hollywood racism.  Yeh this comedy side-tracked me because as an Asian American I found it offensive that somebody allowed the scene where a woman was trying to speak Vietnamese.  It was the way she tried to speak it...almost as if she's mocking the culture/language.  This really isn't cool since growing up I had experience racism first hand where strangers would be cruel by making fun of the asian language.  If director Robert Luketic or writers Karen McCullah Lutz and Kirten Smith thought that it was funny, this movie-goer certainly didn't think so.  Did anyone forget about Mickey Blue Eyes and the ridiculous chinese restaurant scene?  Sure...sure...its only a movie but something has to give and Hollywood has to realize that stereotyping Asians is cruel and does not make good comedy and rather help fan the flames of bigotry.  Ok...back to your regular schedule programming. "}{"Title":"Reese is brilliant","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a lot of fun and formulated great, but it was nothing new. Its about the ditzy blond, who is really the smart blond...we've heard that all before.  But the thing that places this movie apart from the others is it's star Reese Witherspoon.I first fell in love with Reese Witherspoon in the movie, Freeway where she played fiesty Vanessa Lutz.  Since then, Ive seen her play a huge range of characters from Election to Cruel Intentions to American Psycho.  Each character is uniquely different and full of Reese.Elle Woods from Legally Blonde is no different.  Reese puts her all into this movie and she made it great to watch.  The movie is worth it just for her performance. "},{"Title":"reasons to avoid this film","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know what possessed me to see this movie!  I should know by now that any movie that Reese Witherspoon is the star of should be avoided.  The title was really a clue as to the validity of this movie.  Legally Blonde is probably the worst movie I've seen this summer.  Don't waste your money....go see Pearl Harbour instead. "},{"Title":"What a Surprise","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was going to be a typical teen age movie that had a love story, but it was so much more than that. Take Clueless and mix it with Erin Brokovich and you have Legally Blonde. A great funny movie that keeps you laughing and watching the screen. I recommend going to see this film! I know you guys out there really do not want to, but this movie let you girlfriends talk you into going to it. Just look at the box office results and listen to what other teens and young adults are saying about it. It is a great movie that will probably be quoted for some time!!! "},{"Title":"So much fun","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  yeah yeah yeah, I saw it.... I paid to see it. I have never felt so girlly in my life. I found myself, enjoying this movie. I mean...it was just delightful. It was almost like they said. Let's overwhelm America with Dumb Joy. It was totally Cluelesseque...but very amusing, I recommend anyone who suffers from bouts of depression to watch this movie. IF it doesn't make you feel better....try some medicine. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  (My comment contains a mini-spoiler, but nothing about the outcome of the movie) This movie was surprisingly smart and not-surprisingly funny. Though it does unsuccessfully try to teach morals, self-esteem, etc., it is one of those movies that you leave smiling. Not just because it was funny, but because it was just a really good, light-hearted movie. All the characters were unquestionably lovable, especially Selma Blair, who contrasts from her role in Cruel Intentions quite nicely. Reese is VERY exceptional, breaking the cliches about blondes with lovely results, and is the main reason you leave the movie smiling. When the lesbian accuses her of calling her the D-word, the way she says, No, I don't use that word... makes you really get the feeling that, though shallow and spoiled, her character is really a wonderful person. "},{"Title":"Allow me to paraphrase The Critic.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was just a shameless ripoff of Clueless... which was a shameless ripoff of Emma.... which wasn't THAT good of a film to begin with!In short, about as cliched and predictable as a Lakers 3-peat with Shaq riding the coat-tails. "},{"Title":"Legally Blonde...Legally Impressive.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde is a delightful comedy about a young valley girl named Elle Woods (played incentively by Reese Witherspoon).  In the beginning, Elle is expects her boyfriend to propose to her while on a date.  Instead, he dumps her.  I need to marry a Jackie, not a Marilyn, he replied. So, Elle decides to become the Jackie type...she applies for Harvard Law School and eventually gets accepted.  The Elle Woods character is very likeable. She's rich and comes from a well-to-do family, but never gives us any indication of being a stuck up snob.  She makes friends with all kinds of people...rich and poor, and she thinks of others more than she does herself.  The film has many funny points.  Reese Witherspoon is excellently cast and the rest of the cast is ideal as well.I give Legally Blonde ***(B). "},{"Title":"Hilariously Stupid","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Everyone knows someone who is considered a snob for the lack of an appropriate word.  This movie is the life of one of these rich LA snobs who learns at Harvard she stands out a lot.  The stark contrast in her LA style and outlook versus the academia of Harvard and much of its law students draws much of the laughter.  Going in I thought it would be a stupid movie that wasn't funny, like my opinion of the Cable Guy.  I came out laughing my head off about how ridiculously funny it is.  I rank it a 7.5 "},{"Title":"I read these reviews. I saw it. I liked it.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yup, after a long string of less than expected movies this summer  this one had me smiling and I left with a fun feeling.  Funny, pleasurable, entertaining, but the critics won't see it as movie of the year. You should see it just to feel that you payed some cash and are not disapointed that you did. You'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Best All-Around Movie","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As i said in the title, this is the best all around movie i have ever seen.Reese Witherspoon was perfect for this part and none of the people over played their characters. Someone might disagree with me but hey, these are MY comments. Mostly everything was unexpected and everything that wasn't was because they were shown in the commercials. I also loved the movie because it wasn't just a comedy, it also had morals and was serious sometimes. I like movies like that. Well thats all, hope you like my review. "}{"Title":"1/3 Cute 1/3 Funny 1/3 Clever!","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie last night. I wasn't as excited to see it as my friends were, but it was so good! I mean, it was not Pearl Harbor or Gone with the Wind but it truly will be a classic! Reese Witherspoon was so great in this movie and I didn't expect her to be THAT good! It's great for dates, and it's great for just going w/ a bunch of your gals! And for all who have potential to dis this movie, don't expect a Gone with the Wind as I said! It's just an 1 hr and a 1/2 of laughs, I had a smile on my face the whole time! It was 1/3 cute, 1/3 funny and 1/3 clever! "},{"Title":"I wanna be BLONDE!!","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oh, this was such an awesome movie!!  I was laughing so much!!  Reese Witherspoon did great with her character, Elle Woods.  And her two ditzy friends are a crack up!!  I especially liked her dog...That was really cute how his outifts changed and stuff.  You HAVE to see this movie because it was really, really great!!  Not necessarily a movie for guys, but I thought it was SUPERB!! "},{"Title":"The Best Comedy Ever","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was waiting to see this movie for about four weeks and could not wait any longer and when the time came to see the movie I was so surprised I was not expecting it to be this good I was laughing like there was no tomorrow. It is a one of a kind comedy that has you going back to see it over and over. It was Clueless but better than ever with even better acting and an even better story. Reese Witherspoon was excellent, in so far her best performance ever no other actress could have done this role but her. One or two things that I did not like in this movie is that the music could have been better and the ending of the movie could have been better. It has been hard to find a good comedy and even with those two things it is still a very good movie,If you want to see the best comedy of the year than your problems are over so go and see Reese Witherspoon in this years best comedy Legally Blonde.                By Carlos D. Montemayor "},{"Title":"Not Dumb, Just Superficial","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde demonstrates just what I've always said, Blondes aren't dumb, they are just superficial.  Actually, I said that about ALL people such as Elle, the character played by the enormously talented Reese Witherspoon, AND the people who created Legally Blonde.  To expect such a creature, intelligent as she is, to suddenly transform her interests from bikini waxing to litigation is insulting to BOTH lawyers AND bikini waxers.  I once scored the highest math aptitude on an achievement test in the history of the state of Florida; but, because my interests lay elsewhere I can barely balance a checkbook.   Is this movie (gasp! gasp!) superficial?  What can one say about a movie which manages to stereotype blondes, preppies, Jews, gays and Hispanics, some SIMULTANEOUSLY?  At least the filmakers redeemed themselves by making Elle's rival (Selma Blair), transform from preppie bitch to nice person. The only thing TRULY remarkable in Legally Blonde, is how incredibly beautiful and classy Raquel Welch looks at nearly 61. Excess poundage or not, Welch is still FAR more desirable than Witherspoon, even considering Reese's pout and Barbie Doll figure.Legally Blonde is an amusing timekiller, nothing more.  "},{"Title":"Legally Smart!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There was not a disappointed person in my audience and that includes me. This is impressive considering that this tale about a dumb blond evolving into a smart lawyer could have been either a crashing boor for the intelligentsia or mindless pabulum for the masses. The director, Luketic, found the sweet spot where entertainment and intelligence meet.  Witherspoon, despite the fact that I would have preferred she move on to more serious roles, was perfect in her part. The result is a movie that is entertaining and delivers the lesson that it is better to rely on your intelligence than your looks. My only caution is to parents that there is a short discussion in a law class about masturbation that may or may not go over the heads of your children. Other than that I would say this is for the whole family.  "},{"Title":"The summers best movie!!!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I saw the preview for this movie, i thought it would be a good movie. I was wrong...it was excellent!!! And excellent is the only way I can describe it. Everyone did an excellent job on acting it out (especially Reese...my fav.) and the movie was well written. They say blondes do have more fun and this movie shows that they really do. It's funny and sort of sad because the guy dumps Reese(Elle). Reese is one of my fav actresses and she proves how good she is in this show. If you loved Reese in Cruel Intentions, your gonna love her acting more in Legally Blonde. I recommend this movie to everyone because it's great!! "},{"Title":"Good little summer-no-brainer's comedy","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For the first ten minutes I was asking myself what am I doing in this theatre???. It was starting bad, the principal character seemed to be annoying... But I was greatly surprised by the movie... It looks like a mix of My cousin vinny (for the incredible court part) and Clueless...The acting is ok, but nothing to notice, maybe Selma Blair who is really beautiful!Briefly, this is a cute summer movie, just leave your brain at the entrance, and enjoy and laugh!!! danone "},{"Title":"Awesome... totally... like, cool...","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you want to laugh and get a great story I recommend this movie highly.  It is so so so good and Mrs. Reese puts on a great performance.  This is not your totally ditzy air-head movie or is it just for girls or young adults, it's for everyone. "},{"Title":"Legally Smart!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There was not a disappointed person in my audience and that includes me. This is impressive considering that this tale about a dumb blond evolving into a smart lawyer could have been either a crashing boor for the intelligentsia or mindless pabulum for the masses. The director, Luketic, found the sweet spot where entertainment and intelligence meet.  Witherspoon, despite the fact that I would have preferred she move on to more serious roles, was perfect in her part. The result is a movie that is entertaining and delivers the lesson that it is better to rely on your intelligence than your looks. My only caution is to parents that there is a short discussion in a law class about masturbation that may or may not go over the heads of your children. Other than that I would say this is for the whole family.  "},{"Title":"Not just for Blondes","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The only reason I went to see this movie is my sister is a blonde and I like to give her a hard time about it.  I thought the movie was going to be shallow since a) it is a teen flick, and b) it is a summer flick.  I was happily surprised when I saw that although many of the characters in the movie are shallow the issues are not.  Legally Blonde turned out to be one of those comedies that teaches a lesson.  I found myself laughing in many parts, while also taking something from the theater.  I'm not saying this movie is any breakthrough or that it contains qualities of a classic or anything of that sort, but all in all it was very enjoyable film.  The only regrets I have of seeing this movie is that my sister now says Well, like, maybe there's hope for me yet! "}{"Title":"Suprise","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Legally Blonde was a great movie. Reese Witherspoon has a great performence. The Plot turns are great.  How it describes Harvard is very good and is quite funny. What is says about LA life is great and the chiwauwa is awesome.  If u want a lighthearted comedy this is the one u want 2 see "},{"Title":"Much better than critics admit!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This comedy is so much better than critics say...which is maddening... I saw a very mixed crowd in the theater and everyone was laughing hard and loud. What's up with these pseudo-intellectual critics (I guess the movie's message hit too close to home...)? So, don't be distracted by reviews and watch this movie the story is clever, the script is tight and has many incredibly funny and original lines. Hard to find these days (the last good comedy I saw was Bridget Jones' Diary). Everyone seems to agree on Reese Witherspoon's superb talent. She is indeed brilliant.  "},{"Title":"Lots of fun","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was an excellent show.  My wife and I saw it on Saturday and then again on Sunday.  Actually quite uplifting.  Elle took a lot of crap as a blonde and never got negative about it.  It was nice to see someone stand up for themselves.   "},{"Title":"For pure entertainment, it's hard to beat","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although this is not a deep movie, in that it gives the strange message about how good looking people are unfairly judged (yeah, they .. make that we heh heh really suffer), it is very funny and extremely entertaining.  In other words, exactly what you want from a summer movie-- fun!  This one reminds greatly of Clueless in many ways, and would certainly live up to the quality of that fine film.  Reese Witherspoon gives a star making performance if I've ever seen one.  I have the feeling we will be buying this one, since it's worth seeing again.  Even if it's not terribly realistic, it's just satisfying to watch throughout, which you can't say for so many other movies.  And think about it-- isn't it more enjoyable watching the plight of beautiful people than average Joes? "},{"Title":"A hilarious camp classic!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon shines in this hilarious camp classic.  From the opening neon pink credits and over-the-top outfits, this movie readily admits that it's not meant to be taken seriously.  The fun is playing along with Elle and watching her determination to succeed.  It's a hoot to discover what Elle will wear next, what soap she compares her life to, and what man she will ultimately go for.  She's got a heart of gold and a wardrobe of glam and glitter that makes her one of the most fun characters in movie this year! "},{"Title":"Fluffy, But Fun","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Fluffy, almost weightless, Legally Blonde nonetheless makes a few gentle points about self-esteem and how people perceive each other.And Reese Witherspoon carries the movie, no question about it. "},{"Title":"Refreshingly Unpretentious","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is what it is!  It is an unpretentious comedy about the pretentious world of Ivy League Law school.  I loved it, and I went with no expectations. The movie is full of laughs, but has some very smart moments as well.  Reese does a great job in her roll as a bubbly blonde Cosmo reader with brains enough to get into Harvard and street smarts enough not to buy into the mousy haired, pearl wearing pretentiousness that is the epitome of the ivy league woman. Don't you love it that those Harvard geeks still cannot get the hot blonde in the end? "},{"Title":"Stick around, it gets better!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In the first 15 minutes I thought I would be walking out. I waited long enough to get interested in the very familiar plot. It was a little silly, but more entertaining than some I've seen this year. If you are a stickler for reality wait for the video.  "},{"Title":"clever and hilarious!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Simply, though cleverly, Reese Witherspoon, plays the role of the non-serious blonde, who went to Harvard specially to prove to her ex-boyfriend, that she is not dumb. The director shows in a more than one hilarious scene that blondies are not always dummies, yet sometimes there is a tongue in cheek discrimination! Still, I think the movie should contain more funny stuff. The whole idea is extremely funny, but the scenes were expected to be more in number.  "},{"Title":"A ditzy blonde with a heart of gold finds success through hard work.  What's not to like?","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is a curious fact of American life that beauty is often the catalyst for discovering unsurpassed wealth and fame while the less fortunate- looking individuals are forced to work that much harder to find the same level of achievement.  The premise of Legally Blonde validates this stereotype but goes beyond it and forces it's heroine Elle Woods played by Reese Witherspoon to work hard once she's got her foot in the door.The film is a fluff comedy that sets out to be the twin sister of Clueless and works remarkably better by allowing it's character to branch out of her valley girl image and find worth in inner beauty.  Reese Witherspoon and satire make for a movie with many laughs that is never boring and makes you feel good when you leave the theater.  Elle Woods is sort of the anti-Tracy Flick from Election and Witherspoon shows amazing versatility in making Elle so likeable.  Alicia Silverstone played her Clueless character as a one-dimensional cartoon who we couldn't really sympathize with.  Despite her snobby Beverly Hills background and valley girl image, we can't help but love Elle because of everything Reese is that Alicia was not.  Witherspoon has really branched out in recent years with her choices of movies. Election should have garnered her an Academy Award nomination and Pleasantville saw Reese stealing the show out from Tobey Maguire. Legally Blonde will not be bad for her long resume but is certainly not worthy of mention except in passing.Legally Blonde is an excellent popcorn movie for a lazy Saturday afternoon when your looking for a good laugh and movie for your teenage daughters. It shows that hard work and desire for success is a good thing and that women are worthy of it.  One qualm is that it's fairly predictable (due in part to a revealing trailer) and it demonstrates that ugly people often finish last.  "}{"Title":"Clueless Goes to College....","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It was cute. This movie had its moments.  Either I laughed out loud or I was rolling my eyes.I love Reese Witherspoon. I just wish the dialogue was consistently funny.And, as a former cheerleader of 7 years, I fully appreciated Reese's character's frustration of not being taken seriously. YOU GO GIRL!!No, I'm not blond.6/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Though the movie had its blonde moments, I thought it was very funny and a good movie. Reese Witherspoon was  perfect for the role! The movie also has an important message, have faith in yourself. There were two bad things in this movie, the music and the ending was so obvious. "},{"Title":"Great overall Legal Thriller!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  well, not really a legal thriller, but it does have stuff for everyone... especially law students. well, actually, i'm not a law student yet, i'm planning on going to law school next semester and Legally Blonde actually gave me a good idea of what to expect. it borrows many scenes from the book 1L by Scott Turow and manages to make them hilarious! Reese Witherspoon is Excellent as the legal genius/bimbo, Elle Wood. there are many funny side characters as well, including Elle's sorority friends, and her snobby Harvard classmates. If you are going to law school or have gone to college, this movie has a lot to relate to, besides the occasional Hollywood feel good scenes which are sometimes a little too obvious, but the movie is so well-made and REese witherspoon is so excellent that you instantly sympathize with her and the movie as a whole, making everything acceptable... just go with the flow and enjoy the whole movie, it's GREAT! very smart! "},{"Title":"Blondes Have More ...Brains","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon is back baby! She weighs like 100 pounds or something. I guess she birthed (hubby=angelic Ryan Phillipe) and bolted out to the gym. Good little starlette.While Legally Blonde hasn't got the charm of Nurse Betty, the laugh out loud legendary Private Benjamin, it does have Reese and she brings the movie to life and makes it witty and bouncy enough to recommend. It's campy silly humor delivered by a witty and bouncy beautiful actress.Legally Blonde's story goes...Spoiled yet kind Elle Wood (Reese  peanutbutter on a Witherspoon) goes to CU. She's a Bel Air gal born and breed. Tropical Problem is she stuck on East Coast snob, Warner Huntington III, from a blueblood background trying to Kennedy his way into life and law school. Elle's a tart of sorts. Bright clothes, gosh-golly head tilts, versed in fabric qualities, and knows a last season DKNY when she sees one- shudder. She's just not Jackie material. No self-respecting congressman-to-be could marry her she's just too BLONDE! So she's dumped.For some reason she believes she can, and must, prove she's worthy to this horrible third generation snob cake . Yech. Poor girl. How? How does a bright beautiful women impress an Ivy League lug? Simple, all she has to do is get into law school. HARVARD law school, where the beau of her fogged little mind is attending.We learn Elle's actually a smart ditz; 4.0 in her current major (Fashion Design), as well as top of her high school graduating class. All she needs to enter is a 175 on the feared and dreaded LSAT test! Yeah, that's all...Elle tortures herself by cutting out all pedicures, shopping sprees, even PJ sorority parties, for the LSAT 40 pound 3400 page cram books. She want everything to go perfect, so she even hires a Coppola to direct her Harvard submission video. She's got sass. She sassy.Obviously she gets in. However, she may learn more than just the corpus erectus platunmbatum cardious ruling of 1978. She may learn, life's more than stuck up boyfriends, furry phone covers, and emergency manicures!Or not.The story had a few terrible scenes where you just looked at the screen in pure horror at their generic attempt of intriguing sub-plot before you. But, there are so many cute, scenes mixed with a nice, light, mindless humor, and of course Witherspoon you can forgive all that. If your one of those despise her people, well, you're gonna hate this-warning you.Reese is typical Reese, cute and funny, flirty and dingy. It's a role that comes easy to this young underrated chickbabe. Though, it was similar to her Election character, she may be in for some ridicule from less forgiving reviewers...They are similar but not identical. They've got that whole ditzy girl who's secretly a powerhouse theme. Ree has a knack for comedy to be sure. A facial contortionist who delivers lines with a linguist's perfection.Luke Wilson, who plays Emmet a friend of Elle's at Harvard, has manly man features gone awry. He scared me. I don't know, too much jaw line, which, before Luke, I hadn't thought, was impossible. Is there a name for that phobia? Acrhnojawthatbigia ? His body, however, is delectable...But how does one get over the Hamster-storing-a-snack look?Mathew Davis, here as Elle's blue blood bean headed beau, is terribly attractive in a blue blood bean headed way. I noticed him in Pearl Harbor all beefcaked up and scene stealing. He's a little to, well, Harvard boy to ever be a true Blunt smit. Perhaps if I were able to take the squeaky clean puppy and roll him in semi-wet mud he'd come out all scruffy and Brad Pitt looking, thusly a whole lot more do-a-bell. Meow.Selma Blair was great as the seething girlfriend/fiancé' determined to ruin Elle's scholastic reputation as well as her credibility as a semi-intelligent being. Her character fails of course, because Elle's got that rubber-tree plant and the ant mentally. That or a great dosage of Prozac keeping her days perpetually sunny!If you're in the mood for a silly, mindless giggle-girl fest go take a look. Your male companions (and clamdiggin' chicks) may enjoy this too. There are plenty of attractive ditzy blondes, brunettes and mini-waisted scantly dressed college gals to keep them from exiting pre-credits!Snack Recommendation Evian and diet pills Starring Reese Witherspoon , Luke Wilson,Selma Blair Matthew Davis, Victor Garber, Jennifer Coolidge, Holland Taylor, Ali Larter, Jessica Cauffiel, Alanna Ubach with Racquel Welsh Directed By Robert Luketic "},{"Title":"Leaves you feeling happy","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've been waiting for this movie for so long and had very high hopes. Thankfully the film was even cuter than I had expected. I was afraid it would really make fun of blondes, but it wasn't too hard on us. Reese Witherspoon is adorable. I walked out of the theater actually feeling giddy, and I can't remember ever feeling that revved up after a film! At times I found myself the only one laughing at a few scenes - the younger kids didn't find the 'law terms' part as humorous as I evidently did. This would be a great date movie, and I will be seeing this again soon! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found Legally Blonde very funny.  This is a movie that everyone will enjoy!  Reese was the perfect part for this movie and I highly suggest u go see this movie! When I walked in that theater I could hardly find seats together so i could sit with my friends!! well ENJOY the movie "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie.  It is a great, light hearted, fun summer movie.  I am by no means a girly girl, so don't think you have to be heavily into Cosmo or fashion to enjoy this movie.  It plays on that stuff such that everyone gets it.  There are some twists and great moments in the movie.  Reese Witherspoon was great.  It's one of those fun summer must-see movies. Go for the fun and laughs! "},{"Title":"Like 'Clueless' all over again!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw Legally Blone earlier today, and my expectations were really good.  I expected it to be funny, ditzy, cool, and fresh.  IT WAS ALL OF THESE THINGS!  I can tell you that Reese Witherspoon did a great job acting as a dumb blonde.  The plot was very predictable, but even so, it was very entertaining.  I highly reccomend this film and it is definitely worth the $8!!! "},{"Title":"very entertaining clueless type of movie","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was expecting another clueless type of movie, and I wasn't disappointed. Reese Witherspoon turns in another great performance.  I'm a sucker for movies where the underdog shows everybody up.  The movie also had a nice soundtrack.  As a bonus... if you are a single guy under 25... this movie is the place to be.  There were almost no guys in the theater. "},{"Title":"Did you hear the one about the blonde lawyer?","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Did you hear the one about the blonde who went to law school? She studied for her bar exam by memorizing which drinks come with colorful little umbrellas. Combining two classes that have been the butt of jokes for years, Legally Blonde steers clear of the stereotypes and argues the case that a teen comedy can be funny these days without cruelty, toilet humor, or cookie-tossing frat boys. (Legal translation burden of proof)Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon, Election) has the world by the short hairs she's the president of her sorority, she lives across the street from Aaron Spelling, she was Miss June in her campus calendar, and above all, she is a natural blonde with great taste in shoes and accessories. She dates the cutest boy on campus and wants nothing more than to become Mrs. Warner Huntington III.But, there's just one thing stopping Warner (Matthew Davis, Urban Legends the Final Cut) from popping the question... Elle is too blonde. If I'm going to be a senator by the time I'm 30, I need a Jackie, not a Marilyn, he bluntly tells her, then breaks it off with her.(Legal translation abandonment)Soon after, Warner heads for Harvard Law and reunites with an old sweetheart from prep school (Selma Blair, Cruel Intentions). Adding insult to injury, she is a brunette. Elle rallies all her resources (her admissions application -- a video directed by a Coppola -- is hilarious) and despite the fact she's a fashion major, she gets into Harvard with the help of her 4.0 GPA and the support her underwire bikini top. She goes in thinking she can breezily win her boyfriend back while acing all her classes, but law school is a far cry from the comforts of her sunny poolside and the malls of Beverly Hills. The novel it's based on (by Amanda Brown), focused more on how a first-year law student coped with being on a big murder case, and the film does touch on that, but you won't find habeas corpus and serious stuff like that bringing down our perky blonde -- Elle's true dilemma in the film is reclaiming her man and getting the respect she feels she deserves. Things like blue-blood girlfriends, ridiculing classmates, and hangnails keep getting in her way. (Legal translation tortious interference)The casting couldn't be better -- from the likeable, bubbly Witherspoon herself (Whoever said orange is the new pink, was seriously disturbed!), to her ever-present Chihuahua, Bruiser, who genuinely seems to enjoy wearing his pink feather-boa collar.The costumes, set decoration, and basic attention to detail are all right-on. (Legal translation competent supporting evidence)Lighter than Jayne Mansfield's coif, Legally Blonde is definitely predictable, and implausible to say the least, but the characters are so likable and there are so many solid, feel-good chuckles throughout, it doesn't matter. This movie is like a vanilla ice-cream cone -- sweet, empty calories that taste great on a hot summer day. (Legal translation closing argument)  "}{"Title":"Smart, laugh-out-loud comedy full of fun!!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Going into Legally Blonde, I thought I knew exactly what to expect. Like, major stupidity!! Of course, the object of the evening was to have a great time with my best friend, and it hardly mattered what we saw, as long as it wasn't nasty. As it turned out, Legally Blonde was no waste of my time and money, and I was soon wrapped up in the plot and characters.Elle (played by Reese Witherspoon, it's pronounced EL, not EL-LY) seems to be about as ditzy as she could be, but it's obvious she is no dumb blonde, as an unfortunate shopkeeper finds out the hard way. After her boyfriend Warner breaks up with her because he needs someone serious, and goes off to Harvard, Elle follows him there (with the help of her sex appeal), but learns that attending law school is no walk in Harvard yard. After being embarrassed, stereotyped, and deceived, she pushes herself to really become a valuable law student. Attending Harvard, Elle realizes how smart she really is, and with that she gains something much better than her old boyfriend, she gains a new kind of life, and sweetheart Emmett (Luke Wilson), who can see a powerful mind through that beautiful blonde hair.Unless it's after 12 AM, I cannot stand asinine, pointless humor. I really, truly enjoyed Legally Blonde. It was sweet, funny (anyone who's seen it must remember Chuck), and a whole lot of fun. If you know anything about a courtroom, as I do, you'll know that some of the court law aspect of the movie is complete bull. But have an open mind, will you? Relax and enjoy the movie. After all, that's what it's for.A "},{"Title":"My Cousin Vinny meets Clueless","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon shows great acting chops as a young woman who breaks the blonde stereotype and proves you can't judge a book by it's cover.  This is a move that is going to catch alot of people off guard. It's well written, well directed, well acted and well it's just plain fun to watch. A great ensemble cast that fits together perfectly. By the way, it's got a great soundtrack also and features a song by a group called 'Superchick(k).' They sound like the Go Go's did we they were having fun. Enjoy..it's a great summer movie. "},{"Title":"Meant to be entertainment, not intellectual discussion material!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Before stating my personal opinion of this movie, please note it is NOT a mind-challenging film that everyone should see for personal growth.  Also, the movie is riddled with cliches, yet they do not hurt its' appeal.  It's intention is to entertain, and it does!  Fairly formulaic, yet still fun, I would recommend this movie to anyone who in search of a good laugh.  Reese Witherspoon plays Elle Woods, a seemingly two-dimensional character with more depth than people give her credit for, wonderfully.  Movie comes complete with feel-good ending and enjoyably ditzy characters and should leave its viewer (properly prepared to NOT pick it apart) well satisfied! I liked it, and I hope you do too.Josh "},{"Title":"rad","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Very cute, very entertaining.   It's refreshing to see a movie that tells girls that they can be smart, still maintain their femininity and still get to win in the end. Much better than Erin Brockovich - plus wouldn't you rather watch Witherspoon in her ridiculousness than an overhyped Roberts? "},{"Title":"Summer Fun!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Don't expect this movie to win any awards but do expect to laugh out loud. Though Luke Wilson was amazingly under used, Reese Witherspoon is great as Elle. This the perfect movie to escape the summer heat. Unlike most films, the best part's are not in the commercial's--not even close. I will tell everyone I know how funny and fun this film is! "},{"Title":"Clueless goes to Harvard Law School","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't usually fall for fluffy romantic comedies like this, but Reese Witherspoon is so refreshingly dead-on in her performance that she elevates the film above the limitations of a rather pedestrian script.  She carries the movie impeccably all the way through, demonstrating her keen instincts for comedy.  This is a role that will likely break her career open in a big way.  Beauty and brains in a very likeable package. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly refreshing","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I did not have high hopes for this film; but, it delivered more depth than I initially gave it credit for.  It's not brilliant, but it is entertaining and funny.  The cast is well suited and the story moves along at a good pace.  I would recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Being Blonde has never been better!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie! Reese Witherspoon is just a delight. She brings just the right amount of passion and whimsy to her character, Elle. Such a free spirit and a joy to watch.  Reese reminds me of another such actress, Drew Barrymore.Although it is a definite chick flick, I was amazed at how much the men in the audience were enjoying it.  They were laughing out loud just as much as we women were.All of the actors seem like they are really having a blast. Luke Wilson was his usual quiet, yet imposing self. I enjoyed his performance very much.The mark of a great movie is if it can appeal to everyone regardless of age, gender, or ethnic background.  Legally Blonde fits that criteria very well.  It is just a fun movie to go see over and over again. "},{"Title":"Like...Wow!?!...Dumb blonde, now obsolete?","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You Go Girl!  Reese Witherspoon's performance blew me away!...& her little dog, Burser-(sp?) was a cutie-pie too!  I'm sure this movie will be a big hit this Summer!  I plan on seeing it again!  It's very funny & entertaining!  Check-it-out!!!     "},{"Title":"Clueless Goes to Grad School","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I will be short and sweet on this one (ha, you wish) this movie is very funny, sugary sweet without being cloying, and visually uncomplicated and satisfying.  I really enjoyed it.  Never far away from the material which first brought us the shallow, yet deeply involved in her shallowness, Beverley Girl (Clueless), Legally Blonde (awful title, boys) plunks this new Cher, named Elle, into the alien world of Harvard (obviously, except for the first arresting aerial shots of the vaunted institution, filmed in Los Angeles or thereabouts) and follows her through preppie parties and intimidating classes, accompanied by a band of clownish, broadly drawn, and entertaining supporting characters and temporary villains.A note on acting Selma Blair is funny without being annoying, a new move in her career which I applaud her for, as Vivian Kensington, legacy bitch of Harvard Law and Elle's competition for the shriveled heart of her former boy toy; Luke Wilson, as well, has managed to not only not annoy me, but has made me fall in love with him as a softhearted associate at the law firm where Elle gets an internship.  In many movies (Home Fries, to take a memorable example), Wilson's dimwittedness made you want to slap him.  Ironically, here, where he is playing an intelligent lawyer, the doofy act is endearing and not annoying (Did you just call me a butthead?  It's just that I don't think anyone's called me that since, like, 9th grade.).  Reese Witherspoon is sweet and that look of sudden enlightenment, which she can maintain throughout a conversation, is priceless.  Holland Taylor is underused but perfect, and all the males not branded doofy, and thus acceptable, are perfectly and convincingly slime-coated.Don't think too hard -- that's what killed this movie for my sister, a bona-fide Harvard student.  Just keep remembering CluelessCher That's Ren and Stimpy!  They are way existential.Josh Do you have any idea what you're talking about?Cher No . . . Why, do I sound like I do? "}{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For anyone who has ever been in college, law school, high school, the greek system, or ever known any contemporary woman, you will find this movie hilarious.I got dragged along on this with my girlfriend thinking this was going to be pretty lame, but it really turned out to be exactly what I needed. After downers like A.I. and that piece of crap, Pearl Harbor, I just needed a good dumb movie.This movie is not just a Clueless spin-off or something, it actually has some intelligent work put into the writing and Reese Witherspoon does a great job of being a dumb blonde, but a blonde with ambition.Go see it, you won't regret it! "},{"Title":"The perfect movie","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As I walking out of the theatre after seeing the sneak preview (at my girlfriend's insistence) I felt something close to pure joy and elation. I felt inspired. This is the perfect movie, I kept muttering to myself. How does a movie like this, a (teen/chick flick?) inspire a 32-year-old male geek?This is a Rocky movie. (Substitute law school for boxing.) The heroine bravely overcomes improbable odds through hard work and dedication. And she does it with style. The jokes, cliches that sugarcoat the movie are delicious. The hillariously funny depiction of various stereotypes that exist in our society is a witty and un-PC critique of the popular culture. "},{"Title":"Reece, the writing, and the director are great","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A comedy about a Beverly Hills sorority president who goes to Harvard Law School to try to win back her old-money boyfriend who has dumped her because she is too blonde and he wants to run for the Senate.  A lot of the gags are stale, but Reece is so fresh in them that it's hard not to laugh (or at least smile) throughout.  Reece, wearing her signature pink, showing up at the commons in Harvard Yard in her Boxter with a moving van full of stuff, and the looks of the students wondering who is this Malibu Barbie, is worth the price of admission.  A lot is predictable (but so was the great 10 Things I Hate About You) ... you'll get a kick out of it if you don't take yourself too seriously.   "},{"Title":"It's fun. See it!","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" LEGALLY BLONDE   ***_   Comedy   Reese Witherspoon, Luke Wilson, Raquel WelchA California blonde beauty queen is dumped by her boyfriend, who has political aspirations. He also thinks she's dumb. So she sets about to get into Harvard Law School to win him back. See the play on words? A blonde going to law school... It's a cute, straightforward, lighthearted and heartwarming story of one lady's efforts to succeed against the odds.LEGALLY BLONDE has no car chases, explosions, or special effects. Not even any gunplay (how is this possible?). Since all the main characters are female, and the villains are male, BLONDE surely qualifies as a chick-flick. But it's cute and colorful, and fun to watch. And it displays such a pleasant attitude you come away feeling better than when you went in. I recommend it.Dave "},{"Title":"Feel good movie of the summer, see it now!","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I caught a sneak preview of this movie and I was pleasantly surprised with it...it is formulatic, predictable, etc but it was very entertaining to watch Reese Witherspoon strut her stuff across the screen..I think Reese is one of the most undervalued actors in Hollywood today..Her role in this movie was somewhat similar to her role in Election , she was quite amusing...I would highly recommend that you watch this movie if you're looking for a fun way to spend two hours...it's a very entertaining feelgood movie and I highly recommend it.. "},{"Title":"I was surprised!","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As I was sitting down to watch Legally Blonde, I was bracing myself for a total ditz movie... which it was, don't get me wrong.  But it actually had plot twists and depth!  Shocking!  What was more, was an excellent performance from Reese Witherspoon!Most critics will see this movie and tell you how bad it was, but I'm not going to do that.  I am just your average person, who, like everyone else, sees movies purely for the enjoyment of them, not to critique them.  Which is why I say that Legally Blonde is a good movie.  It is an exceptionally good date movie.  Guys will enjoy the BLATANT sexuality of the girls, while the girls will like the movie because it is... well... girly.All-in-all, I give Legally Blonde 3 sexy girl outlines out of 5 sexy girl outlines.  I recommend this movie, but please, please, please, do not see this movie and pick it apart.  Just enjoy it for what it is.-Mike -) "},{"Title":"The Best Role Model","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It seems that this movie gets a bad reputation as being airheaded and ridiculous. Frankly, I think that's a judgement hastily made. Elle Woods is a perfect role model, and a great person, and her journey to learn to expect more from herself than aesthetic acheivements is meaningful and familiar to anyone who has ever lost opportunities because of the first impression that their appearance conveys. Nobody expects anything from Elle, because she is blonde and dresses a certain way, and so she expects nothing from herself, content to be the wife of a lawyer and nothing more. But, as she grows throughout the film, she realizes what more can be had from seeking a fulfilling and challenging education and career.She is intelligent from the beginning, and very strong. She has a 4.0, top honors, graduates as Valedictorian. She works hard, and is a kind, genuine person. She's everything that we all want to be, and should be. Driven, hard-working, groomed, smart and sweet. She's everything you could ever want to be.Beginning the movie with her eyes on marriage and nothing else, Elle Woods is set to be yet another trophy wife. Her aspirations are curtailed, however, when the 'love of her life', Warner, leaves her on the pretense of needing someone more serious. A senator's wife.Feeling desperate to win him back, Elle works tirelessly over the summer to get into Harvard Law School, the school Warner will be attending, to prove that she can be serious. this is the first time in the film that we are shown her real talents.It would seem that there is more to Elle than meets the eye. While beautiful and cheery, as we've come to expect from upper-class daughters, she is also incredibly intelligent and fiercely ambitious. Up until this point in her life, she has drifted through fashion majors and sorority events, perfectly content, but now, with her eye on this lofty goal, she charges ahead, full speed.After getting into Harvard, she charges straight into a brick wall, as she is teased and taunted and treated horribly by everyone around her, not least of which is Warner's new fiancé, Vivian. Realizing, after some time, that nothing she ever does will be good enough for her ex, she becomes determined to prove her worth to those who are quick to judge her on her appearance. She is soon top of every class, a favorite among professors, and is chosen, among others, to be an intern to a professor as he argues the defense on a murder case.This is where Elle really shines. She knows the accused, from her sorority, and is able to work to win the case. But, I should stop before I give away anything too important.I love this movie, and I love its main character. "},{"Title":"Who wouldn't  love watching R","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Loved it, loved it, loved it. This is Definitely Reece Witherspoon's best performance(Secondly, in my opinion, 'fear' 1996, with Mark Wahlberg) She plays a beautiful blond (Which Reece already is) who is dumped by her boyfriend Warner (Matthew Davis) because in his words, she is not 'serious' about their relationship. Warner goes to Harvard Law school, and Elle Woods (Reece Witherspoon), saddened by the outcome, desperately tries to get into Harvard to win back the man of her dreams. When Elle is accepted in the school, the movie has its bits of comedy and also a great story line. This is a MUST SEE movie. It is a great chick flick and I give it a 10/10! "},{"Title":"I respect her!!!","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After watching this movie, I was very excited and was motivated. I thought that I will do my best for everything.Elle Woods is a student of fashion school, and she has a boyfriend, Warner. One day, he invites her to have a dinner. At that time, she guess that he proposes her. However he wants to break up with her. The reason is that he wants clever girlfriend. One more reason is she is too blonde! Elle is shocked but she decides to go to Harverd Low school with him. Then she starts to study very hard. Finally, she can pass an entrance examination of Harvard Low school! After entering Harvard, she despairs of her university life and it happens many trouble to her. However she gets over with her power and brightness....During watching it, I was moved and became smile. If you want to cheer or you feel sad, this movie will give you a lot of power!! I recommend you! "},{"Title":"The Perm Defence.","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Beverly Hills blonde Elle Woods seemingly has it all, the looks, the friends, the money and a wealthy boyfriend, Warner. But when she is dumped by her beau her world caves in. Jumping out of her depression she decides to follow Warner to Harvard Law School in the hope of winning him back. A complete fish out of water, Elle surprises everyone by proving to be a hit with her unorthodox, blonde methods.A monster hit that took many by surprise it made a staggering Worldwide profit of nearly $124 million, Legally Blonde stars Reese Witherspoon Elle, Luke Wilson Emmett, Selma Blair Vivian and Matthew Davis Warner. It's directed by Robert Luketic and is adapted by Karen McCullah Lutz & Kirsten Smith from Amanda Brown's novel.Essentially a film that's outcome is never in doubt, Legally Blonde became the success it was on account of Witherspoon's impressive performance and the fact the writers never resort to dumb frat humour to get its laughs. Yes all characters are stereotypes, Elle and her friends are spoilt bubble-heads and the Harvard Law crowd are boorish stiffs. Yet once Elle gets to Harvard, in a blaze of shocking pink and with token Paris Hilton dog in tow, she proves to be resourceful. And the fact that she's very much alone, means she becomes a character the audience can quickly get on side with. Her solitude as she is shunned by the so called next generation law elite, only strengthens her resolve, and thanks to Witherspoon's engaging turn, we are with her all the way. Good support comes from Wilson and Blair, while Ali Larter adds some sexy spice as we get to the inevitable court room finale.Simple without being stupid, Legally Blonde is an easy film to like and enjoy. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Still smart and funny","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Watching this movie for the fifth or sixth time, it still manages to make me laugh and charm the pants off me. Yes, you can say the set up is daft, the plot is daft, the characters are unbelievable, but unlike the absolute rubbish of 'Avatar' which has the same problems, eg unobtainium anybody?, it is funny and does what it sets out to be - a good, but not taking itself too seriously, movie. Reese Witherspoon excelled herself here and deservedly went into the 'A' list of Hollywood actresses, because she can act outrageously but convinces because it looks natural - unlike a certain Ms Streep who you can see acting and twitching like a ripe old piece of Virginia Ham. The supports are quite prepared to play things straight, and get their own share of laughs, eg the two girl friends who turn up in court and think it just like live TV, and respond accordingly. And the clever, if daffy, Elle Woods is a brilliant creation - naive yet capable of working hard at being intelligent. So why does this character annoy particularly women? The film works with stereotypes, eg dumb blondes, and plays both for and off them - lighten up, brain boxes, or go and watch something serious like 'Sex and The City' (it'll feed your fantasies of being taken seriously!). An all round funny pleasurable Hollywood treat - eat your heart out Rogen, Ferrell et al! "},{"Title":"Frothy, Fluffy, Funny","Date":"21 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Frankly, very funny. I laughed many, many times. Comedy is a quirky genre. It travels unpredictably. The only so-called comedy movie I can think of that is significantly less funny than Blazing Saddles is Team America. But a lot of Americans think those are the funniest things they've ever seen. Both pits dreadful, as I saw them. Conversely, Legally Blonde didn't seem to find favour (initially, anyway) among US film critics. Check out a quantity of dorky reviews from the humour challenged on various websites. I thought Legally Blonde was hilarious from start to finish. It is quite beautifully well-written, well-paced, well-timed and directed, gave me a truly good feeling, and made me feel happy. The performances are terrific, from all involved. Maybe part of the enjoyment was that I got to laugh loudly at behaviour that I registered as archetypically American, and maybe that was the reason many Americans couldn't quite approve. I must have a New Zealand kind of sense of humour. Still, most of the ordinary, less pretentious Americans obviously thought it was funny as well. Sure, it was silly and lightweight. Isn't that what comedy is usually? Who ever stopped to complain about a comedy having plot holes? I felt years younger just for watching this sweet, lovely film for an hour and a half. I really don't know why I haven't given it ten stars. Witherspoon for President! "},{"Title":"Not particularly deep or convincing...and that's something I can live with sometimes.","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Elle is the ultimate stereotypical ditsy blonde. She is about to graduate college and has spent the last four years being very happy--and caring less about her future. She's the president of her sorority, homecoming queen and has a great fashion sense. Her plans after graduation are to marry her college sweetheart...period. However, when the boyfriend announces that he's going to Harvard law school and gives her the brushoff, at a spur of the moment she decides she's going to Harvard law as well! While no one would think she had a brain, it turns out Elle is at the top of her class and scores a nearly perfect LSAT--and she, too, is admitted to this prestigious institution. There, however, she's like a fish out of water--and everyone laughs at the audacious and seemingly out to lunch blonde. Will Elle fail or rise to the top? No big surprises here, but it sure is a nice ride.LEGALLY BLONDE is a movie that has no pretense. It knows it's not great art and won't be winning Oscars, yet it also is clever enough to avoid stereotypes or at least defy them. It also knows darn well that the plot is utterly ridiculous but runs with it. However, this isn't so bad, as sometimes you just need to turn off your brain and enjoy a film for what it is--entertainment. I know I am a super-critical person (hence, my 7100+ reviews on IMDb so far), but occasionally it's nice to see a film that isn't an independent film, art film, foreign film or silent--all types of films I usually watch. Sometimes you just need some brain candy! Excellent acting, a nice light directorial touch and good writing make this a standout film--and a lot better than you'd probably imagine. "},{"Title":"legally surprised","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I never would have considered watching this film thinking it would be packed with silly jokes and and a sex power film on who are smarter men or women. However knowing that it was turned into a Broadway musical is what got me to wish to see it. When a movie is turned into a hit musical, there had to be something there. I was right. Without spoiling the film it was a fast past film with good humor, even a bit silly at times but then isn't that what a good movie is? to take away any problems for a short while and be able to laugh or feel touched? The cast was well put together with Reese Witherspoon in the main role. This is only the second film I saw her in. I hope her parts can expand even better the film starts out as she is thinking her boy friend is going to pop the question, he instead dumps her with the reason suggesting she was not smart enough and a bad sample when going to law school. She wants him back and will also go to law school to try and win him back proving blonds are not just airheads. there are other subplots that go along with it as well. I just wish I would've seen this film sooner. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyed this movie!","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I just finished watching this movie the weekend after Thanksgiving so nothing was on TV unless you are a sports fan. I turned it on just to have some background noise while I was on my computer. Needless to say, I didn't get anything done on the computer. I love to root for the underdog to rise above. I really liked this movie and Reese Witherspoon was perfectly cast as the lead actress. I'm not sure anyone else could have pulled it off as well. I'm glad to see that she got to keep the wardrobe, she was gorgeous! I loved it when she was walking home that night and came to the defense of the dorky guy trying to get a date. That was awesome, she just couldn't walk by and allow those snobs get away with putting the guy down. Did he ever thank her for doing that? This movie was a very pleasant surprise. "},{"Title":"Cheerfully ridiculous...","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Shapely California blonde cleverly maneuvers her way into Harvard Law School; soon, the plucky lass is involved in trying her first legal case alongside her professor and associates...and you can guess the rest. Perky, though surprisingly not obnoxious fantasy-comedy with jokes leaning towards Clueless territory. We never see much studying amongst these kids, yet the film has a great deal of bounce and heart, with many things to recommend it (not the least of which is an adept Reese Witherspoon in the lead, clearly having a good time). The drawbacks would have to include leaden Luke Wilson as a potential boyfriend and too much cartoony hamming. The film has a strong 'oh, brother!' quotient, but meet it halfway if you come out of it smiling, it has done its job. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Breezy, shallow  comedy owes all its charm to Reese Witherspoon...","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Although the premise is flawed and nobody as shallow as Paris Hilton and her gang would ever get past the hallowed gates of Harvard (let alone attempt to go there), LEGALLY BLONDE is good for laughs thanks to the adroit performance of REESE WITHERSPOON as a vacuous Valley Girl whose sole intent for going to college is to land the man of her dreams (MATTHEW DAVIS).One of the film's funniest scenes has Witherspoon going to dinner with Davis, all under the belief that she is about to get a marriage proposal. Instead, he's arranged the date to give her the brushoff because--her boyfriend explains--a man expected by his family to be a senator by the time he's thirty isn't going to pick a girl like her to be his Jackie. Witherspoon's expressions are a marvel to watch as she registers first breathless impatience and innocence, then surprise, then outrage, all within the space of a few seconds.The players around her have plenty of opportunity to shine too, especially JENNIFER COOLIDGE as a lovestruck manicurist unable to show her affection for a United Parcel man smitten with her. Luke Wilson, as a fellow law student, is engaging and obviously sees the joke in the material, and VICTOR GARBER is excellent as a law teacher on the make for legally blonde Witherspoon.There are lots of punch lines along the way and the humor is never really subtle, but it makes a good screwball comedy. One can picture Carole Lombard making the most of this sort of role in the '30s or '40s.Summing up Pretty shallow stuff, but nevertheless very funny.***** POSSIBLE SPOILER *****Trivia note She wins the courtroom case at the finale only because she knows something about women's permanents. But what about future cases where this kind of knowledge is irrelevant? Hmmmmm. "},{"Title":"really good and excellent film about dogs!","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" this Film is amazing! Me an all mi mates watched it! At 1st it seams like she is well stupid, but it turns out she is really clever! I Love little dogs! it is so cute! really God! i also licked her dressing in it, she was wearing loads of pink. i liked the bit were she got up and walked her little dog into the courtroom thing, it was really brave! she is like my idol now! the very next day i went out and brought loads of pink stuff like my pink top and my pink skirt and my pink trousers and my pink shoes and my other pink top. and my pink pencil-case (for all my pens which are pink!) i did have some pink stuff before which i now where all the time, like i had this amazing Barbie tee! As you can see i like pink! Anyway the film was really good and i think they should show it in schools and stuff you can learn a lot from it. I leaned like loads and now i want to be a lawyer just like Reese Witherspoon! "},{"Title":"I like Legally Blonde","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think that this movie is interesting. There are Two reasons why I think so. The first reason is that it is a story about low suit. I like movies about trails because they are exciting and thrilling. The second reason why it is interesting is that it is also a story about an America Unuversity. This movie tells us a lot about American college life, And I realize a lot of differences from that in Japan. For example, American students have a lot of reading assignments while Japanese students don't. And I'm surprised at a group study at a library. Japanese students seldom do a group study at a library. But I also noticed some similarities. For example, Harvard students attend classes with PCs. In Jpan, PCs are widely used in classroom. There for, I think that this movie is not only interesting. But also very informative and helpful for the Japanese students who are planning to study in the U.S. "},{"Title":"Smile and Hope","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde is one of my favorite movies! I watched this movie I felt as if I were dreaming. Actually,I was encouraged by this movie. the storyline seems to be a dream.But I felt some realistic hope for my life after watching it. So I really think it's a wonderful film. I would like to tell you why. First of all, the director of this movie knows girl feelings well. I think that every girl hopes to be cute and charming. Its heroin, Elle Woods is very very lovely. She is an idol of every girl. So I become happy just by watching her. Second, this movie makes us cheerful and courageous. Elle Wood is not only funny but also respectable. She often fails and she is sometimes treated harshly by her Law school classmates.However, she doesn't give up her goal. she produces a new idea and finds a unique solution. Surely she has strong spirit. I respect her. Her success which is brought by her strong mind gives us power, I think. I can recommend this movie to every girl, especially those who want to do something. Elle will give you smile and hope. "}{"Title":"I like hero's character.","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Actually,I thought that the story is not so unique.But I felt the charm in hero's positive character.So,I wanted to become such a charming girl like the hero too.I felt a university life in the United States is very attractive and exciting. Because American students seem to be enjoying their life much more than us.Even though study there seems to be tougher than in Japan. So,I want to go to study abroad.I would like to see more movies which are about American college life,for example Mean girl.I rate this movie at 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I like it!","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I was a high-school student,I saw this movie for the first time on a preview show for only high-school girl students. At that time ,I thought this movie is a funny but impossible story.So,I could't identify myself with Elle. But now,I am 21years old.and university student, too.So,I still feel this story is certainly impossible,but this time I realized it's deep and touching theme.The theme is discrimination against good-looking girls.Elle always fight against such discrimination. She always has positive thinking and easy-going.I wanna follow her brilliant attitude.I was moved by her firm self-confidence.and maybe it would be also moving for you. "},{"Title":"Legally Blonde","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For anyone that wants to laugh till they have no more tears to cry this is what you're looking for. Not only is this an ingenious piece of comedy cinema, it also stars Hollywood babes such as Reese Witherspoon and Selma Blair, which I'm sure no one is complaining about. Reese Witherspoon always a treat to a persons eyes looks even more lovely and radiant than ever in this film, or to put it bluntly she looks damned fine throughout the film. With hilarious jokes and comedy pieces such as one occasion when Elle Woods, Reese Witherspoon's character, goes to a party but the bitchy Vivienne Kensington, played by Selma Blair, has told her its a costume party. Needless to say she turns up in a very comical outfit, the result unstoppable laughter.For a basic overview the film is about a blonde bimbo who gets dumped by her boyfriend, because he wants to marry a smart lawyer or other such girl, because thats what his upper class family of serious law types expect. The lovely and naive Elle Woods(Witherspoon) will not be left behind that easily however and decides to follow her boyfriend,leaving her sorority home filled with other bimbo types for the somewhat more serious Harvard Law School. With muchcramming, and the help of her two sexy best friends in her interview video she manages to get accepted into Harvard, proving from the onset that she's more than a pretty face.Once at Harvard, however she realises that though she came to Harvard for a man she has discovered a new passion, the law, and excels in her studies. Harvard is where she encounters other obstacles and hidden evils such as a corrupt college professor and Vivienne Kensington(Blair) and co who are less than amused by her cheerful naivety and surprising intelligence. Elle also finds good friends like Emmet Richmond played by Luke Wilson and Paulette Bonafonte played by the very funny and very sexy Jennifer Coolidge.However she manages to overcome these obstacles, and also finds that her knowledge of beauty and makeup etc is more than helpful in her college studies and in her court cases. Eventually she also realises that shes too good for the loser who dumped her, and finally lets go of her past and with it her ex boyfriend, instead she looks forward and fills the gap in her heart with a new handsome man. In the end she graduates from Harvard and starts the bright journey ahead of her. In short, it's a bit girlie, but also compulsory viewing and often quite serious and touching. You'll be laughing and crying alternately, but emerge with a warm happy feeling as you see Elle overcome hate and corruption to become truly, Legally Blonde.A great feel good, laugh out loud movie. "},{"Title":"A not-so-dumb blonde movie","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There have been so many movies out there about the dumb blonde, it was well past time for a smart blonde movie...or, more accurately a blonde that finds out she's smart after all.Legally Blonde follows Elle Wood (Reese Witherspoon)as she follows her ex-boyfriend to Harvard Law School to win him back. Along the way, she discovers that she is talented, smart and worthwhile.One of the things I liked about this movie is how it shows that just because what is important to one person isn't the same as what's important to another, it doesn't mean that person is dumb.This is a clever, thoughtful movie, that makes you laugh along the way! "},{"Title":"Legally Blonde A very good click flick","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde is in my opinion one of the funnest movies ever made.If you look beyond the fact that it's a click flick.The way I see it Legally Blonde is a fun, entertaining, funny, enjoyable movie.I'm a movie fan who just appreciate a good movie and Legally Blonde is one of those movies that My Mom, My Dad and my brothers enjoys.Legally Blonde star Reese Witherspoon as Elle Woods who plans to Law School to follow Her ex-boyfriend Warner Huntington III play by Matthew Davis, but then she has to depend a woman on trail.The jokes in Legally Blonde are just Freaking funny.The music is pretty and well-written.Trust me, if you're an fan of Reese Witherspoon or Matthew Davis, you got to see this movie.If you like Legally Blonde, I also recommend Blue Crush, Bring It On, My best friend's wedding, and You've got mail.All in all Legally Blonde was better then I thought it was and My mom, my dad and my brothers all enjoy the movie.I give Legally Blonde 10 out of 10 Great Movie! "},{"Title":"Who says that blondes have to be dumb?","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you've never heard of Legally Blonde and you only see a few ads for it, you'll probably get the wrong impression. This is not some half-formed, oh-I'm-so-totally-hot story. This is Reese Witherspoon showing that she can be hilarious and biting in the same movie.It all begins when fashionista Elle Woods (Witherspoon) is about to get married when groom-to-be Warner Huntington III (Matthew Davis) jilts her and heads off to Harvard law school. Not about to get railroaded over, Elle follows him there, and decides to enroll herself. At this point in the movie, we can safely assume that the SoCal, vegetarian, pink-clad Elle probably won't totally fit in with the stuffy Harvard people; however, she's not about to let anything stop her. Elle has certain plans, and she'll do whatever she has to in order to carry them out (don't worry, it's nothing illicit).You can tell that everyone had a great time with their roles. And you'll have a great time with this movie. Part satire, part pure fun, they pull out all the stops. And there's one part that, in my opinion at least, says that in fact it is a good idea to allow fashion fetishists to participate in trials. All in all, Reese Witherspoon has acted in some great movies in the past few years. "},{"Title":"I know this movie","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" First Emmett is not her boyfriend until the end of the movie. It is all about Warner. Elle doesn't want revenge when she applies to Harvard, she wants her love back. Warner broke up with her because he wanted a Jackie, not a Marilyn. Elle was too blonde and too dumb for Warner. That's why he broke up with her, and got engaged to Vivian. Elle never wanted revenge, she wanted to marry Warner. It just turned out that she was a brilliant lawyer because she had such good wit. The main point of this movie was to show that blondes are not just dumb, pretty, Victoria's Secret models. Elle proved that you can do anything if you put this mind to it. I have probably watched this movie more times then director, and never once have I gotten bored. This movie was cute, funny and very entertaining. I would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly well-done","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sunshine filled the room and smiles lit up my face as I was part of the most enjoyable and refreshing films of year. Legally Blonde is a textbook definition of how true comedies should be made. With a combination of comedy, smart writing and great comedic performances, Legally Blonde is a surprise hit everyone will enjoy.2001 has been the year of incredible films, breakthrough performances and great writing and this streak didn't end with Legally Blonde, there was no doubt that I would be entertained. It is an honor to watch a film like Legally Blonde that contains intelligent writing, great performances and unique concepts because the audience will always be guaranteed a great film when these elements are in order.Reese Witherspoon has always been one of the brightest and talented actresses in Hollywood, so it came as no surprise when she turned in a performance worthy of Oscar consideration in the best comedic performance category. Previous performances in Pleasantville and Cruel Intentions, gave me proof that Witherspoon was the only actress capable of pulling off this role.With her role in Legally Blonde, Witherspoon brought her toolbox of talents, which is filled with charm, beauty, enthusiasm and sense of humor to create an exciting and fun atmosphere for audiences to enjoy the movie. Furthermore, she makes it possible for everyone to sit back and relax using facial muscles to smile and laugh. Witherspoon has come a long way since The Man in The Moon and will continue to give incredible performances in the years to come and take home awards along the way.This film highlights outstanding supporting comedic performances from Matthew Davis, Selma Blair, Ali Larter, Holland Taylor, Victor Garber, Jennifer Coolidge and Luke Wilson who combine to complete one of the best ensemble casts of 2001. Each member of the supporting cast brought their own special and unique style of charm to each role they played; furthermore, there was nobody else I could think of to portray the characters in the film than these seven actors because the roles seemed tailor made for each of them.Writing is an essential key for the success of every film because it is the foundation for which a movie is made. The writers came up with one of the finest scripts of the year using unique concepts and great comedic writing to entertain audiences. Legally Blonde is loaded with refreshing scenes that will leave the best Hollywood screenwriters scratching their heads asking themselves, How were these writers able to make this script funny and successful at the same time? Aside from refreshing scenes, great character development and imaginative script concepts; this film boasts a cheerful underlying message, which is dreams come true when people put their minds to something. This touch was appreciated because it adds a dimension, which is lacking from films such as Legally Blonde.Though each scene in the film was great, there were two that stood out in my mind above the rest as evidence of some of the best writing in recent films. The first scene involves a health spa being described as Elle's mother ship and a murder trial, which was decided through hair care products.The cast is to be commended for turning in incredible performances, writers applauded for laying the foundation for a film that has the courage to be called a dumb blonde comedy and have legions of fans enjoy the film at the same time and the director deserves a standing ovation for directing a refreshing comedy as well as giving the audience something new and creative to watch. Legally Blonde is a light-hearted and charming film that should be seen with a smile. Audiences are guaranteed to be entertained with fun surprises and great comedy.  "},{"Title":"Think pink!","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised. I honestly thought that Legally Blonde was going to be a dumb movie. I mean, I liked Clueless. But I was a teenager, and didn't care too much about meaningful movies. Today, I like drama's more than comedies. But sometimes, you have to let that go and just have fun with a movie.Legally Blonde is a cute movie. Reese Witherspoon is such a sweetheart. And it looked like the cast had a lot of fun with the film. Normally, I'm not into chick flicks, but I would recommend it. Like I said, just let go. Have some fun and remember to think pink! 7/10 "},{"Title":"wonderful, a really fun cheering-up movie","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is my favourite film in the whole world, and I don't care if that makes me a really sad person, cos I love it. It really is super-fun. Reese Witherspoon is perfect in the movie. She is a real life Barbie doll and so are all her friends. So dumb you just gotta love them all. I love how everything is pink. Her clothes and all her stuff are just wonderful. I wish I could live in this film. OK so it's not deep and meaningful or anything, but sometimes you just want a film to cheer you up when you're down or bored, and this is the perfect choice. It has a great story line that makes you feel all warm and fuzzy inside. It's predictable in a good way and it has a perfect happy ending. I can really enjoy watching it every time (and believe me, it's been many many times).  "}{"Title":"yawn","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this is one of those standard girlfriend flicks, where you can guess the plot from the word 'go'. maybe it was the german translation, maybe it was the way the actors/actresses couldn't really act, maybe it was the cast of really ugly chicks (elle woods? in pink? beautiful? puh-leeese...), or maybe it was just the 'plot' that relied only on coincidence to move it along (the homosexual dogs, meeting people at lucky moments, being in the same fraternity)..not ONCE did the main character do something worthwhile by herself - no message there.actually there was no romance in it either (the romantic stuff probably happened in part 1 - a movie I have luckily not seen)so what do we get? dumb, ugly, wooden people stumbling through a non-existent scriptthe only positive thing about the movie was, that it was short.if it hadn't been for the company of my girlfriend the evening would have been totally wasted.  "},{"Title":"a joke of a comedy","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  D'you ever hear this one blonde joke?Yeah, they made a movie about it.While Legally Blonde showcases a lovely Reese Witherspoon, sadly it failed to deliver comedy to me.  A very simple girl overcomes stereotype flick with little umph to make it stand out, other than the fact that the joke's on blondes.  You could almost make the connection with formula Adam Sandler movies harassed underdog scores big in opponent's home court, all the while ridiculing all obstacles with self-important snide.Maybe it's just my sense of decency, but the fact that you can still be a bubbly cheerleader and defend a case in a court of law is not exactly how I see one giving a stuffy system a breath of fresh, liberal air.  I felt drained throughout the entire movie... nothing but stereotype after stereotype character parading in and out with a lame joke attached to their image... i.e. the gay witness and the fat best friend.If you want to loosen all intellect and have fun knowing popular kids can still have an influence over hard workers in the real world ...oops... watch this movie.  I wouldn't dare catch the sequel. "},{"Title":"Predictable from start to finish...","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was very disappointed with this film after all the good things i'd heard about it.  The plot was WEAK it was so predictable right from the beginning, this is supposed to be a comedy but I didn't find anything about this film amusing.Reese Witherspoon is a great actress and her talents are wasted in this film, weak humour, weak script, even for a teen movie it's poor.  3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fun, but no big deal","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie very much.  Its pleasant but predictable.  Reese is perfectly cast as the heroine Elle Woods, who saves the day, gets the better guy and even makes the snotty girl like her.  I can only imagine what she will accomplish in the sequel. She is surrounded by a capable cast, including Matthew Davis as the villian, Selma Blair as the villianess turned friend, Victor Garber as the other vilian, and Luke Wilson as the man who wishes she'd realize all the potential she has and use it 'for the greater good'.Also it was nice to see Osgood Perkins, son of Tony..he's doing some of his fathers nervous mannerisms but it seems touching in way.  Hope he will develop his own style soon.Enjoyable fluff and incredibly well cast.  7/10. "},{"Title":"SO BAD!!!!","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the worst movie I've seen for years. The plot, characters, and the acting was all a bunch of clichés, with a predictability worse than all of Jean-Claude Van Damme's movies together. One of the elements that could have kept this movie on a higher level was the humor, but then again - there was none of it!!! Compared with other movies in the genre, a movie like Clueless was a lot better - at least there was something to laugh about!!My advice - Don't watch it, if you like a little bit of quality! "},{"Title":"Great film.","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Reese Witherspoon, Luke Wilson, Selma Blair, and others star in Leagally Blonde. A genius film that is really funny and sweet. Reese Witherspoon probably gives her best performance. Witherspoon is one of my favorite actresses. The film has a great cast that also includes Victor Garber(Titanic, Annie) Holland Taylor(The mom on Two and a half men, George of the Jungle) Matthew Davis(Pearl Harbor) Leagally Blonde is a heartfelt comedy. It's wrong how everyone judges Elle(Reese Witherspoon). From the minute she walks into Harvard, everyone makes fun of her. But Leagally Blonde is a great comedy, and deserves more than a 6.2. Leagally Blonde is the better of the two films, and you can't deny it.The PlotWhen a sorority sister is expecting a proposal and is rejected, she follows him to Harvard Law School, only to realize that he is engaged. "},{"Title":"legally fun","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" i have avoided watching this movie for years.i finally sat down to see it.i teach film history.i was pleasantly amused and entertained.why? the premise is like totally way out there.the trial conclusion is totally gnarly.the film is totally fun.there's nothing wrong with watching a film like this and taking it for what's worth harmless predictable great production design no one said every movie has to change society or challenge political agendas or move people to change themselves, although the main character does and benefits from it you people who criticize movies like this need to get a life and stop taking yourselves seriously comedy and the sometimes moral found at the end of the movie all add to the ability to laugh at ourselves.get over it you snobs they rest of us know how to laugh and we're the ones who really get it and gain the most from it. "},{"Title":"I went blonde.","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde looks to be obnoxious in previews but once you actually sit down and view it, it's a wonderful movie. Is it fluff? You betcha but lovable Fluff! Elle Woods played by Reese Witherspoon is a trip.Legally Blonde is the kind of movie that just makes you feel good at the end of it. Everything in this movie's world is so....fluffy. And pink. And Blonde. And girly. It's a chick flick hater's worst nightmare! Well done fluff can be awfully fun, where would the movie world be without it? Elle Woods isn't just another movie character, Witherspoon really does give her a well developed personality and make her the heroine of the movie. It's a real girl power movie in one sense, and it's also a great tribute to blonds, lawyers, females in general, people who have ever been thought to be less intelligent then they are...etc. It's a tribute to a lot of things and what's more it's fun! And funny. Great one liners. Great clothes, such as Reese's pink sundress, seen at the beginning. And it leaves you feeling good. What more could you want? So go blonde for a night! And hopefully, you'll enjoy it as much as the many fans of this movie(myself included) did! "},{"Title":"Barbie goes to law school","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Elle Woods seems to have a perfect life, she lives in Beverly Hills, she's very rich, she has a lot of friends, and even has a handsome boyfriend, life can't seem to go wrong. Until her boyfriend dumps her for a law student at Harvard, eager to get him back, she applies soon after for Harvard. She begins to feel like an out sider but she tries to prove she is not dumb as everyone thinks. Will Elle triumph in the end. I hope you see the movie to find out. Reese Witherspoon is delightful as Elle Woods. This was a funny and also adventurous movie. Elle Woods can give Sher a run for her money. The courtroom scenes were a laugh riot. "},{"Title":"I wanted to like this movie, I expected to like this movie, but...","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ... I just didn't like it. I did not find it very funny. The film was full of images that I would strain to rid from my memory Reese Witherspoon waddling around in awful pink outfits, carrying an ugly chihuahua wearing awful pink outfits; and a horrible women's musical ensemble scene about bending over. The movie is morally skewed Elle's bible is Cosmopolitan Magazine. The smart people are depicted as not nice to beautiful blond Elle it never seems to happen that way in real life! In fact, this movie stands up for the one type of person who needs standing up for least the rich, smart, blond, pretty girl. You may try to guess that I'm just a jealous brunette with sour grapes to squeeze, but I think the movie just doesn't show a blonde's life the way it really is; and comedy works best when it is based on real life stuff.Many people I know loved this movie; I usually love light comedies. But Legally Blonde just wasn't really funny to me. "}{"Title":"Very nice","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  &#145;Legally Blonde' is not great and that are not the film's intentions, but is some good old fun with a leading actress that is in almost every second of the movie. Reese Witherspoon is probably the perfect actress for the role of Elle Woods, she makes this movie work.Elle Woods is dumped by her boyfriend Warner (Matthew Davis) because she is not smart enough. He is going to Harvard Law School and Elle decides to do the same thing. After she gets in, how you have to see for yourself in a very funny sequence, she meets Warner's new fiancé Vivian (Selma Blair) who is also in her class. She also meets Emmett (Luke Wilson) who's role is not sure in the beginning of the movie. Elle who is definitely not like the others on Harvard slowly learns that Warner is probably not what she wants.What happens is pretty predictable but also very funny and charming because of Witherspoon. Wilson is great in a role like this and although he has not much time on-screen you like the way he handles a part like this. I liked this innocent little movie very much. "},{"Title":"Like Clueless done by the Mason, Alabama Community Theater","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to much to love this.  But, within the first five minutes I could see that the script was really bad. (Which saddens me since I want to see more female screenwriters succeed.) Reese did her best to make something out of it but it was an uphill battle since the rest of the cast were forced to play stereotypes magnified by hyperbole. I kept hoping it would get better and, time after time, the movie just said, in effect If you believed that, take a look at this improbability. By the time, Elle's California chums showed up at the trial, I was almost in tears of sadness at the wasted film and the wasted talents of everyone from Anthony Perkins' son to a perfectly charming dog who - you could tell - was ashamed to be seen in this film. I love movies and I rarely disparage one but I was so sadly disappointed in this movie.  Reese, I still love you and I'm happy you can open a film and that it can make money but I pray for better material next time around. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie of the Year!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw the Washington D.C. Screening Tues night.  First, why was this movie even made?  I have read some things that compared this to Clueless and I never saw that movie so I can't say anything.  But, seriously, how predicable can one movie get.  I did not laugh once, and the audience was laughing at things I saw coming a mile away.  Parts of the trailer didn't make the final cut, normally not a good sign.  Some of it could have made this movie funny, at least the part where they were betting on how long Elle (Reese Weatherspoon) would stay at Harvard.  A scene that was not in the movie.  The trailer spoils 80% of the movie.  There was one sub-plot which wasn't really needed.  I think that was thrown in there to make this longer. It is 93 minutes not counting previews.   "},{"Title":"a head for business and a bod for sin.","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde (2001) directed by Robert Luketic stars Reese Witherspoon as Elle Woods - a Californian golden girl who has it all &#150; she is blonde, pretty, popular, adored by her wealthy parents and her friends in college where she is the president of her sorority. As we know from the movies, gentlemen prefer blondes but alas not a gentleman whom Elle is dating and expecting him to propose any minute. Instead, as the movie turns, the blondes also have blues because they are not taken seriously by the men from the blue blood families. When the object of Elle's desire heads off to Harward Law School, she decided to get him back by proving that the blondes have a head for business and a bod for sin. Is there anything wrong with that? The first step for Elle was to get admitted to the same school, and she did it. But that was only the beginning...You know, I've seen Legally Blonde several times and I know that it is not the best movie ever made, far from it but I like it. I am not a Witherspoon's fan, I don't find her a stunning beauty but she is a talented young actress who brought a certain charm to the role. I am also a true believer that happy people just don't kill their husbands, they just don't and I like how Reese delivers this piece of wisdom. The second Blonde movie is a different matter altogether and belongs to the category of absolutely useless sequels.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Dogs, not Dogs","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Well, yet another film that preaches against stereotypes and then shamelessly exploits them. There is only one laugh here masturbation as reckless abandonment. Still funny.Cat's eye comments followThis film is about a dog's quest for recognition. This dog, a peewee, is disgustingly stereotyped by the heroine -- who in mirrored fashion is also stereotyped -- which makes the offense deeper. A more clever film, like `Scary Movie' might find humor in this, but not here. The story is that dogs run Harvard Law School, and they conspire to plant hapless humans in compromising situations for their own amusement. One such is a senior female professor who struggles with the dim bulbs society designates as law students. She adopts missy Elle behind the scenes, thinking she is pulling the strings. There's a sort of stacking Elle thinks she is mistress of her destiny, the professor thinks not but she is ignorant of the canine gods.Some minor sexual and courtroom dramas provide barking amusement. If you are a dog, you'll find this hilarious. "},{"Title":"Reese is the best thing in it","Date":"18 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This Reese Witherspoon classic comedy is a pretty cute fun time, well for the most part that is. The charisma and cute fun That Witherspoon brings to her role and the movie as a whole is certainly refreshing. The script is pretty good, it has some clichés of course, but I didn't take much issue with it. I enjoyed Reese and Selma Blaire in here, they were both good in their respective roles and interacted well with each other. There were funny scenes with amusing dialogue, even if some were worn. The film does work for what it is going for, a light cute comedy starring Reese Witherspoon. Although some of the jokes don't flow all too well sometimes. Luke Wilson was good as well, I enjoyed his acting in this. Legally blonde is a pretty average, charming because of Witherspoon comedy. 6/10. "},{"Title":"The adventure of the blonde","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I will say that Reese Witherspoon does a great job playing the lovable and smart Elle woods since she may portray the mannerism of as stereotypical dumb blonde but underneath it all is actually quite brainy and intelligent, Elle decides to attend Harvard law school after her boyfriend warren dumps her feeling that he needs a Jaclyn aka a smart one and not a Marilyn aka dumb blonde. At first Elle motivation for attending Harvard is to win back her ex but overtime attends the admiration of her peers and her professors. Else gets the chance to prove herself when she defends a fitness instructor Brooke windom who is charged for the murder of her husband Hayworth window and realizes that she is her chance to show what she has what it takes to prove her smarts and that blondes are just as strong. "},{"Title":"More charming than it sounds","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Told by her boyfriend that she is not serious enough, a fashion student enrolls in the same law school in a bid to win him back in this fun fish-out-of-water comedy. The film's success is due largely to the spunk that Reese Witherspoon brings to the part. At first, she seems like just another spoiled teen with her elaborate wardrobe and accessories, but she soon shows wit and gumption, calling out a swindling shop assistant, and there is something to be said for how regimented she renders her sorority. The film is about overcoming appearance-based prejudice and about choice; she obviously always had the brains for law but she chose to become a sorority queen. Along such lines, there are several touching dramatic moments, such as an excellent shot of Witherspoon's pensive reflection in an elevator as the doors close on her. The comedy is, however, very uneven. Only so much humour can be milked from her Barbie-ish outfits, accessories and personality clashing at Harvard. One also wonders whether such a smart girl would really not be aware of how out of place she is. Her intelligence again seems questionable in the film's climactic courtroom scenes where her success comes more through luck than ingenuity. Never to mind, the film bounces along nicely provided that one simply accepts the fact that Witherspoon is as intelligent as her test scores dictate. The song soundtrack is great, Luke Wilson makes an appealing (if too obvious) alternative love interest, and Witherspoon gets so into her character that it is hard not to be caught up in her pure energy. "},{"Title":"Judgment due","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde has Reese Witherspoon playing Elle a vacuous blonde who anticipates a marriage proposal from her boyfriend (Warner) but instead gets dumped. Warner plans to study law at Harvard and in a stalkerish move Elle follows suit and somehow gets accepted hoping Warner changes his mind about her.At Harvard, Elle has trouble being accepted neither appearing to be studios rejected by Warner's friends and fiancé and by the more intense students.However she applies herself and gets to assist in a murder trial and manages to show that she has more skills in the application of the law.This is a light, breezy film turned into a hit musical thanks to producer of the film Marc Platt who also produced 'Wicked' on stage. It has all the beats with Elle struggling at Law School being befriended by Luke Wilson and then becoming defence attorney for Ali Larter who stands trial for murder.Witherspoon is winning in the lead role and brings likability but the film has little substance amid the froth. "},{"Title":"Get rid of the Bend-and-Snap","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon) is the president of her sorority, and the girlfriend to Warner. But he dumps her just as he's about to go to Harvard Law School. She's not the type that he wants to marry if he wants to run for office. She decides to rally by getting into Harvard, and getting back with Warner. Only he has a new girlfriend Vivian (Selma Blair).This is a fine underdog story. Reese Witherspoon is super sweet, and that why her character works. It would be easy to go too silly, but she needs to be smarter than that. That's why I have a big problem with the Bend-and-Snap. It is TOO silly. It diminishes her, and it diminishes the movie. It's the one big misstep in this movie. There's no way B&S is funny. Otherwise, this is very cute fun movie. "}{"Title":"As Dumb As She Is Blonde","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Seriously setting back the Feminest Movement a couple of decades. This film was a load of crap. I last watched it about 4 years ago and I am still having nightmares. I seriously wake up in the dead of night with a cold sweat. That is all I have to say about this film. Long live the awesomeness that is every ninja on planet earth, and the moon... because ninjas are awesome enough to have developed technology that will allow them to live on the moon many years before the normal and less awesome humans. Also on an afterthought, all blonde girls should dye their hair either red or brunette. Otherwise, you will forever more be associated with this lame film and will be expected to going to Law school, leave your friends behind and become super gay lesbian's. I have warned you. If this does happen to you, then you should be shot for not heeding my warning. Seriously, this warning could save lives ... It could even save yours!!! Again, long live the super Ninjas!!!! "},{"Title":"Wut a shame","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As a law student, I read the synopsis before watching and thought I was gonna enjoy it.The movie began with a great scenario a not so clever girl in the middle of a bunch of serious people. The director did well describing her as a rich and regular teenager who wants to live life. They didn't make her look like too futile, just a little bit, what makes the audience kind of respect her style.It was good either to show what people are willing to do for love. She did everything to get to law school and to recover her boyfriend. She accepted living with arrogant people and being oppressed just for love. So, until this moment I was pretty amused with the film.But the writers may have had some problems towards writing time, so it just went everything downhill from there. First of the plot holes, was when Elle got flirted by the professor. She went right to the elevator and Vivian accused her of being dishonest. Why didn't Elle just said that she didn't accept the dating deal from the professor before the elevator's door closed? What was funny or believable when Elle pretended to had sex with that nerd? Which girls would dance just like another in a beauty salon if she wasn't even talking to them? Which court would allow animals in? Which court would allow two girls coming in the court speaking high and disturbing judge's speak? The movie would have been great to me if there weren't these plot holes that sadly ruined the movie for me.Still entertaining, quickly moving and watchable. I would recommend. "},{"Title":"Dutiful But Not Dumb.","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I pay little attention to this sort of thing but I'm beginning to believe a genre is established. Since I'm not a fan I can only mention as other members of the set Clueless and Pretty Persuasion. The genre is characterized by the central character of a young woman, usually in high school or college, various intrigues and power plays, a ludic tenor, and cute dialog, sometimes pretty clever. The title of this film is an example of what I mean. Legally Blond. (Based on the expression legally blind, get it?) It's filled with resonance. Stereotypical blondes are stupid. Yet, in this movie, Reese Witherspoon outwits everyone else in sight while a first-year law student at Harvard. Law justifies legally.Well, I don't know nothing about no snooty schools like Harvard. No, nor not much else neither. An ex-friend once dissed me by saying I didn't have too much in the upper story. Okay, so's I don't know nothing about law but I know what I like. And I am like hip enough not to shoot up in front of a police station.I'm not sure Reese Witherspoon's character is even that sophisticated at the beginning of this film. She's a Southern Californian airhead who just finished college with a major in Fashion Design Marketing. She wears too much make up, sports tiny pink clothes, mussitates over Cosmo, and bears the usual earmarks of surferhood. But when her patrician boyfriend leaves for Harvard Law, she decides to apply too, just to be near him, and she's accepted for reasons only the screenwriters know.But the movie doesn't skewer Reese Witherspoon any more than most of the other characters. Stereotypes abound. Harvard Law students, for instance, are all a bunch of nail-biting neurotics or loud-mouthed megalomaniacs. It's probably not necessary to spell out the rest of the plot. Before you know it, she's wearing multilayered dark clothing, sloughing off her boyfriend, winning a case in court, and becoming class valedictorian.As the template requires, the comedy has an underlying serious theme, which might be called, in an Afterschool Special, the message. It's stated explicitly, the last line of dialog in the movie. Never judge by appearances. That groaning sound you hear emanates from Pere Lachaise Cemetery in Paris where Oscar Wilde is doing his damnedest to roll over in his grave.I'd put off watching this for quite a while because, well, it's difficult to sit through an hour and a half watching a teen-aged girl manipulate others or find herself or get in touch with her feelings, despite the occasionally witty cutting remarks. However, like the other members of its set, I kind of enjoyed it. Not enough to ever dream of seeing it again, but smiles are getting rarer these days and we need all the help we can get. A perfect performance by Selma Blair, by the way, as the supercilious and venomous preppie who wins Witherspoon's first love away from her. And good riddance. "},{"Title":"Fun to watch!","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" How refreshing! Finally a movie that is simply fun to watch! 'Legally Blonde' is an intelligent, witty, and well made motion picture. Oh, and to make things better, Reese Witherspoon is phenomenal in her role, this should have been worthy of an Oscar Nomination, if the Academy members weren't snobby about the type of roles they awarded the prize to (much like the snobs pictured in the movie I dare say...). Another department worthy of mention for an award in this movie is certainly the Costumes, since I believe they did their job flawlessly. Some of the outfits and accessories Ms Witherspoon wears are pure genius, not to mention the dog's outfits... This might seem trivial, but to do something so well with such attention to detail as they did in this film, is just as difficult as 'serious' costumes design (historical and similar which always win the Oscar).All in all, certainly not a great movie, but a good, well made film that is definitely fun to watch! "},{"Title":"this movie is so cute!","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Elle woods is college student who majors in fashion. She has natural blonde hair. She loves to dress up and makes up and she is enjoying her life. She has a boyfriend, Warner. He wants to be politician and go to Harvard low school. One day, she is waiting to be proposed. But suddenly Warner said we should break up because you are blonde. It's not good for assembly member to have a wife like Marilin Monro. Then she decides to go to Harvard low school to return back his boyfriend.This movie is love comedy.I think Elle is so attractive person because she attempt to be happy. Once she decides, she goes her own way. So everyone comes to like Elle. I don't have any bad points about this movie. Anyway I love this movie. "},{"Title":"Fun comedy","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Reese Witherspoon is Legally Blonde in this 2001 comedy that's a switch on the old nerd who wants to be one of the beautiful people and gets a makeover. This time, the beautiful person wants to be one of the nerds. After her boyfriend Warner (Matthew Davis), who's from old money, breaks up with her and goes to Harvard, Elle decides to get into Harvard too and prove she has what it takes to be Mrs. Warner Huntington III. Along the way, she learns that the only thing that's blonde about her is her hair.This is a very light, fun comedy buoyed by Witherspoon's charming performance, which hits just the right note. She gives us a complete character, a person into exteriors who also has brains. She's a complete bubblebrain, all about superficiality, who finds out there are other things in the world, such as brains, integrity and depth. One of my favorite scenes is her coaching of the beauty salon employee on attracting the UPS guy - priceless. My other favorite scene is when Elle's fashion sense prevails in the courtroom - hilarious.I love the film's complete lack of vulgarity and sense of fun, as well as its excellent cast which includes Victor Garber, Holland Taylor, Selma Blair, Luke Wilson and Jennifer Coolidge. It makes its point without taking itself too seriously. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"BLUE eyeshadow?","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For some reason I have a fascination with this movie. Every time it is on cable TV I'm compelled to stop and watch it. I have no idea why. And I even have favorite scenes! What troubles me, though, is the blue eyeshadow that Elle's friends wear, a la the wives on Goodfellas. WTF is up with that? Malibu chicks looking like Brooklyn molls? Because of the new submission guidelines of ten lines of text, I will go on Why would Malibu California girls wear dated cheap blue eye make-up? I am not going to add junk words, but jeez, to me having a restriction of 10 lines of text means that someone answering a simple question from another post (or a poster asking a simple question) becomes moot! Not a good thing, IMDb. ( "},{"Title":"Overlooked","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I Love Reese Witherspoon, and overlooked this movie due to the Trailer. But wow what a movie. She does a stand-up job in this movie - i just love the way she can change her persona in the blink of an eye. What an actress. Two Thumbs up for what again proves the worth of a woman who can certainly act.A must see movie for all fans of the now well established Reese Witherspoon. I rated this movie 8 out 10. Great cast. well done Reese - Love your work.Have been a huge fun for many years, first movie being Cruel Intentions. I have now made an effort to see all her movies and have not been disappointed by any. Reese is not only a great actress but seems to be a very classy woman in real life.Look forward to seeing much more of her in the future. "},{"Title":"Marilyn beat Jackie this time!","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon) is the girliest girl you will ever meet. She's gorgeous, wealthy, bubbly, slightly goofy, and lovable, and she knows it. She's got the looks, she's got the hair, she's got the chest, AND, she has the fashion sense It's the package. The night that Elle is expecting her rich, dashing, and snobby boyfriend Warner (Matthew Davis) to propose to her, he dumps her, saying he needs a more serious girl, as he's off to Harvard Law School, and Elle she's too blonde for him. He also says that he needs a 'Jackie not a Marilyn'! Elle assumes her life to be over, but then she's struck with 'the perfect plan' she has to get into Harvard, show Warner that she's got the intelligence too, and he'll be back in her arms once more. How Elle begins her new adventure at Law School, and how she proves that she has the brains too, is the heart of Legally Blonde.The performances were fantastic. Reese's charm shines, and the film belongs to her, she's at her best. The supporting cast are brilliant, they walk away with a lot of the best lines in hand. Selma Blair, Jennifer Coolidge, Ali Larter, Luke Wilson, and Victor Garber perform with great humour and a great script.The ending may be predictable, but the director Robert Luketic has still made a fantastic debut. The thin line of an idea that he started with Don't judge a book by it's cover, has been blown up into the wonderful film that Legally Blonde is. I also thought the way he made the film inspirational was very clever, depicting that if you work your heart out, you will achieve. It added a string of truth into the candy floss comedy. Legally Blonde is a movie that will leave you with a grin larger than a Cheshire Cat's. It's an ultimate feel-good film.I guess Marilyn beat Jackie this time! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good but not accurate on Legal aspects.","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Funny and smart flick that takes back some references from chick flicks from the 80's and 90's plus the director gives the movie an own style.First of all, let me tell you, getting to study on a prestigious and DIFFICULT Law School is not that easy. Second, preparing a case while being on first year is almost impossible; sure, you can collaborate with the Principal attorney BUT you can't take decisions such as Reese's character. Third, in order to win a murder crime based on Cosmetology and beauty knowledge is something to laugh about.BUT I got the point; this is a movie and we DON'T Have to believe the scenes displayed. I really liked this movie as a quasi-lawyer and as a viewer in general.Reese delivers a fine performance that displays her unique on-screen charisma and acting abilities. Selma Blair as sexy as always delivers a good performance as the cocky but smart girl. Fine acting all the way.Totally recommended Comedy for those who can stand all kinds of humor. "}{"Title":"A nice surprise...","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When a young Amanda Brown attended Stanford Law School, she discovered that the life of a college student at a highly competitive private university had a kind of problems a bit different than the ones she thought she would find there. While her academic performance at Standford wasn't bad, she found a very hostile and antisocial kind of intellectual elitism among the students, that made school almost a hell for her easygoing, ditsy and somewhat naive personality. During those years at college, Brown wrote many letters to her friends, writing about her funny (and not so funny) experiences on campus in order to find something nice out of them. Soon, the letters became the basis for her first novel, Legally Blonde, and later, the novel became the basis for a fun movie that would become one of the embodiments of Girl Power.Legally Blonde is the story of Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon), a young and spoiled valley girl who after graduating from University, seems to be heading for the perfect life after she marries her boyfriend Warner Huntington III (Matthew Davis). However, destiny has a surprise for her Warner decides not to marry Elle, as he thinks that her style is too frivolous and vain for his plans to become a politician after attending Harvard Law School. Brokenhearted and disappointed, Elle decides that in order to recover Warner, she needs to prove him that her life can be more than shopping and beauty salons, and that she can be as intelligent as he is. So with that in mind and and exceptional LSAT score, Elle travels to Harvard determined to become one of the top students in her class. In Harvard she'll find not only difficult classes, but also the hostile and skeptic reception from the rest of the students.Remaining relatively faithful to Brown's novel, Legally Blonde joyfully plays with the typical conventions of chick flicks and gives them a nice (and much needed) twist. Avoiding the usual stereotypes of the teen comedy, the screenplay by Karen McCullah Lutz and Kirsten Smith succeeds in that it is not only funny, but also witty and surprisingly intelligent. Like the source novel, Legally Blonde is more than a romantic comedy about winning back a boyfriend, it is ultimately a tale of self-discovery about a woman decided to surpass what was expected from her and become better without stopping from being herself. While silly at times, the story never loses its charm thanks to an assortment of funny and well developed characters that turn this piece of fluff into a very funny and respectable comedy film.In this his first feature length film, director Robert Luketic takes the wise decision of taking a restrained approach and simply letting his cast do the magic. This simplistic take on the story works for the best, as by keeping the film focused entirely on the characters and the story, Luketic avoids teen comedy's clichéd devises such as over-the-top physical comedy or the abuse of toilet humor. In fact, this focus often brings back good memories of those fish out of water comedies of old, but with of course, a very sleek and modern approach that benefits from the good dose of post-feminism (and fortunately, not overtly preachy) that carries the source novel. While not exactly a very original work, some credit must go to Luketic for managing to get some remarkable performances by his cast in this his debut as a director.Now, the true highlight of the movie, and probably the best reason to give this film a chance is without a doubt Reese Witherspoon's performance as Elle Woods. As the determined blonde of the title, Witherspoon is delightful and shows an extraordinary talent for comedy, having lots of fun while making her character a very real and sympathetic person, far from the stereotypical Valley girls that are often used as stock villains in teen comedies. As her former boyfriend Warner, Matthew Davis has some nice scenes, but he is completely overshadowed by co-stars Luke Wilson and Selma Blair. Wilson showing off his natural comedic talent and Blair making a nice performance as Elles's rival. Jennifer Coolidge and Holland Taylor appear in supporting roles that only improve the film's charm with their great performances.If one approaches Legally Blonde expecting some deep and insightful comedy, the disappointment will be, without a shadow of a doubt, of truly enormous proportions. However, taking on account the lack of pretensions of this movie, it becomes a very funny experience that never gets boring despite its complete lack of realism in its plot. In fact, one could even say that the film's big and only problem is the fact that despite its twists, the story ends up as predictable for the very nature of the fish out of water style of comedy (underdod beats obstacles against all odds). Still, while the ending may be predictable, it's everything in between what truly matters, so Legally Blonde makes up for that flaw with very funny jokes and the great performances by its cast.Legally Blonde is not a comedy masterpiece, and without Witherspoon, it probably would lose a lot of its charm, nevertheless, it's joyful play on the genre's typical stereotypes, together with its nice message and why not, its unabashed silliness, make it an extremely attractive and charming comedy for those days when mindless entertainment is preferred over complex film-making. Reese Witherspoon makes what otherwise would be typical fluff, into almost comedic gold, and Legally Blonde is legally good. 7/10 "},{"Title":"My favorite film- and excellent, hilarious, inspiring story for all young women.","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am absolutely in love with this film. It is a quintessential feel-good, inspirational underdog story. Elle Woods (Witherspoon) is a uber-positive, peppy California blonde who is suddenly jilted by her perfect boyfriend, Warner Huntington III who claims he needs a Jackie not a Marilyn. Elle is completely convinced that she and Warner are made for each other, so she applies to Harvard Law school to follow him and is accepted. She arrives in a completely different world where gray is the primary color and studious is every one's middle name. She is continuously needled by her professors and fellow students. One of these new enemies is Vivian Kensington, who we find out is Warner's fiancé and the reason for the breakup. But among the the doubt she finds Emmett Richmond (Wilson) who seems to be the only person she has thus encountered that has looked at her like she was a smart human being, not a stupid freak. And in true comedy fashion and romantic relationship develops. Elle also befriends and ditzy manicurist Paulette (Coolidge), who becomes her best friend and confidant. After a last draw of an insult from her former boyfriend she is thrust into full determination mode to prove her infinite worth and intelligence. No longer will she be the laughing stock.She soon gains the attention of Professor Callahan who picks her for an internship during a criminal trial case he is defending. Again, we meet Emmett who is the only person who thinks she really has the power to do what she wants. Callahan, we find out is a son of a bitch who hits on her and only even chose for his internship because she was beautiful. Again down in the dumps, the defendent, Brooke Windham (Larter), who has gained Elle's trust replaces Callahan with Elle and OF COURSE, Elle wins the case by doing what she does best- knowing everything about beauty care.Elle Woods is an excellent role model and this is a movie that deserves to be watched by all young women. It proves that if you are put in a place that people don't think you belong in-you can still succeed without compromising who you are, you style or what you believe in. Elle Woods embodies that completely.I recommend this movie whole-heartedly. This is definitely a movie I will show to my younger cousins and my kids someday. "},{"Title":"Something that happened me","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You will lose the year i told me to myself. The bad notes didn't stop to appear. And one day... Legally Blonde appear.The story inspired a lot. And in spite of being a typical movie of little creativity, the work of the director and the cast are very good. Why the story inspire motivates a lot? Because relates us about a girl that didn't believe in her capacities. And she demonstrate to the world what she can.And now, pass the year. With good notes. This film do this. Make change people. Because the people change. Or if not, why you don't ask to Elle? * Sorry for any mistake... if there any "},{"Title":"An unexpected outstanding film","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sunshine filled the room and smiles lit up my face as I was part of the most enjoyable and refreshing films of year. Legally Blonde is a textbook definition of how true comedies should be made. With a combination of comedy, smart writing and great comedic performances, Legally Blonde is a surprise hit everyone will enjoy.2001 has been the year of incredible films, breakthrough performances and great writing and this streak didn't end with Legally Blonde, there was no doubt that I would be entertained. It is an honor to watch a film like Legally Blonde that contains intelligent writing, great performances and unique concepts because the audience will always be guaranteed a great film when these elements are in order.Reese Witherspoon has always been one of the brightest and talented actresses in Hollywood, so it came as no surprise when she turned in a performance worthy of Oscar consideration in the best comedic performance category. Previous performances in Pleasantville and Cruel Intentions, gave me proof that Witherspoon was the only actress capable of pulling off this role.With her role in Legally Blonde, Witherspoon brought her toolbox of talents filled with charm, beauty, enthusiasm and sense of humor to create an exciting and fun atmosphere for audiences to enjoy the movie. Furthermore, she made it possible for everyone to sit back and relax using facial muscles to smile and laugh. Witherspoon has come a long way since The Man in The Moon and will continue to give incredible performances in the years to come and take home awards along the way.This film highlights outstanding supporting comedic performances from Matthew Davis, Selma Blair, Ali Larter, Holland Taylor, Victor Garber, Jennifer Coolidge and Luke Wilson who combine to complete one of the best ensemble casts of 2001.Each member of the supporting cast brought their own special and unique style of charm to each role they played; furthermore, there was nobody else I could think of to portray the characters in the film than these seven actors because the roles seemed tailor made for each of them.Writing is an essential key for the success of every film because it is the foundation for which a movie is made. The writers came up with one of the finest scripts of the year using unique concepts and great comedic writing to entertain audiences.Legally Blonde is loaded with refreshing scenes that will leave the best Hollywood screenwriters scratching their heads asking themselves, How were these writers able to make this script funny and successful at the same time? Aside from refreshing scenes, great character development and imaginative script concepts; this film boasts a cheerful underlying message, which is dreams come true when people put their minds to something. This touch was appreciated because it adds a dimension, which is lacking from films such as Legally Blonde. Though each scene in the film was great, there were two that stood out in my mind above the rest as evidence of some of the best writing in recent films. The first scene involves a health spa being described as Elle's mother ship and a murder trial, which was decided through hair care products.The cast is to be commended for turning in incredible performances, writers applauded for laying the foundation for a film that has the courage to be called a dumb blonde comedy and have legions of fans enjoy the film at the same time and the director deserves a standing ovation for directing a refreshing comedy as well as giving the audience something new and creative to watch.Legally Blonde is a light-hearted and charming film that should be seen with a smile. Audiences are guaranteed to be entertained with fun surprises and great comedy. "},{"Title":"Love it","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally blonde is a great movie, it's fun to watch and makes you feel great. It's the kind of movie that can cheer you up when you feel down or you can watch it when you just want to laugh. Reese is so much fun as Elle Woods and her dog is so cute, you just want to go out and buy one. I just want to say to everybody and especially to the girls (because it is kind of a movie for girls, let's be honest the main col-our in the movie is PINK (which I love by the way)) THIS IS A MOVIE YOU JUST HAVE TO SEE!! it is fun, it's sweet, it's cute, it's everything you want to see when your in the mood for a fun movie.. it just sparkles!! "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Watch","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Although at the beginning of the film I found and felt that compared to her other films Reese Witherspoon wasn't trying hard enough, later on in this fantastically plotted movie the story kicks in with plenty of unexpected twists and turns, Reese strikes back the attention with her girly girl character Elle, never without her pink outfits or long que of men behind her! Trying to get her man back she goes to major lengths - even leaving her serority Delta Nu to join his law school. The film was so well planned out that it was as if you were part of the many situations with Elle Woods! It also shows that any one can make it anywhere no matter what their appearance is or their first impression is like - discrimination is totally forgotten in Legally Blonde! Overall, Legally Blonde is a great film to watch with the girls with plenty of laughs included! "},{"Title":"Still Holds Up After 4th Viewing....!","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I gave this movie a nine just because it is still fun after four viewings by me and I am 59 years old. The movie is decidedly in a teen kind of mode, but still holds lessons for those of us much older. It was fun to see a beautiful woman use her brain and intellectually kick the living daylights out of the idiot men around her. It was also a good lesson proving that just because you are beautiful or cute, you do not need to be a snob or cruel to others around you. She was nice to EVERYONE no matter what station in life and that defines a true lady. I liked this lead character a lot and thought she set a good example for today's kids. Good looks, good grooming, good self-esteem, and a good brain put to real use. I loved it! "},{"Title":"very problematic film","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Robert Luketic's Legally Blonde (2001) problematically depicts women as socially and intellectually inferior. During the opening sequence, the camera travels through a sorority house, depicting the members of this social organization participating in social rituals such as putting on make-up, exercising, cheer leading, etc. Immediately, the film suggests that women have nothing better to do all day than to spend time making themselves look beautiful and rehearsing social patterns of behavior. Not only does the film fail to show women participating in meaningful intellectual, financial, or social interactions, the girls seem to gain a perverse sense of pleasure from enhancing their appearance and expecting the desire of their male suitors. When the camera finally arrives at the room of the film's main character, Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon), the viewer can see a package of hair products, featuring a woman smiling, suggesting that in order for a woman to be happy, she must improve her appearance. These ideas culminate when Elle's friends help her spend the entire day preparing for the highly-anticipated proposal of marriage from her boyfriend, as if her existence is dependent upon her male lover's acceptance of her as a suitable companion. When he does not propose to her, and she tries to walk home by herself, he convinces her to let him drive her home because she doesn't want to ruin her shoes. Her expensive high-heels symbolize her literal and figurative immobility as a woman, crippled by the expectations of her gender to equate her self-worth with her ability to please men visually and socially. Just like the little dog kept in her handbag, Elle is trapped in a world of social assumptions that will prevent her from obtaining meaningful success intellectually or financially.Elle does not attend Harvard for the purpose of improving herself intellectually or building a foundation for a professional career, she applies because she wants to impress her ex-boyfriend. These goals suggest that the only way she can improve herself is by gaining the favor of a male suitor; the only career she is capable of managing is marriage. The film represents Harvard, although most likely accurately, but also problematically, as an ultra-conservative, male-dominated sphere that would only accept Elle on a fluke. When she submits a resume for an internship, she hands in a pink sheet of paper scented with perfume. When the professor asks why she would handed in a resume with these unnecessary features, she responds, To give it something extra, implying that her resume is not good enough on its own; as a woman she has to add superficial elements in order to prove her worth.Another problematic sequence is the relationship she develops with the overweight, lazy woman, who works at the nail salon. Elle meets this woman only because she performed poorly in class and can only comfort herself by enhancing her appearance, not by improving her understanding of the course material as the other students have done. Elle convinces this woman to get her dog back from her ex-husband, but she can only accomplish this goal by fooling the husband by regurgitating legal jargon she does not understand. Elle does not prioritize this woman's emotional stability, horrible work ethic, or pathetic self-respect; this poor woman has attached her self-worth to the possession of a domestic animal. Elle later teaches all of the women in the salon to bend and snap to show off their bodies for men, implying that in order to get the attention of a male, they have to purposefully make a mistake and drop something so that they can display their physical attractiveness.Elle eventually wins her case in the trial, not because of her knowledge of the legal system, but only because she has an extensive understanding of female hair products that happen to help her prove her argument. The film does not realistically represent how she will fair in the legal world when she will not be able to rely on her knowledge of beauty products to win cases. She only had the opportunity to participate in the internship because the professor was trying to seduce her in the first place. Other women are problematically represented as well, including the celebrity woman who would rather go to jail than to have the media learn that she had liposuction; her identity is constructed upon the attractiveness of her physical body, which she medically manipulated to meet the impossible standards of the male gaze. A woman who identifies as a lesbian is demonized throughout the film. The only socially-enlightened character, ironically, appears to be un-insightful, judgmental, and prejudiced. "},{"Title":"Hilarious? Definitely. Degrading to Women? Maybe.","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The story of the not-so-dumb blonde from Beverly Hills that gets into law school to get her boyfriend back is a fantastic one, as long as it isn't taken too seriously. Elle is pretty, sweet, and smart, and yet she spazzes and has to get Warner back, even though she could do so much better. Especially since it is obvious to the audience what a loser Warner is. Also, it bothers me that Elle attempted to gain respect at Harvard while dressing in a skanky way. No wonder guys kept throwing unwanted attention at her. However, the movie was cute and funny, but not to be taken seriously. Light entertainment is all that I would suggest. "},{"Title":"A girl goes to Harvard to try and win back her boyfriend and gain the respect  she deserves.","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie I thought it was hilarious and would recommend it to anyone. Elle woods (reese Witherspoon) a prep from a sorority decides to go to Harvard to win back her boy friend warner Huntington (matthew Davis) after he dumps her. Once arriving at Harvard Elle realizes that winning back warner will be harder than she though now that he is back with his ex Vivian Kensington (selma Blair). After realizing that nobody believes in her Elle decides to stop at nothing to prove to her family and friends that she can be taken seriously with the help of her new friend Paulette bonafonte (jennifer Coolidge) and Emmett Richmond (luke Wilson) Elle does just that. I really recommend seeing this movie along with it's sequel Leagally blonde red white and blonde. "}{"Title":"It's good that it doesn't even pretend to be an intelligent movie","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The very first thing that went trough my head after seeing this movie wasn't 'oh, this wasn't so bad' or 'Hmmm, I had a good time'. No, all I could think was 'If I see even more pink or blonde the next few hours then I'm going to scream, yell, kick,...'. I guess that already sums up pretty well how I feel about this movie, doesn't it? The idea is original, a blonde fashion student is dumped by her boyfriend because he goes to law school and needs a more serious person next to him when he will become a senator. Of course Elle is upset, but instead of keeping to stuff herself up with sweets or crying her eyes out for the rest of her life, she decides to prove him that she isn't the dumb blonde he always saw in her. She enlists in law school as well and despite the fact that everybody laughs with her, she persists and eventually even wins a case thanks to her fashion sense...I guess I don't have to explain to you that this kind of movies isn't exactly meant to be intelligent and Legally Blonde doesn't even try to pretend to be it, which in this case is a very good thing. But this just isn't my kind of movie. I hated Reece Witterspoon as the Barbie doll prototype and was glad when the movie was over. I give it a 5.5/10. It just wasn't my style. "},{"Title":"what in the world do we think","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The movie Legally Blonde is a great movie for women who need to feel good about them selves. Every character is taken to the extreme. No person really acts like anyone of those characters. For the movie the characters were good, but in reality showing a blonde sorority girl unable to pronounce the word metabolism is not a good way to show the intelligence, and wit of blonde women that this movie tries to hard to portray. Men do not always want to jump and pretty girls' bones. The male law professor who tries to hit on Elle is not a good way to show men in today's world. This movie is good for laughs and a good time, but if anyone takes it seriously then the world is really hurting. "},{"Title":"This is so not funny.","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Barbie goes to Harvard. And stuff happens. I don't want to give away the ending for those foolish enough to think that this film may be in some way amusing, interesting or entertaining. But stuff happens is about it really. Oh, yes, I could add that the stuff happens usually in pink with fluffy bits. And with a small dog in a handbag.This is a brain dead movie. Contrived, heavy, and so last year. It takes the cliché of Malibou Barbie and does nothing with it. The jokes are not funny. The references are general or just wide of the mark.Worse of all the movie is dull and boring. And there is no interesting fashion items or beauty tips.I really didn't like this.  "},{"Title":"An OK teen comedy","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a typical PG-13 teen comedy, with a pretty original idea(to the best of my knowledge); a blonde who wants to go to Harvard Law and become a lawyer. Elle Woods, the blonde, is considered stupid by most characters throughout the movie, but we find out that while she isn't a genius, she has some inner strength, and isn't a total dimwit. The plot is good enough, for this type of movie, but apart from the original concept, it seemed too slow and rarely very funny. The characters are believable, the acting is good, mostly, and the humor, while somewhat rare, is mostly pretty funny. There are some very entertaining court scenes near the end, which I enjoyed very much, as I'm a big fan of court dramas. The film is too slow though, and if I had seen it at the cinema, I might have fallen asleep. I found it worth sitting through for the final court scenes, though, and I'd say that they are easily the funniest thing in the movie. I'd recommend it to teens who don't have too high expectations for PG-13 rated teen comedies, and people who enjoy sexual innuendo, as the film has plenty of it. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Illegally Bland","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Elle Woods thinks she has it all. She goes to the coolest parties, has great friends and has a total babe for a boyfriend. And things are going to get even better! He's going to propose to Elle! Or at least that's what she thinks. But things go horribly wrong at dinner when instead of asking for her hand in marriage, he dumps her. In his mind, for his time at Harvard Law School to be successful he can't have such an unserious girlfriend, he needs a much more sophisticated and conventional girl. But Elle is heartbroken, for she is in love. But what's a girl to do? Duh! Isn't it obvious! Just improve your grades insanely high almost overnight, get into Harvard yourself and show him you're the smart girl you know you are. Like totally cool!This is such a boring, unfunny, hypocritical, lame and unintelligent movie.I'm not sure if it's because the last movie I watched before this was Spike Lee's legendary `Do The Right Thing', but I found this movie to be terribly white. I just got so sick and tired of seeing so many white people in this movie. (And I'd like to point out that I am white.) There are very few black or ethnic people in the film, with just three customers in a beauty salon (one completely in the background), an Asian woman in another beauty parlour and a judge only coming to mind. And the scene that includes the Asian woman turns disgusting as the subtitles say she swears. I found this terribly offensive and quite distasteful. Are there actually people out there that would find this drivel funny?In one rather poorly constructed and pointless scene, a rather average looking guy asks a girl out on a date. She flatly refuses and call's him a loser. Upon overhearing this, Elle wants to help. So she pretends she spent a night with him filled with red-hot passion. The girl that called him a loser is now impressed and wants to go out with him. Yay for Elle for saving the day! Does anyone else see the immorality shown in this scene? The disgusting lack of ethics displayed in this atrocious scene pretty much sums up the movie. It is well meaning and wants to make a difference but is severely unintelligent in the way it goes about achieving its goals.And how are we to believe that Elle truly has intelligence? In my mind anyone that actually believes someone that despises them has just genuinely invited them to a party is not only stupid but also profusely naïve.The character of Vivian (played by the excellent Selma Blair, who struggles with the pathetic material she gets here) is ludicrously 'written'.***SPOILER***Vivian's turn around is just incredible. It was at this point that the film really lost me.*** END OF SPOILER ***The character of Paulette, who becomes a sort of confidant and shoulder to cry on for Elle, is one of the worst characters. Her character should have been limited to her first scene or completely cut. Words like arduous, pointless and inane spring to mind when thinking about Paulette. And the 'bend and snap' scene is one of the most truly horrendous moments ever captured on film. I felt like I wanted to be sick. It is the stuff nightmares are made of.Reese Witherspoon is a great actress and here she comes off quite well. Though I never felt sorry for Elle, and in the end I didn't care about her at all. With some better writing this could have been the `Election' of law. Certainly, it's the writing and direction that makes the film a disaster, not the acting.Elle's boyfriend, Warner Huntington III, at least adds something to the movie with one of the most truly funny lines in the film, `If I want to be elected Senator by the time I'm 30, I need to marry a Jackie, not a Marilyn.'Luke Wilson is as wonderful as ever. But it's a shame he isn't in the film more as it's a case of blink and you'll miss him. And the same goes for the unbelievably talented and beautiful Holland Taylor (who plays a judge in The Practice). But she is in so little of the film it's very disappointing. And her last scene is awful; I felt sorry for her having to deliver such dire lines.The film is very hypocritical. One of the main themes is 'don't judge someone's intellect by what they look like'. But the film goes back on its own words, when, shock, horror; Elle begins to show signs of intellect. Her wardrobe, even though still colourful, becomes much more conservative. And becomes more and more conformist as the film continues.*** SLIGHT SPOILER ***And the film's lasting message is cruel, deluded and just plain moronic. Good people end up with good lives and bad people end up alone and with bad lives. How could anyone find that uplifting and inspirational when a message like that is totally fraudulent and fanciful?***END OF SLIGHT SPOILER***I love anything to do with court cases. The Practice is one of my favourite television shows, and I even loved Ally McBeal. But the court case in this movie is so boring and insanely predictable. It felt like a rejected script from Ally McBeal. The woman, who they are defending in a murder case, is very dislikeable and ugly.I understand the movie is not meant to be serious or realistic; I didn't watch it thinking it was going to be a hard-hitting drama. But if a film is meant to be light and fluffy it should at least be entertaining and funny. But this movie is just one boring and arduous scene after another. If you want to see a simular film (in style, not story), try the much superior 'Never Been Kissed'.'Legally Blonde' is laborious and unintelligent garbage. I insist that you don't watch this putrid mess.My score reflects how many times I laughed during the movie.3/10 "},{"Title":"A Crummy Movie With Only One Great Actress","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Reese Witherspoon is a great actress. So why did she agree to do this sugar coated fairytale movie? I would rather eat insects than to watch this stupid movie again. They people that played Elle's parents (and some of the other actors) were some of the phoniest actors I have ever seen in my life! If you didn't watch the DVD version of this movie,  you missed a whole lot of great stuff! But they only make sequels to movies that were really bad. I am looking forward to bashing Legally Blond 2! "},{"Title":"one of the silliest movies ever made !!","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this film is one of the silliest movies ever made !! it is totally a waste of time. i mean on a scale from 1 to 10, where 10 the highest score is, this film ll get minus 20!! it could make you at one point or another laugh but at the end you ll be angry to have wasted your time. i am also v v disappointed and actually surprised that this film got a relative good rating from many other IMDb users; probably there r a lot of blonds upon them ;-)  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully done comedy spoof of law schools and sororities.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A few of the comments on IMDb seem to indicate that some could not figure out that Legally Blonde is a comedy inside and out. Reese Witherspoon is of course just perfect as the bright college girl who has only one ambition, to get engaged to and later marry her sweetheart. But when he dumps her because she isn't smart enough she simply decided to get into Harvard Law School, with no doubts about her ability, she would just find out how and do it. And she did. Eventually she finds out she is smarter than most of the others, and has a knack for legal stuff and loses interest in her now ordinary boyfriend. There's only a mild message throughout the whole film, that just being yourself and having a set of personal principles is the best way to get through life and establish relationships. Of course, it is true. But the whole film is intended to entertain, and it does. The DVD has both WIDE and NARROW screen versions, and a very interesting extra where they show, through interviews, how the film went from book, to producer, to script writers, to director, to actors, to film. I give this one a good, strong 8 of 10 for fine filmmaking and total entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Really disappointing","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went into this thinking it was the new Clueless; by the tenth minute in, I knew I was wrong.  What a waste of celluloid.  The little doggie (Bruiser the Chihuahua) was adorable and the only reason I kept watching not a good sign!  Reese Witherspoon is simply too plain to play a blonde bombshell, nor does she have any of Alicia Silverstone's sweetness.  The supporting cast was equally bland, only Holland Taylor registering as a witchy law professor.  Truly idiotic.Call this one Charmless. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Fashion major (Reese Witherspoon) is dumped by her long time boyfriend (Matthew Davis) who is about to attend Harvard Law School for a fellow student (Selma Blair). Witherspoon feeling part of the reason she was dumped by her boyfriend was for her blonde hair and sorority lifestyle, manages to get into Harvard to prove to her boyfriend (and win him back)that she is no airhead. Delightful little film features an appealing performance from Reese Witherspoon and some very funny jabs at college life, but also is cruel at times and wears a bit thin towards the end.Rated PG-13; Profanity. "}{"Title":"Yeah its a chick flick, but hey, I liked it","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Why would I enjoy a chick flick? Is  Reese Witherspoon a good enough  reason to see a movie? Well, none of  those questions came to mind after  watching this film. The good thing  about this movie is they hired a  comparable actress to play the role  of Elle Woods, not some random  buxom blonde who was fresh off the  pages of Playboy or something. Now,  the premise to the film is certainly  convoluted (however, the admissions  board choosing her because of her  looks isn't too improbable), but it still  brought about some very interesting  commentary about our society. Sadly,  Elle Woods was quickly judged due to  her bust size and outgoing personality  as opposed to her abilities, which tend  to be a trait all people fall under. But  then again, what woman wouldn't want  Witherspoon's body? "},{"Title":"Witherspoon makes it work","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Formulaic, but entertaining and meaningful story of a fashion-obsessed sorority girl who's heartbroken after being dumped by her spoiled, Harvard law-bound boyfriend. Determined to get him back at all costs, she beats the odds and gets into Harvard where she's determined to make her mark despite the criticism and judgment of her snooty classmates and sanctimonious teaching staff. This predictable formula has been seen time and time again, but it's redeemed by Witherspoon's witty and charming performance as a young woman who's much smarter than she seems. Too pat, but clever, funny, and effective in its portrayal of modern-day stereotypes. *** "},{"Title":"Moments in the film","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I got two problems with this film. One, the Bend and Snap scene in the Beauty Salon. What the hell was that? No, let me ask that again. What the hell was that? I was waiting for the musical number to start after seeing this take place. It did nothing for the film except for making people feel it was a better time than any to get up from their seat to get a drink. Second, the ending. The last thing we read on the screen is that she is going to be asked for her hand in marriage. Ok, its a happy ending, but what does this ending do for the 90's independent woman? Yes, she proved to the world and to herself that she could do things without a man in her life, but does this mean her reward is getting a man? Whether or not the whole film was spent trying to prove to the man she thought she loved that she was worthy, she ends up being put into the situation of being some ones wife. Somebody help me on this one.I think the ending could have been changed "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Whenever i get misguided by reviewers and get lumped with this kind of zero-IQ stuff, i spend most of the film trying to come to terms with where mainstream cinema is going. This rubbish is written for an equally zero-IQ audience - predictable, boring and totally unwitty script, and frankly embarrassing.... what's worse is that reputable reviewers like Roger Ebert & co. give this stuff three stars and plus, making us gullible people poorer for no reason at all! "},{"Title":"What tripe!","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  (NOTE SPOILERS!) Listen, I like Reese Witherspoon. I thought she was great in Election, a film with several layers that let her show her ability. That's why, after reading some flattering comments on this movie, I rented it. Ok, so we have this blonde airhead who loses her boyfriend to law school, gets this brilliant idea that becoming a law student is how she'll get him back, get's accepted to Harvard, and then makes a perfect ass of herself every chance she gets. I kept waiting for Reese's character to buy a clue and perhaps change just a bit. 45 min. (my limit for a struggling film, then I'm out) into this crap, and she's still as clueless as she was when the movie opened. Now, I know, it's a movie, not a documentary. Still, for me to stay with a flick, I have to care at least a bit about the main character. By the time I got up and walked out of the room, I detested this moron. Worse, I think this piece of fluff will do nothing for Witherspoon's career except hurt it. Too bad. She's a good actress, but her judgement on taking this role was just plain bad, like the movie.  "},{"Title":"'Legally' the worst movie ever made!","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why anyone thought that making this movie was a good idea. It's the kind of movie that thinks just by having the main character be a complete and total idiot, the movie is hilarious. Well, it isn't. In fact, the only way that this movie could have been hilarious is if it had a different director, different writers, producers, actors, music, etc. Everything about this movie is torture. From the plot to the ridiculous theme song, this movie is pure hell to sit through. Skip it.  "},{"Title":"Anti-feminism at it's best!","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" While Legally Blonde was, and is a great film even today, it is an extremely sexist movie full of anti-feminism. For those who need a reminder, Elle Woods was a stereotypical dumb blonde who had the dream life and dream boyfriend. When her boyfriend went to Harvard, Elle was determined to get him back, and used all her resources to get into Harvard, later becoming the top of her class and a very successful lawyer. Legally Blonde proved to be very derogatory, and negative towards women. Nevertheless, this film is very anti-feministic as it displayed the woman as the inferior and the man as her superior. There is no reason why girls are considered less capable than men. Elle's boyfriend was placed on a pedestal, as if Elle was and never would be as good as him. However, she grew way beyond him and passed him both in academics and her career with flying colors. Another point, is that women in general are expected to dress in conservative male-style suit attire, but Elle expressed her femininity and style through her wardrobe both in and out of court by wearing feminine colors as well as some provocative clothing. Overall, Elle overcame the traditional, anti-feministic stereotype of being a blonde female, and transformed herself into an extremely intelligent, independent young woman. "},{"Title":"Funny and pretty girl's movie!!","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Legally Blonde is one of my favorite movies.The first reason is that it is a funny and witty movie.Elle Woods(Reese Witherspoon) is a heroine of the story.She has a beautiful blonde who is always wearing something pink.One day,she was dumped by her boyfriend,Warner.Because she is so blonde and seems to be shallow-minded.After that,she decided to be a serious girl who will be loved by Warner.So,she got into Harvard Law School to study with him.She experienced a lot of troubles at the Law School and at a law firm such as sexual harassment.None the less,she got over them cheerfully with her self-confidence.Some time,she is a little crazy.Butit is also cute and fun and I feel her strength.Secodly,why I like this movie is Elle's fashion.Every day,she wears sweet clothes and accessories.Girls and women will certainly have interest in her lovely fashion.And I'm sure that you will love this film.I hope you enjoy it.I rate this movie at 8 out of 10!! "},{"Title":"Candy Floss","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film made so little impression on me that I can barely remember a plot summary, never mind how it concludes.That, I can safely say, sums up this film. It left me emotionally detached, and did not even have the slightest poignancy or touching moment to it whatsoever.But so what?, I hear you say, Some films are not marketed for their Oscar-winning capacity, some are merely feel-good fun.I have no problem with feel-good fun.I enjoy films such as Clueless, Never Been Kissed, She's All That, films with that 'Feel-good' factor. But to have feel-good fun, you would need to engage the viewer, make them share the emotions of the characters. But this did not. This was substanceless, pure tripe. "},{"Title":"A complete embarrassment","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was dragged to this horrendous flic by my girlfriend.  Let me just say it sucked.  The worst aspect is the gay stereotyping at a climactic point, and any lawyer should be cringing after about 45 minutes due to the accumulated absurdities and wildly improbable, if not utterly impossible, plot twists.I will say this - you may enjoy it if you are looking for mindless escapism.  Imagine yourself one day suddenly awakening and chirping, Hey, if I become <fill in the blank> I'll really show them all!  Then, presumably, you could go out there (without undergoing anything onerous and un-hip like, you know, preparation or planning) and, you know, like, Just Do It.  The film tries to make a statement about the Ultimate Power inside females/teens/what-have-you, as if to say they are sleeping giants who will ROAR when finally motivated.  Well, why should talented people need some outside force to motivate them?  What is missing in their lives in the first place?  The theme insidiously suggests that hard work and such is irrelevant - all that really matters is innate aptitude and karmic destiny and the trigger that sets it off, as if every human profession were on a par with  modeling.Whoa, stick with the program, dude.  Don't worry, this film never addresses anything serious like that.  Instead, it's just fantasy fulfillment for the acne set.Aside from everything else, the plot is convoluted to no purpose (real sexual harassment is just sort of thrown in for effect, like an extra toy in the pinata, just to make one particular character look evil as well as stupid), there is a truly grating musical number that pops up out of nowhere in the middle, and the females (including Witherspoon, even in the bikini) are not particularly sexy.  Sorry, fellas.  They are overly made up and fussy, which I, at least, found unattractive.  The movie relentlessly stereotypes and labels whatever it can.  If the intent was to undermine those types of attitudes (which I doubt), it fails miserably.On the positive side, there are colorful visuals and a few chuckles in the first half of the film (before the law school and courtroom scenes, with their dark tones and semi-serious attitude, send the film into the toilet) and occasional, very faint, stylistic echoes of better films like Clueless.  I recommend that you rent that one if you want a fluffy hip comedy about vivacious young women.Beware the hype, this movie stinks.  Don't waste you money.  One out of ten. "}{"Title":"Lightweight but fun","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon) a beautiful but NOT dumb blonde, is dumped by her boyfriend Warner (Matthew Davis) when he enters Harvard Law School.  Why?  He has to marry a Jackie not a Marilyn.  Elle, determined to get him back (and steal him from his new girlfriend--a scowling Selma Blair), enrolls and gets in (!!!!) to Harvard Law and tries to get him back.  Unbelievable to the extreme, but all well-done.  The script could be funnier, but the movie looks great (beautiful aerial views of Harvard); Davis and Witherspoon are easy on eyes and the mood of the movie is very cheerful and upbeat.  Witherspoon is absolutely wonderful as Woods--she takes what could have been a very empty role and brings it to life--she's got a great career in front of her.  Davis is handsome but somewhat wooden as Warner.  Blair does what she can (which isn't much) in a horribly underwritten role.  No great shakes or too taxing on the brain, but a fun summertime diversion.  Good to see Raquel Welch back in movies too.  "},{"Title":"Um... no","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worst films I've seen in a long time. I went in with an open mind and I walked out with an empty head. I am fairly sure this movie made me dumber. The basic idea of this movie is to satire the whole sorority girl/dumb blonde culture. And while I really like the concept, Legally Blonde did not pull it off. Instead of wittily written, satirical characters, all this movie provided was annoying caricatures and irritating stereotypes.Everything in this movie was completely predictable. There was nothing new to it. It followed every convention and formula that Hollywood has to offer. If you've seen any movie that has ever been made, you'll know what happens next. Keep in mind, I can appreciate movies in this genre from time to time. Hell, I loved Dude, Where's My Car? But Legally Blonde offered nothing new, nothing to think about, and most importantly, nothing funny. If you plan to see this movie, this is my recommendation Don't. "},{"Title":"I just love blonde girls!","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sincerely, since I saw this film, I love blonde girls. I think that it's because of the wonderful Reese Witherspoon, of which I fell in love when I saw in this film. It is not strange that Reese became a star thanks to Legally blonde. This film is funny, charming, interesting and entertaining. Reese Witherspoon is the protagonist here as Elle Woods, a young and popular blonde in her sisterhood, who decides to go to study to Harvard to impress her boyfriend, who has just left her, and who also studies there. But Elle didn't hope that her ex-boyfriend has begun dating with another girl, a prim and serious student. Even so, Elle decides to dedicate to study to become a good lawyer someday. The rest of the cast completes Luke Wilson, Selma Blair, Jennifer Coolidge, Matthew Davies, Victor Garber and Ali Larter. This is not a masterpiece, but it's a film that makes you laugh and that does not disappoint you. The best thing of this fantastic film was the wonderful performance by Reese Witherspoon, a really great actress that has become one my favourite actresses. "},{"Title":"Clueless, without the story or intellect.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the most shallow and crass films I've ever seen.  The lead character expects everything to go her way, so following crass Hollywood tradition, it does.  This is the basic premise for everything in the plot (which is is extremely thin).The film would have you believe that if you are of the insignificantly small percentage of people to be voted best looker of the class that you somehow also are awarded the ability to make the clever people stupid, stupid people clever, right all wrongs and adjust nature to your way of thinking - all because of looks (and daddies money, if you want to put some depth into it).Don't try to dissect this movie to find a deeper meaning; there isn't one.  Maybe watch it if you are female, have been dumped recently and are very stoned. "},{"Title":"Why did I watch this again?","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I used to believe all movies should at least be given a chance. Legally Blonde helped to change my mind on that. Reese Witherspoon plays Cher from Clueless mixed with Troop Beverly Hills goes to Law School. In another 'cheer for the stupid person' movie, the really dumb blonde girl charms everyone with her stupidity and self absorbed personality.She doesn't like her first boyfriend... and guess what the plot is? TO GET A NEW ONE! And do ya think she does it... oh, I won't ruin that special drama for ya. This movie is straight out of the flops of the 80s. I suppose bad movies like this have to be made every few years as stepping stones in cinema history... but I'm still a little sorry I watched this.I was told this movie was funny and clever. I suppose this is probably from the people who use words like 'hip and funky fresh' to describe movies. Legally Blonde gets one star and is worse than IMDB's 100 worst list's #1, Manos the Hands of Fate, because, at least Manos had a MST3K on it which made it.... FUNNY. Unfortunately, Legally Blonde is not funny. I usually don't disagree with the IMDB average star system but here I do. See the movie if you really want to see a trite un-funny 'attempting to be cliche cute' movie.   "},{"Title":"Legally Dead","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Usually I'm quick to blame the lead actor of director for a dud movie, but not this time.  This movie was written by someone who 1) never was in college, 2) never set foot on a legal campus, 3) never met a lawyer and 4) never saw any trial was not televised.  It was insulting to women and all of the above constituencies.   What was the audience targeted for this morass?  Junior high (sorry for THAT insult)? "},{"Title":"You go, Reese!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"18 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wow! The main thing I can say about it is, You go, Reese! There was only one person that I hated throughout most of the film, and that was Vivian (Selma Blair). The reason I hated her throughout most of the film was because she was really snobby! Even though I had that negative thought about her throughout most of the film, I thought this film was really funny, charming, witty, and sweet. It was especially funny during the trial of Brooke Taylor-Windham (Ali Larter). Also, even though Elle (Reese Witherspoon) acted a little crazy at times, I thought she did, indeed, have a lot more legal savvy than she thought she did. In conclusion, if you're a fan of Reese Witherspoon, I highly recommend LEGALLY BLONDE! You're in for a good time and a lot of laughs, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, and see it today. "},{"Title":"Go watch the musical","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" the musical is so much better, flows so much smoother. In the musical, Elle is definitely clueless when she gets to harvard; in the film, she is clueless throughout the entire thing. Plus, it is so obvious they took the scenes from the musical and tried to make something original out of it...which is a terrible idea when the musical is perfect in the first place. the whole dinner scene at the beginning went on for far too long - __-and it felt awkward, kind of forced as well. (and where the concept worked in the musical, it did not translate well into film) I also hate how they tried to change the lines from the musical into the film, but only slight, like a seventh grader changing up some lines to an essay he clearly didn't write; at least come up with something original. I also can't believe they made the delta sister's unique. In the first twenty minutes, they show two distinct girls from Delta Nu...I understand the need to make characters unique but I feel like they don't really serve in any help in the plot of the film. Plus, I felt her motivation to certain things were a bit weak too. The musical does things a lot better.If you are looking for something good to watch, watch the musical. "},{"Title":"An excellent film Legally Blonde","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yes indeed this movie gets a 10 out of 10 from me. I like totally love this movie and Reese totally looks the part. As a blonde I know its hard as you can be portrayed as well dumb, however seeing this movie made me realise that I am I not dumb I am fully capable of achieving a degree and thanks to this movie I am going to study A level law and my dream job is a lawyer. Thankyou Reese you've like truly inspired me!!!! The comments in this film are so right it probably isn't that hard to get into Harvard Law School and orange definitely is not the new pink. Gemini Vegetarians totally rule. Prada is definitely the best shop in the world!!!! The producers and directors couldn't have picked better man candy if they'd tried I mean Luke Wilson - a dreamboat why can't all films have him in he's so talented especially as a lawyer and also Linda Cardellini she did this film and also played Velma in Scooby Doo the movie what a turn around from teenage rebel shooting her dad to becoming a mystery solving orange loving religious member to the gang of Scooby Doo Congratulations to the makers of Legally Blonde, You did it!!!!! "},{"Title":"What a cute movie","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love Reese Witherspoon, not only because she is a vegetarian, but she is such a great actress. She played Elle Woods so perfectly I can't even describe. How can you not love a movie about a dumb blonde that goes to law school? And it has such a nice ending. I really liked Jennifer Coolidge (Paulette) who was also in A Cinderella Story and American Pies 1 and 2. Her dog was so cute! This is by far one of the best movies I have seen in a long time. Unfortunately, Legally Blonde 2 was a flop, but it had a good message, and I really think that shows Reese Witherspoon's character in real life because I know she is an animal lover. It is just a good-hearted comedy that anyone will love. I highly recommend. "}{"Title":"To say this film is terrible would be a grave understatement","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The genial sap is a well-beloved main character in comedy, but is also one of the most difficult to use properly. Attention to detail must be exasperating and obsessive, and the hand of humour must be applied lightly to avoid slapstick.Consider P.G. Wodehouse. His character of Bertram Wooster (portrayed on screen very well by Hugh Laurie) is the archetype of this sap. 'Elle Woods' is a poor, irritating copy. Instead of grand, rolling story lines which we have come to expect from this genre, with the sap being revealed as something of a genius, or a very lucky person indeed (saved, as always, by the twist at the end), we are treated to what could be mistaken for a plagiarism of 'Cold Comfort Farm', in that no cohesion is even attempted, save for the single recurring main character. If you want humour, suspense and good natured fun in small bites, watch MacGyver. Please, don't ever watch this sob-fest of self-indulgence, with pathetic forays into exploration of serious themes such as sexism. This film may well be 'Legally Blonde', but I feel it should really be Legally Burned. "},{"Title":"rubbish","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This the story of Elle Woods (Reese Witherspoon), a pretty girl with blond hair who is also a brilliant student (how original it is!). With her boyfriend, Emmett Richmond (Luke Wilson), they are living love's dream. But one day, he's leaving her by announcing him that he's engaging in a politic career. For this, he'll study law in a brilliant university. You can guess easily Witherspoon's feelings sadness, frustration but revenge too. In order to have her revenge and to get her darling again, she's registering in the same university... This is from this moment on that the movie becomes poor. Legally Blonde is a bad movie because it's based on a cock and bull screenplay that often falls into foolishness and it includes several unlikelinesses. Even in one hour and a half, you find time to get bored and this movie that is supposed to be a comedy isn't funny at all, in the long run. So I can't believe that this movie is rather well marked 6.6 out10!.Uneventful and boring. At a pinch can we save Reese Witherspon 's rather good performance. "},{"Title":"One of the worst I've ever seen","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Everything about this contrived, charmless, stupid joke of a movie makes me sick. The acting is atrocious, the story is not only badly written but completely lacking any appeal or entertainment value, and Reese Weatherspoon herself has to be one of the ugliest babes in Hollywood. She looks like she's been hit in the face with a brick.Avoid this movie unless you're a stupid blonde bimbo like the main character and you want something to feel empowered about, for the brief time it will take you to forget it's just a stupid movie. We should not be encouraging vanity, greed and ditzyness to the female youth of tomorrow.And the most disturbing thing is they've made a sequel to this offensive drivel.1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"mmm...reese witherspoon yummy.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  REESE WITHERSPOON was great in the movie.it is one of Miss Witherspoon`s best films yet and she is extremly beautiful especially in this movie. any guy who does not find REESE attractive is either gay or blind or both. the movie may appeal to women more than guy`s if any guy likes it it is because of REESE if they say it is not then they lie.that Ryan Phillippe does not know how lucky he is. i wish i was married to her but i dont have that kind of luck.the rating for the movie 9/10. the rating for REESE WITHERSPOON 12/10. "},{"Title":"Typical and irritating rubbish made in USA","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is probably the WORST and DUMBEST movie I have seen in my whole life. For a long time I have been restraining myself not to 'review' it, because I'm so embarrased that, in that case, this title will appear forever in My Movies list and I don't EVER want to be associated with such an insult to sensibility. Anyway, here I go.The movie (If you can call it that) is pretty AWFUL, STUPID and NOT funny. How on earth they can spend loads of cash on this crap is beyond me, and the worst of it all is I actually went to see it, which I will regret while I am living. Fell asleep midway thru the movie, as bad it was. It has no BELIEVABLE storyline, and the main character is not even hot - sort of a Barbie with a big chin.Too bad this film has made its way beyond the States. While I dig some stuff done there, garbage like this should NEVER be allowed to be screened outside the US. I can't tell this nonsense from a cartoon, and the mere thought of somebody being paid for appearing in such a lousy pile of crap gives me the willies. How many talented people must be yearning for being given a chance, but we are getting this DUMB and IRRITATING stuff instead.To sit through this movie was pure embarrasment and the best, of course, was when the credits appeared at the end. Not to disparage fans of this *movie*, but you have to be stupid or fond of silly and brainless movies to enjoy it.0/10. "},{"Title":"Quite fun but really unmemorable fluff that passes through you like prunes","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Elle Woods is a typical Valley girl who is completing her fashion major. She prepares for a date with her high-school boyfriend thinking that he is going to propose to her. However he dumps her in the hope of getting a more appropriate girlfriend to help his ambitious at Harvard and beyond. Elle is destroyed but realises that if she gets into Harvard then she will be able to win him back. Studying hard she gets in with high scores but finds that her Valley lifestyle doesn't quite fit with those around her - but she stays herself and struggles to overcome her image as a dumb blonde.I got this on loan from a friend for free so I figured I'd give it a shot. This type of silly comedy isn't really by thing at all. The plot is basically a write-off from day one. I know that in essence there's nothing stopping a valley girl with a fashion major doing law at Harvard but Elle's rise to power is too hard to swallow even in this type of comedy. The final court case (despite being wholly unlikely) is enjoyable but again, Elle only seems to be good at law when issues of style are major case points - does no-one else notice that this is the only thing she's good at!? The romance story is OK and the whole film handles itself well with a light bubbly feel to it, I never found it laugh out loud funny but it was nice and silly for 90 minutes.Witherspoon is well cast but I did find it difficult to get behind a girl who had everything given to her on a plate. The film holds her up as a sympathy figure - oh look the students are making fun of her. That's fine but the film also makes fun of the students who have done worthy things and have had to slave to get to Harvard - no sympathy for them? Wilson is always worth a watch despite having nothing much to do. Blair is good in a clichéd part while Garber's value is summed up by the fact that I only found him amusing by being familiar with his Alias character!Overall this is an enjoyable piece of fluff. Many will be put off by the total lack of logic or story but plenty will enjoy as a silly waste of 90 minutes. I must say I didn't find it very funny but it was breezy enough to be fun and then be forgotten. To give you an idea of how fluffy and unmemorable it is - I only saw it 12 hours ago but am struggling to write a good review because it's already slipping out of my mind....still passed the time though! "},{"Title":"Cliched and predictable","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You have seen a dozen movies just like this one, all of them bad, but most of them probably better than Legally Blonde.  Good for only a few laughs, the movie is purely formulaic and is aimed at youngsters.  I lost count of how many times my intelligence was insulted, and I knew what was going to happen in every seen.  See this movie only if you want to laugh at how bad it is!  4/10 "},{"Title":"Wow... just wow...","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" To even make sense of this movie or enjoy it you LITERALLY have to be one of the following 3 types of people1) Blonde woman 2) EXTREMELY sexually desperate man 3) 1 and 2 or IQ < 65We have the character of Elle Woods. She's some fashion major at some random college (we don't care) and she's the Cliché blonde. Huge boobs, blonde hair, prissy walk, blah blah etc. This is literally saying that all blonds are this way because all of her blonde friends are stupid, have big boobs, and have to give lap dances to pass classes. BUT NOT ELLE! So after her boyfriend dumps her (jeez I wonder why - her crying in the middle of the restaurant would involuntarily jerk my right hand up to grab a knife and kill myself) she figures that he wants a 'serious' girl to be in a relationship with. So she decides to go to Harvard Law where he is going. So she studies for the LSATs (np) and uses her 4.0 (in fashion) and big boobs to get into Harvard Law. This is the biggest insult to such a school in the history of movies. The famous line heard round the World as her boyfriend (upon meeting again) says, You... got into Harvard law? Elle responds, What like it's hard? Oh my god this year is gonna be just like last year except funner! Upon that line I cringed and stabbed myself twice in the neck. The pain endured was half that of watching this rubbish.So Elle continues along and finds out her boyfriend (who is now the enemy girls...) has a woman. The woman is a royal tool and eventually Elle just starts owning everything. She meets this other tool and they start to get a little love fling going. Then she gets on some team and starts helping out on a case with this woman she knows who was indicted because she was thought to kill her husband. Either way the real lawyer (who is also Elle's teacher) gets fired because the client is blonde and needs blonde power from Elle now. *SPOILER - should you even care* So Elle solves the case because the real murderer said she was in the shower and the perm is still in tact which meant she wasn't in the shower, meaning she killed her father. Here's now an insult to Harvard law professors. I love how some PORTRAYED blonde bimbo discovers this, yet a big shot lawyer can't. Is this a joke or what? In any event the ending is the cheesiest piece of crap alive. Elle and the one tool are dating, her old boyfriend is now a loser, and the new woman of the old boyfriend is now best friends. I crapped myself 5 times after finishing this movie and quickly downed a bottle of Listerine in an effort to dull the pain. I then slept for 5 days and awoke still hearing the stupid blood-curling scream that blonde over-hyped girls do. You know when they jump up and down and shake their hands high and scream with that whiny face. YUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUCKKK!!!!RUN FROM THIS MOVIE. RUN AS FAST AS YOU CAN!!! "},{"Title":"Oh Sure","Date":"31 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" .....Oh Sure I found myself saying that a lot while watching Legally Blonde, Just because it stars Reese Witherspoon as (for lack of a better stereotype) Barbie, doesn't make it strictly a girl film. If anything I like the way Legally Blonde pokes fun at the Barbie personality, the self-centred, capitalist, materialist girl from The wealthy LA suburbs. At the same time Legally Blonde can be equally frustrating. It pokes fun at credible intellectuals, like Harvard folk. Here is a movie that which tells us it is more likely that a know-nothing California sorority queen is more likely to get into the hardest programme at America's top University, than it is likely for hell to freeze over. The film takes us on a rushed trip, which is unbelievably dopey, but just occasionally amusing and provokes giggles. I wouldn't say that is enough of a pay off for investing your time in this film. If you want a good courtroom comedy, try My Cousin Vinnie, or Liar Liar. "}]