[{"Title":"It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad-- Rat Race?","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"86 out of 117 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you've seen the trailer for this movie, you're probably thinking it looks hilarious and you've made a mental note that it's one you don't want to miss.  More often than not, however, the funniest stuff is in the previews, and when you see the whole movie it's a let-down.  But I'm here to tell you, that is decidedly NOT the case with `Rat Race,' directed by Jerry Zucker, and furthermore, make a mental note  This movie is hilarious, and one you DO NOT want to miss.  In the tradition of Stanley Kramer's 1963 BIG comedy hit, `It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World,' this one is exactly what it is supposed to be-- Fun (yes, with a capital `F'), and Funny-- with one laugh after another that just keep on a-comin'.Las Vegas casino owner Donald Sinclair (John Cleese), likes to offer his elite customers-- the `high rollers'-- something they can't get anywhere else, in the form of things they can gamble on that are so bizarre you can only imagine.  And the big one he comes up with this time begins with the planting of six lucky tokens in his slot machines.  Those who win the tokens are invited to attend a meeting, at which time Sinclair announces that they are to be the lucky participants in a `race' of sorts.  In a train station locker in the small town of Silver City, New Mexico, there is $2,000,000 waiting for whomever gets to it first.  He passes out six identical keys to the token bearers that will open the locker, shouts `Go!' and they're off! And Sinclair's high rollers proceed to put down some big bucks on their favorite horse-- uh, dog!-- uh-- Well, you get the idea...The participants include Nick (Breckin Meyer), who is pretty much just a regular guy; NFL referee Owen Templeton (Cuba Gooding Jr.), hated by millions because of a recent botched call; brothers Duane and Blaine Cody (Seth Green, Vince Vieluf), not the brightest bulbs to begin with, and hampered in their communications by Blaine's newly pierced tongue; a mother, Vera (Whoopi Goldberg), and the daughter she gave up for adoption and with whom she has just reunited, Merrill (Lanei Chapman); Randy Pear (Jon Lovitz), who has a hard time making his wife, Bev (Kathy Najimy), and their two kids, Kimberly (Jillian Marie) and Jason (Brody Smith) understand why he's interrupted their Vegas vacation to drag them off suddenly to New Mexico; and-- last but not least-- Enrico Pollini (Rowan Atkinson), a narcoleptic Italian.  It's quite the eclectic bunch, and they definitely put on quite a show.During the rush for the gold, they encounter a number of people and situations that drive the laugh meter through the roof, including  A woman (Kathy Bates) selling squirrels by the roadside (Vera and Merrill); a group of `Lucy' impersonators on their way to some kind of Lucy convention (Owen); a `Barbie' museum that isn't what it seems, and not a great place for the Jewish Pear family to visit; an errant cow, a hot air balloon and a guy who overhears too much (Duane and Blaine); a jealous helicopter pilot named Tracy (Amy Smart), who buzzes her boyfriend's house at a most inopportune time (Nick); an ambulance driver, Zack (Wayne Knight), who is transporting a human heart for a transplant, and suffers something akin to the same fate as that famous `cat' due to his curiosity (Enrico).  Zucker and writer Andy Breckman pulled out all the stops with this one, and the result (and there's much, much, MUCH more than what's mentioned here) is some pretty wild stuff.The secret to making this all work, is above all to keep it moving-- and Zucker certainly does that.  He relies heavily on sight gags and slapstick, and knows how to set up the schtick for a real payoff, which he succeeds at time and again throughout the entire film.  it's all fairly controlled insanity, and with a couple of exceptions when Zucker wanders into Jim Carrey/Farrelly Brothers territory, it's pretty easy to swallow.  Most importantly, IT'S FUNNY! with enough different kinds of humor thrown in to satisfy just about any taste.  And that's a rare thing to be said of any comedy, and it's a big part of why this one's such a gem.The cast is superb, but the highlights have to be Cuba Gooding Jr., who demonstrates a real knack for comedy; John Cleese, who can make you laugh just by smiling, brandishing as he does a spectacular set of teeth; and Rowan Atkinson, who does some masterful bits of physical comedy, the likes of which rivals the best of Peter Sellers and Buster Keaton.  The way he mugs and moves is absolutely hysterical.The supporting cast includes Gloria Allred (Herself), Dave Thomas (Mr. Grisham), Dean Cain (Shawn), Paul Rodriguez (Gus), Brandy Ledford (Vicky), Tristin Leffler (Pierced Girl) and Andrew Kavovit.  One that lives up to it's expectations and more, `Rat Race' is everything you want it to be, a laugh a minute movie that never lets up, and one that won't wear your brain out making you think about it too much.  This is pure entertainment that'll lead you down the road to riot (make that `laugh' riot).  There hasn't been anything quite like this since Jimmy Durante kicked that bucket and started that other bunch of madcaps off looking for `The big 'dub-a-yeh'.'  Zucker and his gang really pulled this one off, and moreover, they did it with style.  And that's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 8/10.  "},{"Title":"One of the best non-sense movies","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"63 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From a point of view it is not convenient to give a very high mark to a movie like this, but I believe that movies have to be rated in different categories. So it could happen that such a movie receives a greater mark than a movie from a different category, which by the way has a greater artistic value. Anyway, if you like non-sense movies with absurd scenes, this is for you. The movie succeeds without clever jokes, with its hilarious scenes to make fun of the greedy or the don't know how to spend their money people. One absurd scene follows the other, and if you like such humor you will soon find yourself convulsed with laughter. Sometimes it may appear forced, but this is a characteristic for the genre. If you just want a fun and action packed movie, this is a very good choice. "},{"Title":"Very funny and entertaining. You're bound to have a good time. *** (out of four)","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"64 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  RAT RACE / (2001) *** (out of four	Rat Race revives a genre Hollywood has neglected since the sixties the big event, ensemble chase comedy. Who better to breathe life into the subject than Jerry Zucker, the mastermind behind the Naked Gun films, and Airplane, two of the most hilarious movies I have seen. After years of directing straight dramas, Zucker says he is thrilled to be back doing comedy. It's very visual and there are lots of big visual stunts, Zucker explains in the film's production notes, kind of a James Bond comedy in a way because there are so many sight gags.	Good comparison-Race Race is indeed a visual comedy. Its laugh-a-minute attitude works for the creative situations.  The audience does not necessarily laugh at every single joke the movie throws, but the humor is timed well. Rat Race also contains a terrific cast and provides enough laughs to be worthy of at least one viewing.   	John Cleese stars as the eccentric Las Vegas casino tycoon named Donald Sinclair. He wants to keep his wealthy, high stakes gamblers interested in his gambling techniques so he arranges a new, quasi-legal sporting event for them to bet on a human rat race.Sinclair randomly places six golden coins in several different slot machines. The customer service sends the winners to a large banquet room where the characters learn of a two million dollar jackpot resting in a duffel bag, inside a locker, within the city of Silver City, New Mexico-seven hundred miles away. The fist one there keeps all of the money, tax-free. &#133;the odds of winning are one and six&#133; explains Sinclair. There's only one rule there are no rules! 	 The players include a vast variety of different characters. There is Vera Baker (Whoopi Goldberg), who, after giving her child up for adoption as a baby, has decided to meet her daughter, Merrill (Lanai Chapman). Owen Temleton (Cuba Gooding, Jr.), an NFL coach who recently blew an important game, has come to the sin city to forget his horrendous mistake. Mr. Pollini (Rowan Akinson from Bean) is an exuberantly cheerful, but narcoleptic, Italian fellow. Randy Pear (Jon Lovitz), and his family is vacationing when he slips off to play slots and wins the chance of a lifetime. The Cody brothers (Seth Green and Vince Vieluf), are first to cause trouble in any crowd. Finally, Nick (Breckin Meyer) a skeptical young lawyer-in-training, meets a charming young woman (Amy Smart), and encounters plenty of adventures with her.  Rat Race offers plenty of hit and miss humor. Much of it misses, but much of it hits the mark as well. The majority of the humor is physical and exaggerated. Very little offers sharp, witty satire on any part of culture. The film says something about greed in a zany sort of way, but for the most part this is just a two hour laugh riot, nothing more, nothing less.However, this is a tricky script to write, and for the overall result to provide this much effective comic material, Andrew Breckman's ingenious script is indeed successful. It's not easy writing a comedy like this, and Breckman does indeed run into a few problems in the overcrowded plot. Even more difficult is creating a conclusion for a story like this. No matter how you end it, you are certain to displease at least some audience members. Breckman has found a way to have his cake and eat it too. I would never dream of revealing how this race concludes itself, but I will say it is not exceedingly satisfying, but sure does work over the obvious other possibilities. Rat Race is one of the funniest movies of the year. It's energetic, irrelevant, and entertaining. You are sure to have a decent time.  "},{"Title":"A human horse race!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"55 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  AIRPLANE! crashes into MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD WORLD!Duck and cover. The antics are silly, but they come at you fast and furious -- a transvestile Lucy (in a whole bunch of Lucys), squirrels, cows, balloons, a dead dog, a heart transplant, car wrecks, bowel movements, a bullet train, and much much more.It's slapstick and double take time in this zany comedy about human greed and just plain old stupidity. The story line gets pretty ragged at times but it is funny. And it even has a message.If you want to lose yourself for two hours in a nutty comedy, this is a good bet.  "},{"Title":"One of the funnest comedies of 2001","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"50 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  From start to finish, it's all laughs.  The movie is meant to be wacky and to be really taken seriously. I especially love the part when Jon Lovitz looks like Hitler.  It's one of the best popcorn comedies of 2001. Just sit back and have fun. B+, 8/10 "},{"Title":"FUNNY!","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie, for those of you old enough to remember it, will see the similarities to the old Spencer Tracy It's a Mad Mad Mad World...  But this is a great time for the whole family.  It includes a star studded cast, and the typical comedic gags that we have to expect where one of the Zucker boys is involved.  One of the greatest things about this movie on DVD vs. seeing it at the theater is the outtake section on the DVD.  I am a sucker for outtakes anyway, but once you've seen this film, and then watch this section, it is all the funnier! I also thought this was a great vehicle for certain members of the cast to do show their comedic abilities. Enjoy the film "},{"Title":"The Funniest Film Ever Created","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"66 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have seen Rat Race about 50 times, and it still packs the same punch for me that it did on view number 1. I absolutely love the stellar cast, which is highlighted by the performances of Rowan Atkinson, John Lovitz, and Whoopi Goldberg. Bringing many comedy stars together under one roof hasn't been done often enough. It did happen in Mars Attacks, which turned out to be a total waste of time and was and absolutely horrible movie. In this case however, the actors/actresses aren't awkwardly stuck into their roles, they all sink into very unique characters who each have a story to tell. Rat Race is a hilarious comedy that everyone should see, I have never met anyone who didn't like it. If you have nothing to do on a Saturday Night, you will enjoy this one for sure! "},{"Title":"I liked the ending!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"49 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I laughed throughout this comic masterpiece and so did everyone with me, who ranged in age from 60 to 12 (I am somewhere in between).There is not a lot to say except that there are hits and misses and the misses far outweigh the jokes that are flat.  Its just a lot of fun and I really liked the ending, which seems to have generated unfair critcism - it was the perfect way to end the movie. I plan to see it at least three more times while it is in theatres, hopefully to take other people to see it.  It really is that good and I want to support this throwback comedy while it is still playing (it didn't exactly set the box office on fire on its opening weekend).Out and out laughs, a great time at the movies..who can ask for more?  "},{"Title":"A guiltless pleasure that is funny simply because it doesn't rely on a boatload of fart jokes","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"36 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After seeing the first trailer for this film, I thoughtit would too hokey for my tastes. However, like  has happened on many other occasions, I was  surprised by the humor in the film. While the  principal characters were important in the  movie, why didn't Wayne Knight get any billing?  He's probably one of the best overweight  actors since John Candy, and this guy can't  get any work!? He was the only good reason  to watch Seinfeld. Anyway, I felt this movie  was quite a departure for some actors, and  a great one for those who have made a movie  such as this before. Jon Lovitz was excellent  in this film, along with Mr. Bean (or Rowan  Atkinson as he is called by non-Mr. Bean fans,  who must be a sad group of people). The  only downside to this film was the ending, which  had yet another bad song by Smashmouth  (and it was All-Star once again!). Overall,  a good movie. "},{"Title":"Refreshingly inventive comedy","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I haven't seen It's a Mad ... etc. World (is it four Mads or five? I can never remember), so it's not fair to make comparisons - but the changes I know about sound as though they're improvements.  The sum of money in the original film was $350 000; this time it's $2 million, which (adjusting for inflation) is considerably less.  In the original the money was a fifteen-year-old buried treasure; here, it's just money.  An eccentric squillionaire has put it in a locker without explanation.  WE get an explanation, of sorts, but the racers do not - so there is no romance attached to the prize, which means that all of their actions are PURE expressions of greed.  (John Cleese is the squillionaire, and while his cameo in The World Is Not Enough proved that he could, with the right material, fail to be funny, he and his coterie of wealthy compulsive gamblers are hilarious here.  It's good counterpoint humour, since they're actually the least greedy, most disinterested people involved in the chase.)A criticism levelled at the original was that innocent, well-meaning bystanders got hurt - that it was meant to be a joke when their property was destroyed, but the joke wasn't funny.  Rat Race avoids being open to the same charge by making the world an even more venal one.  The ambulance-chasing lawyer, the live organ courier, the quirky roadside squirrel-seller, the key-cutter, the garage mechanic, the neo-Nazis, the vengeful taxi driver ... all these people have less attractive personalities than any of the racers.  Only a few of them are punished, but among them are the only outsiders to be punished at all.  (With the exception, I'll admit, of people we never see, like the anonymous owners of cars that are run over in the parking lot.)Whoopi Goldberg plays it straight, which suits her.  I can't fault the acting anywhere, but I do wish that Rowan Atkinson hadn't been cast as the loopy, dim-witted Italian (I can't see this picture playing in Italy at all).  To be sure, he brings the role off, and he's the only person who could have done so - but he would have been funnier if he'd been allowed to be more intelligent, to have a little more rat cunning hiding beneath the surface.  (For half a second, he DOES exhibit cunning it's by far his funniest moment.)All scenes before the race is announced fall flat.  Timing and motivation just weren't there, and I even wondered afterwards if Zucker had handed his establishing scenes to an ungifted underling.  But I don't want to carp at a funny film by saying it could have been funnier.  Things pick up considerably as soon as John Cleese outlines the central premise; from then on the film is never less than inventive, and even if (for some reason) you don't find it funny, you must admit that those involved at least had the right IDEA about comedy. "}{"Title":"I need a doctor","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't know I could laugh this often in one sitting. What a great movie. Maybe the ending wasn't the best and I don't know what Siskel and Ebert would think, but this was the funniest movie I have ever seen. You hear people talk about how funny Blazing saddles was. Well, this movie had more laughs in it than hormel has chili. I would love to know what movie packs more laughs than this. I'm sure it compares to the 1st 10 minutes of the new Austin Powers. I know it shares an actor or two. I'll let you know once I've seen them both...Dan Buckley "},{"Title":"Two if you count Lindberg","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker team has made some of my favorite movies. I adore Airplane!, Top Secret!, Ruthless People, and The Naked Gun. So when I heard that Jerry Zucker was making a new comedy AND that it starred such funny actors as Jon Lovitz, Whoopi Goldberg, Rowan Atkinson, Seth Green, John Cleese, and Wayne Knight, I was convinced that it would be absolutely hilarious and become the funniest film of the year.And I was not disappointed. OK, so Shrek is more likely seen as the funniest film of the year by critics, but in terms of my own personal enjoyment, Rat Race is it.Jon Lovitz and family were great; the whole Nazi bit was absolutely inspired. Whoopi Goldberg and Lanei Chapman were fabulous, the squirrel bit was one of the funniest scenes of the movie. Amy Smart and Brecken Meyer - well, there had to be a little romance in this movie; not bad performances by either. Seth Green and Vince Vieluf were hilarious. Every word out of Rowan Atkinson's mouth made me laugh (It's a race, it's a race! I'm winning, I'm winning!). Cuba Gooding, Jr. was also very funny. John Cleese and the other gamblers proved to be another great subplot (the scene with the hooker is my favorite scene of the movie).Some people commented on the ending. Yes, it seemed a bit out of place judging by the whole do-anything-to-get-the-money theme of the movie, but I guess everyone has a soft spot. That goes for the writer of Rat Race and all the characters. A must-see! "},{"Title":"Great entertaining laughs !","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I looked at the list of characters, I thought this should be a good movie. I was not disappointed ! I haven't laughed so hard in a long time. The plot is great, keeps taking unexpected turns and keeps you wondering what's next. There is not a boring moment in this film, but just a string of very funny scenes. I truly enjoyed this movie. "},{"Title":"So funny!","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I always wanted to see Rat Race but I never did, don't know why, but I thought of it last night while I was renting some movies. I watched it last night and I have to say that I cannot believe that I missed out on this film! I thought that Rat Race is one of the funniest movies I have seen. As silly and outrageous as the humor is, I think that's just what I needed to put me in a good mood. The cast in Rat Race is absolutely perfect, they couldn't have picked a more comedic cast, not only that, but they all clicked so well together and made the film just an absolute blast to watch. Not to mention, cows are just getting a reputation as the perfect comedic relief, just look at not only Rat Race, but Twister, lol. The story is extremely clever, just how far most people would go to get money in their pockets.Donald P. Sinclair is a huge millionaire, he's so rich in fact, that he and his other rich buddies place the most obscene bets and they've just come up with the most cruel one of all. In a Las Vegas casino, several people have won a coin saying that they've won something. Donald has place two million dollars in a locker in Silver City, New Mexico. At first the group just laughs at him feeling like they've been scammed, but they think about it, and decide to just go for it. They all have to travel over two hundred miles while being watched by the rich group is watching them and betting on who is going to win the cash.Rat Race is incredibly clever and just a whole lot of fun to watch. Another great thing about this film is that it puts you in a great mood, you gotta love the comedies that can't stop make you laughing out loud. I think my favorite team was without a doubt Seth Green and his brother, they were just classic. I loved it when they had to stop all the flights from getting out so that they could have the same head start. I would highly recommend this movie to anyone, it's a fun comedy and deserves a better rating on IMDb, trust me, it really is that funny.8/10 "},{"Title":"Could have been rip roaring laugh out loud hilarious but alas","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Rat Race' fails miserably. With a unique ensemble cast of such comedic talents one (like me) would have expected loads of laughter. Sadly the director and writer exaggerate the plot situations too much and the actors, every single one of them severely overact. That's not to say that there aren't any funny moments at all (Kathy Bates's cameo as the squirrel seller). However the overall outcome disappoints big time. It is the cast that really convinced me to watch the film. Who would have expected a film with John Cleese, Whoopi Goldberg, Rowan Atkinson, Jon Lovitz etc to be this non-funny! I suppose the director is to be blamed too. Many of the 'humour' appears forced. On the positive side, one does get to vastly enjoy the American landscape (it is a road movie after all). But, anyway, if you're expecting a real comedy, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love how all the cast got together and made this work!From like, 6 different stories you still understand every character, from mr.bean to seth green this is a good one!I love the veteren nazi scene and the biker chic.What i learned from this movie Dont pierce your own toungue Never steal Hitlers car And remember to buy a squirrel! "},{"Title":"Underrated... except that it fizzles out at the end...","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have seen John Cleese in two films that I have actually liked him in. Frankenstein was the other one. In this one, he plays an eccentric billionaire who loves a good bet. In a later sequence of the film, he has his pilot wobble the plane around violently in order to see who will throw up first. But central to this film's plot is that he gathers a good ten people to partake in a bet on a grand scale. In a locker within a train station in New Mexico, he has stashed two million dollars and made six copies of the key. The first team to get there, unlock the locker, and take the money gets to keep it.Assembled for this mad race are a Narcoleptic Indian migrant (Rowan Atkinson), a materially-obsessed businesswoman and her long-lost mother (Whoopi Goldberg), and a football referee who is hated because of a botched coin toss call (Cuba Gooding, Jr. in a welcome return to form). And those are just the ones that have the craziest adventures (and the easiest ones to remember the actors' names). I would have liked to have seen what Bobcat Goldthwait would have done in a role like this, but there is always next time.What makes this race so amusing is that no plausible extreme is deemed too over the top. A helicopter buzzing the pilot's boyfriend's house? Check. Driving to New Mexico with a bunch of Lucille Ball impersonators? Check. Hanging by a rope from a balloon and smashing into the sides of cows? Check. Even the opportunity to visit a World War II Revisionist museum and crash a convention of World War II veterans while physical injuries make you look like a bad Hitler impersonator isn't taboo here.The only low point is the ending. After all of that excitement and lunacy, I really expected something better. Instead of a grand finale in which one last attempt is made to defy logic or reason, we get a corny cop-out ending at a concert for some lame pop band that wishes it was alternative. Not exactly what I would call a fitting end to one of the first films made in the last ten years that had me laughing from the beginning to the end.So all in all, ten out of ten for the build-up, but minus two for the climax. Go and see it, you will not be disappointed, especially if your home theatre can handle Dolby Digital 5.1 soundtracks. "},{"Title":"One of the best Funniest movies!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this and I thought it was outrageous!  I couldn't stop laughing!  I saw this movie about 7 times and I recomended it to almost ever one i know. So now I am recomending this movie to you (which I think deserves even more than 5 stars!) "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie sooo much. I bought it and watched it like 4 times a day for a month, i havent seen it in a while though. Its so funny and just so perfect, when i first heard it was comeing out i thought it would be stupid, i was major wrong, go watch it now!!!!! and you wont regret it, i promise!!! "},{"Title":"Wow, what a fast paced, terrific movie","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just want to say, that I'm totally amazed. This movie is an excellent piece of comedy, and I haven't laughed that much in a movie for a very long time. Great. My favorite scene is the monster-truck escape scene, brilliant filming.   "}{"Title":"I've a new dreamwoman ! ;-)","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  And her name is Amy Smart ! She has my absolute favorite scene here, when she attacks her boyfriend after she has found out he betrayed her. Its fantastic ! Fan-tas-tic ! I absolutely loved it ! I've to watch this movie again just for that scene !But also the rest of the movie is really funny. Not so much Mr Bean Rowan Atkinson, who played a character a little bit too crazy to be really amusing. But the rest is just too good to be true. I really wasn't attracted too much by the trailer, but the movie itself is so much better !Don't avoid this one ! Its far better that it looks from the outside ! "},{"Title":"a great comedy","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand why this movie didn't become a smash hit. Read the 330+ reviews on us.imdb.com - they say it all - this movie is a delightful, madcap, comic feast. It hit so many comedic right notes (and avoided so many wrong ones), people loved this movie. There's a greatness to laughter and this one touched it. This movie will be considered a classic.PS If you rent it on dvd and you liked the movie, the deleted scenes are worth watching because you'll want to keep on laughing. "},{"Title":"Rat Race is hillarious","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The story is crazy, but hillariously funny, I've never seen anything like it...I love it!!!The actors and actresses are great, you should really see it, I recommend it!! "},{"Title":"Loved It !!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had heard rumors of a sequel to It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World for years using the comedic talents of the Eighties and then the Nineties, and there were a few to try to copy the idea, Cannonball Run comes to mind, but Rat Race is the only one with the sheer brillance or lunacy to top it. All the actors are great, but I have to pick out Seth Green, Jon Lovitz, Kathy Bates and Amy Smart for being the funniest. Watching it, I could parallel all the chacters in the movie to the older one Atkinson to Winters, Knight to Silvers, Lovitz to Berle, Green to Rooney, Cain to Shawn and so on. The scenes with the hooker, millionaires and the Lucy impersonators are among my favorites along with the cow whose life is threatened to the extent she suddenly realizes she can talk ! The one thing I didn't like was the ending; it was sort of anti-climactic to me and didn't hold up to the rest of the movie. Smash Mouth was great ! But I would have expected something a little more unexpected although the final zinger to Cleese was a nice touch. I only hope there is a sequel ! "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever made!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Many words can be used to describe this movie. But certainly nothing negative. I would say delirious. Rowan Atkinson's character made the movie. Jon Lovitz, Whoopi Goldberg, John Cleese and the rest of the cast were all hilarious. This was one damn funny movie! 5/5. "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a very funny movie featuring a race for $2 million. The funniest scenes I thought were Cuba Gooding Jr and the Lucy impersonators on their way to an I Love Lucy convention. John Cleese sends everyone on a chase for the money, promising to whoever gets there first. I thought the cast was excellent, too!*** out of **** "},{"Title":"YOU...SHOULD...HAVE...BOUGHT...A...SQUIRREL!","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  *Contains a few minor spoilers*It's been a long, long time since there was a madcap celebrity filled chase film that actually was worth sitting through, and Rat Race succeeds on most levels, breathing some new life into this type of comedy genre.Whether or not you want to compare it to It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World, I liked the sprinkling of cameo roles here and there and the fact that the film just keeps moving.  Plenty of creativity no matter how absurd it gets and the sheer zany atmosphere will keep you smiling whether the jokes hit or miss.First and foremost, Kathy Bates as the squirrel lady STEALS THE WHOLE MOVIE!  It was brilliant and sinister all at once.  John Lovitz really carries the film and is such a natural (I still think he deserves huge praise for Mom And Dad Save The World).  Not only is the Barbie Museum scene excrutiatingly funny (watch his eyes move around!) but his confrontation with the World War II vets will definitely be considered one of comedy's funniest moments in film.  Would have made Mel Brooks proud! While Hollywood seems to be trying to focus so much on established tired comics like Eddie Murphy, it's really guys like Lovitz that have a true knack for comedy.  He's underappreciated and made a great team with Kathy Najimy for this film (what he makes the poor daughter do so to avoid a rest stop is so nuts it brings back quite a few memories of family vacations I was subjected too!). Cuba Gooding, Jr.'s funnier moments were really when he would try to dodge being recognized as that bonehead, and Whoopie Goldberg is funny because it almost seems as if her character from Ghost were transplanted into this film.  Seth Green is surprisingly likeable though his character stops at nothing to get ahead in the race.Besides the squirrel bit, other small things really shine more than some of the more played out segments.  For instance, the rental car trainee had me really laughing as well as the gentle nature of the skinhead tour guides.  These worked better than even the flying cow or the busload of Lucys.  You'll really get a giggle out of the baby on the train, his lack of reaction to Rowan Atkinson made Rowan's role in the film more worthwhile.  Gloria Allred yelling out a building I SAW THAT! I'LL BE RIGHT DOWN! when witnessing Wayne Knight running into Rowan Atkinson was a great moment.While not 100% funny, Rat Race offers just enough zest to keep you entertained.  Some of the strangest chases I've ever seen, and that helicopter on a rampage is a WOW.  It's also nice to see faces like Rance Howard, Dean Cain, Colleen Camp, Wayne Knight, and Dave Thomas too.  All this adds up to quite a lot of fun until the Smash Mouth concert....I don't mind a happy ending, but this could have been worked out just a little better.  It just seems when you put a band that's popular at the moment in a concert scene, especially at the end, the film crashes. Ah well, at least Rat Race offers plenty more to enjoy, and is perfect for a good old silly time.One thing's for sure, I can't get that choir version of the song Rat Race out of my head and I think I'm going to have to go get the soundtrack now! "},{"Title":"Rat Race (****/****)","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, you heard right. I'm giving this movie four stars out of four. Not that it's a brilliant piece of moviemaking or anything. But, it does exactly what it sets out to do - it is funny. Very funny. In fact, side-splittingly gut-wrenchingly funny. Funny enough to make it hysterical even after viewing it ten times.The plot is simple six strangers are rounded up and put into a race to get to Silver City, New Mexico - and $2 million that's in a locker there. From there, the racers, including a straight-faced Chicago lawyer (Breckin Meyer), a narcoleptic Italian tourist (Rowan Atkinson), a re-united mother/daughter team (Whoopi Goldberg/Lanei Chapman), a pair of scheming con artists (Seth Green/Vince Vieluf), a disgraced football referree (Cuba Gooding Jr.) and, funniest of all, a father of two who cannot tell his family why he is driving like a maniac to reach New Mexico (Jon Lovitz) are off on a frantic race to grab the cash, while wealthy hotel owner Donald Sinclair (John Cleese) watches with his favorite high rollers from a penthouse suite in Vegas.This is definitely not a light comedy. When you go into this movie, be prepared to laugh, and to laugh HARD. When I first saw it, I had tears in my eyes, and I was clutching my sides as I slid out of my seat in fits of very loud laughter. There are several scenes in the movie that do this to people including one scene that you have to see to believe, involving a man being chased up a satellite tower by a car. And then there's two men having a fight using a cow. Or maybe a game of cat and mouse between a pickup truck and a helicopter is more your style. Whatever it is you laugh at, you're bound to find it in this movie, and much, much more. It's not just a great comedy - it takes the cake in my book as the funniest comedy ever made.Rat Race is rated PG-13 for crude humor, violence and brief nudity. Despite these warning labels, however, it's a very mild PG-13, bordering sharply on a PG rating. "},{"Title":"Life is nothing' but a fat, rat race!","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rat Race doesn't score well in the highest denominator of comedy, but it does score big laughs and big smiles while it runs in circles hectically for almost two hours. Yet again, I revisit another film I idolized as a child. This was probably one of the first truly adult films I watched at a very young age. I've mentioned before I watched a lot of inappropriate things as a child, but somethings, left a permanent mark on me as a child and Rat Race is certainly one of them.Sometimes, people ask me what got interested and familiar with film and I have to say Rat Race. This was the first film that introduced me to all the big named celebrities at the time. Everyone in this film is currently an active celebrity and has a number of movies under their belt, and I knew everyone's name by the second viewing. So, in terms of actors, I can honestly say, this one got me the most familiar with many of them.The story is on its own medicine; The eccentric owner of a hotel resort named Donald Sinclair (Cleese) creates a new game to entertain the high-rollers of the casino where he will place six golden tokens in slot machines. Whoever gets a token, will be given a key. A key that opens a special locker in a train station in Silver City, New Mexico. In the locker is a duffel bag filled with $2 million. Whoever gets there first, claims the money. Simple as that.The people involved are played by Breckin Meyer, Cuba Gooding Jr., Amy Smart, Jon Lovitz, Rowan Atkinson, Whoopi Goldberg, Seth Green, Lanei Chapman, and Vince Vieluf. Clearly, nothing shy of an ensemble comedy cast. After the rules are explained, the gang runs around like rats in a maze doing everything they can to get from Vegas to New Mexico as quickly as possible.As one can imagine, they run into nothing but sticky, and undeniably hilarious, situations which causes grief on their part. It's classic laugh-at-someone-else's-misery-comedy executed very well. The film sort of mixes classics like Stanley Kramer's It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World and Scavenger Hunt. Both films involved run of the mill situations, and characters struggling to make the next move half the time.The only downside here, is the film gets carried away with itself. It's a bit too contrived, and very coincidental. But in a way it has to be to keep the comedy and action at a consistent level, and the irony and fun existing. Despite its own medicine being a bit too strong, Rat Race combines a great score along with it. The music in this film matches pitch perfectly to the stressful scenes, and the tense atmosphere these characters are clearly occupying.Also equipped with delightful cameos, hilarious little side-stories, one of the best opening intros in recent memory, and an unexpecting and cherished end scene that shows even when consumed with greed and self-absorption that people are still likely to do admirable things, Rat Race is nothing shy of funny and well-made comedy. The audience it will attract is interesting because it can be fans of a good cast, fans of craziness in films, fans of classic cinema, fans of just good films, or a combination of every type. It's a universally appealing film that stands out for more than just its actors, but its message and its execution is all just remarkable.Starring Rowan Atkinson, John Cleese, Whoopi Goldberg, Cuba Gooding Jr., Seth Green, Jon Lovitz, Breckin Meyer, Amy Smart, Kathy Najimy, Lanei Chapman, Vince Vieluf, Dave Thomas, Wayne Knight, Kathy Bates, and Dean Cain. Directed by Jerry Zucker. "},{"Title":"If you like physical comedy and laughing...","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I just bought the DVD today (7/3/07) 6 years after I saw it in the theater. The visit to the Barbie Museum is just as hilarious, and hell hath no fury like a woman scorned - well, you have to see Amy Smart in this role. The plot is copied from It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World which I think is one of the comedy classics - take a group of unrelated people, point them to some treasure at the end of the rainbow, stand back and watch human nature take over. In other words, cheating, scheming, falling over each other trying to get there first. I like John Cleese, Cuba Gooding, Whoppi Goldberg...and was smitten with Amy Smart - just don't get her angry with you ;-)In the Special Features section all the actors were saying that it was a true joy on the set even with 14 hour days - lots of laughing and good times - and it shows in the performances. "}{"Title":"Very funny film, that often had me in stitches, as it's really good fun, with a great story, and hilarious performances!","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a very funny film, that often had me in stitches, as it's really good fun, with a great story, and hilarious performances!. All the characters are awesome, and I think this film should be higher then 6.3 in in my opinion, plus Rowan Atkinson and Cuba Gooding Jr. are simply amazing in this!. One of the funniest moments in the film for me is when Amy Smart's character gets angry at her boyfriend for cheating on him and she goes psycho on him, and Rowan Atkinson's character was really just Mr. Bean as Enrico Pollini but he was still amazing! plus I loved the scenes him and Wayne Knight had together. The ending was just perfect in my opinion, and there are so many hilarious gags to enjoy as well, plus Seth Green and Vince Vieluf are hilarious as the two crook brothers. It's very well made and written for the most part, and if your not rolling with laughter, You'll at least be chuckling, plus John Cleese was very good in his role. I loved the scene where they search for the heart that they lost as that was very funny, plus I also loved the squirrel segment with Kathy Bates!. This is a very funny film, that often had me ins stitches, as it's really good fun, with a great story, and hilarious performances, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Jerry Zucker does a great! job here with excellent camera work, cool angles, and just keeping the film hilarious and at a very fast pace. The Acting is lots of fun!. Breckin Meyer is fantastic in his role, he had this easygoing charm that I loved, he was also great with Amy Smart, this guy is quite underrated in my opinion, I loved him here!. Cuba Gooding Jr. is hilarious as the bone headed Ref who cost the Dallas Cowboys the game, as he did so many hilarious things, he just rocked!, especially loved the scene with him and the Lucille Ball imitators on the bus that was a scream!. Seth Green and Vince Vieluf are hilarious as the two crook brothers, and stole a lot of the scenes I loved them!. Whoopi Goldberg is OK in her role I'm not really a big fan. Lanei Chapman is good in her role I liked her. Jon Lovitz is surprisingly funny and effective in his role, because he usually annoys me. Rowan Atkinson is amazing as always and is amazing here, now he is basically just playing Mr. Bean as Enrico Pollini but it's still very funny, he brought a lot of laughs to the film!. John Cleese is good in his role just wished he had more screen time. Amy Smart is very cute and is quite funny in her role, especially loved the scene where she went psycho on her boyfriend. Wayne Knight is hilarious as usual, I loved him, he worked well with Atkinson. Kathy Bates is funny as the Squirrel lady I liked her. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Crazy and unfunny race.","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie had the potential to be funny, where a group of billionaires led by a Las Vegas casino owner all made a bet to see which group of six strangers will be able to race from Vegas to Silver City, New Mexico to retrieve $2 million hidden in a locker. The first one to get there gets to keep all of the money.The plot sounds fun enough, but the movie is basically just a bunch of crazy people pulling stunts and going pathetic antics to try to get the cash. The jokes are childish and stupidly slapstick and the humor is all forced comedy - no substance. It was great to see an all-star cast, but the acting was just below average and the ending was a downer. If you are a fan of Jerry Zucker's comedy spoofs, skip this one and check out his other movies like Top Secret, Airplane and the Naked Gun movies. Grade D- "},{"Title":"I'm not sucking on Hitler's dashboard!","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe there are so many people who didn't enjoy this film. Personally, I was laughing right from the start, and still grinning like a goon as the end credits rolled. I can only assume that those who failed to be entertained by all the inventive madness on display here are the same sober individuals who like to chuckle softly at Woody Allen's latest paean to neurotic geeks, rather than ever dare to demean themselves with a good belly laugh at something blatantly designed to make you forget all your troubles and just enjoy it. There are so many scenes to treasure, but Jon Lovitz's brilliantly contrived appearance at a WW2 veterans' rally takes some beating, and all the scenes with Cuba Gooding and the I Love Lucy appreciation society are priceless. And it's always good to see John Cleese enjoying himself in a cameo that asks nothing of him but to be his usual pompous and potty self. This is one of the best comedies of the last ten years, but don't take my word for it. Rent it yourself and prepare to give your chuckle muscles a few rounds of calisthenics.  "},{"Title":"Oh yeah yeah.","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie, with a speedy plot and funny characters. I was surprised to see Cuba Gooding Jr. in this--he's really a good comedic actor, something I didn't know. All the actors were very, very good and their roles were well-chosen (Seth Green's especially). I think it's harder to make a movie like this because of all the physical comedy and timing involved. Rent this only if you want to LAUGH!  10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Film....","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I dont care if this was one of the stupidest films ever made, it was also the funniest. I especially enjoyed the comic antics of Rowan Atkinson. The funniest scene by far is the one on which Tracey flies over top of her boyfriend's house in a helicopter, and finds him in the pool with another woman. She becomes furious, and starts chasing him with the helicopter! It is very hard to believe though that someone would get so angry that they would resort to something so drastic. Definitely a film worth renting if you haven't already done so. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie of the last 10 years.","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was just hilarious. I didn't know anything about the movie going in, and then i saw the names of the cast, and the director, and I knew I was in for a treat. It started off tamely enough, and then launched into the funniest movie I've seen since the first Naked Gun. I just can't praise it enough, the jokes and gags are VERY funny, and there's not one shred of Farelly brothers style grossout humour. It's a riot.Now the gripes people seem to have with this movie. First the slapstick, supposedly lowbrow humour it has. I don't know about you, but I don't find satire or cerebral humour to be as funny as complete and utter well-timed silliness can be. I don't mean I don't get it, I get it, and I find it amusing, and I laugh. But sometimes you want a movie that makes you laugh so hard it hurts and you fall off your chair. And this movie does just that, the jokes are incredibly inventive. Barbie museum. Pepto-Bismol bath. A sign from god. A short cut. Windshield cleaning. Et cetera, et cetera.And then there's the 'this isn't a kids movie, they said Afro Whores'. It's a PG-13 movie. That means anyone under thirteen not allowed without parents. Technically, don't take anyone under 10 to a PG-13 movie. And I dare you to find me one kid with a double digit age that doesn't know what the word 'whore' means, and yet has been raised outside a cardboard box. And if you do have such a kid who saw this movie, just tell them that it's Afro Horse, a movie about a heroic stallion who usurps power from the now-corrupt Lion King. "},{"Title":"Hillarious!","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rating 10 out of 10This has to be the funniest film I've seen in the last few years! The cast is amazing, most of the jokes are very funny and original, and its just 2 hours of pure entertainment for the audience!Please ignore negative comments, especially those dealing with plot holes or star actors making themselves stupid...The plot of this movie serves well the movie's main purpose, which is TO MAKE YOU LAUGH! And all actors play their parts flawlessly given the fact that noone could expect Oscar-winning performances here!The best sequences in my opinion 1)Amy Smart and the air attack on her boyfriend; 2) Cathy Bates and the squirrel sequence; 3) Practically every scene with Rowan Atkinson in it (he's a great comic and he proves it here even though he's surprisingly playing an Italian and not British).The ending seems questionable at first, but I would encourage anyone who saw the movie to suggest a better one...I think the one the creators of the movie chose is the best possible since I'm sure every viewer had a favorite of his own to steal the award! "},{"Title":"Silliness from Las Vegas to New Mexico","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is OK. It is about a group of people who must race to a town in New Mexico from Las Vegas to win $2 million.  From that point on, silliness ensues.  (SLIGHT SPOILERS) There are a lot of famous actors in this movie.  I guess my favorite was Jon Lovitz. The only part that made me laugh out loud was when Lovitz ends up at the WWII reception looking and talking like Hitler.  Another good part is with the squirrel lady.  The part with the cow and hot air balloon was just to silly to be funny.Some other good parts was when the wealthy are seen making several crazy bets.  Like how much a hooker wants to do some kinky stuff.  Who will vomit first on the plane.  What is the filling in a chocolate candy.(END OF SPOILERS)FINAL VERDICT  Fairly good for what it is.  It is worth watching if you want to watch a movie without having to use any brain cells. This is definitely meant to be a slapstick comedy. "},{"Title":"Some works, some doesn't, evens out, i guess","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are a few problems with a movie with so many different storylines.  While some work, many don't and thus a movie is created with hilarious bits intertwined with bad slapstick parts.  Bonus points are given for giving Jon Lovitz a funny script to play with creating an insanely funny bit about Hitler's car.  However, while everything Lovitz touches turns to gold, reusing the same tired couple from Road Trip was a terrible idea.  Brecken Myer can be good, I saw him as a wigger in Go and he was pretty decent but he's just doing the same old sitcom type humour with Amy Smart as his copilot.  John Cleese is funny as usual, this time as an eccentric billionaire with a taste for interesting betting.  Whoopie Goldberg, however, hasn't been funny since Eddie Murphy was funny and her parts are painfully unfunny jaunts.  Throw in some decent piercing jokes, balanced with tired cow humour, Lucy's galor combined with Cuba Gooding failing at funny, some Mr. Bean playing Mr. Bean and Newman playing Newman and you've got a screwball comedy that is too uneven to be a great comedy.  It's no Airplane or Naked Gun but there's not a grossout comedy or a romantic comedy, just good Zucker style humour with some physical comedy.  Just check that you're fast forward button works before you watch this. "},{"Title":"Funny movie revives a classic genre","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a funny movie that takes me back to the 1960s and 1970s to the days of movies like It's A Mad, Mad, Mad. Mad World, The Great Race and onto later movies like The Gumball Rally and The Blues Brothers. The comedy chase movie.Not all the jokes will hit, but what comedy does? It throws them out fast and furious in shotgun fashion and there are far more laughs than not. Just when you think the movie cannot get more absurd and cartoonish, the bottom falls out and it goes to a new level.Nazis, hanging cows, balloons,  a busfull of Lucille Balls, monster trucks, land speed-rockets, as is typical of the genre, every form of available transport is utilized. The actors all look like they were having a great time making the movie as well.The ending was fluff, but that's okay, it was a good resolution. I liked it.Recommended as one of my silly movies, you gotta be in that silly mood. Go in expecting Schindler's List or feeling like broad comedy is somehoe beneath you and you are bound to have a poor time...and you will deserve it too! "}{"Title":"Entertaining and Just Plain Fun","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was based on It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World and sure enough, it copies the zaniness and pure fun of the race for big money.  It also copies the bad ending.There were many absolutely hilarious moments in the movie...my favorites were the gambling games of John Cleese and Dave Thomas (Pepto-Bismol??), the monster-truck rally slow-motion sequence,  Cuba Gooding's reaction to the Lucy impersonator's confession, Rowan Atkinson singing the wrong song lyrics from what's being played on the radio, the squirrel-lady's shortcut, and the girls in the rocket car looking out the window at a certain projectile in the air.But not everything hits the mark...there were some things that didn't work.  As much as I like Wayne Knight, the whole sequence with the heart was pretty bad.  And the ending....yikes.  Just about anything would have been better than that.  It's pretty sad when that made me yearn to see something like a bunch of people flying off a firetruck's ladder.  At least that still had zaniness written all over it.The acting is really good...I think comic acting is much tougher than dramatic.  Kudos to John Cleese, Dave Thomas, Cuba Gooding, Seth Green, Vince Vieluf, Rowan Atkinson, and Amy Smart.  You all made the movie to me.  It wouldn't have worked unless you went over the top.  Good job.I wish Hollywood made more movies like this...except decide to be brave with the ending for once.  As funny as it was, it could have been better.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Very funny, although it has some stupid parts, too.","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    I saw the trailer for this one and wasn't at all interested, but it got rave reviews from some people I know, so I finally checked it out.  It is one WILD and CRAZY movie!!   It never slows down.  Most of it is really, really funny; and best of all, NO Fart Jokes.  There are a couple of really dumb, unfunny scenes in it (What was with the cow?  I mean, does anyone think that's funny?) but it's mostly real humor.. especially the action being interspersed with Captain Incisor (John Cleese) and his cronies betting on all kinds of funny stuff!  Ordinarily I don't like silly movies like this, but I really found myself drawn into this one, and I couldn't wait to see more and find out who would win the race.  Some low points include the very beginning (which is slow) and some vulgarity and over-the-top scenes, but the general feel of this movie is mad fun, and these days I appreciate any movie that can be really humorous and not involve farting.   I found the last part to be very heartwarming but *please*, can we STOP with the Smashmouth concerts at the end of movies?  I'm sure he's a nice guy and everything but what are 'Shrek' and 'Rat Race' going to look like in a few years?  Probably like Flavor of the Month that people are long-since bored with.  Honestly, if there's an easier way to put a damning date stamp on a movie, I've yet to see it.   Overall this is a highly entertaining romp, just be prepared for some silliness and a few bad scenes as well.   "},{"Title":"I laughed in spite of myself","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" <possible spoilers>Ok so it may not be the funniest movie out there but at least it didn't try to rely on toilet humor or body parts (except for the heart scene) to make the audience laugh.  The whole cow caught in the hot air balloon bit wasn't necessary,  but the brothers trying to escape from their convertible while a monster truck is coming at them in slow motion really had me in stitches.2.5/5 stars. "},{"Title":"Totally Brilliant!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A really very very funny film. I didn't think they could make movies like this any more. Some great set pieces and unexpected twists. Brilliant cast.Ten out of ten!And interesting too to see all this quality fun from a film which abandons the 'genitalia/superglue' school of comedy which has worn a bit thin now.My whole family was in stitches watching this one.  "},{"Title":"We should have bought a squirrel.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was at a friend's to see 'Moulin Rouge!' (which I found interesting and amusing, but altogether peculiar and which made me want very much to see the older film of the same name with Jose Ferrer as Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, and why wasn't that character in *this* film called Henri, but instead called 'Toulouse', anyhow?) and afterwards he kind of forced us to watch 'just a little--we'll turn it off any time you want' of something called 'Rat Race'.  I don't recall hearing anything about this film when it came out.  It's got some very very funny moments--the truck and the tower, the cow and the balloon, the squirrel lady...we ended up watching the whole thing, at most points giggling uncontrollably--and I'm wondering *why* I never heard anything about it.  I mean...Seth Green, John Cleese, Rowan Atkinson, Cuba Gooding Jr., Whoopi Goldberg, Jon Lovitz, not to mention some amazing cameos--while not all spectacular talents, these people are not exactly cinematic unknowns!  Did I just have my head under a rock when it came out, or what?  Anyhow, if you're in the mood for something totally silly, not in the best of taste but good for a giggle, you could do worse. "},{"Title":"RRRRR and R (read on to decode)","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race Really Really Rocks and Rules! I love this movie!! It's one of the best movie's i've ever  seen and one of my favorites!! It is so hilarious and has a billion laughs, action sequences, and suspensful moments. My fav scenes? You... should... have... bought.... a... squirrell!! i am a women, gushing?, not necissarily, and much more!!! With an all-star cast, stellar plot, and hilarious cameos, it rules and i totally reccommend it for all movie-goers, or anyone having a bad day!!! see it and you won't regret it "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies I have ever seen!","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I rented this movie expecting a childish comedy, on a par with 'My fave martian' or some other movie meant to appeal to up to 13. I was surprised - This is one of the funniest comedy movies you will ever see!It follows a group of people on a race for 2 millionn bucks, and the stuff they get up to on the way will have you howling with laughter! I love lucy conventions, nazi museums, hot air balloons, helicopter misadventures and anything else this film can poke fun at! You will be in hysterics throughout, and this film never lets up for a minute!this is one of the best new comedies around, and the only complaint I had was the overly sentimental cliched ending! Sans that, this film is the best on the market! Do yourself a favour and grab a copy as soon as you can! "},{"Title":"Really, Really funny.","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Starring Jon Lovitz as Randy Pear, Breckin Meyer as Nick Shaffer, Whoopi Goldberg as Veira, Rowan Atkinson as Enrico Polini, Seth Green as Duane Cody, Cuba Gooding Jr. as Owen Templeton, John Cleese as Donald Sinclair.Rat Race is the best chase comedy since It's a Mad,Mad,Mad,Mad World. It has a great cast and a great crew. From the Directer of Airplane, comes Rat race. If you want to laugh non-stop rent Rat Race. Or buy it on DVD, it has some great special features.Co-Starring Lanai Chapman as Merill, Vince Vieluf as Blaine Cody, Kathy Najimy as Bev Pear, Amy Smart as Tracy Faucet. "},{"Title":"Funniest Film Ever Made!","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I laughed so hard when I watched this film. This film is one of the funniest films I have ever seen. The best seen is when Whoopi and her daughter are falling down the cliff. You.... Should...... Have..... Bought....... A...... Squirrel! Jon Lovitz did really really really good. He was my favorite character in this. Cuba Gooding, Jr. and John Cleese also did spectacular in this. I advise anyone who likes a good movie to see this. I gave this 8/10 "},{"Title":"Funny!!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie no matter what other people say. No one can say there is not a single funny scene in this movie! There are so many funny scenes that it's so hard not to laugh. First of all, the acting is done very well. There are a lot of famous stars in this movie and they all add to the hilarity, the situations each character gets themselves into is played out very, very well and it's acted out extremely well. Each character has their own story and it's great to follow each one. Second of all, the ending is amazing! The writers did an incredible job with the ending, so make sure NO ONE gives away the ending to you. So watch Rat Race if you want some good laughs and follow the movie to find out who wins! "}{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If I never see another movie in my life, Cuba Gooding's scene where he convinces the bus driver to lend him his hat will satisfy me and keep me laughing for the rest of my days.  And the memory of Rowan Atkinson warming up for the race still gets me giggling months later.  Please rent this movie.  There is something funny in it for everyone.  "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  funny and avoids stupidity","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rat Race brings an all-star cast, and while the film falls short of a classic comedy (such as A Fish Called Wanda), it is funny and well worth seeing. Some of the jokes are a little stupid, but nothing in the league of the anti-intellectual Dumb and Dumber. There's a bit of an edge, so the film doesn't fall 100% in the sappy family comedy genre and should entice those who normally enjoy battles of witty put-downs in their comedies. The film is zany and if you prefer comedy / romance or well-plotted comedies with deep characters, see L.A. Story instead, or When Harry Met Sally.If you like this, I suggest similar films Midnight Madness (1980), and Scavenger Hunt (1979) both of which are aging a little now but good for a rainy day, or as kid / family films.Who should see this film-- Everyone who likes a zany comedy, although there arebetter films out there if you're not a regular movie-goer.I'll give Rat Race a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Funny Funny Funny","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time. It starts off slow but picks up quickly and just makes you laugh the whole time. It was so funny that I was gasping for air. A must see!!! "},{"Title":"Quite funny","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In a plot similiar to 1963's It's a Mad,Mad,Mad,Mad,world,numerous people compete to get to 2 million dollars.Although it does'nt feature a cast as big as IMMMW,the cast is good,including Cuba Gooding Jr. as a bad football referee,Jon Lovitz as a family man who drives Hitler's car,and Rowan Atkinson as an Italian tourist.Lots of laughs.Directed by Jerry Zucker,the same guy who worked on that comic classic Airplane!Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Quite funny","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In a plot similiar to 1963's It's a Mad,Mad,Mad,Mad,world,numerous people compete to get to 2 million dollars.Although it does'nt feature a cast as big as IMMMW,the cast is good,including Cuba Gooding Jr. as a bad football referee,Jon Lovitz as a family man who drives Hitler's car,and Rowan Atkinson as an Italian tourist.Lots of laughs.Directed by Jerry Zucker,the same guy who worked on that comic classic Airplane!Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"one of all time great comedy","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" its one of those rare movie which made me cry by laughing.by the last 15min i stopped laughing as it pained my face cos i laughed too much.there's not much plot,but if u are a fan of plane comedy,u gonna love it.every character in this movie is hilarious.for the first time i saw cuba gooding jr in such a crazy role.my favorite scene is the one with,seth green flies with cow.the scenes have become such a cult that many Indian movies(dhamaal,three kings-malayalam)had copied it.its rare Hollywood e movie which is'nt really age restricted.i saw it with my young brother.its a family movie too.i don't know why it got a <8 vote in IMDb.if u loved movies like bean,around world in 80 days,johnyy English,then u sure gona get crazy.i alwas wondered why they never made a sequel "},{"Title":"Non-Stop Goofy Laughs","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A great nutty comedy from start to finish. Didn't start the movie with high hopes but as soon as the race began it got good and fast. A classic comedy in my books and its in my top 10 must see comedies. I recommend it to anyone who likes witty jokes and jackass like stunts. Lots of big time stars makes it hilarious and the movie does a great job of introducing all the characters. My only complaint is the ending gets a little soft. It has a good morale but has a lot less humour in it than the rest of the movie. Also there was room for more romance between characters that could have been displayed better/more humorously. Final Verdict 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Semi Remake Of Its A Mad Mad Mad Mad World.","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After Watching the 1963 film It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World and the 2001 Film Rat Race back to back I started to notice that these movies are very very similar in plots you could almost call this one a remake but in fact it is a semi remake.The film starts out with introducing the cast which includes Rowan Atkinson, John Cleese, Whoopi Goldberg, Cuba Gooding Jr., Seth Green, Jon Lovitz, Breckin Meyer and Amy Smart who are in a competition to New Mexico to be the first to get $2,000,000.The film is directed by Jerry Zucker and is very hit and few miss. One thing that I hate is the ending. I thought it was complete crap and more ridiculous than the ending of Scream 3. But all in all a very funny movie with creative ideas and A-list cast. Besides the horrible ending, I Say Definitely check this out.Rated PG-13 For Sexual References, Crude Humor, Partial Nudity And Language.1hr 52 min/112min.1 use of the F-word.***1/2/**** "},{"Title":"Very Funny Underrated Movie","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I picked up this movie at the video store I had no idea what the movie was about. The cast is excellent and there are so many hilarious scenes. You have to relax and don't be too judgmental, its just a simple feel-good funny film. I've ended up watching it about 5 times and it still makes me laugh. Actually I think it was funnier the second time round. The Jewish family on the road that end up in the 'Barbi' museum thinking its about dolls. Turns out its a far right wing museum to commemorate the life of Klaus Barbie. They end up escaping by stealing Hitlers Mercedes and crashing into a WW2 veterans parade.I fell off the sofa laughing at that scene.It's a shame that it wasn't more highly rated by the critics, but its one of those sleeper movies that seems to improve with age.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Should... Have... Bought... A.... Squirrel!","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rat Race is one of those eccentric capers in which a bunch of crazy characters (usually played by a whole host of familiar faces) risk life and limb to compete for a fortune; in this case, the prize is $2million dollars stashed in a railway locker in Mexico City, the contestants are those lucky enough to win special tokens from slot machines in the casino belonging to wealthy Las Vegas gambling magnate Donald P. Sinclair (John Cleese), and the rules are simple&#x97;whoever gets to the money first keeps it!The formula is as old as the hills, having started back in '63 with It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World, and continued through the 60s, 70s and 80s with films like The Great Race, Those Magnificent Men in Their Flying Machines, The Cannonball Run and Scavenger Hunt; in less experienced hands, this kind of thing can easily fall flat on its face, but director Jerry Zucker is a man with a degree in zany from the University of Madcap, and with an incredible cast and a script that fires witty one-liners like a belt-fed machine gun, he delivers one of the finest ever examples of this comedy sub-genre.Of course, this kind of comedy is far from sophisticated, a relentless series of zany events and visual gags that escalate in madness as the competitors get closer and closer to their goal, and as such, it isn't going to appeal to everyone (people who think that The Royal Tenenbaums is funny, for example). On the other hand, those of us who can appreciate the magnificent sight of a cow suspended from a hot air balloon or the genius of a Jewish family mistakenly visiting a Klaus Barbie museum will have an absolute blast.Rowan Atkinson is absolutely brilliant as a Latin Mr. Bean with narcolepsy; Kathy Bates is unforgettable as the crazy squirrel woman; Whoopie Goldberg and Lanei Chapman break the land speed record in a rocket car (funnier than it sounds); Vince Vieluf and Seth Green play dumb beautifully; and Amy Smart has a great butt (I know that's not relevant to the comedy, but I just had to mention it).The film loses a point for a rather unsatisfying final (matters come to a head at a charity gig headlined by pop rockers Smashmouth&#x97;remember them?), but overall this is a fine comedy, one that benefits from excellent repeat value and a whole shed-load of quotable dialogue. "}{"Title":"Frantic,noisy,appallingly tasteless...brilliantly funny.....","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you see a cow hanging from a hot air balloon crash into the windshield of a bus containing 60 Lucille Ball lookalikes on the way to an I Love Lucy Convention driven by an NFL referee on the run after making a hash up of the toss at a Big Game then you must be watching a Zucker movie. Nothing sacred here,folks,madwomen selling squirrels,Nazis,insanely jealous female helicopter pilots.........the Zuckers have got 'em all in the mix for Rat Race which scarcely registered here in the u.k. but had me helpless with laughter for much of it's frantic,noisy,appallingly tasteless length. Many Airplane gags are given a brush down and lovers of Mad,mad world will find much of Rat Race pleasingly familiar,but it has a manic energy of its own driven by the presence of many young actors that the former movie lacked. It is expertly paced with the ending giving the audience a chance to get its breath back before leaving the theatre still chuckling. It was a totally unexpected pleasure to me and I am happy to recommend it as a diversion,however temporary,from Global Warming,Global Recession Global War or whatever the latest horror headlines might be.Laughter might not be the best medicine but it is certainly the best opiate. "},{"Title":"What a blast this movie was .","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie really for the whole family as will be kids jokes to make them laugh out loud, I know I did.Number of people who had found gold coin,and told by Donald Sinclair that they are in race for 2 Million Dollar In race are There Vera Baker and Merrill Jennings who have just met again after Vera had put her for adoption when she was a baby.Nick Schaffer who the whole thing is scan but change is mind when he meets Tracy Faucet who I think is funniest person in this movie.There are the two brothers Duane and Blaine Cody who think they way to smart plan back fires, when someone else also join the race.Owen Templeton who had just lost is job as fer in football match, he been talking about by News reader and a taxi driver not know he the same guy.Pear family who come with whole family is wife, Son and Daughter, he dose not tell in family about race but still bring them long as think is going to get job.Enrico Pollini who is loving this race but he only one that end up falling sleep out the blue.There some really silly scenes in this movie, I am Talking about the cow scenes which are really funny for the kids i think, I am not kid and I did laugh the cow in air and in car.This movie was blast, I love it this movie. 8/10It one of those movie, Some of you will love it and some of you will hate it, "},{"Title":"FilmCreature Reviews 'Rat Race'","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved Rat Race the first time I saw it. It has lots and lots of clever humor, gags, physical jokes, poop jokes, etc.It is very funny--the first time. After the first viewing, you see it a second time, it's not so funny, and the third, you're just terribly tired of it.The storyline a billionaire casino owner (John Cleese) decides to hold a race; a race for a bunch of people to try and get to $2 million dollars in Silver City, New Mexico.Among the contestants, the funniest ones played by Amy Smart, Jon Lovitz, and, my personal favorite, John Cleese, who, when he laughs, bares his front teeth like a mad dog. Smart plays a woman who proves that old saying Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned. Lovitz plays a dad who really wants to get that money--and his family wants to come along for the ride.There are funny little side stories for each of the contestants, but as I said, it's only watchable one or two times, then you get really tired of it, and that's that.So I give Rat Race a 3/4. "},{"Title":"You'll say rats if you don't sit down and enjoy this film tonight!","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In Las Vegas, things are always happening. At this point in time, a young straight-arrow lawyer (Breckin Meyer) is about to fly home to Chicago, after attending a bachelor party. A mother (Whoopi Goldberg) is set to meet the daughter she gave up for adoption some twenty odd years ago. Two young punks are plotting to arrange a fall in a hotel, meriting a lawsuit. Also, an Italian gentleman (Rowan Atkinson) is enjoying his visit to America and a football referee (Cuba Gooding, Jr.) is hiding out from a bonehead call that was widely criticized. And, last but not least, a harried father (Jon Lovitz) is taking his family on a vacation in Vegas. All of these people play the slots and end up receiving a token to a special buffet luncheon. It is over lunch that they learn that there is a 2 million dollar fortune locked up in a train station locker in New Mexico and they are all being given keys. As the casino owner (John Cleese) explains, the first one to reach the locker will get the money. He shoots off a gun and the race is on! With the local airport shut down, these folks hop into cars, ambulances, helicopters, trains, and buses to try to capture the big bucks. Who will be victorious? This is an updated version of It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World that still dishes up truckloads of laughs. Just watch the goofy squirrel saleswoman (Kathy Bates) send folks to their doom or the creepy trip to the Klaus Barbie museum by Lovitz' family and you will be shaking with laughter. There are way too many happenings to list here but they all add up to a supreme gigglefest. The cast is a marvel, with the players listed above getting help from Amy Smart, Kathy Najimy, Dean Cain, Dave Thomas, Seth Green, Paul Rodriguez, Wayne Knight, and more. Lovitz, especially, is too funny for words. Costumes, sets, script, direction, and production are terrific while the number of sight gags is great as well. In short, if you have had a hard day, a hard week or a hard life, pop this wonderfully funny film into the video machine. As a hearty diversion from the world's cares, this movie is truly a miracle worker. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst ending in cinema history","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" How could a movie with an all-star ensemble cast and a promising formula be this much of a letdown? Simple put a crappy rock group for ten-year-olds in the finale, send across a message in the sappiest way, and have everyone sing along to All-Star.I would have loved this movie. John Cleese is a genius, Rowan Atkinson is hilarious, I'm a huge John Lovitz fan, the cast was absolutely flawless, and it even has Newman in it! The whole beginning of the film is rather amusing. Overall it was pretty damn funny, especially John Lovitz's accidental entrance into a WWII vet convention as Hitler. I'd have given this movie at least a 7 if it weren't for the most dreadful ending in years, if not in decades.Okay, here it is. Everyone is running for the money, and everyone in the race literally has their hands on it, until....*gasp* they stumble into a charity concert! Guess who's playing...? SMASHMOUTH! Oh my gosh, I didn't know that this movie was sponsored by Nickelodeon! They want to share the money amongst themselves, but then they find out that they really should give it to the poor children who need it. Fair enough, if it can send a message, great, but don't you think they could have pulled it off a LITTLE better? Okay, so they give the money away. To end the movie, they tell everyone that John Cleese's character will match the money they donate...oooh....karma! And to top it all off, the competitors all sing All-Star with Smashmouth. I couldn't think of a worse group and/or song to end the movie with. Truly this is a sign of the Apocalypse.In short, you'll probably be better off watching this movie up until the very end. You'd like it much better and you'd actually have memories of the movie being funny, not crappy. "},{"Title":"Not worth the effort","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was a cheap imitation (sort of) of the Cannonball Run (at least that was funny). Must be the American sense of slapstick humour, not sure, but I didn't find anything funny in this movie just a lot of predictable overworn ideas. 1 out of 10 for this piece of crap. The actors must have been somewhat hard up for cash. Every conceivable joke has been used by either Mel Brookes or other comedians who think their stuff is actually funny. Alas American humour lacks finesse and the clever play on words, instead they rely on seeing who can beat the crap out of each other, playing dirty tricks, using high improbable and at times impossible situations. No comedian worth his salt would resort to such tactics except to present to purile childish humour to an audience with an equal lack of intelligence. I guess this is why the American people are forever kept in the dark and not told what happens in their own country....they are too bloody shallow to understand real life. "},{"Title":"This movie degrades squirrels.","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I happen to like squirrels. This movie degrades squirrels and cows.While making a sad lame ass attempt at comedy, this is shamefully bad on almost all levels of story composture, dialog, characterization, plot and definition of humor.Not only that, but any moral for an ending is put to waste by using a fast escape route to come up with an ending.There was no tension and the final scene was so rudely and painfully constructed that even seeing it on TV, made me feel very insulted that there are much better films to be made.To all the actors that played LUCY...forgive the reference to having her name and yourselves in this piece of $hit.I feel sorry for the extras in this film and for the bit players who have to put this on their acting resume. This is a horrible piece of celluloid to represent what actors can refer to when trying to get a gig.If anybody has any real desire for entertainment value when deciding to watch this garbage...there are other options.1-watch grass grow 2-count the grains of sand at the beach 3-play baseball with a hornets net 4-go fishing in the toilet 5-compare snowflakes and mount them on the wall 6-make friends with snails for a long lasting relationship 7-send me money...I recommend option 7Anyway...this concludes my review of this film.  "},{"Title":"One of the most enjoyable movies of the past few years.","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The fun level of this movie is incredible high which makes this movie also one of the most enjoyable ones of the past few years, despite its flaws.It's hard to say what it is that makes this movie a good comedy. Probably it's because of the high fast pace and the many story lines about the many characters that race to $2.000.000. Because of the high pace there are plenty of jokes and comical situations, most of them are predictable but for some reason it doesn't make them less fun. A great execution by the filmmakers. Of course some of the jokes are just plain lame but that goes for all comedies.The cast is full with big comedy names. I was surprised to see how comically talented Cuba Gooding Jr. was. All of the characters have their own storyline that are all told in a great way with as a result that all of those story lines are made interesting and fun enough to care and to be interested in all of them.It's a shame that the ending is disappointing and in a way predictable but luckily it doesn't ruin the rest of the movie entirely.Very well executed comedy with an incredible high fun level.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A bunch of the best comedians in one movie!","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is fun from the very beginning, and it's keeps you laughing all until it ends. With really alot of good fun famous actors, you are never bored a minute. When watching the movie you will come to like the persons, as you follow them on their way to the goal. When switching from person to person it's never boring. This movie is one of funniest movies I've ever seen for sure, too bad it's not an hour longer. You should watch ! NOW! "},{"Title":"Real Funny Film","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A classic dash for cash style film with some great acting alone the way. Ok this film do's have a few goof's and errors in but so do a lot of films. John Cleese plays a great part in this film but its only a small role he plays but just as good. A lot of good star's are in this film with Enrico Pollini ( Rowan Atkinson ) , Vera Baker ( Whoopi ) , Tracy Faucet ( Amy Smart ) , Duane Cody( Seth Green ) from Buffy Vampire Slayer to name just a few. Anyway during the film they are some great one-liners and lots and comdey action. The Helicoper chase down a main road is funny but think it could have been funny if it was longer. The Lucy coach bunch is real funny and loved the cow on the rope, beats soap on a rope, lol. "}{"Title":"This Movie Is GREAT!","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hello,I loved almost all of the movie Rat Race. I found it extremely funny. The only part I did not enjoy was the part with the human heart. I think the producers could have left that out of the film. Other than that, I highly recommend this film! 4 stars.Sincerely, Danny "},{"Title":"It's A Race, It's A Race!","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race (2001)This is such a great comedy movie!!! Rat Race is about a wealthy casino owner, Donald Sinclair, who organizes a race where nine people set 563 miles to New Mexico to win $2,000,000. This movie was so funny. The cast is unbelievable Whoopi Goldberg, Breckin Meyer, Amy Smart, Cuba Gooding Jr., Jon Lovitz, Kathy Najimy, Seth Green, and of course the wackiest of all, Rowan Atkinson (his part is really funny because of his personality, and especially how he has that sleeping disorder). I love the scene when Tracey Faucet (Amy Smart) trashes her boyfriends car, and I also like the scene when Cuba Gooding Jr.'s character is driving the bus full of I Love Lucys!!! This movie is exciting, fun, and had some great scenes. I give Rat Race a 10/10! "},{"Title":"Good family fun","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I hadn't seen this film before because of some generally negative comments I had read about it. Boy, some cinema critics *are* idiots! The only people who won't laugh seeing this film are those who think comedy is something Woody Allen does in his darkest moments. Those people never laugh with their bellies; at most, in their funniest moments, they smile with their mouths but not with their eyes.They complain that Rat Race is stupid, but, if one is a rocket scientist smart enough to understand the math behind quantum mechanics, one realizes that being funny is about being stupid. A joke is, by definition, an unexpected solution a stupid person found for an insoluble problem. Slapstick *is* funny, if done right. And they did it right here, everyone is always at danger of suffering considerable bodily harm, because of their stupid decisions. If the characters were smart enough to make the right decisions, it would be drama, not comedy. The characters' morals aren't the best, most of the transportation they use, ranging from a hot-air balloon to a supersonic rocket-car, is stolen. And most of them are trying to cause some harm most of the time, from a very botched attempt to sabotage an airport radar, to a helicopter pilot who tries to teach her boyfriend a lesson about fidelity, to the quite successful revenge of a frustrated squirrel salesperson. Even if it weren't for their questionable actions, normal parents wouldn't like their children to meet most of those characters in real life there are gamblers, neo-nazis, lesbian bikers, a football referee, a tranvestite Lucille Ball impersonator, and even attorneys. But, with very few bad words, just three jokes about sex and a couple others about toilets, this is about as clean as a film will be these days. Any parent that has objections to letting their children see Rat Race is suffering from a severe overprotection problem. "},{"Title":"I can't believe this movie is only number three!!!! (Some spoilers)","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Such a sin!!!! Such a travesty of Justice that this movie only came in at numbers three at the box office!!!! Everyone must see this film and bring all their friends with them!!!!I don't know where to start talking about how much I enjoyed this fine screwball comedy film!!!! The cast was amazing!!! The Direction was superb!!! The grip guy gripped his well!!!! The extras did a wonderful job holding up Jon Lovitz!!!!I wish I could share second-hand the orgasmic glee I experienced while watching this movie, But I'm afraid you will have to see it for yourself. I'll just highlight my favorite elements*The chase/action scenes- so well done with perfectly timed humor interwoven with the action. I especially enjoyed Vince Vieluf and Seth Green's action sequences together. They should be giving props for doing some of the most unappreciated hard work in the movie business.*The sick screwball humor- from the flying cow, to the flying doo to the flying heart, this movie had me cracking up every second. A stand-out scene was Cuba Gooding Jr's hilarious description of his facetious wife's 'birth' (I swear, when I get this movie on tape I will rewind it to him saying Vagina in that creepy, panicked voice.) And every scene that featured Rowan Atkinson as a silly Italian man with a sleeping disorder had me busting a gut most painfully.*The subtle comments on our society-In a day of so many heavy-handed dramas on what is wrong with the world, sometimes it takes a screwball comedy to impress a wider audience. I loved the relationship between Whoopi Goldberg and Lanai Chapman's character's, from the little time they were on the screen you got a feeling for their differing value systems-One spends all her money to finally meet her daughter, squarely putting relationships before money, the other is clearly in it for the cash, not even stopping to talk with the nice lady who gave them directions to the short-cut to Silver City. (Well, she seemed nice;))*The love stories- Short and sweet. I thought Amy Smart and Nick Shaffer were so cute together, and Vince Vieluf was a scream showing off his piercings to the beautiful girl in the car beside him. If I get it on videotape I will most surely rewind it to the look on his face when she lifts her shirt and shows him her goodies. (only a side-view, don't worry parents)*The heart underneath it all- Yeah, the ending was a bit silly, and nobody needs to hear Hey now by Smash Mouth again in this life. (or any) But the characters end up so likable and the man who speaks for Feed The Children at the end gave me a real feeling of the seriousness of those with real problems in comparison with the silliness  that had ensued beforehand. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and fun with the flying cow","Date":"7 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Nice and funny film, suitable for laughing out loud while the cast of actors is excellent with the great Rowan Atkinson, Cuba Gooding Jr. The plot is really crazy and exciting, the film then there is no vulgarity. jhclues rightly says that is a crazy track jhclues but wow you put a full vote so tired, the film deserves more than a paltry 6.4, deserves a 7.8 for fun. Very nice scene where the man escaped by car jew Hitler in 2001 and USC this movie I saw today at the TV replay of my television and I laughed like crazy. Hear you laugh if you see yourself and Rat Race is fun, the pretty blonde full of piercings and the two brothers and unscrewed the fat wife of 'jew from between the Spanish and tits cumshot ehehe. "},{"Title":"Dumb fun","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It would be a shame to be too sophisticated to enjoy this silly movie. Critics hammered it for being a remake of It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World, or accused it of reverting back to MMMMW's formula of selling the movie with a hundred big names who do little more than mug for the camera. But these guys are all busting their butts to entertain us. Yes, post-adolescents will be able to see most of the gags coming a mile away, but when their execution surpasses our expectations what's not to like? This is, after all, directed by the same Zucker who gave us Airplane, and it shares the same DNA. Watch it with your kids, and appreciate the ending that leaves them with a nice message as a bonus. Even if you only cherry pick the scenes featuring a bus load of Lucy impersonators it's worth the rental. "},{"Title":"A SO FUNNY nonsense!","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rat Race is a incredible movie and I really enjoyed it. It's full of the most nonsense situations that can exist, but I think that it shows, with a little exaggeration, the indiscriminated desire for money that we have today. And it's surprising. The humor is so well-timed! I remember the hilarious moments when we discover that the gentlemen called the bitch only for a bet, and when the blond (I don't remember the name) changes all her cute looking when she discover her boyfriend with another woman. It's some impossible appeal, I recognize, like the scene when the heart starts to pulse only with the eletricity, but it has so many funny and convincing moments that we forgot it and start to laugh anyway! Never the nonsense was so funny! "},{"Title":"How Funny!!!","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the 1960s it was It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World when Spencer Tracy, Milton Berle, Sid Ceaser, Mickey Rooney, Buddy Hacket, Terry Thomas, Jonathan Winters, Phil Silvers, Ethel Merman, Edie Adams and literally hundreds of others of the funniest people in Hollywood got together for the ultimate finders keepers hunt for missing cash.Rat Race is this generation's finders keepers classic--funny as can be, but more of a ensemble than a who's who in comedy because, frankly, there are not that many classic funny people left.John Cleese, Jon Lovitz, and Whoopie Goldberg are the comedic stars, joined by the absolutely gorgeous Amy Smart and others including the rock group Smash Mouth. Together they create one laugh after another--a car climbing poll, a cow flying high, an air-ground war between a chopper and a truck, Hitler's car and a team of wealthy greedy bettors all will make you roar with laughter! I have watched this movie several times, and although I know what is happening before it happens, it is still hilarious. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"RAT RACE IS Hilarious, SPOILER","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is my favorite movie of all time. It automatically puts you in a good movie the second it starts. The cast is a mixture of well-known comedians who play the perfect rolls. It is a spin-off of It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World and is even funnier. It is about different people who came to Las Vegas for vacation. They are all picked by the Venetian hotel manager who is played by John Cleese (very FUNNY). He tells them that hidden in a locker in New Mexico is a duffel bag with two million dollars in it and that the first one that gets to the locker gets to keep it all. At first they are all hesitant but after moments of hesitation all decide to start this dash for the cash. It is a hilarious mix of comedy and humor and will make it to your collection of favorite movies. It is a must-see. "},{"Title":"absolutely brilliant","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i honestly do not believe that we will ever see a more clever or well written ensemble comedy for roughly 10 years. it is well written with about 4 dozen good jokes and a whole lot of cheesy heart filled moments. there is not too much swearing, which is good. I feel there are a couple of people who deserve acknowledgments. The first is Andy Breckman for his brilliant screenplay. The next is Jon Lovitz for giving the best performance in the whole movie. I can't leave out Jerry Zucker for direction. Last, i need to credit Lovitz for the genius Nazi scene. See this movie if you have not it is brilliant. From the piecaptain himself, that is really rare. "}{"Title":"funny","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is completely hilarious at times! You should have bought a squirrel! I'm in a race. I'm winning! I'm winning The cast of characters provide a perfect mix of comedy. The wrong coin flip call also really happened many years ago on Thanksgiving day during a Steelers-Lions game. Jerome the bus Bettis called the coin flip correctly; however, the referee heard him wrong. That started my Pittsburgh Steelers downfall that year (I don't believe they won another game that year). Amy Smart's Psycho character flying the helicopter was great. Too bad she didn't get topless with Breckin Meyer like she did in Road Trip! Oh well, you can't have it all I guess. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I certainly enjoyed the original movie, but this remake just lacked everything. The plot is not the best, most characters are a very bad joke and the acting is far from splendid. The only time I could really laugh (probably because I am a history student and on top of that from Germany and therefore knew what was meant) was in the scene with the Barbie museum. I was watching this in a movie theater in Scotland and apart from me, nobody seemed to get the joke... I wonder how it was in America (or anywhere else for that matter). Apart from that, the classic is still way ahead of this. So, why even try to make a new version of a classic when you can't even get close to it? "},{"Title":"A nice comedy to lighten up a miserable day","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I must say that I had some very high expectations when I saw the names of the actors that played a role in this comedy. With people like John Cleese and Rowan Atkinson, I hoped for the best, although I must also admit that I'm not a fan of Whoopi Goldberg, which still made me doubt about it. However, I didn't see it as a reason not to watch this movie and that's why I gave this Rat Race a try.When a group of billionaires is searching for something new to bet on, they find the perfect solution for their 'problem' in the new game that Las Vegas casino owner Donald P. Sinclair has invented. He has pulled a group of six strangers together and tells them that they will have to race to Silver City, New Mexico, where the first one to arrive will be able to retrieve $2 million hidden in a locker. The only rule is that there are no rules. Everything is allowed in order to get there first. At first they don't really believe this is a true race, but it doesn't take long before the narcoleptic Italian immigrant, the desperate father, the disgraced NFL referee, the decent lawyer, a team made up by a mother and daughter and another one made up by two weird brothers all embark on this weird adventure.What I liked most about this comedy was that it didn't rely on all those fart jokes and other toilet humor that you find too often in today's comedies. This is still a movie full of decent jokes and I must say that I had some very good laughs with it. However, that doesn't mean that this was a perfect movie. Take for instance Rowan Atkinson. I normally like all his parts, but this time I was quite disappointed by his performance. I'm not saying that I know someone better to play the role of Enrico Pollini, but this certainly wasn't Atkinson's finest. On the other hand I must say that John Cleese was very nice as the eccentric casino owner.Overall this isn't the best comedy ever, but I like to see it as one of those guilty pleasures, which can sometimes lighten up a miserable day. The story is completely over-the-top and absurd, but that's OK, because this is a comedy. The acting is pretty good most of the time and especially John Cleese and Cuba Gooding Jr. were a nice surprise. That's why I give this movie a rating between 6.5/10 and 7/10. "},{"Title":"Very, very funny","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rat Race is a very very funny film and i don't see how anybody could fail to find this film an absolute hoot. The plot is very simple and so it is impossible to not know what is going on. What raises this particular comedy above so many others is the fact it knows that it is completely ridiculous and Jerry Zucker (director) takes full advantage of this fact. Some of the characters are also truly hilarious like Enriqo Pellinni (Rowan Atkinson) who is a mad Italian who has a weird habit of falling asleep in the most unusual of place. Another funny character is Randall Pear (Jon Lovitz) who is a middle aged Jewish man who ends up stealing Adolf Hitlers car and then gatecrashing a anti Nazi rally, it is the set pieces like this which really bring this film to life. Overall i think that Rat Race is an extremely funny film which deserves a place in the top 250 films. GO WATCH IT NOW!!!! "},{"Title":"Think Cannonball Run... without the style or the comedy !!","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK, so my summary is a little harsh! What we have here is an assembly of big name, big fee, comedic actors in a film designed for American audiences. The laughs are not necessarily predictable, and are not necessarily that funny either.Fair to say, there is something for everyone... and possibly some things for no-one! Perhaps this movie is the culmination of a study of American audiences, whereby, the results show that if you've had one good laugh, you feel like you have seen a good comedy. Yes, funny accents, poking fun, silly noises, humorous situations, confusion, and comedic corruption. As for the bit with the Jewish family and Hitler's car... I'm not sure whether that is at all tasteful, and could possibly be construed as offensive.In a word, Watchable. I rated a 5 "},{"Title":"Rat Race is one of my favorite films","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" We start in Las Vegas with about six groups of people. A referee who is wanted by millions due to a bogus coin flip at a football game, a mother who hasn't seen her daughter in over ten years, two con artist brothers, a smart and wise gentleman who has had his movie bill gone through the roof from a bachelor party, an Italian tourist who is just happy to be alive, and a husband who is willing to lie to his wife and kids to gamble. They all receive one gold coin while gambling and find out from the hotels owner, Mr. Donald Sinclair that this coin puts them in a race from Las Vegas to Silver City, New Mexico to open a locker that consist of Two Million Dollars. By that said let the race begin! Rat Race is a modern version of It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. From where the journey starts, Rat Race is a wild treat that brings lots of laughs as you watch six groups of desperate people go across the country for greed facing cops, crazy squirrel ladies, rocket cars, wild taxi drivers, a tour bus filled with I Love Lucy girls, a pasture of cows, a medic who wants to look at the organs he transporting, Nazi's, and more! Director Jerry Zucker has given us a well made film that is smart and classy. With a solid cast, good script, and funny performances Rat Race gets the two big thumbs up and is well recommended! "},{"Title":"People liked this?","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is just a poor clone of It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.It had a good enough cast and a decent premise, but most of the jokes just weren't funny.I'm still surprised at the rating for this. My guess is that the folks that thought this was funny are ignorant of the classics.2/10 "},{"Title":"terrible!","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was expecting to see this movie in the worst 100 films category!  Idon't know why it's got such a high rating.  There's only a few laughs in the whole film, the actors in this film performed their worst performances in their careers.  I'll give this film a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"overrated","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have delayed the viewing of this movie for so long since I had my doubts, but finally I decided to give it a try and I regret it. I like Zucker&#129;fs no-brainers from Airplane!, Naked Gun and the likes, but this one was too directionless and shallow.The premise of Rat Race is the Cannonball series concept. A few randomly selected people have to race from point A-Las Vegas to point B-a town in New Mexico. The one who gets there first receives 2 million dollars.  If I have to single out my favorite character among this bunch I would be really at a loss for an answer all of them were equally uninteresting and dull.I wouldn't recommend this movie to my friends. With the exception of the few funny moments the rest is just to boring. On few occasions I had to resort to the fast-forward button on my remote control. 6 stats out of 10.  "},{"Title":"A very unfunny movie","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie at a .50 cent theater and it was a rip off. The one and only funny scene is of the two high school drop out teens. They are crying and trying to open the car doors in slow motion .They are unable to escape from the car, while if I remember correctly, a monster truck is trying to jump a row of cars and their car is last one in line.   -Paul "}{"Title":"occasionally funny but generally a bit annoying","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well I'm glad I didn't pay to see this one. Although there are a few funny moments and lines (the directions from the squirrel lady is the best and the flying cow fight is amusing) most of it is just too silly or predictable. It looks like overacting was the main order of the day and Rowan Atkinson was the most (un)successful on this score. His character was also the most annoying of a generally unlikeable bunch. Can this really be the same comic genius who was a quarter of the NTNOCN team and Blackadder?I guess if you have a couple of hours to spare and want to watch something which is fairly mindless then it will just about do but Airplane it definitely is not. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but disappointing","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is an average film at best, and unfortunately is a victim of it's own construction. Essentially a re-make of a 1963 film called It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World, it suffers from too little character development, and far too many stupid scenes that aren't very funny.The huge cast of stars, one of the film's biggest attractions, is also it's greatest liability. So many good comedic actors appear that the movie jumps around far too much to give any one of them nearly enough time to really satisfy the audience. Just when you're beginning to enjoy Rowan Atkinson's goofy Enrico Pollini character interacting with Wayne Knight, the shot jumps elsewhere. It felt too much like 5 or 6 movies that they jammed together into 1.Some of the silly comedy is a bit too silly (read stupid) to be believable as well. Why would Jon Lovitz's character say That's a nice dike (meaning to say bike) to a tough looking female on a Harley? I didn't laugh, I just thought moron.It was just way too over-the-top and out of control. That said, I think it worked as well as it could, and I wasn't sorry I watched it.I have a feeling the original might be better, but I'll have to watch it before I make that call. "},{"Title":"Retarded comedy can be a lot of fun.","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I expected a weak comedy, with attempts to make up for weak ideas/script with overacting/clowning around by the whole cast. I was very pleasantly surprised that this is not the case. TRR turned out to be funny, even hilarious in parts. It is much better than It's a Mad, Mad... which was very much a 60s comedy, i.e. buffoonery was far more important than anything else. TRR has some of that, too, but for every far-too-silly gag that bombs there are several that don't. Cuba Gooding has two particularly weak moments in the scene when he fools the bus-driver into handing him his clothes ( too stupid to be funny), and when he throws a temper tantrum at the Lucys screaming that he isn't a real bus-driver ( unconvincing). Otherwise, most scenes work very well. The highlights the heart segments, the cow segments, squirrel grave-yard, and all the Hitler-related scenes. The movie moves at a brisk pace, much like a Looney Tunes cartoon. The good thing is that there are both good visual and verbal gags. It's a pity that Atkinson once again plays a Mr.Bean-like character, instead of showing how well he handles sarcastic characters, as in Black Adder 2-4. Mr. Bean just isn't funny; am I the only one to realize this? The reason the IMDb average is low possibly lies in the fact that many people have a problem with admitting to liking low-brow humour - even to themselves. Inferiority-complexed snobs... "},{"Title":"what you see is what you get","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Rat Race' practically sells itself because of the number of big celebrity stars in the film. Normally films that use several big stars are not that good, and 'Rat Race' is no exception there. The film is about a group of people who are brought together to race around for money, locating different clues to lead them to the treasure. This race brings together all sorts of characters. Sure, some of the film is funny, but it's a film that once you have seen it, that is enough and the humor is quickly forgotten. Pretty much, what you see is what you get with this film. You will laugh in some places, and you will get into the action, but do not expect anything more than that. "},{"Title":"Jon Lovitz steals the show!","Date":"9 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The basic premise is simple - six keys, one locker, and a race for $2 million dollars. The plot has eccentric casino owner Donald Sinclair (a top form Cleese with some rather odd false teeth!), pull together 8 random people whom he gets to race from Las Vegas to New Mexico for a prize of $2,000,000 whilst he takes bets on the outcome. And what a group he has assembled. Mix into that some utterly hammy acting, Nazi Barbies, a cow tied to a hot-air balloon, and a woman intent on selling squirrels, and you've found yourself in the middle of Rat Race. And it's actually not bad. Rowan Atkinson's Italian, with an intentionally ridiculous accent and the line Oh, a race! ...I hope I win is frankly a remix of Mr Bean, whilst John Cleese's casino owner is classic Fawlty with extra teeth. But both those characters are classics, and stirred into this film, they become still funnier.Many of the talents used in 'Rat Race' include Whoopi Goldberg, John Cleese, Rowan Atkinson (re-using many aspects of his Mr. Bean persona), Cuba Gooding, Jr., Breckin Meyer, Seth Green, and a plethora of others. There are a few surprises, and the movie takes a lot of unexpected, very funny turns. This is a screwball comedy which simply wants to make you laugh for a couple of hours. It is fluff, but fluff in the best possible sense. Quite enjoyable. I left the cinema with a smile on my face.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Funny but No Smokey and the Bandit.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rat Race (2001) Dir Jerry Zucker / Cast Cuba Gooding Jr., Seth Green, Whoopi Goldberg, Amy Smart, Rowan Atkinson Comedy that walks a fine line between hilarity and stupidity. It is about motivation and greed. A group of tycoons decide to stage a race where the winner receives a substantial amount of money. People are chosen pending upon those whom find a token in a slot machine. It involves various subplots climaxing with a worthwhile message. Director Jerry Zucker is at best with slapstick humour but this hardly rates up there with Top Secret or Airplane. Some scenes misfire such as the ladies getting into the jet, or a family attempting to communicate with Nazis using sign language. The ending does present a great twist with its message but few of the cast are really funny. Cuba Gooding Jr. is interesting as a former referee who cannot seem to live down a bad coin toss. Seth Green is also funny as a schemer who sees this race as an opportunity. Among the performances that are below par are Whoopi Goldberg who can be a great comic but she overacts in this film. Amy Smart is terrible as a helicopter pilot dealing with boyfriend issues. Rowan Atkinson shows up to waste our time with a Mr. Bean performance under a different name. Car chase films are rarely funny but this one can be credited as a technically well made road kill about the motivation of greed. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Underrated ride.","Date":"24 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" LOL! That is the one term I can come up with that perfectly describes this flick. I haven't laughed this much while watching a comedy in a very long time. Most people will knock this movie because they say it's too over the top or the laughs don't last but I'm here to call BULLCRAP on that criticism.Classic direction, a brilliant script, and one of the best comedic ensemble cast ever assembled come together to create quite possibly one of the funniest movies ever made.Also be on the lookout for two of the greatest credit sequences ever put to film (you will be cracking up before the actual wild and crazy ride begins). "},{"Title":"Not too bad for a copycat flick.","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I actually prefer It's a  Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World - but sure, it was the original. I've gotta say though that this one wasn't bad either. Many of the scenes were really funny and I thought it was a worthy effort. The only thing that bothered me was the ending, which was so unbelievably bogus and corny, I felt like I was gonna gag. That part seemed like it was written by Anne Landers or Aunt Bee, or some other old lady, ruining the whole wacky Bundy-type image of the movie. I really thought John Cleese would have had more class than to be involved in a dorky ending like that. I'd be willing to bet he wasn't happy about it.I recommend this movie for all those who enjoy slapstick comedy, but turn it off before it ends! Of course you won't...not knowing how it ends would be even worse than hating the ending. "},{"Title":"Should be better. . .","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Warning Spoiler I saw this movie in early March, and since I just joined yesterday, I'm finally commenting on it. The basic outline is 6 teams chosen at random get a chance to play for $2 million. What they do to get through is hilarious. Most of it is funny (WARNING THE NEXT LINE REVEALS THE ENDING TO THE MOVIE) but in the end they gave it to charity??? I mean really, the least you can do is give it to someone! But the message was supposed to be do the right thing. Which the directors should know the next time they make a comedy, not to run into a charity concert! Overall grade C (the ending ruined it!)  "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy.","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race has a simple, easy plot, is funny, and all round is a cheery movie with some catchy songs. I loved the cast, as there are some big names in it, and they perform brillantly. Also performances from the stunning Amy Smart are great, too. Well done to all of the cast and crew.A solid 4 out of 5 stars.  "}{"Title":"Fun for the whole family","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was great. Reminded me of that other great race movie It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad, World It had plenty of goofiness without any gratuitous sex or violence, and great music, to boot. Fun for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Great Semi-Remake of Its A Mad Mad Mad World","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There were plenty of hilarious moments in this film, it was overall a great effort but I'll list the pros and consPros 1. Seth Green and Vince Vieluf are one of the great highlights of this film. The disasters they get into due to their own stupidity are hilarious!2. Cuba Gooding Jr. was also a great highlight in this film who is referred to as the bonehead referee because he made possibly the worst call ever made in football history. His disasters are also great.3. Even though Rowan Atkinson doesn't get the largest role, he is hilarious as the Italian narcoleptic. The hilarity mostly has to do with his bizarre character.Cons1. John Cleese doesn't get enough screen time and this is one of his least funniest roles I've seen so far. Maybe if he had been given some extra minutes he could've done much better.2. The duo of Whoopi Goldberg and Lanei Chapman just doesn't seem to be all that funny. Its just the things that happen to them.3. The ending in this one unfortunately lacks humor. The ending of Its A Mad Mad Mad World was 100 times better than this ending.Overall, a great film, but not as good as Its A Mad Mad Mad World(1963).  Grade A-  "},{"Title":"Not so funny as I thought.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jerry Zucker and his team has directed several funny movies.This is NOT one of them.Story is just plain silly,it doesn`t matter.It`s a comedy. But it`s so hysterical and unfunny sometimes that it`s hard to watch.The humor is not exactly clever.You`ve seen this before.I don`t think the acting was that good either.But hey! it sure is entertaining,but it had a weak ending.Okey,it`s a little above average. Let`s give it6/10 "},{"Title":"Fun Take-off of Mad World","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw the previews for this movie, I filed it under Do Not See, because I thought of it as a cheap knock-off of the classic, It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World, one of my family's favorites.  But, my cousin coerced me into seeing it, and I was surprisingly pleased! It definitely takes off of it's parent movie, but has it's funny moments, and I enjoyed every minute of it.  The scenes with John Cleese and his rich colleagues were hilarious, and I really enjoyed Amy Smart's dealings with her boyfriend (Dean Cain).  I am a die-hard Mad World fan, but I definitely recommend this movie as they search for their own big dubya. "},{"Title":"A must See","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I laughed really hard in this movie the first jokes aren't that funny but when it get to the plot it gets good. Seth Green does a much better job here than in Austian Powers. If your a comic freak than you must see this movie.Oh the best job comes from the actor Rowan Atkinson he is my favorite  "},{"Title":"the movie had its moments","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is a feel good movie... bordering slapstick comedy. The cast is great! as the movie goes along, it shows simultaneous events happening with each contestant and it gets wackier and wackier!the problem is some scenes left me saying Huh, what was that?. for example, the cow scene. and then the absolutely disappointing ending. i was expecting something more comedic or silly! instead, the movie gave me a moral lesson. but that's good, moral lessons are good! but not for a comedy who started out with fun and silliness!i recommend you watch this for a heck of a good time! be sure not to miss the Barbie Museum (Jon Lovitz's character) parts and the Lucy (Cuba Gooding Jr.) ones. and the hilarious work of John Cleese and Rowan Atkinson, of course! "},{"Title":"funniest comedy","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is so crazy!  I loved every character.  I especially loved Seth and Vince.  they were so convincing as brothers and man, can they scream?!  I also love Amy and the way she handled her boyfriend.  That was a classic scene.  They are also a couple of people I know in the group of kids watching Enrico.  10/10... I recommend it for all the Beavis and Butthead, Simpsons, Something about Mary fans for some crude humor.  The only thing was that it said there was some brief nudity..where was it?  I saw it on DVD so I assumed i saw the whole thing.  Anyways, i love the ending, but what sucked is that my brother predicted everything that happened.  Don't ya hate that? "},{"Title":"Just perfect for forgetting your own problems for two hours","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I went to the theater alone. Figured if I laughed at the movie, at least I wouldn't be embarrassing somebody. Forget that! When I saw it, the entire room was just having a blast. I remember during the prarie-dogging line, everyone realized what that meant at the exact same time. Brilliant performances by John Cleese, Whoopi Goldberg, Jon Lovitz, Seth Green, and everyone else I don't have the energy to type. But my favorite character in this film has got to be Blaine... Vince Vieluf is not a very well known actor, but he's a great talent. I got a kick out of all the extras on the DVD. I would love to see another comedy like this. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly funny","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Unlike some other reviewers who liked the trailer then were disappointed at the movie, I had the opposite experience.  When I saw the trailers, I thought it looked like a bad rip-off of It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World, so when I saw the movie itself my expectations were relatively low.I was surprised to find that I was laughing all through the movie.  The gags and jokes come fast and heavy, much like Airplane which Jerry Zucker also had a hand in.  Sure, some of the jokes fall flat but there is always another one coming soon.The first 15 minutes or so are basically devoted to setting up the plot and introducing characters - I was asking myself when is something funny going to happen here, but in retrospect this was necessary in order to make the later gags work.  Often times a joke will be related to something that happened much earlier in the movie, so there is a constant element of surprise and recognition that makes it that much funnier.  Characters who are set up as nice normal people are revealed to be maniacs; this is a recurring theme and is very funny (I especially liked Amy Smart's pilot character).No, not everything works.  The ending is pretty hokey.  I didn't care much for Whoopi Goldberg's and Rowan Atkinson's characters but there is so much else going on that it doesn't seem much to matter.  A final comment is that this is a movie I could watch with my kids and not feel uncomfortable.  There is some foul language (though not as bad as what my daughter hears on the school bus every day, she assures me) and you see the side of a woman's breast but otherwise most of Rat Race is G-rated. "},{"Title":"Good Family Fun","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I rented this movie at the request of my children (10 and 12 years).  I watched it with them and thought it was very funny.  I'm not much of a movie reviewer because I don't look for the hidden meaning or artistic value of a movie.  All I care is, did it make me laugh - this movie did.I can tell that my children enjoyed it because they watched it a second time before the video had to be returned. "}{"Title":"don't rush!","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  following reviews tell you that you WILL LAUGH. Well I didn't. The humour was disjointed and juvenile, and seemed like a series of half baked gags held together with lumpy glue. John Cleese was great; Amy Smart was rather good; Once innovative and funny Rowen Atkinson should reassess his career; Vince Vieluf was the unlikely best. In fact all the performances were pretty good, but the film lacked situation and development. And lacked a decent ending too. Pity, because the theme, a lunatic casino owner and his lunatic schemes, was a good one. The whole thing was one dimensional and probably good for one viewing. Most other people at this web site seemed to have enjoyed it though so I guess you should take a look for yourself. You could do worse for your money. "},{"Title":" The Best Comedy This Year  ..","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's the craziest & funniest race I've ever seen , .. You won't stop laughing from the first scene in the movie ..I don't have any more comments , ..  you have to try it & see it by your eyes .. You'll like it very much ..  ... ... No one so far has critisized the movie .. You wanna laugh ?!?!?!?!?!? You wanna feel good ?!?!?!?!??! Just try this movie ..  But, be careful !!! you may get heart attach from excessive your laughsThat's all what I can say 'bout this movie ..  ' WORTH WATCHING 4 UNSTOPPABLE LAUGHING '         BYE4NOW  "},{"Title":"Good potential and a stellar cast wasted.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  'Rat Race' is a film destined for lazy weekend video choices, when you feel like relaxing in front a dumb comedy and turning your critical brain off. It's certainly not something I'd want to spend money to see  at the movies.Some of the scenes, such as the fate of those who don't buy squirrels and the scene with the cow and the balloon, are funny. Some of them are not, and because there are so many characters and we skip from one to another it is hard to remember or care much what is going on to each one of them. John Cleese is probably the best of a cast full of comedy stars who have done much better work. I'd say that it was better than average, but unfortunately the ending is lame - wincingly sentimental. Rating 5/10  "},{"Title":"fun times","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm suprised that it took me so long to see this one.  I remember seeing the preview and thinking it looked funny.  Having loved the Cannonball Run movies when it seemed like everyone else hated them and having also loved The Gumball Rally, Scavenger Hunt, and It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World, I knew what to expect from this.  However, I wasn't expecting to laugh so hard, so often.  It all starts when a zany casino operator offers a bunch of idiots a chance to win $2million.  It's quite clear that the guy isn't playing with a full deck and at first everyone thinks that it's all just a ploy.  Pretty soon they're off and everyone's out to beat the next guy.  The laughs come so fast you're likely to end up rewinding and watching over, as I often did.  Of the group, I'd have to say that Seth Green and his brother got the most laughs out of me while Rowan Atkinson's Italian tourist character annoyed me to death.  I really did want to reach through the screen and strangle the guy.  I'd have at least like to have seen him catch a serious beating.  That's really my only complaint.  The rest of the movie had me in stitches.  The script is great and the stunts were incredible AND funny.  Two standouts had to be where the two brothers are tryint to tear down the radar and the scene where the cadillac is out of control and hits a rock, propelling the guy with the speech impediment fifty yards through the air, into a pond.  I must have watched that one scene at least a dozen times. Rat Race is good, low-brow, idiot comedy at its best and it was just what I needed.  It's worth more than one rental and I'm sure I'll end up buying the DVD.  I just hope that there's a sequel. "},{"Title":"Okay, but its no Airplane! ...","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I admit that movie had its funny parts, but its no Airplane! Or Naked Gun, Jerry Zucker should really stick with making spoof/parodies.  The casting was okay,  but I found John Cleese kind of annoying in the movie, and whats with Woopie's hair?? I give this movie a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved the squirrel lady! John Cleese was great!  this is one of the best comedies I have seen in a long time.there was never a not funny part of the movie!this is a must see! I will give it a 10 out of 10. when they think he is talking like Hitler that is so funny! I definitely  recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Nearly a Classic","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, this is certainly a very funny film, and parts of it are precious and brilliant, but yet other parts are a tad too silly, too much slapstick, but well worth your viewing. The characters form an acting ensemble --I'm not sure it's so much acting as it is goofing around, but the upshot of all the madness is a film that could have been a classic, but it's close enough to warrant 8/10.   "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest Movies I've Seen in Years!","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Even from the opening credits, you can get a sense of how funny this movie is. And it gets better from there. There is no end to the laughter as you progress from scene to scene. It all starts with 2 millions dollars. John Cleese, an overly rich, Las Vegas casino owner who likes stupid bets, puts 2 million big ones in a locker in Silver City, New Mexico. It's up to 6 groups of people to beat each other to the cash. The frantic people include Whoopi Goldberg and Lanei Chapman as a mother/daughter team that need time for bonding, Jon Lovitz with his wife Kathy Najimy and two kids that must escape Nazis from the Barbie Museum, Rowen Atkinson as a narcoleptic Italian, Breken Meyer and Amy Smart that find romance after she runs down her ex with a helicopter, Cuba Gooding Jr. as a hated ref that gets stuck driving a bus full of Lucy wannabes, and Seth Green and Vince Vieluf as a team of scheming brothers that drive their truck up an airport tower, (literally.) It also stars Kathy Bates as the much-loved Squirrel Lady. I literally fell out of my seat with laughter. This is a must see. And watch out for the Hitlermobile! (Also for those who liked It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.) Rat Race is a keeper! "},{"Title":"Sigh...","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This has to be one of the most disappointing comedies I've ever seen. Director Jerry Zucker, who brought us Airplane! and Top Secret! (two of the most brilliant comedies of all time) has failed to capture any of the things that made those movies great.The film is about a group of outrageous people who are racing to get a two-million dollar prize.  The movie has a great cast and it seems like everyone is in it.  John Cleese, Cuba Gooding Jr., Rowan Atkinson and the rest, all do a great job.  They are all funny and quirky, but sadly, the film is not.The are some funny moments, such as when Dave Thomas's character has an interesting request for a prostitute.  You'll also crack up when the cow starts flying.  Most of the time though, you'll only chuckle, and your chuckles will end long before the scene does.  One example of this is when Amy Smart's character tries to taunt and attack her cheating ex-boyfriend while she's flying a helicopter.  It is funny for about half a minute, but after about five minutes of this, you want the scene -and the movie- to end.When you're at your local video story trying to find some suitable movie to rent, avoid this.  There are thousands of other movies out there that are better, funnier, and that don't make you regret sitting through them. "},{"Title":"Sounds Funnier Than It Is","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you were to listen to someone describe the list of characters in Rat Race, you might think the movie screams with laughter. It doesn't.While some concepts are initially promising (a dumb guy who has trouble speaking because his tongue is pierced, an NFL referee who is hated by many after blowing a coin toss, a Jewish family man who hates Nazis so much he still won't buy a VW), the execution is dull. None of these characters really does anything especially funny. They are just quirky. And you spend a lot of time wondering at the set-ups, like why does this Jewish guy associate the VW with Nazis of 50 years ago? What exactly did the ref do that determined the outcome of a game if it was only a coin toss (wouldn't a blown call in the end zone make more sense?)? Why does this pierced tongue guy have trouble speaking when so many others with pierced tongues don't?Other characters are simply one-joke wonders (the actor who used to play Mr. Bean is a mugging narcoleptic) or just inexplicable (a career woman is traveling with her more laid back mom Whoopi Goldberg). The concept of a Lucy Impersonator Convention is worth a laugh the first time you see all the Lucy's, but repeated material that shows all the Lucy's crying like Lucy did when things went wrong gets old, fast.In the end, only the usually frenetic pace keeps Rat Race from becoming a bore. John Cleese and his group of unnamed gamblers who wager on almost anything is a funny bit. And if you like scatological humor, the concept of prairie dogging, which I had never before heard in this context, is a guaranteed laugh-out-loud moment.We gave Rat Race a 6, because it tried hard and because of Cleese. "}{"Title":"Really Funny Stuff","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  	Jerry Zucker is responsible (as writer, producer, or director) for some of the funniest movies of all time &#150; from the lewd, crude, and rude Kentucky Fried Movie, to Airplane, to the TV series Police Squad and its film spin-off Naked Gun.  Naked Gun's sequels began a comedic downfall, which continued for a decade, until 2001's Rat Race.	Rat Race is, quite simply, hilarious.  Like any Zucker film, its presentation is rapid-fire joke after joke, in totally unrealistic situations tied together by a plot thin enough to let them go off into absurdity but with just enough substance to be able to bring them back together at the end (and what a positive-vibed ending! I'd call it implausible but in this film that's a moot point.  It really does make one's day though).  Rat Race definitely has this down, as long as one checks their brain at the proverbial door.  Not every joke works, and most are surprisingly clean (but risky clean &#150; particularly a gag involving accidental Hitler impersonation at a WWII veteran's celebration), but the fact is most work, and this has one of the best laugh-to-joke ratios in a long time.  It even bests what I have seen of Zucker's earlier work (everything except Kentucky Fried Movie).	Though I personally thought the film was hilarious, it is easy to see the other side of the issue.  The reason these situations are so funny are because they come totally unexpected and totally absurd; knowing what happens I doubt I would laugh at it all again.  Some of the situations, upon close inspection, reveal themselves as annoying (Lucy's, I'm looking at you, though I realize they were intended to be annoying) or too stupid to work more than once (what's up with the squirrel lady?).  There never seems to be enough of the most enjoyable characters &#150; the brothers Seth Green and Vince Vieluf, and Mr. Bean.  Though these are valid points, they are the same points that can be made about any Zucker film.  For what it is, there are no major flaws with Rat Race, but if you don't like what it is, then you simply will not enjoy Rat Race.	It's difficult for me to review comedies because they're either funny or they're not.  If they're funny bravo, if not they're a failure.  Though I never tested to see how well it holds up through multiple viewings, Rat Race, thankfully, is funny for at least one viewing, and quite possibly more.  "},{"Title":"UM, GREAT MOVIE!","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I heard about this movie from my Aunt who lives in Las Vegas.   She told me that if I would rent this movie and watch it she could insure that I would not stop laughing through every scene.   My husband and I rented it that night and laughed hysterically all that night and throughout the next few days.   Just thinking about scenes from the film made us crack up again and again.   Only two days after seeing the movie for the first time, we ran out and bought it on DVD.   This movie is a classic comedy and we knew we just had to add it to our collection of other classics!   Congrats to the writers on a premo film! "},{"Title":"Funniest film I've seen in a long time!","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie never let's you come up for air!  The gags just keep on coming! Each and every scene is so much fun, you would be hard pressed to pick a favorite.  Every actor in this film is a Master comedian in their own right, so to have them all in one film is a real treat.  I haven't laughed that hard in years!   "},{"Title":"Have you seen this room","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What a beautiful room, have you seen this room?  HAHA  great comedy by the man that brought us baseketball! Rowan atkinson's character is hilarious! Definitely recommended! amazingly funny! "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hilarious movie.Did not see it at theatres because the critics panned it.  I should have ignored them (I remember when Rhona Barrett trashed Star Wars on Good Morning America) and seen Rat Race.  Instead, waiting until DirecTV.A laugh every few minutes, constantly throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"Weak","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  2/10---This is the quintessential movie that puts all the best stuff in the trailer.  Zucker had a bunch of talent but couldn't bring it together.  Definitely not his best work.  If you get sucked into renting this because you remember the trailer being funny in the theater, check out the gag reel in the special features on the dvd, most of the laughs are there.---2/10 "},{"Title":"Too few laughs","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really was disappointed when i saw this movie. For a Zuckermovie there where too few laughs. And with this cast it should have been better. Missed chances. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious!","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. My roomate rented it and I wasn't thinking I was going to watch it but after observing a few minutes of it I just knew I had to watch it. I was literatly crying throughout the movie. This one is a good one..so go get it and rent Rat Race now! 10-10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely Funny","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went into this film expecting to see a typical Jerry Zucker film but I was really surprised to see that it was much funnier than anything done before.  The only think typical about the movie was the introduction of humor by namely presenting a bad situation and making it worse for that character in the situation i.e. with Jon Lovitz family and the Barbie museum gag.  This only makes it even funnier and I was laughing so hard the entire time, I couldn't control myself.  True the humor was somewhat predictable but it wasn't entirely so but that fact made things even better when you know something will happen but you don't know exactly what it is.  The only thing I hated was the ending which looked really silly and very predictable.  An all-star cast of some very funny actors could make it seem like they are trying to cover a bad script but in fact, it just keeps the movie going with one joke after another.  Terrific. "},{"Title":"It has its moments.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is not that bad but also not that good.  I have a hard time enjoying comedies with crude humor in them.  I just don't find that very funny.  However, there are some moments in the film a are good.  I like the Cuba Goodings Jr. part on the but with the I Love Lucy club.  I enjoyed that part to name a moment.  The cast is well chosen and helps the film.  John Cleese is very good and has some of the best comedy lines in the film.  Otherwise, the film does suffer from some crude humor which I feel takes away from the film a lot. Over all, not too bad and it does have it good moments (4 out of 10). "}{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't think it would be as good as it was.  I swear I laughed till I was hurting in my side, every second is a laugh.  Rowan Atkinson was great, and I loved the Lucy's, if you want a good laugh you should really rent this movie.My score  5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies in years","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat race is a high flying adventure full of laughs.  The cast is excellent and the story is good too.  Yea the ending was a bit corny, but so what. That was the only iffy part of the movie.  Jon Lovitz was the best in this, especially the Hitler scene.  Even if you take away the laughs, this is still a good movie, with an interesting plot. Overall I would have to say that is was a better, and funnier movie than Its a mad mad mad mad world.  The movies are very similiar, with rat race stealing a thing or two from the original.  I would even go so far as to call rat race a remake, rather than an independent film.  Even so, if you have seen It's a mad world, than you will probably agree that this is a funnier, and better movie. "},{"Title":"I kept waiting for it to be funny but the movie ended  before it reached the destination.","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I kept waiting for it to be funny but the movie ended  before it reached the destination. This was a very poor attempt to remake It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad, World.  Go see the classic and pass on this one - it's just not funny. "},{"Title":"10 ouut of 10","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had been waiting to see this movie for months. When I finally went to see it, it was way better than i had imagined. Seth Green and Vince Vieluf scenes had me in tears. I have seen a lot of Greens movies, and he is a great actor but i had not heard of Vielf before. They played brothers in rat race that were willing to do anything to get the money. I thought it was great when Vielufs character found a girlfriend. Although she was a litle strange, it was so sweet. Green definetly stole the film. He was hilarious, everything he did made you laugh. I will definetly get it when it comes out on video, and I strongly recomend it to anyone, espescially Seth Green fans!! "},{"Title":"I only laughed once","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I feel like a bit of a spoilsport in light of the generally positive posts about Rat Race, however I found this movie forced and obvious to the point of tedium. The one scene which coaxed a spontaneous laugh from me was the arrival of Lovitz and family at the WW II veterans convention. Maybe what was missing was the edge of the original Airplane or the the first two Naked Gun flicks. I agree with those who found the ending of this film sticky and sentimental in the extreme. But my main objection is the attempt to substitute constant movement for comic inspiration. It's pretty sad when you can't even make such reliable comic performers as Cleese and Wayne Knight funny. Every time I saw Cleese I kept thinking that he must have a great dentist as those teeth were so white! I think this film needed a much better script and a more subversive attitude. Instead it smugly asks us to admire routines (like the busload of Lucy impersonators) which grow old too quickly. It's sad that the best thing you can say about this turkey is that it's not too offensive to share with children.  "},{"Title":"This movie made me laugh so hard.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is by far te funniest movie I've seen so far in 2002, there are so many great actors in it and they all play up to their very best. Some of the scenes are hilarious. I highly recommend everybody to go watch it. One word, Start...... "},{"Title":"Good solid movie until it's disasterous ending wrecks havoc!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers?I really laughed alot throughout this movie.  It was going for a roll. Until it was obvious that no one was gonna get the movie and they ended the movie on one of the worst notes I've ever seen.  It's like they built this movie to be as funny as possible without ever thinking on how to end the darn thing.  Good solid comedies should end decent.  Not this moralistic crap they shoved at us.  Not that a moral movie would be bad, it's just that it has no place in this movie.  It contradicts the characters.  I doubt I'll watch this more than 2-3 more times, if that.The movie trailer though, did it's job.  It got me to see it.  But for god's sake, why destroy a movie with a horrible ending.There was some problematic plot holes as well.The dvd I thought was excellent.  Especially the Call The Actors section. A kewl way to do a commentary track.5/10Quality 2/10 Entertainment 7/10 Replayable 1/10 "},{"Title":"Keep a change of underwear handy. (DVD)","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Certain movies promise more than they deliver. This one delivers even more than it promises. We watched the movie all the way thru, but had to stop at least 5 times so we could catch our breaths from laughing so hard.When the DVD finished, we went back and watched some of the best outtakes the world has ever seen. I have no idea how the crew could have completed work on many of these scenes without a change of underwear. Timing, delivery, story line...this surprising comedy had it all. Watch it. For your mother...in heaven!10/10 -)) "},{"Title":"I'm a Zucker for a good comedy!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Contains Spoilers One cannot say `They don't make films like THAT anymore,' after viewing `Rat Race.'In a 2001 version of the classic `It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World' and other 1960s chase/race comedies, Jerry Zucker strikes gold and recaptures the same madcap, zany feel of Mad World, The Great Race and other classics of that era.Just like its predecessor, Rat Race pits several individuals, drawn together by chance, into a frenzied cross-country race to recover $2 million in a dufflebag, locked in a locker in the Silver Springs, NM train depot. Instead of the dying words of Jimmy Durante guiding them to `the big W,' the group is sent on the chase by billionaire casino mogul Donald Sinclair (John Cleese), who (unbeknownst to them) is tracking their every move, while a bevy of high-rollers is betting on the winner.The cast is first-rate, with Cleese bringing his English polish and well-honed comedic skills to the production. As the movie continues, the wealthy patrons bet on everything from which flavor chocolate the lawyer will bite into in a box of candy, which maid can dangle from a curtain longest, which of the group will throw up first when Sinclair's private Leer pilot zigzags during a flight, etc.The assembled group of contestants is disparate enough. Jon Levitz is Randy Pear, a man who has finally agreed to take his family on vacation &#150; although it appears his real purpose in going to Las Vegas was not to see David Copperfield, as promised, but to hit the casino. The pudgy Pears (Levitz, Kathy Najimy Brody Smith and Jillian Marie) make a cute family and even look somewhat alike. When  Levitz decides to accept the invitation, he tells his family he has received a `once in a lifetime' job opportunity to sell fountain pen ink in Silver City &#150; and off they go.Whoopee Goldberg and Lanei Chapman play a mother and daughter, who have just been reunited after more than 25 years. They seem to have little in common at first, but suddenly have two million things that interest both!Seth Green and Vince Vieluf play Duane and Blaine Cody, a pair of dysfuntional brothers, out to make a quick buck. Duane (Green) is definitely `the brains' of this Two Stooge outfit. When Blaine (Vaieluf), who can barely be understood, thanks to a self-performed tongue-piercing, complains that he could break his neck faking a fall at the casino, Duane bravely replies `That's a risk I'm willing to take.'Upright young lawyer Nick Shaffer (Breckin Meyer), a clean-cut attorney with political ambitions, winds up flying with gorgeous helicopter pilot Tracy Faucet (Amy Smart), on the pretext of visiting his sister at the Silver Springs Hospital.Two individuals, meanwhile, are competing solo. NFL official Owen Templeton (Cuba Gooding, jr.) is a national scapegoat (especially in the South and in Vegas) after blowing a call that cost the Dallas Cowboys a game the previous weekend. Enrico Fellini (Rowan Atkinson of `Mr. Bean' fame) is the final contestant, bringing all his usual facial quirks and bizarre movements into play.The result is as much mayhem as one can imagine, with all the contestants, naturally arriving (more or less in one piece) in Silver City at basically the same time. In between, though, Zucker maintains the pace beautifully and what could easily become a tedious string of crashes and near-crashes is instead, enjoyable throughout.Everyone has a plan and &#150; naturally &#150; everyone's plan goes seriously awry. Nick sees his attractive copter pilot turn psycho when she discovers her boyfriend in a pool with another woman and destroys the copter and half of a suburb in her rage. Smart is stunningly attractive as Tracy and never more so than when she cackles sadistically as she chases her terrified boyfriend.Owen has one problem after another, first being stripped and dumped in the desert by an irate cab-driving Cowboys fan who lost thousands of dollars due to his officiating blunder. When he finally staggers into a service station, he cons a bus driver out of his uniform, only to discover that he is driving a busload of Lucille Ball wannabes to the Third Annual I Love Lucy Convention!Other than the copter, no one is flying, thanks to the Cody brothers and their bungled attempt to destroy the airport radar system. When the brothers decide to have duplicate key made and split up to increase their chances, the hardware store clerk overhears them and makes off with the key. He winds up dangling from a balloon &#150; along with a cow, all the way to Silver City.The mother-daughter combo have their problems, as well. Asking `the squirrel lady' (a delightful cameo by Kathy Bates) for directions without buying a squirrel can be fatal. It isn't for Vera and Merill, though, and neither is accidentally setting a land speed record in a rocket car.While Enrico, a narcoleptic, is falling asleep in the middle of airport terminals, the Pear family is having their own share of misadventures. When Randy finally gives into family pressure and stops so little Kimberly can visit the Barbie Museum, they discover to their horror at it is actually the Klaus Barbie Museum, dedicated to France's most hated WWII war criminal, and lovingly run by young skinheads. After finding their van sabotaged, they calmly swipe Hitler's Mercedes-Benz and get into even more hilarity.Zucker, working for one of the few times without his older brother David, brings home another winner, with the help of original Saturday Night Live writer Andrew Breckman. This is a good, relatively clean film and lots of fun. This probably the best comedy I've seen in several years.  "},{"Title":"This Rat Race is a Dog","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I was in high school, the class clowns loved to have me around because I laughed at nearly everything.  The Three Stooges crack me up.  Fawlty Towers, a series staring John Cleese, may just be the funniest thing I've ever seen on television.  And America's Funniest Home Videos generally had me in hysterics (the video clips that is, not the hosts).  Well, I sat through this movie twice (my 6-year-old seemed to like it), and cracked barely a smile.  Like one of the other posters noted, I am absolutely astonished at the good reviews this show is getting.  There is NOTHING in it that is original, and NOTHING in it that is funny (well, I did chuckle at one line - said by one of the most minor characters in the movie).  I generally find something laughable in even the most severely criticized comedies, but the only thing laughable in this movie was the movie itself. Rent this one if you are having trouble sleeping.  You'll be spared from most of it.  "}{"Title":"Good movie. Shame about the ending...","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race has a dream cast of both veterans and relative newcomers. Rowan Atkinson, Cuba Gooding Jr, Whoopi Goldberg, Jon Lovitz, Breckin Meyer, Seth Green and Vince Vieluf take part in a cross-country race to win $2 million stashed inside a train station locker. A simple plot, but some fine comedic acting, mainly from Gooding Jr, elevate the film so that it's highly enjoyable. So why spoil the whole thing with such an overly sentimental ending? But, quibbles aside, this is an ensemble peice that actually works well, with some hilarious set peices (the theft of Hitler's car, the flying cow, Amy Smart's plane attack on her cheating boyfriend). Essential Friday/Saturday night viewing. "},{"Title":"This movie is da bomb!!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What most movies today are lacking is style! We either get graphic violence, explicit sex scenes or blood, guts and gore. Slapstick comedy seems to have disappeared since the early 1990's.It was a refreshing change to go into a movie theatre and see pure slapstick on screen.Rat Race stars John Cleese, Rowan Atkinson, Whoopi Goldberg, Cuba Gooding Jr., Seth Green, Kathy Najimy and John Lovitz.This film had me in fits of laughter from start to finish. It was hysterical. From the cow hanging off the hot air balloon to Whoopi's character and her daughter riding in the rocket car. From John Cleese telling all the racers that there was a meteor about to hit earth to Rowan Atkinson's character falling asleep in the middle of a road.It's non stop madness!! 10/10. "},{"Title":"Same old sh#t, new wrapping","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Here's a film with a lot of good points; if you've never watched a single comedy before in your entire life that is. The story starts of by introducing the characters at a hotel, and they all end up, rather surprisingly, in the top suite. It turns out to be the eccentric millionaire/ billionaire Donald Sinclair's work of doing. He is offering them all a chance to win $1000000, and so the race starts. For it is the race the film is about; it is only the winner of the race to a deposit box that gets the money. The race itself is made up of the contenders mixing into all kinds of weird situations, which is all a very good idea but which has also been done before. Remember Cannonball Run and Cannonball Run II? I would have thought two VERY similar films about a race was enough! But apparently Jerry Zucker did not agree with me, and he felt the need to make a film containing the scenes that was refused for classics such as Airplane and the Naked gun movies. The film is not chemically free from good and enjoyable moments; David Sinclair, played by non other than John Cleese, and his lot of eccentric billionaire friends make up the most of these, but some very rare seconds of other laughable happenings also occur. All in all this is not a film you want to watch!! "},{"Title":"Easily the worst movie I've ever seen...","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm stunned at all the rave reviews of this movie.  I didn't even think it was worth the $4 I spent at Blockbuster.  The only reason I rented it was because I thought the previews looked funny, and it has such a great cast, that I thought it had surely been overlooked at the theatres.  Wrong.  This movie is absolutely ludicrous.  The idea is great, however, the execution is terrible.  Absolutely insane things keep happening to these people, and the thing is, absolutely NONE if it is funny.  And the ending truly ruins it all.  Awful, and I thought The Crow II was bad.  Unless you have an hour and a half with absolutely nothing better to do, don't even bother.  Seriously, it's that bad.   "},{"Title":"Wow...How come no one liked it?","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I laughed so hard the first time I saw it, and yet, half the people that saw didn't think it was funny.  How can a movie filled with so many comedic stars and a simple plot for them to all be recognized not be a funny film.  This film is wonderful.  I don't I've seen something this funny in a long while(since Meet the parents or Something about Mary).  Besides the cheesy ending, which a movie like this probably couldn't avoid, it's a comic masterpiece.  I heard someone wrote that it has enough laughs to keep you awake.  This movie has enough laughs to keep you on the floor.  I just couldn't help laughing at all the performances, especialy Whoppi Golberg.  If you want to rent a comedy, rent this.7/10        "},{"Title":"In the right mood, it is PAINFULLY funny.","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can see that comments for Rat Race are quite polarized; that's the way it is with these movies  you love them, or you hate them.  But if one's in the right mood, it can hit you just right.  I was going on a much needed vacation, and saw this on the airplane to Thailand.  I thought that it would be weak, but after the cool segue between the animated credits and the live action beginning, I kept watching, 'just in case.'Well, there ARE lots of dull parts, but MY GOSH the funny parts are unbelievable.  I have not laughed as hard or as loud, or as long, in many years.  My wife had to keep shushing me so I wouldn't disturb the sleeping airplane passengers.It is quite uneven, with good actors without much to do.  But in such a show it's the material that does the work, not the acting.  My favorite parts were the follow up to Kathy Bates's Squirrel woman, and the workup to the WWII vets scene.  Perhaps the best performance was by Amy Smart, who I hadn't seen before--but would like to.Anyway, I feel a little uncomfortable recommending this because I know that it just doesn't suit some people.  But for me, I put it into my 'favorites' category in gratitude for the belly laughs that it gave me....not just during the movie, but for days afterwards.   "},{"Title":"funniest movie","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat race was the funniest movie I ever seen.  I laughed all the way to the end of the movie. I thought whoopi Goldberg was hilarious. If you want to see a funny  movie, I would reccomend this movie. Rent the movie at your local video store. "},{"Title":"*LAUGH OUT LOUD FUN!*","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie! Its sooo funny! As my brother calls it, the best movie of the year! I would recommend this movie to anyone that loves to laugh! I give this movie a 10/10! You'll love the cast, they are all great together to make this movie great! "},{"Title":"Simply hilarious! A truly funny film.","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I first picked up the DVD from the local video store, I was a little bit hesitant when I saw that Zucker directed this film. I was never a fan of his films. However, being a fan of both Rowan Atkinson and John Cleese, I really couldn't resist. I am definately glad that I did pick up this little gem...it is simply hilarious. Zucker's greatest movie yet.The story revolves around a group of people at a Las Vegas Casino. After winning a certain coin in one of the slot machines, they find out that they have been chosen to race to New Mexico in search of $2 million. The first one to the cash...well, gets to keep the cash. Along the way, they meet all sorts of comic mishaps.Not slapstick like Zucker's previous films, this movie will delight both fans of his movies, and fans of the British comedy scene, as this film tends to lean into that direction more. I haven't laughed so hard in a long time as I did when I saw John Lovitz and his family visit the Barbie museum. And the scene with the WWII vets is just hysterical. I do not want to give too much away, you will have to watch it yourself.The film reminded me of an updated version of The Cannonball Run, however, with a funnier story. If you liked that film, give this one a try. Hollywood has not made a movie this funny in a long time. Bravo Zucker, you finally made a fan out of me. "},{"Title":"One Of The Funniest Movies Ever....Underrated!","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race (8/10) is one of the most underrated comedies I've ever seen. When it was in theatres it really flew under the radar but now Im seeing it gain quite a cult following. Its the story of a casino owner (played brilliantly and big-teethed by Jon Cleese) who offers a select few, but zany people ( I believe there are 7) the chance to win 2 million dollars, hidden in a locker in Silver City, NM. The hialrious array of characters includes a family man who is forced to drag his family along o nthe wild chase (Jon Lovitz), an uptight lawyer ( Breckin Meyer), two brothers, one with a serious speech impediment (Seth Green and...I've forgotten the other brother's name), and more. This underused genre can be incredibly funny, especially when everything thta can go wrong does. Well paced, appropriate ending, hilarious acting, what mroe could you want in a fun, entertaining movie?  "}{"Title":"Hysterical","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, after just 10 minutes I knew this was going to be a very physical comedy. It had the hilarious incidents and the over-acting characters and abscence of a real dialogue. I might not be the greatest fan of the genre comedy, but I'd say that this belongs to the average. It's hysterical all the way and my mainstream friends had a good laugh almost through the entire film, I on the other hand felt that very few scenes where worth the effort to laugh or even giggle.Like I've told the most people I know, I often find that humor is more powerful in ordinary life where personalities are true and believable. This film contained no such elements, just pure fiction with cows dodging through the air every now and then.In the midst of the laughing climax, I sighed, closed my eyes and thought, when will there be a good comedy? Probably never, as long as it's labeled comedy.. "},{"Title":"Comic genius at its best!","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is by far one of the funniest movies of 2001, and possibly one  of the funniest ever made. It's true that the plot isn't entirely original, but it is carried out in a different manner. Many critics have given mad reviews to Rat Race, but who cares, they're critics.. The audience are the ones that really count. Rat Race is a comedy, and comedies are meant to make you laugh, and RAT RACE succeeds in doing that. The movie is hilarious from the animated opening sequence to the completely unexpected, yet cute, ending. If you love a whacked out and totally insane type of humor, Rat Race is for you.. trust me, you won't stop laughing. "},{"Title":"It's a stupid, stupid, stupid film","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kudos on the idea, but Zucker gets another F (in a long list of recent flops) for presentation. The insanity that ensues ends up being tedious instead of humorous and the film just doesn't know how to end... at a rock concert with some fly-by-night band-of-the-moment eating up screen time?! This isn't funny, this is numbing. Ah, welcome to Hollywood.However, there ARE a few moments of hilarity, but those moments are, unfortunately, very few. Jon Lovitz' Hitler is at the very top of that very small list. What the film does tend to specialize in are extremely - and painfully - UNfunny moments, most of which tend to center around Vince Vieluf, who plays brother to the ever-charming Seth Green, and Rowan Atkinson, which lends one to think how the comedic genius behind BLACKADDER and MR. BEAN could play a role that was anything but funny.If given the choice between watching this again and serving jury duty, wasting time at the courthouse seems to be awfully tempting... "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films of all time","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film took physical comedy to the extreme. The verbal gags were a bit thin, but after a slow start this film really took off, with non-stop laughter all the way. This film did have its faults, Rowan Atkinson was underused, but Andrew Breckman had a very tough job backing up the physical humour with an amazing script. All I can say is that reviewers who found this film too reliant on toilet humour should learn to relax and switch their brains off a bit more at the cinema. I defy anyone who didn't find the squirting milk scene even a bit funny.  "},{"Title":"Extremly funny","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this film! My girlfriend, Emma, has never laughed so much at a comedy and it is not difficult to see why.  The cast is top notch, the comedy well timed and extremely unpredictable in places that make it very refreshing to watch. I especially liked the Dean Cain scene and the scene with Cuba Gooding Jr and the Lucy's. I saw this film in Ashford, Kent, which strangely enough is where I saw Men Of Honor with Cuba Gooding Jr as well. Spooky huh? "},{"Title":"If you can relax and stop expecting American Beauty crossed with Monty Python, it's hilarious.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok, personally I had a great time seeing this at the movies. Duane and Blaine Cody were particularly insane as the con-artist brothers, Duane being the brains, Blaine being the muscle, and both of them very attached and connected family. Amy Smart had without a doubt the best revenge scene on her cheating boyfriend I've ever seen in a movie or otherwise, she was truly maniacal, and Rowan Atkinson was amusing in his own way as the Italian tourist. I didn't worry about staring at the screen with my 'contemptuous' look on, turning to whisper to those around me, This is sooo stupid! in the hopes that they would think I had mature, refined tastes and was altogether above this kind of brainless physical comedy. Instead I sat back, took it for what it was, and laughed my booty off. I'd suggest to anyone considering this movie to do the same. "},{"Title":"Ladies & Gentleman...start your engines......","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rat Race is a comedy about the story of 6 strangers who are gathered (by chance) for a crazy winner-gets-it-all 2 million dollar race to Silver City, New Mexico, and all the things that could happen on a very wild road.Most of the cast which include names such as John Cleese, Whoopie Goldberg, Rowan Atkinson and John Lovitz who all gave that extra character diversity that the film needed. Other names include Seth Green and Cuba Gooding Jr. in one of the stupidest acting performances I've ever seen in my entire life.Some of Rat's jokes and comic situations were very funny but most of them just seemed to be forced all the time, taking away a great deal of originality.Robinson Almanzar. "},{"Title":"No classic but great fun","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The plot of Rat Race is simple enough - six groups of people are racing to one town to receive a prize of $2,000,000 as part of a bizarre show put on by the eccentric Donald Sinclair (John Cleese) for his wealthy friends (who are betting on who will win the money). The cleverness in this is it allows us to switch between six stories (5 sets of contestants and the gamblers) so that if you don't like one of them you're sure not to be stuck with them for too long before switching.Rat Race is good. Rat Race is funny often - if not all the time. Rowan Atkinson's character Enrico Pollini is particularly weak and tends just to act like a gaping moron in a most humourless fashion. Nick Shaffer (Breckin Meyer) is the plays-by-the-rules guy gone bad and is, as such, a bit dull though he's nicely balanced by the psychotic helicopter-flying Tracy Faucet (Amy Smart). Particularly good though are the Cody brothers - they get the best of the slapstick humour elements and add a bit of tomfoolery to the proceedings. However it's Randy Pear (Jon Lovitz) driving his family (literally) mad in his pursuit to win the prize that steals the show - watch out for the hilarious WWII veterans rally (the film's funniest moment).There's nothing special about the directing or the acting - there doesn't need to be. This film relies on a script and thankfully the script is able to keep up with the task. Sure there are plenty of weak moments (the I Love Lucy segment stank, as did most of Atkinson's role) but that's helped out by the fact we're constantly moving to the next gag - the film is not slow paced. Admittedly I guessed the type of ending (if not the exact nature) but that didn't spoil my enjoyment. By no means a classic comedy but great fun nonetheless - certainly a worthy way to spend a couple of hours at the cinema. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Quite frankly, I was amazed at the level of criticism this movie has received. It was amazingly funny.First a brief synopsis Several groups of people are in the same hotel in Las Vegas. While each of these groups is playing slots, they receive a special token, which they redeem to the manager/owner of the casino/hotel (John Cleese). This random selection determines who races to go for the money.The twist however is that John Cleese's character has set up this race as a betting event for a bunch of high-dollar compulsive gamblers. To me, the funniest part of the movie was to see Cleese and company killing time betting on incredibly STUPID (read funny) stunts while waiting for their group to win the race. )The film is not without it's problems, just like pretty much any film. I felt that Rowan Atkinson's presence and character was not near what it should have been, and I could have done without Cuba Gooding driving the bus full of transvestite Lucille Ball impersonators (hey, if you saw the preview, you saw at least something of this). Overall though, it was excellent. "},{"Title":"Very very funny, but lacks magic.","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A very, very funny film although it seemed to lack something, that extra spark which give the great comedies their magic. Having said that the premise about six people racing each other to bag two million dollars, while being spied and bet upon, is funny in itself. Writer Andrew Breckman and director Jerry Zucker manage it fit loads of very funny sketches and scenarios in to this quite short film. All the characters are hysterical in there own unique way. However I never felt that many characters were at their best, Rowan Atkinson as Enrico Pollini, was brilliant, but not Atkinsons best, the same applies to Whoopi Goldberg as Vera Baker and definitely John Cleese as Donald Sinclair, they all lacked the quality we come to expect from them. But the story line and premise makes this film work, and I would recommend people to go and see for themselves. "}{"Title":"Non-Stop Funny!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race was a Hilarious movie. It was funny from the minute it started until the minute it ended. What's funnier than a bunch a well known comedians racing from Las Vegas to Silver City New Mexico for Two Million Dollars. Rat Race is most likely the funniest movie of 2001 it is a HAVE TO SEE MOVIE ! Jerry Zucker did a terrific job making this movie and getting all those actors such as Jon Lovitz,Rowan Atkinson etc. A funny remake from a funny movie. So what are you waiting for go out and get Rat Race and LET THE RACE BEGIN! I GIVE RAT RACE A PERFECT SCORE OF 10/10 "},{"Title":"Hit And Miss Comedy","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is a hit and miss remake of the CannonBall Run.It starts off quite well, with some mildly amusing credits that are blended into the movie with some style, and then goes downhill as they introduce the characters. The only thing to keep you on the edge of the seat at this point is the reflex to catch John Cleese's false teeth.It picks up again once the race is underway with things getting bigger, better, sillier and more tasteless as the movie progresses. Cuba Gooding Jnr looked desperately out of place and Whoopi Goldberg should have stayed at home. Seth Green, Vince Vieluf, Breckin Meyer, Amy Smart and Rowan Atkinson play the only characters of interest and make a good performance. All these characters had a lot more screen time and you wanted to go back to them while watching Whoopi, Cuba or Jon Lovitz. Dean Cain was supposedly in the film, but I missed him. I did see Lanai Chapman.The comedy was pretty silly and very tasteless, at least they didn't do any World Trade Tower gags. Vince's pierced tongue was quite a witty (and the only) piece of social commentary (made more funny near the end, but I don't want to give the joke away). Rowan plays a Bean-esque character, which fits in well, but I would rather have seen him play in a Black Adder style - however Seth Green already had the role of an absolute b*st*rd.Then you get to the end, which is very lame a disappointing. Given some of the jokes throughout the movie, the ending seems to be such a cop out. Smash Mouth put in an appearance (I thought it was Fred Durst until they introduced the band) and do one of their best songs.All in all, it is a good movie, just miss the beginning and miss the end. Definitely the funniest and only film I have seen so far this year.  "},{"Title":"Fun for the family","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very funny movie that will have appeal on a wide range of levels. If you are young or old - conservative or liberal, this film will cater to your funny bone needs very well.British and American comic talents merge to provide us with the best of both worlds.   Guaranteed to give everyone in the cinema a few chuckles.I give it 8/10 - see for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Impressive cast help this rise above average.","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Films such as this like Cannonball run and the countless other comedic cross country race for the money films are not my favourites to be frank. I must say though I thought this was good despite its done to death plot. Directed by the producer and director of naked gun and airplane, Rat Race was always going to be funny and while it doesn't rival the naked gun trilogy it is still a laugh a minute comedy. The enormous cast of recognizable names many of whom are fallen comic actors/actresses who have been nearing box office obscurity are all excellent. Jon Lovitz is here in a role larger than the odd cameo he gets in cinema flicks nowadays such as Little Nicky and also Whoopi Goldberg appears to, with all these sort of people I half epected Chevy Chase to pop up at any second. Anyway there are the few odd moments of side splittingly funny gags and the rest of the jokes range from average to quite good. Worth a watch for sure. Cuba Gooding jr is hilarious in this and has a particularly funny scene in a bus. I must say the end sucked big time unfortunately. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Never laughed so hard at the cinema EVER!","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this film so much! Couldn't stop laughing! Very clever and lots of very surprising humour - especially when Jon Lovitz crashes Hitler's car into the veterans convention! Flying cows, 50 Lucille Balls, monster trucks, narcolepsy, helicopter chasing trucks - it has it all! Best money I have spent at the cinema in a long while! 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Bizarre and laugh out loud fun","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Eccentric Las Vegas millionaire Donald Sinclair (John Cleese) uses chance to bring together an unusual group of people. Each has won a special coin by playing the poker machines in his casino which then makes them eligible to enter a bizarre race. After they have been given special keys, they are told the rules. Quite simply, there are none. The first to reach a locker at Silver City train station wins a duffel bag containing two million dollars.The competitors include an Italian narcoleptic (Rohan Atkinson), shamed referee on-the-run (Cuba Gooding Jnr), homicidal helicopter pilot (Amy Smart) and eccentric mother (Whoopi Goldberg). They create havoc as they battle to outsmart and outpace each other across the Nevada desert.Directed by Jerry Zucker, best known for his years as writer for Mad magazine and creator of spoof films such as Flying High and The Naked Gun, Rat Race is a good, old fashioned slapstick road caper movie. It's lots of fun, with a top notch cast quickly coming to terms with the fact that this is not a serious arthouse movie and simply going for the laughs. Keep an eye out for funny cameos by Kathy Bates (Misery) as a roadside squirrel seller and Dean Cain (Superman in Lois and Clark) as a boyfriend who wishes he'd kept out of his pool.There are some truly bizarre and laugh out loud sequences. The highlights including the 'Barbie' museum, an airborne cow, a coach-load of over-the-top Lucy impersonators and a wayward donor heart.All round good fun without any pretence to being any more than what it is - a go-for-broke, try anything for a laugh movie with a great cast.Rat-rated 7.5/10.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining with a big fat capital E","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'd heard nothing but bad reviews ever since this movie came out in the States. Thank God I never listen to small-minded people, or I might've missed out on what is one of the greatest race movies of our time.Okay, let's get a couple of things straight. This is *not* It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World. It never aimed to be. Hell, if we started unfairly judging movies to other movies that might slightly resemble them, we'd be forever criticising movies - no matter how good or bad they were.Secondly, this shouldn't have been labelled a comedy. Yes, it was funny. In fact, the John Lovitz take on Hitler was utter hilarity, but apart from that, and a few lines from Whoopi Goldberg and Wayne Knight this movie wasn't overly funny. Never mind - it wasn't mighty entertaining.The colourful onscreen antics of the wacky racer characters were fun and like I said, entertaining to watch. I'd have called it a comic-thriller. The race scenes were very well paced and produced... and you *wanted* to know who'd win.What surprised me, was the huge ensemble cast they gathered for the picture Rowan Atkinson, Whoopi Goldberg, Cuba Gooding Jr, John Lovitz, Kathy Najimy, Seth Green, Amy Smart, Breckin Meyer, John Cleese and Wayne Knight, plus Pugsly from the Addams Family TV series - they all worked extremely well!Of course, it helps to review a movie when one of your favorite bands play their best song and with Smashmouth performing 'All Star' it makes it easier for me to give this movie a good review.So overall, it could have been funnier, but because of that fact, 'Rat Race' is going to take a lot longer to be tired of.Ignore the bad reviews - this is thoroughly entertaining. 8/10 "},{"Title":"An Embarrassment of Has-Beens","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The 12-year old next to me thought this movie was funny, and perhaps for a pre-teen it was.  This movie might appeal to those who think that Adam Sandler is funny.  However, for some of us the film was not just bad - it was boring.  For the performers, though, this movie should be a source of chronic embarrassment.  Rowan Atkinson's role as an Italian-accented Mr. Bean-type character was abysmal.  Atkinson is getting worse as he gets older.  It's a shame that he seems to have peaked as a comedian in his 20's and to now be on the long, slippery slope to obscurity.  Such a shame.  The same might be said of John Cleese, except that it's hard to imagine him actually getting any worse.  How can he have allowed himself to have reached such a low ebb that absolutely nothing he says is even remotely humorous?  Both Cleese and Atkinson would have been better off had they stayed in England, but apparently the lure of Hollywood greenbacks was sufficient to overwhelm any remaining artistic ambitions they may have had.  They're now like punch-drunk fighters who used to be contenders, but who now keep climbing into the ring for another paycheck - and another beating.  I hope the pay is good.None of the other performances are worth noting either, though Jon Lovitz does at least give us the very occasional chuckle.  It's too bad he wasn't around to work for Mel Brooks, who could have made something of Lovitz' latent talents.  I don't know what Whoopi Goldberg is supposed to have contributed to this film.  She certainly isn't the least bit funny, and the same can be said of Cuba Gooding, Jr.'s performance.  I guess the movie's makers just showed him the money.  The remaining cast members are lesser-known obscuranties whose careers will certainly not be helped by appearing in this kind of drivel.  Rat Race is a slapstick B-movie made by people who think they are A-movie performers. Unfortunately, they're not even close. "},{"Title":"A fuuuuuuuuuuuuuny movie","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Some things in life are just meant to be. Me and a friend had gone to a free screening of 'Planet Of The Apes' but it sold out. The theater than offered a free showing of 'Rat Race'. We got in and LOVED IT! A somewhat remake of Its a Mad Mad World' only better. And John Lovitz impersonation of Hitler is flat out hilarious. A MUST.   "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is the funniest movie I have ever seen! No joke! Every minute was side splitting comedy and laughs galore! Ok, I know that sounds really stupid, but it's true. Everything that can possibly go wrong, did go wrong. I highly recommend Rat Race. I even saw it three times. **Very minor spoiler**My name is Enrico Pollini, I know you are probably thinking that's a girl's nameuh, no I wasn'tNo pun intendedUm, what pun was that?It's just too funny "}{"Title":"ABSOLUTE PROOF THAT COMEDY IS PURELY SUBJECTIVE!","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There is no kind of film that is sadder to see than an unfunny comedy. The very nature of comedy is to entertain via humor, and when a film fails at that intended goal, all that is left is moving pictures devoid of entertainment. Even a horror film that has no scares can be unintentionally funny, and therefore entertaining, for cryin' out loud! There are those who think that IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD WORLD is some sort of comedic gem, and it those people to whom RAT RACE was intended to appeal. I,however, hated nearly every frame of that over-inflated bore and would not foist it on my worst enemy. Same said for RAT RACE. Both films feature all-star casts on a greed-motivated quest, lots of people running around and screaming and waaaaaaay too much slapstick.The one thing in the film that truly struck me as hilarious is the results of a character's request to go visit the Barbie museum. What she gets conjures up fond memories of Springtime for Hitler. Save your money and buy a six-pack instead.  "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS!","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This has got to be the funnies movie I have seen all year long. I laughed the entire time. It had a great plot, great acting, and a great cast. I liked all characters but especially Rowan Atkinson's character (ees a race!, ees a race!)and Whoopi Goldberg's character (oh good a scam!). All in all a GREAT movie. ***** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Not as good as it could have been.","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Thanks to Delta Airlines, watched the Score and Rat Race on one of them iddy-biddy screens. Questionable benefit is the movies are unedited since everybody on the bus doesn't have to watch. Altho I first saw Analyze This with all the F&S words bleeped over.  Thought it a lot funnier than actually hearing them. Rat Race had some good moments and imaginative bits, but pales in comparison to Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World which has the same basic plot. The big stars don't really have a chance to shine, and the lesser actors are eminently forgettable, except the dumb and dumber duo.. who are repulsive. Little wit and heavy slapstick and wildly improbable events. Busload of Lucille Ball wannabes good for a laugh. As a pilot I enjoyed the spurned femme helo driver beating on her ex using her helicopter. "},{"Title":"Been there, done that","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I caught this on an airplane flight.  If you want to see this movie done right, rent It's A Mad, Mad World.  Why try to clone a masterpiece?  Especially this badly!  The slapstick in Rat Race depends on camera tricks, not acting talent. (As one example, the frenzied escape from the convertible while the monster truck zooms through the air in slow motion). "},{"Title":"Best comedy I've ever seen!","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wow, I just got home from seeing the funniest movie I have ever seen Rat Race.  It is a totally insane flick, full of belly-laughs almost all the way through. I got the giggles more than twice after a few funny scenes that just tickled me pink! One  was when the guy who plays Newman on Seinfeld and Rowan Atkinson were in the Lifeline Medical Services van and Newmie asks Rowan if he wants to see the  human heart he's transporting... Another part is the scene with Jon Lovits at the WWII convention/reunion/whatever that was -- I won't tell you what happens, but be sure this movie will make your mouth drop and I bet you won't be able to contain a hoot of surprise when what you feared would happen actually DOES. If you are in a laugh-out-loud mood, then this is the perfect movie to see. It goes all the way with its comedy without getting unnecessarily disgusting or dangerously close to not being funny. In fact, my uncle and I got back into the  car after seeing it and we must have laughed for five minutes. And I'm not talking silly little giggles -- we absolutely lost it and went completely bonkers. I  feel sorry for people who walked by... Anyway, this is a great movie, with characters who are outrageously intent on getting to that two million dollars and therefore do ANYTHING to get there, a  script that is to DIE for -- it is amazingly well-written -- and a cast that just won't quit. I would highly recommend this movie to anyone and everyone who has any sense of humor whatsoever! By the way, Smash Mouth are a band, not one person -- the lead singer is called Steve and that band is one of the funniest to come out in a long time...Smash  Mouth rule, and judging them on their performances in a movie isn't very fair  since they are, after all,  a BAND and not professional actors.;) "},{"Title":"Recommended","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  MINOR SPOILERS.Very funny and entertaining.  Not all the jokes work, but the ones that do are worth the interludes.  You have to be in the mood for jokes that stem from contrived and far-out situations/circumstances.  A good example of this is the John Lovitz scene at the WWII veterans meeting.  It is so utterly stupid that it is HILARIOUS!!!  I had tears rolling down my face, and the image still makes me chuckle.  A good way to spend an evening is by watching this with a few friends. "},{"Title":"A very intelligent comedy.","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yesterday I watched this movie. And I kept thinking to myself, How come comedies aren't this intelligent anymore?Case in point modern comedies rely on slapstick and independent events to create laughter, ala Rush Hour 2. This comedy, on the other hand, plays like a 1 hour Monty Python sketch there are tons of recurring events throughout the film, or events that set a chain reaction of other events that lead to even further mayhem.The cast is over the top. Rowan Atkinson & John Cleese are two of the most dignified and funny men ever to grace the screen. Their charm and charisma is tremendous. The rest of the cast (Jon Lovitz, Whoopi Goldberg, Cuba Gooding Jr.) are hysterical, too. They manage to get into so many funny situations it's hard to keep count. Think a modern Airplane!. This is it.The movie drags a bit at first, playing like a bad comic flick. But it picks up steam by the 10th minute, and by the 15th, when John Cleese appears, it is a laugh riot.Also, let us not forget this seems to be an homage to the Canonball Run movies by Hal Needham. Both start in Las Vegas. Both have top notch acting. Both end up being road trip movies. This one (SPOILER!) shares a similar ending (not quite, though) with the first Canonball.But this one is a hell of a lot funnier. I'll never look at a cow the same way now. Terrific. "},{"Title":"The Rat Race Proves it's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  By C.J. CauleyIn 1979, Scavenger Hunt hit the screens with comic greats like Richard Mulligan and Ruth Gordon leading a race to win an inheritance left by Old Mr. Parker.  A year later, Michael J. Fox made his film debut in Midnight Madness, about college students sent a scavenger hunt.  Neither movie lived up to their grand predecessor, the 1963 classic It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.  Legends like Spencer Tracy, Milton Berle and Buddy Hackett lead a chase for a thief's last bounty in this classic adventure.  It's comedic brilliance has never been matched, until now.  The Rat Race combines talented comedic minds like Whoopi Goldberg, Rowan Atkinson and Jon Lovitz with some of today's most talented actors, Cuba Gooding Jr., Breckin Meyer and Lanei Chapman, not to mention classic comedic masters like John Cleese and Dave Thomas.  The laughs are literally unending in this madcap race.The setting is Las Vegas, Donald Sinclair's (Cleese) Casino has seen hard times so its clever proprietor has devised new ways for its high rolling clients to amuse themselves.  One scheme involves six teams of random slot winners racing to Silver City, New Mexico to unlock locker number 001 at the train station to retrieve a prize of $2 million.  The first team is Nick Shaffer (Meyer) who later meets up with helicopter pilot Tracy Faucet (Amy Smart).  Next is Owen Templeton (Gooding), an NFL referee who managed to screw up an opening coin toss at a Dallas football game, costing a lot people in Vegas a lot of money.  Meanwhile, the Cody brothers, Seth Green and Vince Vieluf, are up to no good trying scam themselves into a law suit with the casino.  Blaine Cody (Vieluf) recently pierced his own tongue and cannot speak correctly so it's up to Duane (Green) to lead the duo in the chase and wreak havoc along the way.Golberg plays Vera Baker, a woman meeting the daughter she put up for adoption for the first time, Merril Jennings (Chapman).  Their run in with Kathy Bates who plays a squirrel salesman is classic.  If you've seen the trailer, you haven't seen it all.  Next, Randy Pear (Lovitz) leads his family, wife Bev (Kathy Najimy) and kids, Jason (Brody Smith) and Kimberly (Jillian Marie) in the charge under the pretense of having a job interview in Silver City.  The Pear family and the Cody brothers hog a lot of the chuckles in The Rat Race.  Finally, there is Atkinson who plays Enrico Pollini, a narcoleptic from Naples, Italy who heads out solo on his journey but soon meets up with Wayne Knight, who plays a delivery man.  These six teams are brought together by little gold coins that say You're a winner, see Guest Services for a spectacular once in a lifetime opportunity. That opportunity is The Rat Race.Once the participants are convinced this opportunity is real, the race is on.  First off, The Cody brothers manage to sabotage the main route of transportation, Owen hooks up with a bus full of Lucille Ball impersonators and Tracy finds her boyfriend in a compromising position leaving her available to pursue Nick. One of the most hilarious components of the film is the banter between Randy Pear and his family, one conversation particular, involving a prairie dog, is not to be missed.  The entire theater was in hysterics during this bit so I will not spoil it for you.  Their side trip to the Barbie Museum is also laugh-out-loud funny.  The insanity and the laughter continue throughout the course of the race.  In the process, one Lucy is set on fire, one team is ripped off, the Pear family has to run for their lives and a flying cow is used as a weapon, leaving devastation in its tracks.Dave Thomas deserves honorable mention for his role as Sinclair's lawyer. Also look for cameos by Paul Rodriguez who plays a disgruntled cabby/gambler, Dean Cain as Tracy's boyfriend and even attorney, Gloria Allred, as herself.  When Nick tries to persuade Tracy to participate in the contest, he reveals what his grandpa always said  Good things take time, great things happen all at once.  The Rat Race happens all at once and it will knock your socks off.  You will leave the theater holding your stomach and reveling in the fact that the most deserving party got the money in the end.  The Rat Race proves it truly is a mad, mad, mad, mad world. "},{"Title":"It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad Rat Race","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is an updated version of It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World, only funnier. Cleese, Lovitz, and Atkinson, in particular, are hilarious! Don't intellectualize this film. Check your brain at the door and prepare to laugh your a**e off! One thing that puzzled me, I noticed Dean Cain's name mentioned in the credits but don't recall seeing him in the film. Did he have a cameo that I overlooked or missed? "},{"Title":"Funny funny movie!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   It's kind of funny that the two best movie I saw this summer were low budget comedies.(Jay and Silent Bob being the other one) The cast is great. They all have a chance to show their talent in this. The goofiness never lets up. The jokes come fast and furious and work!! This is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. The only thing about it was I HATED the ending. I debate with myself which had a worse ending. This movie or Burton's Planet of the Apes? But recommend highly! "}{"Title":"CU Film Critic takes on Rat Race.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   For quite some time now, I've held that a truly good movie consists of more than just a cameo by a trendy rock band, star power, and jokes about excrement.  With the recent release of `Rat Race,' this supposition has once again been proven.It's a great idea, in theory.  Take some of Hollywood's biggest comic names, and send them on a cross-country (or cross-New Mexico, as the case may be) road trip; the only necessary motivation is a hefty cash prize.  Logically, it follows that hilarity would ensue.I should point out that this formula can and does work.  1963's `It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World' starred Sid Caesar, Spencer Tracy, Milton Berle, Buddy Hackett, Jonathan Winters, Michey Rooney, and Ethel Merman, to name a few. They all went out looking for treasure, and the result was pure comedic gold.Where did `Rat Race' go wrong?  Well, for starters, instead of the biggest names in comedy, we are forced to settle for young up-and-coming pop stars, Omar Gooding's older brother, and a few stand-up comics who recently started hitting rough times.  Instead of Williams, Hanks, Sandler, Tucker, and Stiller, we get Goldberg, Green, Gooding, Cleese, Atkinson, and Lovitz. Now, that's not to say that `Rat Race' isn't a funny movie.  I laughed out loud quite a few times.  Taken in short segments, `Rat Race' is hilarious, just as we'd expect from a screenplay produced by a former Saturday Night Live writer.  Maybe it would be great as a series of skits on a big-budget variety show, but as a movie, it falls flat on its face.Is it worth watching?  Yes, if you've got a large group of people to see it with, and you don't mind dropping six or seven bucks to slack off for a couple hours.  Here are my observations, just in case you decide to give it a shot.Vince Vieluf is funny.  Seth Green and Cuba Gooding Jr. are not.  Kathy Najimy is funny.  Whoopi Godberg is not.  Amy Smart is attractive.  Rowan Atkinson is not.  Jon Lovitz, for all intents and purposes, makes `Rat Race' almost worth the price of admission.  If for no other reason, see the movie just to see Jon Lovitz steal Adolph Hitler's car, and your money won't have been wasted.Sadly, though, even with the help of the fat guy from Seinfeld, Jon Lovitz can't save the movie from being anything but mediocre summer movie fare. Kathy Bates, arguably the most talented actress around, is wasted on a part reminiscent of her `Momma' in `The Waterboy.'  It won't do me any good to give any background on the characters, because when it comes down to it, nothing really matters but the fact that all six contestants want to win some money.  Some great characterization could have been put to use in this sort of road-trip film, but it seems that the screenwriter fell asleep on the job.`Rat Race' gets a good solid `C.'  Not good by any means, but certainly not the worst.  If you can spot Dean Cain in a fun cameo, you've got my respect, and hey, who doesn't want that?  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Funny!","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is hysterical! I don't remember a time when I laughed that much during a movie! Every single scene has at least one part that you'll remember for a long time! And the stellar cast needs no introduction! I would recommend this comedy to anyone who is looking for a great time at the movies! ***1/2 our of **** "},{"Title":"Great mindless fun","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a great comedy to watch if you're feeling down, since there is very little emotion or drama involved. Rowan Atkinson was my favorite character in this show since he showed a lot of character as a near-clueless, extremely hyper man who falls asleep at the most innappropriate times. But there are, of course, other people who also wind up in some of the most hilarious and mindless scenarios. What I didn't like was the ending. I enjoy unpredictable endings, but this one was a way off the hook.Overall, Rat Race is a very enjoyable comedy, and most of the scenes are very very far fetched. But, as the director said, you have to just Put your brain under your seat and just laugh.  "},{"Title":"Man, this is Hitler's car!","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hilarious! I was watching this movie with my wife and it is extremely funny and hilarious! We haven't been laughing so much for a long time! Go and watch it and the Hitler's car scene is an instant classic!Great! "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie with a few flaws","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is a different kind of comedy, which we have not seen in a while.  It is a caper comedy, with many different people all seeking the same goal a duffel bag with two million dollars in cash in it.  The beginning, middle, and climax are all very funny.  The ending was bad comedy in true form.  I won't give it away, just in case you like it (as you can see, I was disappointed in the ending).  All in all, Rat Race was a very funny comedy with super-stars around every corner.   "},{"Title":"Joyfully silly comedy","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is a comedy obviously inspired by the classic 1963 Stanley Kramer directed all-star farce It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. Jerry Zucker, the co-creator of explosively funny comedies Airplane! and The Naked Gun, directs. Rat Race is pretty much a hit-and-miss affair. It isn't nearly as funny as Zucker's two earlier hit comedies (it also isn't as funny as another comedy Zucker co-directed, Ruthless People), but the film does have its share of laughs. Rat Race doesn't have as big of an all-star cast as It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World did, but it does have a big cast nevertheless, and most of them come off funny. Whoopi Goldberg, John Cleese, Cuba Gooding Jr., Jon Lovitz, Kathy Najimy, Seth Green, Breckin Meyer, Amy Smart, and (in a hysterical cameo) Kathy Bates are all fun to watch and seem to be having a good time. The only character that I didn't like was that Italian guy played by British comic Rowan Atkinson. This was one of the most unfunny characters that I've ever seen in movie history. I didn't laugh at Atkinson's character once. If this character had been taken out, Rat Race would have been better. Still, it's got enough laughs in it that for the most part I enjoyed my time with it. *** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"EES A RACE-EES A RACE","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm sure that Andy Brecker and Jerry Zucker knew it would be impossible to remake a classic like Stanley Kramer's IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD WORLD-so they came up with this.Rowan Atkinson, better known as Mr. Bean, and John Cleese manage to steal the show. Everyone else in the cast helped to make this one a must-see . A couple of scenes were strangely reminiscent of MAD WORLD-at one point, it seemed the movie would end much the same way. Fortunately, this wasn't the case.If you're looking for a real comedy classic, see IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD WORLD.If you're looking for just a comedy, see RAT RACE. It's well worth the time.Even the opening credits.Rating ****1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Enough with those needing intellectual humor","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For goodness sake, it's a funny movie.  It doesn't need to have political correctness or a meaningful ending.  Just sit back and enjoy it because it is so funny.  The ensemble cast did well, which is rare and everyone went through some type of screwball scene.  I went into the movie expecting it to be a comedy which would get a few laughs out of me and that would be it.  Instead, I laughed until I almost cried and I still laugh about some scenes two weeks later.  So if you want something to crack you up, go see Rat Race and just have fun! "},{"Title":"Big names but not a big film","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not  much to say about this movie. I have the feeling that they needed the big names to get an audience. In films as the Naked gun the brothers Zucker were brilliant. Could it be that now they didn't co-work on this movie that the magic has gone. Maybe this is how they fooled the big names also. "},{"Title":"FUNNY FUNNY FUNNY!","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was hilarious!  There were points where I was almost crying because I was laughing so hard!  John Cleese and Rowan Atkinson were hilarious, as well as Seth Green, Whoopie Goldberg, and the rest of the characters!  I recommend this to anyone who loves a good comedy!  "}{"Title":"AH HA HA HA","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was laugh out loud funny, and that's what I did.  Without giving anything away, I will admit the ending was the worst part of the movie, but the rest of the movie was so funny it was well worth it!!!  I highly recommend this movie to anyone and everyone I haven't laughed as much in a movie (in the theaters) as I did in this one in a long time!  "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very funny movie. The thing that keeps the movie going, is the fact that everyone will do everything to get their hands on the money. As once saidMoney makes the world turn around.However this is an uneven affair. Some of the jokes work well, others do not work at all. Some of the situations work well, others not. It is also the same for the characters.Most of the characters are well portrayed(especially Jon Lovitz and the 2 brothers), some are nothing but a one time joke which were stretched to a long film(Whoopi Goldberg) and the character of Rowan Atkinson is nothing more than Mister Bean with an Italian accent.Nevertheless it is quite hilarious. If you look for a sophisticate funny film, look somewhere else. Jerry Zucker is not known for sophistication. He does what he do and he does it well. Which means that this is a movie with a lot of vulgar jokes which makes you lough. In these troubled time, it serve as a way of distraction and that is fine with me and it should be fine with anyone who watch it.There is nothing wrong with laughing and this film make you laugh. "},{"Title":"a summary if you will","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I know, I know. I've already commented on this movie three times. IMDB is sending me Frequent Commenter Miles.But to summarize most of the other comments, this is the kind of movie you either love or you hate. No one can tell you what you'll think of this movie, unlike a movie like The Godfather or Manos, the Hands of Fate, which everyone agrees on. By the 7.4 rating, it looks like you have a 1 in 4 chance of not liking this movie. If 75% seems like good odds to you, go see this movie. Personally, I thought it was hilarious, but that doesn't mean you will. "},{"Title":"It's OK","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's not hilarious. However, some of the sequences follow tried-and-true comic methods and are very effective at making you laugh. It does leave one wishing that more thought had gone into some of the comedy, however. In short, there is some cleverness, but it only comes in little bursts, rather than benefitting the movie as a whole. See it on video, where the cost is much lower. "},{"Title":"So funny it is dangerous","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Remember the World's Deadliest Joke skit on Monty Python? This movie is that funny.  As I was walking out of the theatre I was laughing so hard I couldn't breath.  I had to stop several times because my sides hurt so much.  I was still laughing five blocks away, and for the past two days I have been randomly bursting out in peals of laughter.  This is one funny movie.  It is stupid, predictable, has only two or three jokes and plays them over and over again, but the same can be said of most great comedies.  This one is in the It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World genre, and although this cast isn't as great as that one was (what cast is?), they hold up well.  If you don't laugh at this film you have no sense of humor. Rowan Atkinson and John Lovitz are absolutely brilliant. See this film!  "},{"Title":"I should have bought a squirrel..","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" .. instead of paying to see this movie.Some amusing bits worth a chuckle, but no belly laughs.A good cast left doing much about nothing.I was sucked in by the promise of Airplane-type humor, but was very disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Screwball Comedy Is Back!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is a wacky, old-fashioned screwball comedy.  It recalls crazy racing movies such as It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World and Cannonball Run.  I thought the references to I Love Lucy were appropriate, considering the comedic tone of the movie.  Films like this are silly but fun.  Maybe even a guilty pleasure.  Hey, sometimes you want a nice piece of cheese! "},{"Title":"Best movie I have ever seen!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok I don't know WHY people didn't like this movie! It was great. One of my all time favorites! The actors were great, the jokes were great, the ending was great.... (what wasn't?) If you want to see a movie that will make you want to come back for more... well see this one! "},{"Title":"Though a movie that can entertain, Rat Race lacks intellectual prowess.","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I never saw the first few minutes of the film.  I can only assume that they completely lacked any contribution to anything, because I felt like I started in at the beginning.  Not that this lack of contribution would have hampered the film -- I truly enjoyed Rat Race for its comedic glory.  If the production team's desire was to simply entertain they did their job superbly; yet if they wanted to create a novel piece of art that would contribute to the intelligence of all humankind, they failed miserably.The very basic and very simple plot of Rat Race is that Donald Sinclair, a Las Vegas tycoon and casino owner, sets up a contest to be played by several select gamblers with the best odds ever.  A bag with two millions dollars has been placed in a locker in Silver City, New Mexico.  With odds of six to one, the lucky contestants embark on a slapstick journey to their hopeful fortune.  Unknown to them, the entire race is being watched by other players who have bet on the winner.Lost completely from the characters is any deliberate, or even accidental, form of complication or engagement.  The cast is comprised completely of stock characters.  This adds for a multiple of laughs, but in the long run, one can only listen to a man with a speech impediment because of a self-inflicted tongue ring for about ten minutes max before wanting to tear his tongue out of his mouth.  Probably the most complicated character of the lot was Tracy Faucet, portrayed by Amy Smart.  From her we receive the most background information.  We learn about her family.  We find out that she has a relationship with someone who is secretly cheating on her.  We discover her profession and how she came to get there.  Her personal story starts far ahead of any other character in the show.  This is a sharp contrast to Grishman, Sinclair's run around man, who we know no more about at the beginning than we do at the end.After much deliberation with one's self, it is possible to pull a worthwhile theme from the movie.  In short, the best way to achieve any goal is not through competition but cooperation.  The characters contemplate this option only briefly at the beginning of the story only to be overcome by the desire to win a full two million dollars.  They discover their downfall after someone else has stolen the money and they join forces to get it back. It is debatable as to whether or not they actually realize they should have cooperated at the beginning since they never actually say this, but they at least deserve the benefit of the doubt.  The movie's cheesy end has them forced to give up their newly won money to a charity for starving children. This action only accentuates the overall importance of cooperation and sharing that drives the story.Returning to the plot, it is highly episodic.  So much that it seems like sketch comedy.  This glorified SNL feeling again provides for many laughs but detracts from any bit of intelligence that might have been present. Each scene explores with greater depth exactly what each character would do to arrive at their destination first.  After each incident one can see the subconscious of each mind come to grips with reality and conclude that they have made rather uneducated and thoughtless decisions.Not often does one leave a theater in a state of greater stupidity than which they arrived.  In relation Rat Race I do not believe one could have left more stupid (though one could easily imagine the sound of brain cells dying in the audience); it is possible though for the stupidest of the stupidest people to gain nothing from the show.  Anyone with only a sliver of intelligence can ascertain the simple idea that drives the story and leave with at least a small amount of reflection (and a huge conception of wasted time).  "},{"Title":"Bring oxygen you will laugh that hard..","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  what can be added that hasn't already been said.. This movie was funny from beginning to end, I think there were a couple of minutes where you weren't laughing yourself sick, but then the movie started. Ok, maybe not THAT funny, but I promise you this.. if you do not laugh then you must be dead! I think Kathy Bates delivered another award winning part in this movie ;-) I feel that anytime you put that many good, and not so good actors in one movie you get a command performance. They say Laughter is the best Medicine, well see this movie two times and.. well... see it again..  "}{"Title":"A bunch of high school students could create a better comedy","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After some reluctance I decided to see this promising comedy, even if the preview made it look like a cascade of childish visual jokes. Sadly, the preview is ten better better than the entire movie, I barely managed to stay until the end. It's so silly and low level it makes me wonder how they can release something like that, but then we got Bubble Boy and a whole lot more this summer... I did not know until now that Andy Breckman is also the guy who wrote horrible movies like True Identity and IQ. Jerry Zucker should have stopped producing movies after Naked Gun 1, it would have been a great gift to every human being, including himself. If only someone would have told me that before, I would be 5 dollars richer!It's worth 5/10 for the 3 times I laughed, the last one was when I realized it was over so I could finally leave. "},{"Title":"Shockingly Fabulous and Quite Possibly the Best Movie of the Year!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie had the best ensemble cast I have ever seen in a comedy!  All of the actors looked to be having a blast and they played off of each other extremely well, fabulous chemistry.  IT WAS NON STOP LAUGHS!  I have to say that it is also quite possibly the funniest movie I've ever seen.  The jokes were incredibly original and were only brightened up by the actors.  Whoopi was wonderful, Cuba was hysterical, and Jon Lovitz and Kathy Najimy had me on the floor!  See this movie if only for the running Hitler joke in the middle.I have not spent any $8 bucks of mine better in years.  I cannot sing enough praise about this movie.  See it whenever you can, you won't regret it!10/10 "},{"Title":"good, but could be better","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  just saw this today. Even though this is potentially a great cast, the true stars (as in if it weren't for them, this movie would probably tank) are Cube, Seth Green & Vince Vieluf, John Cleese and his lawyer Mr. Grisham (good joke by the way!) played by Dave Thomas, and the always delightful Rowan Atkinson. Sorry Whoopi . . . but Paul Rodriquez was better.Even though comedies usually get busted on for just concentrating on the jokes, and not the direction or acting, Jerry Zucker did a bang-up job with this movie. There are a few scenes where it's just side splitting funny, and you actually feel the action. The one downer on the movie is that it drags along at a few moments, most notably those scenes concentrating on Whoopi's quest. Even Wayne Knight's part as the Life-Line driver didn't really do anything for me.I still give it a 7/10, but it could have been better with a bit more timely writing, and to have the jokes spread out between the characters a little more. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE SUCKED!!!","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was one of the worst movies i have seen in a long time.  It was a complete rip off of It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World.  I mean can't the director get some new ideas.  He did put a different spin on it but still. I do admit there are some funny parts but manly this movie SUCKED!! I give it Two Thumbs Down...Way Down  "},{"Title":"Funnier than the original.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought that the jokes and tha actors were really funny. It surprised me because I did not expect this movie to be very good. My dad suggested that I rent the original (It's a Mad, Mad World). I did and liked Rat Race much better. Probably because the jokes are aimed at my generation.  "},{"Title":"It was okay","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was very funny in spots, hilarious in fact a few times. Judging from the feedback so far, you either loved it or hated it.  I'm kind of in-between.  I didn't care for the guy with the pierced tongue because you couldn't understand a word he said.  And John Cleese's teeth were too white to be real.  I had a hard time watching both of them, honestly.  The rest of the characters were good, Cuba Gooding was a riot with the Lucy's, the squirrel gag was great, and Jon Lovitz with his family were good.  Overall the movie was okay.  The ending was kind of dumb and long but it gave a good message - greed is bad! I'd give it a 7.5 out of 10. Good mindless entertainment. "},{"Title":"This is one fun movie","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not many movies can keep you engrossed all the way through like Rat Race does. The best thing about the movie is the superb cast. Great character actors & sketch artist actors such as John Cleese, Wayne Knight, & Jon Lovitz steal the scenes they are in. In the movie, 6 groups must compete against each other to win $2,000,000. So many gags & situations are hilarious to watch. The 'Hitler's car' scene is a classic. All I can say is, go out & see it. If you've already watched it, see it again. I give it 9 out of 10 stars.   "},{"Title":"Absolutly one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie two days ago and I still haven't stopped laughing.  The movie trailer didn't give anything away.  Very suitable for children. No obsenities nor lewd language.  Highly recommended for people who want a good laugh "},{"Title":"Sigh of releif","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  At a time when big time comedies tend to be a nonstop endless jokes about human anatomy or sex (ie American Pie), it was basically a sigh of relief that Rat Race didn't follow the mold.  Just because it doesn't have nudity or crude references to sex or anatomic parts doesn't mean it can't be funny. This film was funny and more, and the PG-13 rating means almost anyone in the family can see it.Superb performances by John Cleese (as always), Cuba Gooding Jr., and Rowan Atkinson (I was almost dying with laughter from this man who basically played his Mr. Bean character....WITH DIOLOGUE!!!).  My only problem was the ending...just didn't seem to fit with the story...although it still had the sence of utter chaos that the characters were going through.A must see for anyone who wants to see a comedy but not another American Pie or Scary Movie. "},{"Title":"A nice surprise-It's funny","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was recommended to see by my son who is thirteen.This movie reminds me of the movie family Vacation with ChevyChase, because it is fresh and the funny lines just keep coming.If you enjoy movies like Airplane and other slapstick humorupdated for the 21st century go and see this movie. One of myfavorite lines it when the little girl has to go to the bathroom andshe says that she really has to go bad&#133;'dad I am prairie doggingit' then her brother explains to the father, played by Jon Lovitz. Thisscene takes place in the car on the way to find the money.  "}{"Title":"Laughed so hard it hurt!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was just about the funniest, side-splitting movie I have seen in a long time.  Rowan Atkinson was at his funniest!  And that accent!?!?  Jon Lovitz was genius...Kathy Najimy as his wife!  Perfect casting!Go see this movie...if only for the tour of the Barbie Museum! "},{"Title":"Mad, Mad World of the new millenium.","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is truly the Mad, Mad World of the 2001.  A interesting mix of Major and supporting role Stars who look and act like they had a blast making this movie.  Not a great story overall but they all played their parts to the limit.  To see John Cleese with Teeth that Mat Dillon used to wear was funny. The ongoing betting scenes were very funny. The characters covered the spectrum. Oscar winners and new kids in the movie business all worked well together.  Too many funny scenes to count.  Amy Smart is such a fox. She was good in ROAD TRIP and even better in this.Cuba Gooding is such a versatile Actor- No Oscar here but he played his heart out and is not afraid to try anything.  The Traveling Lucy's was an unusual, unexpected touch- a riot too.A funny and enjoyable movie.  You will feel great after seeing it. "},{"Title":"Funny, funny, funny","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Every now and then, it's nice to see a film that is not trying to say anything about the world, that is not trying to sell itself as the start of a new bulldozer franchise, that is not interested in anything but keeping us as entertained as possible for its running time.  Jerry Zucker's hilarious chase caper Rat Race is just such a film, and after a summer of big-budget, self-serious piffle, boy, did we need it.The film is a throwback to those all-star '60s and '70s comedies in which a gang of celebs chase after a treasure or other wonderful prize (the template for these films is the classic It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World).  It begins in Las Vegas, with six strangers chosen at random by an eccentric casino owner (John Cleese, sporting gleaming false teeth) to go after $2 million in cash stashed in a train-station locker in Silver City, New Mexico.  The only rule?  There are no rules!  So it's off they go, by any means necessary, to beat the other rats and grab the big cheese.  That's pretty much it.  Screenwriter Andy Breckman (a veteran of the David Letterman show) doesn't clutter his story with a lot of subplots, and we barely learn anything about some of the characters.  Still, that doesn't stop us from enjoying the craziness that strikes all of them on their dash for the cash.A upstanding young lawyer (Breckin Meyer) gets his first taste of the wild life as he goes for the gold with the help of a sexy young pilot (Amy Smart) who teaches us that hell hath no fury like a woman scorned who can also fly a helicopter.  Two con-artist brothers (Seth Green, Vince Vieluf) smash up every car they get their hands on and then get a taste of their own medicine  when they crash into a demolition derby.  A disgraced NFL referee (Cuba Gooding, Jr.) finds himself driving a busload of Lucille Ball impersonators.  A narcoleptic Italian (Rowan Atkinson) learns that you shouldn't play games with somebody's heart...literally.  An estranged mother and daughter (Whoopi Goldberg, Lanai Chapman) should have bought a squirrel.  And as for Jon Lovitz, whose subplot provides the film's most explosive laughs?  I don't want to give anything away.  Suffice it to say that if you're ever in the southwest, and you see a sign for the Barbie Museum, just keep driving. This is a lot of stuff for any film, and Rat Race clocks in at 112 minutes, hefty for a comedy.  Still, Zucker keeps the action and laughs barrelling along at a breakneck pace, and the story only really bogs down during Goldberg and Chapman's scenes.  This subplot provides the fewest laughs and could probably been eliminated.  Atkinson's loony Italian accent and absurd personality spank his scenes along beautifully.  Meyer and Smart display a free and fun chemistry (not surprising, considering they are, unless I'm mistaken, a real-life couple).  Gooding has a surprising gift for zany comic breakdown, Cleese is appropriately loud and nasty, and Green and Vieluf throw themselves into their smash-up comedy with gusto.  Lovitz, in some ways, has it easy.  He's got the best material in the film, so he can just sit back and let the script do the work.After two years of teen comedies in which flying body fluids matter more than setup and punch (and if the success of American Pie 2 is any indication, this is an era that is not soon going to end), it is a great pleasure to see a comedy that revels in the elegant and difficult art of building, detonating and sustaining a joke.  Breckman sometimes sets up jokes that don't pay off until a half-hour into the film, lines and moments feed off of one another in a fast-break comic circle, and Zucker keeps it all crackling along with such confidence that the payoffs, when they come, seem both unexpected and inevitable.  The picture is edited to turn on a dime, and Zucker is clearly a man who knows his way around a camera; one of the funniest moments is a long super-slo-mo shot of Green and Vieluf desperately trying to escape from their car as a monster truck bears down on them.  See the film, picture the same shot in regular time, and you'll know what I mean.Rat Race bogs down somewhat at the end with a feel-good finale that goes on too long.  Still, as far as laughs, nasty laughs, good-natured laughs, bang-up laughs, just plain laughs, Rat Race is THE film to see right now.  Forget the apes.  This summer, it's all about the rats.   "},{"Title":"Surprising funny!!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Maybe when i watch this movie i expect a serious MR Zucker's style comedy and i was wrong. It should be make very funny, i mean, extremely ridiculous.Besides many well known casts, the plot is simply, have a race and get the money. Overall, a totally enjoyable movie to watch. "},{"Title":";)","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race was the funniest movie I've seen, with the best cast.  I would see any movie, no matter how bad with just one of those actors/ress.  There is no way I would miss a movie with Seth Green(America's Sweetheart, Buffy the Vampire Slayer), Whoopi Goldberg (Sister Act, Eddie), Rowan Atkinson (Mr. Bean, Black Adder), John Cleese (Monty Python), Amy Smart, John Luvitz (Newsradio), Cuba Gooding Jr, Breckin Meyer, Smashmouth, and a song written by Orain Hatch (or any political rep. for that matter)!Even with a sappy ending, no matter how unrealistic (not that any of the movie was realistic) and a sound track of basically All Star (Smashmouth) you still get your money's worth.I doubt anyone could have done a better job acting, of corse allot of it had to do with how willing to act like a idiots the actors were, but nobody seemed to mind that.Personally, my favorite part was when John Luvitz ran threw the wall and on to the stage of the World War II gathering.  Sure, tactless and offensive, but what wasn't.  The only joke that was just to gross to be funny was 'prairie-dogging it'.  Only people who I would say don't see this movie to are people who get offended easily.Ok, even I'll admit it, the plot sucked.  A bunch of people race to Silver City in order to get 2 million dollars.  But with as many jokes and fast-paced action the plot really isn't the big deal you would think it would be. "},{"Title":"I haven't laughed so hard in years!!!","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  To everyone who had anything to do with this movie (writer, director, producer, cast, crew, etc.) - THANK YOU! What a treat this movie was! I love comedies, but it's been a long time since I laughed so hard! Literally I laughed until it hurt! I was screaming, gasping for air, and falling out of my seat! I tell everyone who'll listen about how hysterical it was and to run (don't walk) to the theater and see it! I've seen it twice and I'd see it again. Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!  -)  "},{"Title":"hey again, it's me","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I know I already commented on this movie twice, but I'd again like to add something else. First of all, I noticed someone had commented on my note about the puns. I'd like to apologize if anyone took offense at my review. I wasn't trying to be mean, I was just getting tired of all the Mad Mad Mad Mad World puns. Sorry for being a bit hostile to some other reviewers.Second, I noticed some other things and I'd like to make a point. At least one person said that this movie didn't have as much of a what-will-they-do-for-that-money feel as in It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World, but it's more about the characters getting into wacky situations. A few people said they didn't like the ending, and at least one said that it was out of place for a movie about how ruthless people can be when there is lots of money involved.I think these two comments answer each other. I think some people are forgetting, while this is partially a remake of IaMMMMW, this is not IaMMMMW. Perhaps Rat Race is less about people's greed. Perhaps Rat Race centralizes more on satirizing what people will endure for so much money, not what acts people will commit for so much money. Or perhaps Rat Race is not really about anything, but it's just a summer movie looking to earn some dough. Whatever. Made me laugh either way. "},{"Title":"So, it's come to this.....","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First off, I'm going to go off on a limb here and make a suggestion to a certain reviewerThis a place to review movies, not other people's reviews or opinions.  Just because you don't find someone's review witty doesn't mean you have the right to bash it.  This is not a flame board.  There are plenty of other places on the Web for that.  You can politely refer to someone else's review, but insult that person through their review is downright rude. Chill, have some dip, move on.And with that note, on to the REAL review.When I saw the previews for this, I will admit that I thought it looked like a cute movie.  However, after the very amusing and impressive opening credits had finished, I was in for a very unhappy surprise.  Although I have never seen the original It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World, I'm assuming by the way it is considered a classic that it holds much more wit and charm than Rat Race.  While most of the acting was laboured, Rowan Atkinson and John Cleese both wasted their talents in this movie and I'm still trying to figure out WHY men of such acting brilliance would fall for such a farce.  The only GOOD acting I could find in the movie was that of Kathy Bates playing the psychotic Squirrel Lady.  Honourable mention goes to Wayne Knight playing the ambulance driver.The jokes where unfunny and I really don't remember laughing much to any of them.  They seemed to have been written for folks with an IQ of five (no offense to anyone, mind you), although it appeared that they tried to give the film culture with classical music and opera at key scenes.  Unfortunately, I enjoyed these brief interludes of music better than the film and could have stayed home with my own CD collection.  There wasn't much laughing during the visit to the Barbie museum, but then again, I saw the movie in a predominantly Jewish neighbourhood.  A bus full of Lucy impersonators would be enough to drive me insane, even IF one of them was the token humourous gay guy.  And the brother with the botched DIY tongue piercing was funny to begin with, but the gag wore off pretty fast.  I will admit that Amy Smart's way with dealing with a cheating boyfriend was pretty amusing and had me thinking, Hmm, maybe I should take up helicopter lessons!.All in all, if you saw the preview, you saw the highlights of the movie.  If you really don't care to see who gets the money in the end, save your own. "},{"Title":"Pathetic remake of a classic film...","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a lame rip-off of a 1963 movie entitled It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World (hereafter referred to as Mad World). Mad World is a classic film featuring some of the best comedians of all time (Spencer Tracy, Buddy Hackett, Mickey Rooney, and many others). Sorry, but the cast of Rat Race doesn't even come close. Before you write me off as an old geezer stuck in the past, I should point out that I'm 23 years old.Mad World is over three hours of comedy performed by the best comedians of the day. Compare that to Rat Race which is an hour and a half and it's most note worthy comedian is Lovitz with a huge drop-off after that. The only thing that disgusts me more than a pathetic remake such as this is the fact that nobody realizes it's a pathetic remake.Before you plop down eight bucks to see this movie, I urge you to go rent It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World for only 3 - you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"See it in the Theater!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a funny movie that seemed funnier in the midst of the packed crowd I saw it with this weekend.  I found it to be perfectly harmless, and laughed out loud many times.  It focuses on physical humor, greed, and gambling--and generally has a lot of fun doing it.You are not going to learn anything profound from this movie, and you are not going to walk away with a better understanding of why those poop jokes make you both shake your head and laugh at the same time.  You just might, however, really enjoy being around so many giggling people (and even join in yourself!).In my professional estimation, it is a chuckle's worth of funny. "}{"Title":"Thankfully irreverent!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Initially, it seems as though it would fail in its attempt at competing with its predecessor but it amazingly captures the mood, charm, harmlessness and irreverence of It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. It's pace is even much better although it's hard to replace the mouthiness of Ethel Merman. Sorry, but the last 5 minutes, even among the wild sense of the rest of the film, seems out of place and unrealisitic. It even has a disjointed, unfunny, christian moralist feel to it that undermines itself. It seems tacked on and quickly thought out by last minute writers. "},{"Title":"Super hilarious... yet meaningful!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Before I watched this movie, I know it was going to be very very funny. You've got all-time British comedian Rowan Atkinson, popularly known as Mr. Bean.  You've got Whoopi Goldberg, who has acted in Sister Act and the sequel.  I do not know the rest of the cast, but they look funny anyway!This movie is about this owner of a casino-hotel in Las Vegas who was kind of bored, so made a once-in-a-lifetime race, using selected lucky people from the hotel.  Their main task is to get to Silver City to open the locker with US$2,000,000 inside!  All of them went different hilarious and crazy routes to get to Silver City, but ended up giving the money to charity to help the children.  The movie ends off with Smash Mouth performing All Star live, which was good, because this song is great and I think even the audience feels great about it!I think this movie is worth the money, because of the way that the movie is portrayed.  The movie will never leave you bored at any part because there is something funny and crazy in every part.  Also, this story has a good moral.  The moral of the story is not to be too materialistic about life and not to be too selfish and self-centred and to learn to give readily to the needed.  I think most of us have good lives, but some people out there are suffering and struggling.  The ending really made me think about my life, like the way I spend my money and the way I waste my food sometimes... it really makes you think.Overall, it is one of the most entertaining movie I've seen.  You will be totally entertained by this crazy movie!  Now, that's what I call ENTERTAINMENT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"An awful awful movie","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went to see it last night based on all the positive comments on the board here.I have to disagree with the majority of the reviewers.  I thought the movie was completely unfunny.I don't hate Rowan Atkinson as a rule, but I hated his character in this film.  So completely annoying and so painfully unfunny.  And Seth Green's buddy was a close second in the category of Most Annoying Character I've seen this year.Huge waste of talent.  Huge waste of time for yours truly.  Only good ones for me this summer have been Made and Shrek. "},{"Title":"I have never Laughed So Long and Hard....","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is proably the funniest film I have ever seen. It is a Great film for everbody. Rat Race is a real Laughaton line after line and scene after scene. The Characters are well developed with terrific sense of humors.This is a must see for everbody if your in the mood for comedy. It is really worth all the time it is. I give it a Rat Race a ***** out of *****.  "},{"Title":"I have never Laughed So Long and Hard....","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is proably the funniest film I have ever seen. It is a Great film for everbody. Rat Race is a real Laughaton line after line and scene after scene. The Characters are well developed with terrific sense of humors.This is a must see for everbody if your in the mood for comedy. It is really worth all the time it is. I give it a Rat Race a ***** out of *****.  "},{"Title":"A comedy for those who don't care for most comedies?","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Some spoilers are on the way....Let me begin by saying I am one of those perpetually dour, semi-goth pseudo-intellectuals who feels that most comedies suck. ...Not grim enough, not true enough in a drama queen way to which I and my brethren in misery can relate. How many times, I wonder, have I sat and stewed at how stupid all those people-who-should-be-slain are, the ones with their teeth hanging on their chin, who just won't shut the heck up no matter what, and titter on like morons all through a movie.Thus prepared to hate this flick-- or at least the people in the audience I was sure would be loving it-- I have to say I was completely surprised by Rat Race, and pleasantly so. I kept thinking after seeing it that if it was a small film from France or Eastern Europe with copious subtitles, but with the very same content, a lot of the Sniffy Prig faction of the audience would be eating it with a spoon, proclaiming its brilliance, and the dullness of American popular taste for not making it a box office hit. Taking the thing for what it is, though, no apologies are necessary. The film is giddily askew, at its best, as Top Secret or Airplane were in their day. The scene with Jon Lovitz doing a Hitler-on-the-Podium turn is as sublimely inspired a bit of visual comedy as I have seen since the Zucker films of a couple of decades ago.  "},{"Title":"Very funny; Highly recommended!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised with Rat Race.  I saw American Pie II last week and Rat Race is much funnier with a much better plot.  This is going to be one of those word of mouth Titanics that end up being in the top 10 at the box office for 3 months.  I highly recommend this film to anyone with a sense of humor.      "},{"Title":"Very Very Very Funny","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is a very funny film that the whole family would like. I have never laughed so long and hard.Almost all of the scenes are funny. The Characters well well made with great humor. Even the opening credits made me laugh.This is a must see film for the whole famliy. This movie was a real good LAUGHFEST so if your in the mood for comedy Rat Race if for you. I Give Rat Race a **********out of ********** !!!!!. "},{"Title":"Good to the last laugh!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  So far, from the day Rat Race has opened, I've seen it twice and every time I laughed. I just can't get enough of this movie! The producers chose the best possible combined cast, and made the funnest (and most impossible) situations come to life on screen. If you haven't yet seen this movie, get there soon - before your ticket's sold out! I give this movie a 9/10 rating. It's halarious! "},{"Title":"Over the top, but in a masterful way","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Although the directing and editing of this film leaves a lot of areas where a film scholar would cringe, the constant heavy fire of jokes and gags compensates nicely.  There's a hint of character development early on for each of the contestants, but just enough for the audience to select their favorites before the string of skits begins and we embark on the plot.There is SO much going on in this film that there's no breathing room, and that's all the better.  You've got six different tracks constantly competing and raising the stakes, as well as 'breather' comic relief from Don Sinclair's million-dollar play-time parties.  There's no part of the movie where you could escape for a bathroom break and miss an incredibly hilarious pay-off.Although the film is over-the-top, that's all part of its charm.  The shock humor works so well that you won't have many problems suspending your disbelief for long enough to laugh in pity at the competitors on screen. In addition, all the different fiascos in the race connect beautifully in ways to jar the audience even more (such as the cow-hanging-off-a-balloon-slamming-into-a-bus-filled-with-I-Love-Lucy-fanati cs-causing-it-to-crash-and-tip-over bit).  Told you you didn't want to take that bathroom break.You can tell it was a lot of fun for the cast and crew, and it certainly is for the audience as well.  A refreshingly pleasing slapstick comedy.  "}{"Title":"Best movie I saw this summer","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw the preview for Rat Race and was intrigued. The cast particularly interested me. Rowan Atkinson, or Mr. Bean as you may know him, makes an appearance, as well as Jon Lovitz, which really got me interested. The story is simple. Random people meet in a casino, and each receive a gold coin. They are brought together by the casino owner (John Cleese, another reason I wanted to see this movie) who gives them each a key. This key opens a locker in Silver City, New Mexico which contains 2 million dollars. They begin to race for it, and the events in between are hilarious.I give it a 4.5 out of 5! Definetly should be seen! "},{"Title":"Mindless but Fun","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This in not the place for me to say how much I dislike the whole crop of summer movies or for me to rant about the lack of original thinking in Hollywood.  This movie is no Mad Mad Mad Mad World but I have to say it did make me laugh a number of times.  One part with Jon Lovitz and a bunch of WWII vets made me laugh so hard I had to drink some water to control myself. So if you are looking for some mindless fun to get out of the summer heat, then I would say go see it.  Other wise wait for the video. "},{"Title":"Why do you people think the ending was bad?!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was probably the funniest movie I've seen since Happy Gilmore. I know a lot of you people don't think much of Adam Sandler, but Happy Gilmore was hysterical. You're not changing my mind on that. Neither are you going to change my mind on this one either, even though most of you people thought it was a riot too. SPOILERS! But I'm going to try change your mind on the ending. Many of you hated the ending. If you were in the position of a person, who was about to win 2 million dollars, and you just ran into a charity concert for Feed the Earth would you take the money for yourself or give it to kids who are starving 24/7? If you chose yourself, you're an a*****e. Excuse my language, but you are. Those people who were going for the money had money to put food on the table already. The charity needs money. The people wanted the money, but they didn't need it. Plus, Whoopi Goldberg's daughter already had a lot of money.Here is the plot Eight people have to save the world, and go into space to stop a meteor from hitting the earth. The winners are the people who go. If they stop the meteor, each one of them will get a key, that will open a locker with 2 million dollars in it. Good luck! Ha! I just couldn't resist. (See the movie to understand the joke.) The real plot I already kind of said. Each person is given a key that opens a locker with 2 million dollars in it. The locker is in Silver City, New Mexico. The location they're at is in Las Vegas. Of course at the end of the movie they're in Silver City. I already mentioned the ending, but there is a plot hole that I caught. Many others probably caught this too. Isn't unrealistic that a big charity concert like the one that was held be in a town as small as Silver City, New Mexico?But my favorite characters were the brothers, played by Seth Green and the other guy (forgot his name). In this movie, I couldn't stop laughing. One of the greatest scenes was you  should of bought a squirrel! Rat Race, without a doubt gets a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Some funny scenes, mostly in the previews","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can't quite pin down exactly why I didn't like the movie.  It was fun to see Breckin Meyer play straight man to Amy Smart's wackiness.  Rowan Atkinson and John Lovitz forced me to laugh grudgingly, kind of like my kid cousins do at holidays.The actors were good, funny and fun to watch.  I think it was an overall clumsiness, and heavy-handedness in the direction that hurt the film.  It seemed like just when one of the actors was starting to drive some real comedy, the plot had to rear it's ugly head and spoil it.  I bet the out-takes were better.This is the kind of movie best seen in little pieces on TV over the years to come.  If you have to see it, avoid the ending. It's gut-wrenchingly corny, and nearly spoils what was otherwise an average comedy. "},{"Title":"OMG!!! This is FUNNY!!!!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Be careful, I almost hurt myself laughing so hard at some of the bits. A modern twist on It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. It's not subtle, it's not heady, it's just side-splitting funny. Just when you think you know where the next gag is coming from they blind side you. Well, you will just have to see for yourself. One of the few movies I'd happily pay admission for this season. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie I have ever seen.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. This Movie had me on the floor laughing line after line scene after scene. The Characters were very well developed with great humor. This is also a great film for the whole family, One that the whole family will love and laugh. This is a must see movie. "},{"Title":"An Excellent, Hilarious Comedy!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you only see one comedy this year, go see this one.  It's worth the seven or eight bucks for the full price show.  The jokes and sight gags are spot on and all of the principals turn in fine performances.  John Cleese, Whoopi Goldberg, John Lovitz, Rowan Atikinson, Wayne Knight, and the rest make a fine ensemble cast for this cinematic homage to fine comedy.  Go see this movie! "},{"Title":"Zucker at his best","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Good grief. I laughed so hard last night watching this film that I'm hoarse this morning. It's just the dumbest film this year but it's so funny for it. The plot is obvious, the characters fairly thin. But the situations are outstanding. When Rowan Atkinson runs across a field and jumps on to and catches a 200mph bullet train, the audience nearly produced a lung they were laughing so much. Go and see it - Jerry Zucker at his best since Airplane 1. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie I've seen all summer","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was not sure if I was going to see this movie.  But I thought since it had Cuba Gooding Jr., John Cleese and it's a Jerry Zucker film, it should be good.  And it was really good.  It had some predictable yuck yucks but some of the scenes were the funnies I have seen in a long time.  In the funniest scene of the movie with Jon Lovitz, I laughed so hard and loud I could hardly breathe.Plus it had a really good ending.If you are considering seeing it, go see it.  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Still laughing minutes after the jokes were over","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What can I say - most purported comedies over the past few years have basically shown you all the funny parts in the previews.  Not Rat Race. To be honest, from the preview I was really uncertain if I wanted to see it. Then my girlfriend took me to the preview... It took 15-20 minutes to get going, but once it did, it didn't stop... funny moments every 5 minutes half of which you'd still be laughing at long after they were over.  SEE THIS MOVIE - GREAT FUN!!! "}{"Title":"Innocuous, fun comedy","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Reviews for this movie have tended to describe it as a weaker version of It's a Mad Mad Mad World. Clearly it draws inspiration from that flick, but it also stands on its own. As with many comedies, this is best in a theater, where viewers can feed of each others' laughter. "},{"Title":"A great movie to see if you want to laugh","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I wanted to see a movie that would make me laugh, and this one really succeeded.  There are so many gags and stunts thrown in that it would be hard to single any of them out (besides which, I don't want to spoil any surprises by divulging them).  But I think what really made this film successful was the comic ability of the actors, each of whom turned in a solid performance.  Movies with a lot of manic energy can fall flat if the timing isn't quite right, in which case they become painful to watch.  Remember Tom Hanks in Bachelor Party?  Also with a large ensemble cast you run the risk of having the characters become indistinguishable from each other, or of having over the top caricatures that wear thin in a hurry.  That didn't happen here. Seth Greene and Vince Vieluf were especially good, and the combination of Lanei Chapman as a driven yuppie and Whoppi Goldberg as her sweet natured long lost mother worked perfectly.  Rowan Atkinson would have become annoying if he were given more screen time, but as one of many in a large cast his character was quite funny and made a great contribution.  My only quibble with this movie was that the ending didn't seem quite right.  Without giving away what happens, I'll say that I think the writers got to the end and didn't know what to do, and in my opinion the result looked like a car running out of gas.  Despite that, I was laughing very hard through most of this movie as was the audience I saw it with.   "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ****** NOW I MUST WARN, MAJOR SPOILERS FOR THOSE WHO HAVEN'T SEEN THIS MASTERPIECE *****I thought that this movie was amazing, from start to finish. Okay, maybe not the finish, but seeing people doing mosh pit dives was pretty cool. Every single actor/actress was stupendous, with the stand-outs being the Cody Brothers, Enrico Pollino, and Randy Pear. From the jeep going up the airplane tower, to Pear's accidental impersonation of Hitler in the WWII Veterans gathering, everything was great. Before the first quarter of the film was done, me and my friend were hoarse from laughing, starting with the idiotic grin that the other Cody Brother had when he pulled the cord in the credits. I recommend this to everyone who hasn't seen this, and don't forget - You Should Have Bought A Squirrel! "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie of Summer Until Jay and Silent Bob","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If ever there was a movie the critics panned that did not deserve to be panned, this is it. Rat race is the funniest movie I have seen since South Park, and 10 times funnier than American Pie 2.  It proved an unexpected and welcome surprise from an abysmal summer movie season.  If you want to laugh and you have already seen Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, then this movie should be on your must see list. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was laughing so hard during the movie. I don't think a movie since Monty Python and the Holy Grail has had me in stitches. The all-star cast was perfect, kudos to the cast director. Go see this movie, you won't regret it! "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If I were to describe this movie in one word brilliant. Give me two brilliantly stupid. What an outrageously clever movie that was perfectly cast. It delivered a non-stop series of over-the-top sight gags that meshed perfectly with each other, culminating in a surprise ending that was ideal. I haven't laughed so hard and for so long. "},{"Title":"I laughed til I choked!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Excellent movie!  The opening credits are truly a classic.  One of the best comical blend of characters ever, from Rowan Atkison being unbreakable, to John Cleese having some of the worst caps ever to grace the screen.  It starts out good, and delivers all throughout.  "},{"Title":"Two Words - Prairie Dogging!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie!When I first saw the trailer for this film, I had a great laugh.  It looked like a lot of fun.  I was hesitant, however, because the trailer seemed to show an awful lot of very funny over-the-top bits.  A friend went to see it last night and told me nothing about the movie except 1) It was hilarious and 2) the trailer _didn't_ include some of the funniest parts of the movie.So, after reading a few reviews here and avoiding spoilers at all costs, I went to see it tonight.  I gotta say, I'm so glad I went.  My friend was right, there were a lot of other great scenes!I hate it when people tell me about a movie before I go see it, so I'll not reveal anything here.  The cast was a great blend of characters, and I really can't pick a favorite.  They all had their high points.  One of the side bets that was made was truly off the wall and really reminded me of classic Abrams, Zucker, and Zucker stuff that we saw see in Airplane, Top Secret, or Naked Gun.  You know, the weird, completely off-plot stuff that happened in the background that made you watch the movie again and again to see more and more of it...  but I digress...The bits that were in the trailer were funny, but didn't have quite the impact after having seen them a dozen times already.  The scenes built around those bits were the highlights that stood out for me.  People have commented here about the ending...  I'll leave that for you to decide.My $0.02....  Later!  Gotta catch a high speed train! "},{"Title":"Development and Payoff","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race really is, in spirit, a retread of the old classic 'Its a mad, mad, Mad, Mad World'. However, that older movie was one fairly realistic situation after another, with each being a commentary on how basically decent people behave when tempted by greed. The newer film, on the other hand, shifts its focus to a more slapstick angle, with one huge buildup and payoff gag followed by another. And that buildup is the key to this movies success.....without it, the actual punchlines (read 'payoff') would seem trivial and not funny. Many people in the theatre during the showing I saw suffered from this. They sat and talked during the buildups, and then snapped their attention back to the screen during the slapstick parts, but seemed disappointed at the end; they did not find the payoffs funny. In spite of their rude behavior, I was able for the most part to pay attention to the succession of seemingly throwaway details which finally came together and made the payoffs funny in a sustained, sidesplitting way.No, this is not a great comedy, and if one expects the wall to wall gag-a-minute 'Naked Gun' type laughs, there will be disappointment. This movie has probably a dozen really good laughs, each following the slow buildup, and those little details can be important.I also noticed the low-key subplot, which involves the mini-bets the gamblers place while waiting for the big gamble to resolve. Many of these were inspired. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the best I have seen in a long time. The cast is wonderful, as well as funny. Rowan Atkinson, Jon Lovitz, and Vince Vienuf had me laughing at everything they said. This movie should not be left out on your to see list. It is a must SPOILER***************************************I was very disappointed at the ending, I felt that they all should have kept the money, concidering what they went though to get it (i.e. Jon, Laini, and Whoopi nearly getting killed) "}{"Title":"This movie was so funny","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is just too much of a funny movie. The movie is about eleven people who are picked to do a race for $2 million. The movie has a big star cast like Whoopi Goldberg, Rowan Atkinson, John Cleese, Seth Green, Jon Lovitz, Cuba Gooding Jr., and Kathy Najimy. There are also some big name stars that make a special appearance in this film like Kathy Bates, Dean Cain, and Brandy Ledford. Rat Race kept me laughing throughout and it's not one of those movies that have any stupid jokes that no one laughs at or no one gets (ex. Scary Movie 2.) I recommend this movie to all and especially to I Love Lucy fans.10/10 "},{"Title":"The hardest I've laughed for a long time.","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Usually going into movies like these, people think that they are nothing more than a movie with a stupid jokes all over. The talking cow might as well be considered as one of them. But when I saw the trailer for this movie, I thought different. I laughed during the trailer of the movie and during the movie itself, I don't think I was able to breathe that much. This movie is definitely one of the funniest of the summer. I don't think a better cast could have been picked for this movie. I expected Cuba Gooding Jr. to be funny but I can honestly say that every person in this movie was funny, even that pierced chick. So if your in for a good laugh, check this movie. I highly recommend it but don't expect a smart comedy either, expect a comedy that's just going to continuously make you laugh over and over again cause that's the way it was for me. I'm still laughing at the movie too. ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Didn't Stop Laughing","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After seeing the constant commercials for 'Rat Race' I thought they had used up all the good gags in the trailer.  I went into this movie with low expectations because the trailers were not that funny and I was expecting a movie like 'Scavenger Hunt' with Tony Randall and Scatman Crothers.  The truth is I started laughing as soon as it came on. The credits are amusing with the entire cast as cut out cartoons with a strange calypso tune in the background.  There were some small parts where the jokes dragged a little bit and the timing was too slow, and the ending doesn't give a big enough pay-off for a hilarious movie. For the most part though, I would laugh for 5 minutes wait for another set-up and laugh for 5 minutes more.  Whoopi Goldberg's part is small enough to not go past the point of annoyance, John Cleese is a hoot, and the rest of the cast brings equal amounts of funny to the film.  For the first time in a long while I walked out of the theatre laughing. "},{"Title":"A major uplift from a lot of disappointing movies this year.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie's great!I don't think it matters whoever you are, but this movie has any kind of comedy I think. There are so many instances where the comedy is linked like none other and some of it is just nonsense but awesome!Most movies with a bunch of big name actors turn out like crap...most of the time (Pearl Harbor). But this movie had lots of stuff destroyed, a bunch of great ideas, and a huge cast of awesome actors.Definately one of my highest fav's this summer, since this is the only review I would write.9/10 "},{"Title":"Funniest movie since It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you've seen It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World or Cannonball Run, then you will LOVE this movie.  So many great scenes with huge laughs.  The cast that was picked was perfect and every minute was laugh-out-loud.  John Cleese, Brecken Meyer, Seth Green, Whoopie Goldberg, Jon Lovitz, Amy Smart, Cuba Gooding Jr., and Rowan Atkinson give great perfomrances.In the beginning of this movie there was a little cartoony opening with a stupid song, but it gets way better.  Every scene that was made to get a laugh got one from me.  Especially the scene where they go to the Barbie museum and then steal Hitler's car.  I'm not gonna say anything else, except, go see this movie.  It's worth the 8 bucks.   "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There's no need to ramble on about all the little details of this movie so i'll keep it simple. Rat Race is a very funny movie. Period. A great comedy ensemble (Lovitz is always funny regardless of what he's doing) combined with clever writing, makes this movie a total winner. Nine out of ten. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was the funniest movie I have ever seen! It will keep you laughing the whole time and at parts will make you feel like your going to wet your pants! If you are thinking of going to see a movie in theatres see Rat Race! As soon as it comes out on video I am going to buy it! This is one of those movies that will make you want to see it again! "},{"Title":"Great movie, except for the last 15 minutes.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For the first hour and 45 minutes, I laughed my ass off. I have been a huge fan of race moves, like  Cannonball Run and Scavenger Hunt, and this remake of It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World seemed like it would have been a tremendously funny movie.Others have already commented on the amazingly funny bits in the movie, so I'll not say much about them, except to agree that, although many of the scenes were highly improbable, they were  some of the funniest I've seen in a long time.Until the ending.I have never been so angry at the ending of any movie. Having seen IaMMMMW, I knew approximately how the ending would turn out, but I wasn't prepared for how poorly it was handled this time around.**spoiler**I mean, these characters were portrayed as mean, win at all costs people and then to have them all gladly give the money to charity on a whim and then merrily start singing and dancing, is just so outrageous that I seriously considered asking for my money back (I didn't because I enjoyed the first parts so much. I just kicked over a trash can instead).At least in IaMMMMW, they lost the money due to their own greed.-- Bill "},{"Title":"Go see this movie!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First of all...the fact that major magazines & reviewers are giving this movie great reveiws should tell you something. When was the last time that Time magazine & Roger Ebert gave a comedy great reviews? All I can say is, see this movie! You won't be disappointed. Yes, this plot has been done many times, but so much has been changed for the movie. The plot go from point A to point B to win $2,000,000.00. The plot is simple, yet so much fun to it. The reason; a great director, & probably the best casting. It is very difficult to do comedy, & all of the actors here are terrific. Some of the standouts are Jon Lovitz & Cuba Gooding Jr. All of Lovitz's scenes are hysterical. He steals Hitler's car...enuff said! Plus Cuba Gooding Jr. steals a bus full of Lucy impersonators. BWAAHAHH!!!! See this movie! You won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"I was on the floor in tears!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you're looking for a rollicking good time, go see this movie. I like to think of myself as a fairly discerning critic when it comes to film and I must say that as far as entertainment value goes, I got my $8.50's worth and then some.Rat Race is not perfect. There are a few plotholes, but these imperfections are few and far between and are adequately compensated by the rest of the movie which is pure old-school chase film gold.My favorite scene has to be the one where the two brothers are trying to get out of the convertible. During that scene, for what seemed like an eternity (but was really probably about a minute long), everybody in the theater (which was quite packed) was tripping. It was that funny.And with comedy flicks increasingly veering in the direction of gross-out fests these days, it's refreshing to see something very different. Go with friends. That makes it even more fun.I give this movie 9 out of 10. "}{"Title":"loved it!!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  knowing something about it from the trailers and a behind the scenes show, we had high expectations and were not disappointed at all. this IS one of the funniest movies my gf and I have ever seen and she has very particualr taste in comedies.we were glad to see not only the outstanding veteran comedians/actors in great roles but the newcomers as well. how could anyone go wrong with a cast such as this? Zucker has done it again!we laughed so hard it hurt. altogether, well worth full price admission and yes, the ending is somewhat unexpected and totally enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Modern version of Mad Mad Mad Mad World","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Considering how little advertising I saw of this film, I took a chance and saw it. It was surprisingly funny from beginning to end. The ending was a bit preposterous (well, okay A LOT of the plot was preposterous, but how can an entire concert going crowd overlook a bus crashing through back stage?), but the site gags where nonstop and funny. "},{"Title":"All I did was Laugh!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Go see this movie!  I have not enjoyed a comedy this much in at least a decade.  I woke up the next morning my abs were hurting because I laughed so hard from beginning to end of this soon to be comedy classic.  The sequence of events in Rat Race are so cleverly lined, up like a massive set of dominoes, that they transition you from one gut-busting scene to the next! I would say more but I don't want to give anything away! This movie is a refreshing breathe of air from what recently has become a very formula driven comedy genre. "},{"Title":"Worst movie i have ever seen!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I came into this film seeing some reviews which said funniest movie of the summer and praises like that.  I mean the cast alone was worth admission, so i was pumped going into this film.  I sat down and as the movie unraveled i was waiting for the funny parts, sure people were laughing at stupid gags. But those weren't things I hadn't seen before so then i walked out of the movie saying Where were my laughs i hated this film so much i gave it a 2 out of 10.  there were about 2 actual funny parts the rest of the movies contained going to the bathroom out of windows, monster trucks, lucy convention freaks and a Hitler car.  I urge you to never see this movie, if you already did and liked it, I pray for your soul. "},{"Title":"This is one funny movie.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   This movie was the funniest thing I have seen in a longtime.  It brings the tradition of screw ball comedy to new heights.  THis movie is how Greed can have very comdeic ramafactions.  In the style of It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World it is about a group of people selected to race to New Mexico from Las Vegas.  The are told to go to a locker and get 2, 000, 000 dollars.  The whole plot was a great and the acting was fantastic.  I give this film 5 gold stars.  "},{"Title":"Nice Throwback, but...","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If Rat Race were made by more cyncial people, it may have been a better movie. It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World workerd because it showed what people would do for money.Rat Race tries, but fails, to show what depths people will sink to. There's some amusing stuff with Jon Lovitz's character in that vain, but the other characters derive humor from being put into funny situations solely because they are trying to get to Silver City.The ending was very weak, and definitely needed a rewrite. It's too schmaltzy, too mushy, and again reveals the lack of cynicism in human nature that this movie needed.Seth Green and Vince Vileuf are enjoyable, as is Amy Smart. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went to the theaters and bought a ticket for this movie. I am 16 and I was planning to go see American Pie 2. We were gonna wait ten minutes into the movie and then go into Pie 2, but this movie was so funny we just stayed. This movie was a real winner minus the awful ending.  "},{"Title":"absolutley hilarious","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this was the funniest movie of the summer. period. no argument. i can't remember when i laughed so hard at a movie. the scene with jon lovitz at the WW2 convention is one of the funniest scenes i've ever seen. i had only 2 problems with this movie. 1) The soundtrack. especially Who Let The Dogs Out and Allstar i hated these songs the minute i heard them, and by now i nearly puke if i hear one miserable note of either. 2) The ending, it seemed alright at the time, but now, hours after i've seen it, i feel a bit cheated. with all the great gags and hilarious jokes in this movie, i figured that they could come up with an ending a bit more creative than the one in this movie. over all though, this movie is one of the funniest movies of all time. see it!!9/10 "},{"Title":"It does just what it sets out to do!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  And it does it well! Rat Race was hilarious! So many different antics, and so many unexpected twists. The cast was just perfect. I gave this one a 10, because its a great comedy that does everything it sets out to do flawlessly! "},{"Title":"A good family film","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a good family movies.  There is very little swearing, maybe a couple of words and a gester or two.  There is no nudity.  The comedy is silly, not stupid.  And people are not mean to each other.  Good clean fun for everyone.  A great first date movie. "}{"Title":"Brilliantly Slapstick!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Brilliantly cast, brilliantly acted and brilliantly directed! This movie is a series of slapstick gags that will have you either laughing, guffawing or just plain stunned. Bottom line messages life is a journey; when you give, it only hurts for a minute, then it feels GOOD; a few greedy people spoil the race. "},{"Title":"A good family film","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a good family movie.  There is very little swearing, maybe a couple of words and a gester or two.  There is no nudity.  The comedy is silly, not stupid.  And people are not mean to each other.  Good clean fun for everyone.  A great first date movie. "},{"Title":"Really great slapstick; Vieluf a talented comic newcomer.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For all the gag-clichs this movie relied on, the end result was surprisingly funny.  Each member of the strong ensemble cast did what he or she does best, be that mugging, playing straight-man, or fluttering his hands, feet, and eyelashes like Mr. Bean.The opening credits are bizarrely fascinating - during them, I cheered for Vince Vieluf (who portrayed the other Cody brother), because he graduated from the same high school I graduated from.  Then my best friend cheered, and then the woman sitting in front of us cheered.  Then she turned in our seat and said excitedly, That's my son! Consequently, I did my best to watch the film with an unbiased eye, but of course I thought Vieluf's scenes were exceptional, particularly for a relatively green film actor.  He certainly pulled his own weight in the movie, even in an ensemble of modern comic legends.  So I applaud this talented newcomer, and no, not just because I was sitting behind his mom. "},{"Title":"Who cut the cheese?","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie critics worked their magic and the theatre was half empty on the 1st Saturday/prime time viewing. Although this film is not for all audiences, there's a few laughs to be had by some and raucous entertainment for others. The guy sitting behind me was certainly enjoying himself.Warning flags go up around any movie with this vast array of stars and you might expect cameos with little connection. Rat Race does a good job of tying it all together. And although the situations are generally implausible, the gags are funny.John Cleese offers a group of eight losers the chance of a lifetime at a two million dollar prize if they are willing to make fools of themselves to go for it.  Bored millionaires looking for new ways to wager their fortunes will be entertained by the antics of these willing participants, as you may also.After this film, you will have a graphic vision of prairie-dogging, and a literal one of hauling ass. The writers went after Nazis, Jews and Arabs, gays African-Americans, Hispanics, southerners, immigrants and I can't think of one group targeted more than others. Tired slapstick humor, gross-out bits as well as double-entendre and sight gags were used throughout but I didn't get the feeling that they were merely showing off.Cuba Gooding, Jr tries to show his broad range of emotions and can the man break dance.John Cleese plays the villainous millionaire to the teeth. Whoopie Goldberg seemed self-conscious, but Seth Green finds his stride and John Lovitz plays john lovitz. Rowan Atkinson brings his Bean character and Wayne Knight has the hardest lines of all.I was relieved to learn that though no animals were mistreated and only actors were harmed in the making of this film. I knew I stick around to the bitter end of the credits for a good reason.CyCy "},{"Title":"Remake of 1963's 'It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World'","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is a remake of 1963's 'It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World' which starred Spencer Tracy, Mickey Rooney, Buddy Hackett, Ethel Merman, Milton Berle, Phil Silvers, Jonathan Winters and Sid Caesar just to name a few.  The mad cap situation of a group of strangers thrown together solely by fate to collect a large sum of stashed away money is replayed in 'Rat Race'.  Except to say that 'Rat Race' has a much more cartoonish aspect to it.  But some of the scenes in 'Rat Race' are cleverly disguised replays of Mad World and are not so obvious.  One of them being the setting in the American southwest and a group tracking their every step.  Rowan Atkinson steals the show along with Jon Lovitz, Cuba Gooding Jr. and Seth Green who are the runner-ups on the laugh meter.  Overall I would recommend 'Rat Race' for a whole new generation of movie fans but I would also urge them to pick up the 1963 film to observe, critique and discuss the similarities which is what the movies are supposed to provoke in us.....DEBATE! "},{"Title":"Over the Top situations vs. dialogue","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was decent.  I think I am greatly desensitized to the  over the top humor.  Sensationalism.....can actually have the opposite effect on me. I think I have seen too many movies.Jon Lovitz was my personal favorite. That guy can deliver any line and be funny.Amy Smart...good for her. This is the first time I have seen her play such a comedic role.There were times when everyone was funny and then there were times where I didn't laugh for awhile.Hey, isn't this like the THIRD MOVIE TO USE THAT SMASHMOUTH SONG AT THE END? Someone sprung a creativity leak.  TRY SOMETHING NEW ONCE IN AWHILE. TAKE A RISK.I wished for funnier dialogue....but I know that is incredibly hard to do. 6/10 "},{"Title":"OMG!!!!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was SOOOOOOOO funny!!!!  We were laughing the whole time!!! Even my dad laughed...OUT LOUD!!!  He never does that, or at least it takes a whole lot!!!  You HAVE to see this movie!!  I don't know the last time I laughed so hard at a movie!!! "},{"Title":"funnnnnnnnny movie..........but........","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I work at the movie theater and i had the opportunity of seeing this movie for free. After watching it and laughing my head off i realized i would have loved to pay for the movie. In fact i even watched it again the next day.The movie is really funny, and has a lot of funny moments. The previews kinda spoiled a few of the funny gags, but thats what previews are for.The ending wasnt expected at all, and wasnt the best in the world. Then again i think that this is the kinda movie that would be hard to end the right way. So i do give the film makers some credit.overall I'd give it a 8/10 "},{"Title":"Hardest I've laughed in a long time","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Simply put, Rat Race is one of the most enjoyable, funniest movies I've seen in a long time. The only point in the film that was slow was the first five minutes (Introductions). That was it. There were a few points in the film where myself and the (packed) theater were laughing so hard at the sight gags we couldn't even hear the movie! Definitely fun from end-to-end. Go see this movie and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"If you love Lucy like I love Lucy...","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you are at all a fan of I love Lucy, check out Rat Race! The best part of the film is a storyline involving an entire busload of Lucy impersonators! They were hilarious in their red-headed, ditzy style. I especially enjoyed the performance of Lucy #1 played skillfully by Deborah Theaker. I'm going to look her up here and see what else she's been in!The rest of the film was great too, I really enjoyed Seth Green and Rowan Atkinson, as well as the rest of this talented cast. But my mind keeps going back to the Lucys! I guess I'm going to have to break out my old videos and have a Lucy fest! "}{"Title":"You'll say Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad, What?","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I know this is blasphmous to the fans of Mad...World, but ladies and gentlemen, here is the NEW treasure hunt movie for the shelves.  The superb joint cast provided for one big laugh for the entire movie.  Let's thank them one by one.Thank You Whoopi Goldberg.  I heard your name on the credit listing and got scared, but your performance was very limited, much to my delight.Thank You Seth Green.  You topped your performance from the Austin Powers movies by being the perfect model of how most big brothers are.  Seth, along with Vince Vieluf on their own would make this movie worth while.  As the Cody Brothers, you get to see them ride a balloon, a monster truck, and even up vertical at one point.Thank You Rowen Atkinson.  Bean was funny enough on its own, but with a sleeping disorder and Italian accent, it's the greatest.Thank you Kathy Bates.  I want a squirrel.THANK YOU JON LOVITZ!!!  You are the heart and soul of this movie.  I can't explain why, because it really would spoil the movie (all Jon's really good parts aren't in the trailers...)Thanks to everyone else who made and starred this movie.  After this summer's crap-o-rama, it's good to see that a movie I expected nothing from could enterain me like none other.9.5/10 (-.5 for the musical performance at the end, you'll know what I mean.) "},{"Title":"Rat Race is a Laugh Riot","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The performances are great.  The comedy is classic. You will be rolling in the aisles.I'd say more, but I don't want to ruin the punch lines. Though definitely Seth Green is involved in some of the funniest scenes... and don't forget the squirrels... "},{"Title":"Wacky and Wild Fun","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is very raucous and funny film.I have not seen a comedy this zany in a long while!. It's great to see Jon Lovitz back in fine form...he's terrific in this film! This movie had the whole auditorium repeatedly cracking up during the whole film...a grand time was had by all!. Cuba Gooding,Jr. is also very funny in this film.He has a very wild ride with a bus load of Lucy'sCuba,You have some 'splaining to do!Hilarious!! Check it out,and get ready to get a gut ache  "},{"Title":"Funnier Than Expected!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect, but I think this is gonna be in theatres for awhile.  It's got tons of laughs; a real crowd-pleaser! Lots of gags, slapstick and exaggerated characters.  It was a lot of fun. Sort of in the same vein as the Naked Gun schtick, but I enjoyed this a lot more. There are more goofy characters.  John Lovitz is hilarious as a family man!  It was great to see Rowan Atkinson again, as funny as ever, and John Cleese and his betting cronies are a hoot to watch as they bet on anything and everything. I heard one reviewer say it was overkill, but I disagree.  The laughs keep coming and coming.  What's wrong with that?!!  "},{"Title":"Two words Too funny!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Rat Race is a movie that is way better than any funny movie I seen. It's better than Tommy Boy and Liar Liar. It's about 6 people who race to get the 2 millions dollars in a locker in Silver City. The race soon becomes a adventure of a life-time. If your in a mood for a funny movie, I urge you to watch this movie. You'll laugh at loud at this movie.  "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie of the Year","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  All the Comedy movies I have seen this year can not be compared to Rat Race. It is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. The plot is very different and it has a great cast. My favorite actor in the movie is Rowan Atkinson. I really recommend this movie.THUMBS UP!! "},{"Title":"The best movie of the summer!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A treat for both children and adults, Rat Race is this summer's most hilarious flick.  From the beginning to the end, it's packed full of hilarious scenes and the most unforgettable characters.  It's hard to pick out one scene that made me laugh the hardest (however, I about choked on my Twizzlers in a few scenes in particular *grins*) or one actor who completely stole the lime light.  It was all together amazing!In a rather mad dash for the pretty sum of $2 million bucks, a group of about 10 people race from the regal Las Vegas to Stirling City, New Mexico in a wacked plan put together by one of the richest men in the world.  They go to any and every extent to beat each other to the finish line; and of course, hilarity ensues.The timing is all together perfect and the actors are brilliant!  See it, love it, and laugh your head off as I did.  This is definitely a savior from this summer's movie list, so go see it!  Enjoy ) "},{"Title":"I'll never look at Praire Dogs the same way again","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Funny film, a diversion from everyday life.  For 2 hours all my problems and worries went away.  The laughs sometimes fall short, sometimes hit high. The great thing is that you can almost believe everything you see ... almost.  Worth watching, though you'll never look at praire dogs the same way again. "},{"Title":"A Hilarious Classic of 2001","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Film RAT RACE would sound like a rat in a race, but it is not. RAT RACE is technically about a group of people who are after $2M dollars in a treasure chest hidden somewhere. The cast is incredible and the two characters from ROAD TRIP BRECKIN MEYER AND AMY SMART also reunite.TO say that RAT RACE WAS A GREAT FOR ME, IT WILL ALSO BE FOR U. 10/10. GO SEE IT! "},{"Title":"Can't...stop...laughing!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really wanted to see the movie even back to June when I saw the first preview, and I heard number of different release dates since.  well, the 24th of August was the big day and I was stoked!  The previews are laugh-out-loud, but despite my gung-ho to see it, I had that nagging fear that all the funniest parts had been shown on the ads already...  no way! Some of the funniest gags aren't even hinted at (think Barbie museums and Musical Guest Star).   Honestly, I laughed the beginning to the end.  There were parts at which I was laughing so hard that I couldn't have stopped if I'd wanted to!  The sight gags are madcap and over-the-top and some of the characters are absurdly talented.  The ending was the most random and unpredictable conclusion I've seen attatched to a flik in a long time, but it fit the movie spirit perfectly.  GO SEE IT!!!   now I wanna see more of the Zucker brothers' stuff.... "}{"Title":"perfection!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let me just say that I am a huge comedy fan and there has not been a decent comedy movie in theaters for quite some time.  Rat Race filled the void that we've all been feeling.  This movie is histerical. Also, it could not be more beautifully casted.  Wayne Knight (who shares my birthday, by the way), Jon Lovitz, Rowan Atkinson, and the lovable John Cleese make this movie an absolute delight. Go see it now! "},{"Title":"What a waste of time!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After watching this movie, I couldn't help but be grateful that I hadn't paid to see it. As a movie theatre employee we get to screen movies the night before they open, so I attended. To be honest, I wasn't even expecting much. My presence was merely an attempt to enjoy my last few days of summer before school begins. Anyway, I knew that Rowan Atkinson(yeah Mr. Bean!) would be funny, because I don't think he's capable of not being funny. Seth Green is pretty funny too, and some of the cameos/smaller roles were good too. Most notably, Kathy Bates was funny--I would have bought a squirrel! Wayne Knight was also pretty funny, despite his short screen time. However the rest of the cast, especially Breckin Meyer(who, sadly, had more screen time than pretty much anyone, if I remember correctly) who was just annoying as hell. Jon Lovitz should stick to The Critic and Whoopi Goldberg...well, I'm not even going to go into that. The ending was one of the worst I've ever seen(and I saw Planet of the Apes this summer), and there were a few things that, frankly, I thought were inappropriate. Some of the jokes they made about certain groups of people seemed, to me, to be in poor taste. I recommend that this movie be avoided at any cost, especially if you have to pay. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It is impossible to go to this movie and not laugh! Every little thing about it is funny. Sure the plot is kinda off but it is hysterical! I was laughing and laughing and laughing. It is impossible to go to 'Rat Race' and not laugh!  "},{"Title":"Old fashioned madcap comedy with modern edge","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A very funny movie.  Jerry Zucker did a great job merging the anything goes screwball style of previous chase/road comedies with modern, slightly twisted style of his old ZAZ movies (Airplane, Top Secret, Kentucky Fried Movie), not to mention more recent gross out comedies (i.e. Farrelly Brothers).  It's nice to hear such hardy laughter come from a normally uptight, snobby and sophisticated (or wannabe sophisticated) DC crowd.  I thought the woman in front of me was going to have an aneurysm, she was laughing so hard.  No message, no depth--just 90 minutes of lunacy.  I loved it.   "},{"Title":"A very funny movie","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a funny movie witch is not suitable for younger views (10 years min, in my opinion).  Rat Race could be compared to Mad Mad Mad Mad World but with new twists.  If you think you see it all in the trailers you ain't seen nothing yet.  The film it self will keep you in stitches the whole time (if you like slapstick) and well you should go see the movie for yourself.  The ending is interesting to say the least and the actors make this movie work.  With its many side plots and silly main story line this is a movie that you should go see if you want to laugh.  If not, don't go see this film.  "},{"Title":"It's a Madder, Madder, Madder, Madder World","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Prior to seeing the sneak preview, I had forgotten one early summary of Rat Race as an updated It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. If I had remembered it, I wouldn't have gone to see it. Nonetheless, the promise of another John Cleese movie was more than I could bear, so I went to see it.Rat Race has a faster pace than its presumed inspiration in those grand old days of Cinerama domes. Although it doesn't have the aggregated star power of its spiritual ancestor, Rat Race does manage to do what IAMMMMW couldn't do. It manages to spend enough time with various characters to make them interesting. At times, the on-screen business and sight gags are as zany as that classic Zucker experience (Airplane!). Some jokes are foreshadowed far enough in advance that, even though you see them coming, you savor the moment (I KNEW that was going to happen, but it's even funnier than I envisioned!).Don't expect any major character development or breakthroughs. Even though the characters are interesting to watch, they are merely the modern equivalents of stock characters from commedia del arte. Their motivation is a mere setup for the stage business and the entire purpose of the characterization is to slap you with the occasional sucker punch (I feel sorry for the poor slob, but he sure does deserve it!).Rat Race won't make anyone's Top Movies of All Time listings, but it sure does entertain. It's worth the money. It offers more laughs per 10 minute segment than some of today's so-called comedies offer in an hour and a half.  "},{"Title":"Good, but...","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was quite funny in its own right.  But the only thing I really have to say about it is that why didn't anyone notice it was almost exactly like the film It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World that came out in 1963?  The 1963 film had a touch of class and good humor that is sorely lacking in its 2001 counterpart. "},{"Title":"This is quite possibly the funniest film of all time","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"     I went into a sneak preview of 'Rat Race' knowing it would be funny, but when I came out, it quickly replaced 'Evolution' as the funniest film of the year. Not only is 'Rat Race' the funniest film of the year, it is quite possibly the funniest film of all time.  Audiences don't seem to care about real comedies anymore. Those damn sex comedies have replaced them and most of them don't deliver real laughs. Now comes 'Rat Race', a movie that plays and acts like a remake of the 1963 epic comedy 'It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World', which was directed by Stanley Kramer. 'Rat Race' was directed by Jerry Zucker from a script by Andrew Breckman and thanks to great writing and great direction, 'Rat Race' is one uproariously funny movie.  So what's it about? Six people win on slot machines and they receive a coin that says You're a winner. Come to Guest Services. They are sent up to a penthouse where we meet Donald Sinclair (John Cleese). He offers them a chance to win $2,000,000. These people include Owen Templeton(Cuba Gooding Jr.), Enrico Pollini(Rowan Atkinson), Randy Peer (Jon Lovitz), Nick Schaefer(Breckin Meyer), Duane Cody (Seth Green  and a woman named Vera(Whoopi Goldberg). At first, they're not interested, but once they chase each other down the stairs (briliantly to the song Who Let The Dogs Out by Baha Man), the race begins. No more of the plot will be given because it deals with sub plots on all six teams. There are also more and more characters in the story.  The movie also has stand out scenes featuring Seth Green and Vince Vieluf. Most of their scenes are very funny.  But if you think the last scene is going to be set in a hospital like in 'Mad World', you are dead wrong. Despite how funny the movie is, the ending might get a mixed review. I won't give it away due to the fact that I promised no spoilers, just crtique and part of the plot. Just see the movie for yourself.  If you see one movie on the weekend of August 17-19, see 'Rat Race'. It's better than going to see 'American Pie 2', 'Captain Correli's Mandolin' and 'American Outlaws'. The movie is rated PG-13 and parents, bring the kids. This is the funniest movie of the year and quite possibly the funniest movie of all time. Don't miss it. If you miss it, you will be sorry. "},{"Title":"Funny, funny, funny movie","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw this trailer on TV, I thought that this was one movie I could pass up.  It looked more stupid than funny.  I couldn't have been more wrong.  Friends convinced me to go with them to see the preview on Sat. night.  Loved the opening credits.  Very, very clever.  The movie started off a little slow, but it didn't take long for the laughs to start. And they just kept on coming until the end.  Favorite scenes are numerous but two I will mention are the radar station and the Barbie museum.  And, oh, yes, the cow!!!!  The cast was superior and especially brilliant was Kathy Bates as the squirrel lady.One storyline I didn't think was funny was the one with Wayne Knight.  It was too serious a subject for me.  Fortunately, it didn't ruin the movie, though.Would definitely recommend this movie to friends and see it again myself. I rate this movie a 9 out of 10.  (If it weren't for the Wayne Knight storyline, I would give it a 10!)   "},{"Title":"Crazy fun!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was one hilarious movie. I had seen the trailers a few times and I knew I wanted to see it, (John Cleese, Rowan Atkinson, that guy from Seinfeld, Cuba Gooding Jr., the list goes on!) Believe me you wont be dissapointed with this one. I'm not going to give away anything, you should go see it! See it with your girlfriend, boyfriend, hell, you could even take your whole family, it's just a great movie.  "}{"Title":"Not bad...  Not great, either.","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went to see the sneak preview of this movie on August 11, 2001.  I was a bit wary going in to the movie because I've been burned so many times by previews that show ALL of the good jokes in a movie (and then I have to sit through two hours of bad jokes.)  This movie has quite a few good jokes and some that fall flat on their face, too.  As far as I can remember, I laughed hysterically at only one joke but most of the rest just made me giggle or smile.  This was not a roll-on-the-floor-splitting-my-sides movie but it was good enough to be worth a matinee ticket.  I must say, though, that some of the jokes do poke fun at politically incorrect subjects such as the mentally ill.  In my mind, that's not funny.  The ending falls flat as well -- I was left wondering whether there was going to be a parting shot.  Still, for having a plot that's a farce in itself, this movie is OK.   "},{"Title":"I haven't seen a movie this funny for a long time.","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    This is one of the funniest movies I have seen lately. From beginning to end, it will keep you rolling in the halls. The cast was excellent, it couldn't have been better. In the beginning, some lucky people get a gold coin in the slot machines, telling them that they've won, and they all go into this room for a free buffet. John Cleese tells them 2 million dollars is in a locker in Silver City, New Mexico. Of course, they don't believe him, and are about to all just continue their trip in Las Vegas, till Jon Lovitz goes down the stairs (they're all waiting for the elevator). They catch on, race down the stairs, and the race is on!   They all have so much trouble along the way it's hilarious. The cast is incredible, they are very funny. It has an ending that you really wouldn't expect. I strongly advice everyone to see this movie, you'll be laughing for days. I give 4 out of 4 stars. Go see it today!!  "},{"Title":"i bet....","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had an opportunity to catch the sneak preview of Rat Race this weekend and have to say, I went in expecting a Zucker type film of the 80s (Airplane!, Naked Gun, etc.) and got one! Rat Race had all of the slapstick, absurd humor you'd expect from Zucker.  I don't want to give too much away but suffice it to say that the wacky humor is there - from the millionaires betting on everything from who would win the race to which maid could hang from the curtain rod the longest to who would throw up first on the choppy airplane ride, to the challenges faced by the racing teams along the way. Go see this movie...you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Good clean fun. Hilarious!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" RAT RACE   ***+   Chase/Comedy  Dir Jerry Zucker  Rowan Atkinson, Whoopi Goldberg, Cuba Gooding, Jon Lovitz, John Cleese A group of average citizens races 500 miles to be the first to reach a $2 million prize. RAT RACE is not truly a remake of 1963's IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD WORLD -- but it follows closely the basic plot line and feel of the earlier film. Since MAD WORLD is one of my favorite movies, I was eager to see this updated version. It succeeds extremely well. Some plot points have been modified to make the film more believable. But compared to MAD WORLD, RAT RACE has more sight gags and is much more over the top. So there's little chance anyone would mistake RAT RACE for a documentary. It's simply good, clean fun.Outright, prolonged laughter.   "},{"Title":"POOR MAN'S VERSION OF IT'S A MAD MAD MAD WORLD","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was disappointed at the preview of this film.  As my header reads it was a poor take of on It's a Mad Mad Mad world.  It was real slapstick and for the most part it was silly with most of the actors doing their best with a weak script.  This one missed the boat by a mile!!!! "},{"Title":"Hard to go wrong with this cast","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Most of the cast are comedic top guns in their own right. It is great to see a funny, none vulgar movie. Jon and Cuba were probably my favorites in this one, but they all do a great job of keeping you laughing. It isn't the brightest humor, it doesn't tax your brain, it is just plain silly humor. "},{"Title":"Great remake of It's A Mad, Mad, Mad World!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw Rat Race last night and laughed hysterically practically throughout the whole movie.  For those of you not familiar with the theme, this movie is about a madcap dash to win $2 million by a group of people who just met. Of the main cast of characters (and characters they definitely are), Rowan Atkinson was, IMHO, the most hilarious.  A pair of brothers provides, arguably, the two funniest scenes in the movie.  One of these scenes involves that cow mentioned in one of the other reviews.  I haven't laughed so hard in years, and give this movie a 9.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Dull","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are only so many times I can watch a car crash through a fence or fall over an embankment before I get bored.and Rat Race is really boring. Despite a few inspired, off-the-wall comedic moments (like the bit where Jon Lovitz and his family stop at the Barbie Museum only to find out it has nothing to do with perfectly modeled plastic dolls), Rat Race is a smash-up derby orgy featuring hapless, screeching actors who are probably wishing they had better scripts to choose from.There are a few offensive performances in the movie, but none stand out as much as Cuba Gooding, Jr.  The sheer banality of his acting should cause the Academy to revoke his Oscar.  His bug-eyed, over-the-top performance dates back to Jar Jar Binks.  Somebody please give this man edgier material!  A close second is Rowan Atkinson, whose hacked-up Italian accent is meant to be funny but only comes across as crass and dated.Crippled by a lame script, even director Jerry Zucker, of the once famous Zucker-Abrams-Zucker team, can't rescue this rip-off of It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.  When you have to resort to talking cows to get the audience to laugh, you know you are scraping the bottom of the comedy barrel.  By the time the alt-pop group Smashmouth makes an appearance (I know it was them because one of the characters told me so), I couldn't wait for the credits to roll.  "},{"Title":"Rat Race is Raucous Fun!!","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Saw an advanced screening of Rat Race and was having a wonderful time from start to finish!The cast is brilliant!  The physical comedy demands of this film could only be masterfully guided by Jerry Zucker.  Nobody does comedy better.  This is the best big commercial film of the summer season.  The trailer doesn't begin to touch on all the great humor.  There is so much zany humor in this film that you will not be disappointed if you're expecting a great comedy.  Let's face it, there have been some real dogs this summer.  But with Rat Race when I left the free screening, I was looking for someone to give my money to!  What a treat.  I plan to see it again with all my friends.If you want to laugh at a movie that you're supposed to laugh at, then see Rat Race.  You'll have a ball!        "},{"Title":"An hilarious and welcome return to the Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World!","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Finally! a real comedy this summer!  Granted that this is a remake of the Stanley Kramer classic from the 60's, this is a welcome alternative to teen sex comedies and chick flicks disguised as romantic comedies neither of which are very funny.  This movie, however, can be described in chat room lingo as a ROTFLMAO movie (Rolling On The Floor Laughing My Ass Off)  There is a little bit of crude humor, a lot of slapstick that actually works (just imagine the cow in Twister and then get even weirder), not too much bad language, and fish out of water situations  (the Barbie museum----I won't give it away, but your sides will hurt because of this part, I guarantee)that gel perfectly into about 100 minutes of non-stop laughter. Veteran comedic actors John Cleese and Jon Lovitz take irony to new levels, and physical comedians like Rowan Atkinson flourish without completely taking over scenes.  So what's it about? Similar to It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World, a group of random and very diverse individuals find themselves racing each other to find a fortune in an obscure desert location.  The major differences in the story are that instead of having the money bequeathed by a dying gangster (mad world's Jimmy Durante), the race is a game set up by casino owner John Cleese, who we learn has set up the contest as a betting forum for international high rollers, who will wager thousands of dollars on anything, including which of the investors will get airsick first......but I digress.  The other major difference is the ending.  In mad world, the principals all ended up in the hospital, bemoaning their fate and regretting their greed.  In this modern gem, the principals all end up together as well, but----Naw, you've just got to see it yourself.  In short, this is THE FUNNIEST MOVIE OF THE YEAR, PERHAPS THE LAST FIVE YEARS.  You can bring the kids, or bring a date to this one, you will love it. "}{"Title":"Silly but very funny","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Saw a sneak last night and thoroughly enjoyed this film. There are some very stupid and gross scenes but all in all the film is very funny and moves at a speed reminiscent to It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. Apart from Rowan Atkinson's character(over the top as usual) and John Cleese's annoying character being small gripes, the film is overall  worth seeing for the belly laughs contained therein. Don't want to give any spoilers but the film does not end in a predictable fashion (nice change) and although some of the scenes were cliched and outrageous, I don't think you will be disappointed. Given the fact that movies are getting more and more expensive to see, I would, in good conscience recommend this film. If you are feeling blue or depressed or just want a good laugh, go see this movie. Laughter is a great tonic and this movie is just what the doctor ordered. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I saw Rat Race Monday night in Arlington, VA and I kept seeing the preview so much that I got tired of seeing it and wondered if this movie was going to be worth it.  It seems through my movie going experience when I see a preview over and over again, the movie doesn't end up being worth it.The theatre held about 175 people, and 18 of those seats were for press, so needless to say some people got turned away.  Just a bit of advice, get there early, you can't get there five minutes before and expect to get a good seat.  The passes don't say first come first serve for nothing.  The movie started about five minutes late.The movie starts off like a cartoon, sort of.  The opening credits have the cast in cartoon characters, which I thought was pretty funny.  Then it jumps to Vegas.  Numerous people that have never met each other find themselves in the same casino and play slot machines.  When they win, they get a coin that states you are a winner, come to guest services.  So, once there, they are led to a conference room where we met Donald Sinclair (John Cleese) who is the owner of the casino.  At this point, we met Nick Shaffer (Breckin Meyer), Vera Baker (Whoppi Goldberg), Merrill Jennings (Lanei Chapman), the Cody brothers (Vince Vieluf and Seth Green), Owen Templeton (Cuba Gooding Jr.), the Pear family (Jon Lovitz, Kathy Najimy, Brode Smith and Jilliam Marie) and Enrico Pollini (Rowan Atkinson).  Grishman is played by Dave Thomas who is Sinclair's run around person.  Once Sinclair explains to everyone that the object is to get to Silver City, New Mexico and find a locker number 0001 and they will find two million dollars, let the fireworks begin.One of the sub-plots is Owen was a football referee that blew a coin flip in a game in Dallas recently and everyone in Vegas knows about it because they put hundreds of dollars on the game.  When he leaves the casino, he gets in a taxi in which the driver realizes this and gives him a hard time. Another sub-plot is when Nick is trying to get out of the hotel, he meets Tracy Faucet (Amy Smart) who we find out is a helicopter pilot and decides to give Nick a life to New Mexico.  Why does he take this, because the Cody brothers break the control tower at the airport.There are so funny scenes that I won't spoil them all here, but this movie is a lot better than I expected.  Some of it is predicable, but the ending is nothing you would expect.  I don't think a better cast could have been picked for this.  The logic behind the PG-13 is some language and partial nudity.  It is 106 minutes long, and opens August 8th, and Paramount should make some dough off this one.  I would pay full price for this, and I give it 8.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The funniest movie of all times...","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cannot believe this movie is rated this low. This one deserves to be in the high 8s. We all cannot stop laughing even if we watch the movie over and over again. Awesome cast - John Clesse, Jon Lovitz, Seth Green, Rowan Atkinson (Mr Bean), Wayne Knight (Seinfeld's Newman) were all so hilarious and so made for the role. Bringing such a cast of all time funny men along with Cuba Gooding Jr. would not have been easy but the Director managed to get the best out of them, never missing a beat. 10/10 imho.My other all time funny movies 1. Gods must be crazy 2. Its a Mad Mad Mad world 3. Caddyshack 4. Monty Phyton and Holy Grail 5. History of the world / Blazzing Saddles. 6. National Lampoon Vacation 7. Coming to America 8. Ace Ventura / Dumb and Dummer 9. Friday 10. American Pie Series. 11. Hangover Series.Rat Race is super duper awesome. It is a must must must watch comedy movie. Again something is wrong with this IMDb rating. Borat, a comic for dummies scores 7.3. Go figure !! "},{"Title":"Super funny movie!","Date":"6 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From start to finish I laughed the entire movie. I had abdominal pains the next day from laughing so hard. It is such a super random, non-stop hilarious comedy! Combines gambling, narcolepsy, political (Hitler) comedy, competitive nature of people, etc. So many story lines but doesn't get confusing, keeps it interesting. No gaps in the comedy/story line that leave you bored. You stay interested and laughing the whole entire movie. The best part is when the family is riding in Hitler's car and the comedy that ensues. It really is a super hilarious movie. My second favorite comedy of all time! There are so many great actors and hilarious quotable scenes! "},{"Title":"A very entertaining 3/4 of a movie","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The premise behind the movie is a chase across the country to win $2 million dollars, and the lengths to which people will be driven due to greed. Wisely, relatively little time is spent setting up the pieces on the board, and the pacing is brisk to move from joke to joke quickly. A solid ensemble cast and lots of novel ideas make this cross-country race very entertaining and engaging just about all the way through. Just do yourself a favour and turn it off when the band Smashmouth appears, because the ending is unnecessarily moralistic and preachy, and takes the fun out of the rest of the experience. These are not characters we are meant to like, so why should we care if they learn a lesson, in an unconvincing way to boot? Maybe with a bit more shamelessness this would have been a total triumph, but as it is this is an example of the journey being more important than the destination. All told there is too much hilarity to write it all off based on the ending. Just turn it off at Smashmouth. "},{"Title":"This is so much fun","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I bought this film as it has Rowan Atkinson in it and thought I'd give it a try. My god was a risk with 10. Its so much fun.The plot is Donald Sinclair (John Cleese in his most fun role since Basil Fawlty) is an eccentric billionaire casino owner who has placed 7 coins that a rag tag bunch of people win. The coin enters them to the race. A Lawyer, A Helicopter Pilot getting revenge on her boyfriends infidelity, Family on Vacation, Brothers and a mother meeting her long lost daughter are the contenders for the race. Donald and his rich mates (who come from everywhere) bet on the race and anything else that they can bet on (including being ill on an aircraft).Im saying no more as it would be a spoiler. Watch it if you want a fun movie on a wet Sunday afternoon. Its comical, serious and betting on the price of a hooker???????? "},{"Title":"It's a race! And it's a winner!","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Possibly one of the funnyist films EVER!!!! It all starts when Donald Sinclair, a eccentric billionair, calls together some of his gamblers to bet on a race. A race which involves 6 contestants who were chosen at random in his casino. They have been chosen to race to New Mexico to find 2 million dollars in a locker room. They don't know they're being used and will stop at nothing to get the cash.Feturing superb acting and, by far, one of Steth Green's better films. However Rowan Atkinson steals the show taking his Mr Bean style and turning himself into an Itailian Moron of the highest standard.John Cleese gets a laugh every time he appears and it really is, by far, funny as hell!!! "},{"Title":"This movie is underrated","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The rating this movie has received is undeserved...just finished watching it again, this is probably the fifth time or so.Excellent ensemble cast (John Cleese is especially brilliant...Dave Thomas is great, Rowan Atkinson carries the film, Seth Green is entertaining as well, John Lovitz is John Lovitz), inventive comedy, at times audacious and just plain silly throughout.The only unfortunate element is the atrocious addition of the Baha Men on the soundtrack with their anthem of suck Who Let the Dogs Out? (thankfully, it's only played for a few seconds, though...not a show-stopper).Watch this movie!  "},{"Title":"Madcap road comedy with big cast is very hit and miss.","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  John Cleese is a rich businessman with big teeth who is turning the rest of the cast into human rats (or horses), trekking across the country for a cash prize, so his rich pals and he can bet on who will win.This madcap road comedy goes for that big-cast Its a Mad Mad Mad Mad World glory, and ends up a very hit and miss, only funny every now and then, comedy, with an unexplained cameo from band Smashmouth at the end.Title paints the thing as a communist allegory for the human rat race the workers manipulated by the capitalist bigshots. Sweatin' for the man.John Cleese is a highlight, and its very nice seeing him in a vibrant comedy part, however small. Rowan Atkinson as the nondescript foreigner with narcolepsy is also amusing. The scene with Hitler's car is fairly memorable, as is Kathy Bates in her cameo. Everything else is either politically incorrect (in an unfunny way), or just plain unfunny.1/10. "},{"Title":"Not a remake of Mad Mad World","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is not a sequel to Stanley Kramer's brilliant original classic, 'It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World, considered by many to be the funniest film of all time. This is more of a remake of Cannonball Run.Rat Race bombed at the box office mostly because it's not funny. This flick has a flat, low budget look to it and is most likely to fade into obscurity. It looks like something that sat on the shelf for years before being released. Some real wasted talent here such as the great Kathy Bates, Cuba Gooding and Rowan Atkinson, but it just isn't funny. We also get John Cleese as an eccentric billionaire, raising his eyebrows and putting on a sad, affected cackle to desperately try and inject some humor into the material.  "}{"Title":"Couldn't stop laughing!!!!!!!!","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you know what pure comedy is then you know what Rat Race is. I would rate this movie 8 out of 10. I would rate it that because why couldn't you just keep some of the money in stead of giving it all away? My favorite actor in this movie was Seth Green because he is the funniest character in the movie. I would recommend this movie to anybody who likes to laugh! Everybody had a funny role in this movie. So if you want to watch this movie rent it or buy it. I bet you will laugh to death!  The main part of this movie is really to give in stead of taking! This movie is kind of like the Christmas movies. I would say that it is a real good movie! Go and watch it and see how funny it really is. "},{"Title":"Classic  (There may be some spoilers!!!)","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a classic. No doubt about it. I feel this movie is a remake of It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World, another classic back in the 60's. There are many great celebrities in this movie such as John Cleese, Amy Smart, Cuba Gooding Jr., Seth Green, Jon Lovitz, Paul Rodriguez, Dave Thomas, Whoopi Goldberg, Rowan Atkinson, Vince Vieluf, and Smash Mouth. As I said, this movie is a classic. Cuba Gooding Jr. is hilarious, Whoopi Goldberg is very funny, Jon Lovitz is hilarious, Rowan Atkinson is hilarious, and Seth Green and Vince Vieluf make a good and funny team in this movie. There are many funny scenes in this movie, like when Tracy and Nick ram the guy with their helicoptor, Randy and his family get whacked around by the bikers, and when Polini is with the guy who needs to deliver the heart. The best scene(and I don't mean the funniest) is the final scene with Smash Mouth. My final comment is IF YOU HAVE NOT SCENE THIS MOVIE, SEE IT!! IT IS FUNNY!!!!!!!8/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious.","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand why everyone hates this so much.  It's a basic comedy which is successful in every way.You have a great cast with John Cleese, Rowan Atkinson, Whoopi Goldberg, Jon Lovitz, Kathy Najimi, Seth Green etc.The funniest bit was when Jon Lovitz and family crash into the World War 2 convention in Adolf Hitler's car.This is a comedy that I could watch over and over again... 9/10. "},{"Title":"unexpected funny!","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I checked out this videotape from my local library. I have seen the box before, but it didn't attract my attention. For one thing, the design did not represent its real content. And second, they had the british actor who I think that is quite silly in most of his shows. I have to say that this movie is well beyond my expectation. I laughed so hard all the way through. Unlike some of the bad comedy movies that have the tendency to make bad jokes just to make people laugh, the jokes in this movie are well designed, and have good taste. I highly recommend this movie.  "},{"Title":"Great Actors, Great Locations, Great Storyline...BRILLIANT","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    GREAT funny film. Such a treat to see actors/comedians as famous as these working together. This movie does have such a simple plot (there's not that much to follow, they're all on a race to get to Mexico anyway that they can to pick up $2 MILLION) We follow each character's story as they basically go NUTS trying to get to it anyway they can! There's Some fantastic stunts in this movie and some classic moments which all of the family can enjoy. 9/10 "},{"Title":"occasionally funny but generally a bit annoying","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well I'm glad I didn't pay to see this one. Although there are a few funny moments and lines (the directions from the squirrel lady is the best and the flying cow fight is amusing) most of it is just too silly or predictable. It looks like overacting was the main order of the day and Rowan Atkinson was the most (un)succesful on this score. His character was also the most annoying of a generally unlikeable bunch. Can this really be the same comic genius who was a quarter of the NTNOCN team and Blackadder?I guess if you have a couple of hours to spare and want to watch something which is fairly mindless then it will just about do but Airplane it definitely is not. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Call the Doctor","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  While watching this ensemble piece, one thought came to my mind...I'm going to have a coronary from laughing so hard.  I'd put this movie off primarily due to the premise...cross country chase movies are like the little branch of parsley on your plate at Denny's...nice to look at every now in then, but something we all usually brush to the side to get to what we're really interested in.  This was different though...it was brilliant writing and wonderful timing on everyone's part...especially kudo's to Jon Lovitz who had me snorting ice tea out of my nose...and I hadn't had any ice tea for three weeks prior to watching this movie.  WWII veterans, vacationing families, Neo-Nazi's, Smash Mouth Fans, red heads, female pilots and gamblers will all love the tongue in cheek approach this movie took in sparing no one from the sights of their humorous antics.  All in all, it is most definitely worth watching, and for certain a must in any dvd/video collection. "},{"Title":"What a waste of talent","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I spent $4.95 on an ex-rental copy of Rat Race and I feel ripped off. As the summary says, what a waste of talent. Those who thought it was hilarious need to have a good hard look at themselves. At least the plastic cover was in good condition so it wasn't a complete waste.-1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"TERRIFIC!!!!!!!!","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ***TINY SPOILER***This was funny and enjoyable film that shows how easily over-powered we  can be by greed. The characters are funny and the perils that they face are a senseless,adding to the humor. This movie is awesome.A must-see!!!!!! **** stars out of *****. "},{"Title":"It's a mad, mad, mad, Monte carlo or bust cannonball run!!","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  *coughs, Scott Evil style* Rip-off!Well, I spent 3.50 on this on the ppv tv service when I was off work ill. I contemplated ring up the tv service and advsing them I wanted a refund due to a constant buzzing on the soundtrack. It turns out, that this was not a fault, but the dialog of the film! Oh me, oh my.This bought nothing to the genre that cannonball (and it's subsiquent sequel) did not. Infact, alot of the time it was like pulling your own teeth. Y'know, you put all that hard work into getting something out of it and you're left only with an agonising pain and a blood covered Bradford Bulls shirt!Not that I was expecting The fast and the furious or Airplane, But I at least fancied a laugh. Unfortunately, they were few and far between. When they did actually approach it was with enough warning that you knew the punchline before the execution. There was nothing in here that we haven't seen at least twice a year on the usual straight to video fare you find on the 'two-for-three-quid-shelf at the rental shop.My opinion? Get 6 mates together, Rent a couple of those ride-on lawn-mowers and film yourselves chasing one another to sheffield in a bid to be the first one to a family sized jar of Marmite!! It'll be a wee bit more costly, but at least you'll feel you've achived a more worthwhile movie than the makers of this tosh!**/***** "}{"Title":"Seems okay at first...","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie seems at best passable. Over all, it's not very good but there are some great moments. That's what I thought. However, after careful consideration I have noticed that actually almost all of the funniest parts have been borrowed from other places.(May contain spoilers. You have been warned.) 1) What I think is the funniest part, when Jon Lovitz looks like Hitler, is almost exactly the same as a scene with Mr. Pitt in Seinfeld 2) In the Barbie museum scene when the Nazi is talking about the person the museum is built for, this is so incredibly similar to The Producers that it's not even funny 3) Now I know what you are thinking. Enrique is a girl's name. No pun intended What pun? This is also similar to the Roger Debris scene in The Producers Masters Bialystock and Bloom I presume. Forgive the pun. What pun? 4) Seth Green I'm not gonna let that happen. And neither are you. And neither am I. or something like that. Dumb and Dumber, methinks.And even apart from that, they have such an amazing cast that it's really a shame that the movie was so bad. The acting was great but the writing was terrible. I feel like I could have written better. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, this movie feels so american. A couple of good actors, John Cleese is always funny to watch, and a couple of good jokes just isnt enough. Its a pathetic movie, it's so exaggerated in everything. I don't know, maybe it's aiming towards kids, if so it's probably good. But if you're older than.. let's say 15.. don't waste time on this one. "},{"Title":"Avoid, at all costs.","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this on a return flight from Korea, which took 12 hours. Thanks to this movie, that journey felt a whole lot longer. This is anything but comedy.  A massive cast and on the same level a massive waste of talent. The original is far better. Its dumb, boring and unimaginative, you get the feeling they wrote it as they went along.This goes in one of my top 10 worst films. 1/10. "},{"Title":"Attempts at Humor are Ubiquitous; actual Humor is Scarce","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Once again we see an example of the old adage that you cannot remake It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.  Several films have gone down this path before including Scavenger Hunt and Midnight Madness and now Rat Race.  Each of these proves that your best bet is to rent the original and not waste time with insipid remakes.  This movie tries really, really hard to wring laughter out of some situations which are so overwritten and staged that Suspension of Disbelief becomes impossible.  The talents of several good actors are wasted attempting to wring laughs from a formula we've seen before.  Evidently Hollywood decided it had been long enough since we'd seen it before and decided to reintroduce this formula figuring there were enough people out there with no sense of having seen this before.  Well, not everyone is fooled and I, for one, would like to see a few more original ideas and a little less of this type of paint by numbers movie-making. "},{"Title":"not funny","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat RaceIf life is a rat race, the new release video sharing that name is running stone cold, motherless last. Starring a host of big names including John Cleese, Rowan Atkinson, Seth Green, Whoopi Goldberg and blah blah blah, Rat Race is an absolute dog. The concept is not all that bad, kind of like a movie version of the old cartoon The Wacky Races, but the script is just not funny and the characters are totally unlikeable. Nine people are brought together when they receive tokens entitling them to enter a race for $2 million. Little do they realise that the race has been organised by a casino manager for the entertainment of some of the world's richest men. The scenes with the rich spectators are the funniest in this very disappointing film. There are so many annoying parts in this very wayward screw-ball comedy that I would have to watch Rat Race all over again just so that I could list them all off. Atkinson's character was plain annoying, while Goldberg and Cuba Gooding Jr, both goods comedy actors, were disappointing. The most annoying characters though were those played by John Lovitz and Kathy Najimy.Watching so many credible actors, including Oscar winners, wade through this debacle of a film is embarrassing. Rat Race was meant to be a comedy, but has a completely &#145;hokey' feel good finish that goes against what the movie started out as &#150; throwing it further into the mire. Do yourself a favour and save the money you would pay to rent this and spend it on something else.  Recommended weekly rental It's A Mad, Mad, Mad Mad World (1963). Starring Milton Berle, Spencer Tracy, Mickey Rooney and a host of others, this film is something that Rat Race is not&#133;funny.  "},{"Title":"A massive disappointment;","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie received a great write up in Blockbusters 'coming attraction'  I was looking forward to the release date,08/07/02. The plot sounds reasonable, the cast alone should have guaranteed a side-splitter, but whoa there; apart from the 'off the wall betting events' this was quite a bore.This will never become a comedy classic, and I'm afraid it has done no help to the fine comedy reputation of John Cleese. Rowan Atkinson, now he was quite funny, in a Rowan Atkinson sort of way! "},{"Title":"funny, but it drops the ball in the end 6/10","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Very funny beginning, excellent middle, terrible ending -- that kills the picture.  A wonderful cast and a funny script get this picture going with some great laughs and excellent performances, sadly the ending doesn't fit the film one bit.  Worth watching on video.  Too bad they ruined the last 15 minutes.Amy Smart steals the show with her helicopter gag.  The heart joke on the other hand is just sick. "},{"Title":"Spotty, but mostly entertaining","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Nowhere near as funny as Airplane! or The Naked Gun, but this clever reworking of It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World is a decent enough diversion.As with most Jerry Zucker movies, the gags come at a fast and furious pace. But unlike Airplane!, a great many miss the mark this time around.  There are jarring plot holes everywhere you turn.  Also unlike Airplane!, a few scenes in Rat Race are just dreadful (including one involving Rowan Atkinson on a train that can only be summed up by What were they THINKING???)Fortunately there are enough yuks in-between the cringes to make this a pleasant night's rental.  The final scene is quite clever and much more satisfying than Mad Mad World's ending.  The movie is well paced, and the first-rate cast does a very reasonable job, especially as this is the sort of vehicle in which many stars would mail their performances in.  (Jon Lovitz, Seth Green, and Cuba Gooding are especially good; John Cleese and Dave Thomas turn in nice extended cameos, but Whoopi Goldberg wasn't given near enough to do.)Overall, a 6 out of 10.  To paraphrase the Gin Blossoms  If you don't expect too much out of Rat Race, you might not be let down.  "},{"Title":"Very funny film almost ruined by a cheesy sentimental ending.","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This cast has great chemistry and the film carries an interesting yet simplistic plot.  Its a no holds barred race, set up by a wealthy casino owner simply to entertain his high rollers.  As expected this no rules race is nothing short of hilarious.  The film follows 6 different keys and the parties attached to them, as they race to a locker which contains 2 million dollars.  The highlights include John Lovitz trying to ditch his family while racing to the money and Rowan Atkinson as a foreign narcaleptic.  I was quite pleased with this film, until the last 5 minutes. *I must reveal the ending of the movie to fully explain how bad it is, look away if you don't want to know it*  The film ends with all 6 parties and the 2 million dollars at a Feed the Earth pledge-a-thon.  They arrive there accidentally, each party holding a wad of cash while standing on the main stage.  The pledge-a-thon host smash mouth lead singer gets the impression that they brought the money to give it to the feed the earth campaign, when in reality they were all trying to take as much as they could and jet. Each party is overcome with guilt as they see the poor children, and one by one they put the money in a sack which is given to feed the earth.  They then dance while smash mouth performs their horrible and redundant hit song all-star  The movie should have ended with a slow motion view of the parties as they each jetted from the feed the earth campaign and ran for the hills with their money.  This was not a politically correct comedy, it didn't need a sappy politically correct ending.  John Lovitz dancing to smash mouth; thats NOT the tickeeeetttt!!! "},{"Title":"It's no Cannonball Run","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie is kind of funny but not nearly funny enough to forgive how cheesy it is.  They use the same gags over and over again throughout the movie. The end is horrible. On a good note, John Cleese is great. "}{"Title":"Funny and Stupid!","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Inspired by, and with the same basic plot of the evergreen 60's cult-classic, 'It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World', 'Rat Race' pays homage to it's inspiration. Jerry Zucker makes a stupid flick, but one can't deny that you laugh and some sequences are simply superb in this 2001 flick.'Rat Race' is about six teams of people given a task of racing 500 + miles from a Las Vegas casino to a train station in Silver City, New Mexico, where a storage locker contains two million dollars. The first team to reach the locker wins and gets to keep the money. The climax however is the biggest downer, it's narrow and takes away all the cherry. Andy Breckman, the writer of this zany combo, could've easily come up with a much better culmination. Nonetheless, it's a decent fare! Now to the acting Whoopi Goldberg is fantastic. Cuba Gooding Jr is loud, which is the demand of his character. John Cleese is terrific. Seth Green is another scene-stealer, the talented rock star is in top form. Kathy Bates in a brief role, is superb! Amy Smart is bombastic. Jon Lovitz is over-the-top! Others are fine.'Rat Race' deserves a watch, but please lock your brains at your drawer before switching on this one! "},{"Title":"Really, Go rent the original","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie doesn't come close to the quality of Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. It seems to have been written over several weekend benders, and not edited by anyone prior to release.In spite of an incredibly talented cast, it seems to miss every time a punchline seems to be coming. The cast is not used, instead a lot of fine people simply respond to plot contrivances, which in turn are never developed.So many times good ideas are left to fade while the movie moves on to another deux ex machina which never develops. One example, a bus carrying Lucille Ball lookalikes comes into the race - and instead of a bus-load of I Love Lucy mayhem, they all make Lucy noises, bus has a flat and that's the end of it. That's one example of too many to cite.Rent it off the cheap rack "},{"Title":"Don't buy this movie","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I made the mistake of purchasing this film on DVD for the ridiculously high price of AUD$34.99. What a waste of money. Not only is this film no better than the crap that's on the midday matinees on TV but it wastes perfectly good talent.John Cleese, Rowan Atkinson, Whoopi Goldberg. Three exceptionally talented comedians who are completely out of their depth in this flick. Quite simply, they have nothing to work with. I understand that the genre of this type of film lends itself to it being stupid and silly and just a series of misadventures but I just didn't laugh. I expect a film like this to at least raise a smile out of me but it didn't.For those of you wondering why I brought the film instead of rent it, I actually did like it the first time I rented it and so thought it good to buy it so I had my own copy. BIG mistake. When I brought it home and stuck it in the DVD player I couldn't believe what I was watching. I didn't laugh once. I don't need to explain the technical and symbolic aspects of the film that made me feel this way because I think it speaks for itself when I say that not even John Cleese (whose manic personality beguiled us in Fawlty Towers)and Rowan Atkinson (his cynical, domineering Blackadder and lunatic Mr. Bean) could resurrect this hopeless film. The ending is predictable because, with so many people in the race for the money, each viewer would have his/her favourite character who that want to get it. By picking an individual character to get the money the writer's are risking aggrieving the other members of the audience. So, naturally, they have to formulate an ending that will please everyone. In so doing, I saw the ending coming 20 minutes into the movie. And can someone please tell me why there was 5 minutes at the end designated to the characters just randomly stage diving? What did that have to do with the story? 4/10  "},{"Title":"somebody hold me...it's the worst thing ever","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Never before have so many talented comedians gathered together to appear in such a worthless husk of a film.  Rat Race is one unending slapstick joke that might entertain a four-year-old (or someone with the mentality thereof), but note that it contains not one actually clever line...not one clever situation...not one actual character.  Basically, everything that happens in the movie is a direct result of Murphy's Law.  People trip, crash, drop things, and generally carry on like complete stumble****s until their stupidity and incompetence become almost unbearable to watch.  And the worst part is, Atkinson and Cleese are actually great comedians (you can keep everyone else, come to think of it).  My God...how did these brilliant Brits go from starring in the best BBC comedies of all time to appearing in this trashy road movie?  WHY can't they get a decent gig in the States?  Oh, the pain...the pain...**Spoiler alert**  And how about that smarmy ending?  All the money goes to charity.  Naturally, the film doesn't have enough guts to actually reward one of the characters.  Instead, we get a preachy coda about generosity and self sacrifice, when meanwhile these characters have been, throughout the entire film, totally self-serving jerks.  I can't believe that any of them would give the money away.  And is John Cleese really obliged to match the money raised at the benefit?  He made no such agreement...so why doesn't he just back out of it, eh?  Oh...because nothing that happens in this ridiculous trash actually needs to make sense.Arrgh...can't believe it...worst thing ever...and I'm even kind of offended on behalf of I Love Lucy fans...blah... "},{"Title":"One of these words is correct...Rat","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In an obvious attempt to parody a great film ( It's a mad, mad, mad, mad world), this inane compilation of nonsense is saved only by it's short length. Any longer, and my TV set might not have survived.The producers made an attempt to  collect some names for these ditzy roles, but they all fall flat on their silly faces. What a disaster, trying to watch an Oscar winner (Cuba Gooding Jr.) attempt to salvage a role that requires an idiot's mentality. I am certain he is very sorry he accepted this fluff.So, why did I watch this you ask?  Just so I could warn the rest of you. If you are past the age of thirty, don't go near this thing. In fact, if you are an elderly person ( past fifty) DEFINITELY skip this waste of time. Oh yes, they wasted another Oscar winner too, asking Kathy Bates to deliver a scene as a roadside peddler that even Whoopi Goldberg couldn't save.It's pretty clear that a lot of favors were repaid by these stars agreeing to jeopardize their careers with an acceptance to be in this film.One last thought. Who are all you morons that voted this thing a 6.6 on a scale of 10 ???I left after the two leading half-wits went to the Klaus Barbie museum. You should leave LONG before then. "},{"Title":"Negative I'm afraid","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I would have to agree with the least positive comments offered in your database; we tried over 3 nights to watch this movie and just found it irritatingly bad; really do not think we laughed once and normally you have to hold us back especially where John Cleese is concerned ( and what was with his ridiculous teeth!) Never mind better luck next time. "},{"Title":"Fun Race","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film was hilarious! The beginning was boring. 10 bucks down the drain. But then something happened. They began the race and from there on it was the joy ride of the year. The film was so funny especially this scene with Jon Lovits as Hitler.  "},{"Title":"There's another version, right?","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Judging from the comments above, there must have been two Rat Race's released.There were about forty people in the audience at the version I saw, and one person laughed once because his companion made a funny remark.  There was nothing funny on the screen. Just actors trying to make lame, loud material interesting by chewing up the scenery.I was never a big fan of Mad Mad etc, but at least you could KIND of understand why some of the characters did what they did.Not so with this thing.  Talk about an idiot plot - every twenty seconds I found myself asking why the heck did they do THAT, when the obvious thing would be to do something sensible.  Like chartering a small plane. Oh! I forgot!  The airport was shut down.  But isn't there more than one airport in the Las Vegas area?  Sure there is, you silly poo-poo heads. And that's only one of many many stupidities trying to masquerade as humor in this stinker.So come on guys.  Let me in on the joke.  There are two versions of this movie out there, right?  Please tell me I saw the wrong one, otherwise I'll lose all faith in democracy. "},{"Title":"Among worst films ever.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Earned about 5 chuckles and 25 expressions of our disgust in first half.  Then we sensibly walked out.  This film appeals to 9 year old male mentalities who are charmed by naughty words, car chases and anti social behavior.  "},{"Title":"It's a bad, bad, bad, bad movie.","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was pathetic. There is little talent involved and what little there is is wasted. If you want a zany, wacky movie loaded with stars and talent and some originality go rent It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World "}{"Title":"One of the most intelligently written comedies....","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For a starter, this movie has nothing to do with Mad, Mad, Mad World; they're just remotely similar.The storyline is extremely well-written (very logical, and carefully laid out - there are lot's of jokes in the movie for which the setup happens early in the movie, but the joke comes later).Casting is perfect; there isn't a single boring scene - in fact, you'll laugh continously. You might need to watch it several times to get all the gags, there so many of them. Some of the jokes are a little crude, but most of them are very well-done.  "},{"Title":"this is a bad, bad, bad film.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  rat race was indeed born of high pedigree, Jerry Zucker directing is always a good thing, John Cleese rarely fails to entertain and coupled with Rowan Atkinson the pair seemed sure to pull off a hilarious feast of laughter.However the film fails to entertain let alone provide laughter. there are two somewhat amusing scenes, one of which is unpredictable the other very predictable. that brings me neatly to my next point, the film is far far too boring and entirely predictable. whilst american pie and others keep the viewer guessing rat race is boring from start to finish. each and every plot twist is obvious upto two or three minutes before its materialisation.the writing - Andrew Breckman I simply don't rate - also lacks in fizz (which for a comedy is never a good thing) and fails to rescue the film. The dialogue is boring mindless and never surprising or amusing. furthermore the scenarios encountered by the characters on their travels are stupid and annoying rather than side splittingly hilarious.Perhaps the ending rescues the film? Er. no. Sorry. The end is 100% cheesy nonsense and is in my opinion the worst part of the film. So really its no t worth waiting for. In short please don't bother to waste your time with this film unless you really have nothing better to do.  "},{"Title":"This is the best that Hollywood could do?","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  (A possible spoiler or two)   That's what I kept asking myself, while I was watching this pathetic excuse for a comedy. This was the best that a talented cast of actors could do?, well if that's true then I find that very sad indeed. There's way too much going on for the movie to really have much of a point, but here's a summary. Seven people are given the chance to win $2 million, all they have to do is go to Silver City, New Mexico, and open a locker at the local station. This 'game' of sorts is organized by a wealthy casino owner (John Cleese) who hopes that this new game of his will provide him and his business partners with plenty of money (you see while these seven are trying to get to the money, a lot of rich people are betting on who will get there first). This is one of the few interesting parts of the film, everything else just isn't funny, Cuba Gooding Jr. seems to suffer the worst as he gets humiliated in scene after scene, the few that he's actually in that is. Jon Lovitz also looks like he's just collecting a paycheck, as does Whoopi Goldberg. Rowan Atkinson (Mr. Bean) is about the only funny part of the film but even he can't provide a lot of on screen laughs, mostly just groans.   The movie's main problem is it tries to cram too much into 2 hours, all of the actors barely get any screen time, which didn't make me really care what happened to any of them. I know it's a screwball comedy that's not meant to be taken seriously, but it has to at least be funny and well Rat Race wasn't by a long shot. This 'race' was over before it began, -** stars.  "},{"Title":"Looking for the Big W","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Two interesting things about this.I am a strong believer in there being seven types of people. Or rather that human group dynamics define seven stereotypes around which people invent themselves. Here's a test to see which you are. There are seven types of comedy here the six competitors/teams, and the betters. The strategy with films like this is to shuffle between types of comedy to keep the pace moving. The full range of comedy cannot be accommodated, but there are seven different types here. Same as Mad, Mad.My own favorite is Cuba and his Lucies, including the explanation of why he needed the uniform and leading up to the big W `You wuined our wacation.' Its because it is mildly self-referential a busload of comic impersonators -- and because Gooding's acting is an odd take on comedy. He plays it straight, but straight in a dizzy world where everything is pushed into Wiley Coyote territory (just like Lucy) his comedic acting is noncomic acting pushed past the limit. In a real sense, he is goofing (in a friendly way I'm sure) on the professional comics. The only two old pros here Goldberg and Cleese, are the least funny of the bunch, which just emphasizes the point.The other interesting thing for me was the producer's icon for the new Fireworks productions (new to film anyway). These are the often annoying snippets that are shown before you start to get your money's worth, being a sort of letterhead of sponsoring organizations.They are representative of that sponsor, their approach to quality and often some philosophy about the business. Dreamworks is one everyone knows a combination of Normal Rockwell and mystical magic, strictly visual. Some of the others are absolutely dreadful. These are like a printer's brochure, or an architect's office -- they should be done well.This one is done well. It is visually stunning and gets the message across cleanly and quickly. There is a fireworks effect done with bombs punctuating `ordinary' bursts. The bombs establish a cadence long enough for it to register on your senses. Then it smoothly accelerates in a way you can track. Then it outpaces your ability to recognize a pattern and breaks into seeming chaos. (Developed by BoomBoom Bamboni if I have it right.) Thrilling, because you know it was all planned, that it affected you through that plan, but that you couldn't comprehend the order of it all. This is conveyed in the Fireworks clip in about ten seconds. Fireworks is a group to watch. "},{"Title":"Captain... we've hit rock bottom","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film brings new meaning to the words dreadful, pathetic, stupid, woeful, awful, time-wasting and, most importantly, UNFUNNY.How the big name cast possibly agreed to participate in this dog is so utterly beyond my comprehension that I'm speechless. I wonder whether any of them read the script before accepting the parts.Story DUMB. A group of random people with their own, unamuzing, eccentricities, suddenly depart Las Vegas after being told of the location of a safe containing vast sums of cash. The first one to get there gets the loot. It's all part of some stupid contest organised by Cleese. What follows this plot set-up is a bunch of sketches where the characters get themselves into trouble in their desperate, greedy attempt to get to the money first. There is only one vital ingredient missing from these various sketches comedy.In fact, towards the end of the film, I actually became convinced that this was an inside joke. That is, Whoopi, Cuba, Cleese, all these big names, got together and said hey - let's make a film touted as a comedy that really isn't funny and has the most intellectually devoid storyline in the history of movie making. But we'll throw in an all star cast and see how much money it makes - just for a good laugh. If that was the case, I salute you - for you have achieved your goal. But if this was a genuine attempt at comedy, I fart in your general direction. On the comedy side of things, this film sets low standards and fails to achieve them.At the end of the film, the cast ends up realising that there is more to life than just money, such as humanity. I rolled my eyes so hard that they nearly did a 360. As soon as the credits started rolling, I exerted the full force of my 300 pound weight on the DVD, shattering it into tiny pieces. I then vacuumed it up, sparing my rubbish bin the displeaure of it's company. Congratulations to the film makers - this is as bad as it gets. You've hit the bottom and it can't get any worse than this. A comedy so stupid that it even chimps wouldn't give it a star. "},{"Title":"worst movie ever - bar none","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok, I've seen some pretty bad movies, including some of the ones that mst3k wouldn't even touch with a ten meter probe, but this one is really terrible. Very good/funny actors (Seth Green, Rowan Atkinson, John Cleese, Wayne Knight) who are stuck in a movie that just makes you gag and wonder wish that you could demand your money back from Blockbuster. While they manage to pull off a couple funny jokes, and Rowan Atkinson is of course delightful to watch, most of the time I felt like I was watching like a Fox TV reject trying to keep a 6 year old laughing long enough to spit milk out his nose. Jerry Zucker, what were you thinking? Booger? "},{"Title":"Bad. Bad bad bad. Soooo bad.","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, it has John Cleese and Rowan Atkinson and Whoopi Goldberg, and Seth Green and so it had to be worth a look despite the ill omen of the trailer. I'm just glad I didn't pay to go see it - I hate leaving the cinema half way.... Well the aforementioned did their best to salvage it, Seth Green in particular tried to find something in the lines to turn into a character but there's nothing there. The gags are telegraphed so far in advance you can tell what they are before the opening credits. And the production is poor, equipment in shot, poor sound effects... This was clearly a film with a limited budget, and most of that was spent on getting some famous names on the poster. And presumably they hung on to the rest of the budget to spend on advertising...I'm off to watch some paint dry now. I'll be way more entertaining. "},{"Title":"A stupid, unfunny pile of trash.","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Last night I watched Rat Race - one of the worst movies I've ever seen in my life.In the video store I picked up this movie on DVD, noted the stellar cast and good reviews on the cover and thought that it could be worth watching.  I could not have been more wrong.  Sometimes when you watch a movie you're disappointed because your expectations are too high, or because you're just not in the right mood to appreciate that sort of film.  Those excuses don't apply here though, because I was in the mood for a lighthearted comedy, and my only expectation was that it should be funny.This movie should never have been released.  It's the most unfunny rubbish I've ever seen, and an incredible waste of a talented cast; John Cleese, Rowan Atkinson and Whoopi Goldberg just to mention three actors that probably wake up every night in a cold sweat wishing they'd never agreed to be in this trash.The plot, such as it is, is this  A wealthy Las Vegas casino owner (played by John Cleese) comes up with a scheme to entertain his high-rollers.  He places six special tokens in his slot machines, then gathers the six winners together in one room and tells them he's sending them on a race to recover $2 million dollars which is stored in a locker in the train station of some remote little town.  The only rule, he tells them, is that there are no rules.  The first person there wins the money.  It's actually a decent premise for a movie like this, along the same lines as Cannonball Run.Unfortunately, the script feels like it was put together by a bunch of 10 year old boys locked in a room and fed red cordial and speed until they went spastic.  I certainly don't mind unusual, absurd or unrealistic situations in a comedy, but that's not the problem here.  The problem is that the director has relied on slapstick and visual gags, and has telegraphed the punchline of almost every single joke.  It was so predictable and banal in its stupidity that I was literally uttering the characters next lines in advance during some parts of the movie.There were a few funny moments.  Cleese's character and his high-rolling gamblers will bet on anything, and the setups for their wagers were generally funny.  There were one or two other gags that I laughed at, but so often a funny moment was spoilt by dragging it out far too long, or setting it up so transparently that you were over it by the time it arrived.I wanted to turn it off, but I was hoping desperately that it would improve. Instead it got steadily worse as the film progressed, until it all culminated in the most sickly sweet and preachy ending I've seen in years. I think it says a lot that I laughed more during the two minute blooper reel on the DVD than during the movie.Do yourself a favour and skip this movie, or recommend it to your worst enemies.  "},{"Title":"Very well done and hilarious","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Not knowing the original, I say it's an excellent comedy as for itself, due to its wonderful cast and acting (except Mr. Atkinson's exaggerated Bean antics), inventive script, fast pace, and brilliant filming and editing. How refreshing is this film when compared to the worn out 'romantic comedy' predictable recipes! There are no leads, no sugarcoating, and no bland themes, but it's a small study on the greed lurking even in the nicest people. Young actors and film-makers should study this gem, first of all for facial expressions, comedic timing, and editing. We don't see too often those things done so intelligently and naturally, even though they are in such crazy situations. Special mentions for Jon Lovitz, Amy Smart, Lanei Chapman and John Cleese. "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS stuff","Date":"5 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rat Race is a screwball comedy about these people(Brecklin Meyer from Garfield,Seth Green,Whoppi Goldberg,Rowan Atkinson,Green's on screen friend and Goldberg's on screen daughter,Jon Lovitz,Katy Najamy,and Cuba Gooding JR) who have to go to Silver City New Mexico ,to receive 2 million dollars that's locked up in a locker. Of course since this is a comedy there is A lot of silliness going on including Cuba being lost in a desert as his taxi driver throw him out because Gooding Jr was a failed referee and he meets a bunch of Lucy impersonators,one of them was a transvestite,another where Goldberg and her on screen daughter met a squirrel lady and she sent them to a dead end,Green and his friend trying to stop the plane from leaving and Green's jeep getting tangled up in the signals,the list goes on and on. Rowan Atkinson was hilarious as an Italian who has a sleeping disorder and he always says Its a race I hope I win and he meets Wayne Knight who's a delivery man who carries a heart for a heart transplant patient that somehow gets lost,and even John Cleese is in this movie as the man who organized the race in the first place.Overall if you love a screwball comedy with plenty of laughs like Dumb & Dumber(Favourite comedy of all time) than check this out. "}{"Title":"hilarious movie, strikingly similar to It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I found this to be one of the most falling out of your chair laughing movies in recent memory. The main thing I want to tell people is how close Rat Race is to a movie released 38 years earlier, It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. I just re-watched IAMMMMW and I'm certain now that Zucker watched it too. I believe he said, Let's make this movie again, with only 1/10 as many huge comedian stars, and with much funnier stunts and twists. And he succeeded at doing just that. The radar tower stunt, the aviation stunts, the people remotely watching and betting on the racers, and especially the You should have bought the squirrel scene are all directly traceable to scenes in IAMMMMW. "},{"Title":"Worth watching, just for the plot","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is a silly, exaggerated, unbelievable, and a great homage to Its a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.The cast is packed full of comedic stars, with stand out performances from Rowan Atkinson, Cuba Gooding Jr, Wayne Kight, and John Cleese. The most impressive aspect of the movie was the plotting. Time after time, the movie morphed from one ridiculous situation to the next, and each time, if not believable, it felt appropriate. The narrative also featured a number of repeated elements, such as a upside down flying cow, which added a bizarre continuity to a plot that ran rapidly along a series of fracture lines.Do not watch this movie for any insights or to be informed, but if you are looking for a night of laughter and entertainment, this fits the bill. "},{"Title":"Pretty tame","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From a safe distance this actually looked like a hilarious fast-paced roller-coaster of a movie. Now that I've seen it while actually paying attention, I must say it's pretty disappointing. I can't even really remember one laugh, which is kind of a problem in a comedy. It's a weird thing though, I know it's actually pretty well-written. It's clever how all these plot lines intertwine, it's creative how everyone is held back from their goals by some unfortunate misunderstandings and whatnot. And I know those cow scenes are funny, but I just can't bring myself to be amused. The actors are also pretty annoying in this one, especially Rowan Atkinson, who plays some kind of Italian Mr.Bean rip-off. All his screen time in this movie is devoted to making some really creepy funny faces. Then again, the same can be said about Mr.Bean's Holiday. Even Whoopi Goldberg bothers me, I thought I'd never see the day. This thing isn't all bad though, the pacing is still pretty nice, there's hardly a boring moment. This wasn't really a chore to sit through, I actually wanted to know who would win the money. The outcome is really lame though. I'm not going to give it away, but just think of the absolute lamest possible outcome to this plot. The best I can say about this movie is that it's watchable. "},{"Title":"nothing' but a fat cat race","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" rat? More like fat cat! Everyone on this planet is wanting money. It just seems like we need it more and more these days. But whats this? Mr. Cleese is giving away 2 million, Cash. What would you do? Probably nothing that these characters in this film did! Would you cling to a cow suspended below a hot air balloon? Insult a squirrel seller and end up crashing at the bottom of a valley near dead tourists? Bet on Nuns hanging from curtains? Steal a rocket car that has about a million million horse power? Destroy an airports landing system? I think not! This film is pure fantasy. Designed for fat cats who sit and laugh at normal people and call us peasants. "},{"Title":"But its worth seeing for the Lovitz segment","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie has a lot of bits that just don't work, and too much great talent with nothing funny to do. (That, however, doesn't excuse Whoopi Goldberg for sleepwalking through yet another paycheck.)Having said that, Rat Race contains one of the funniest set pieces I've ever seen.  I won't do a spoiler here, but it begins when Jon Lovitz's family mistakenly visits the Barbie museum.  Barbie the doll? No, Klaus Barbie the Nazi! Their escape and the chase that follows is one of the funniest set pieces I've seen.  It's perfectly constructed and executed.  A real comedy gem, I thought.  Release only the Lovitz family storyline and you'll have a classic comedy short.  "},{"Title":"Over-the-top comedy","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  We really enjoyed this film. So I was surprised to find all the negativity here. The film has a good pace, with enough twists and turns to keep your interest. Reminded me a bit of our Carry On films. The Barbie joke was perhaps the best. The betting scenes were always amusing. I thought Cuba Gooding was out of place, the scene where he persuades the driver to lend him his clothes was silly. But heck I've seen a million duller films than this. I suppose the IMDB score of 6.5 is about right. "},{"Title":"Rowan Atkinson's character is annoying","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not a great film but it does have its moments, more could have been done with such a stellar cast, sadly their talents are not fully utilised.  The biggest bone that I have to pick with the film is the character played by Rowan Atkinson.  It would have to be one of the most annoying & least funny character's I've seen in a comedy. "},{"Title":"Good, good, good, good revision.","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed Rat Race so much I saw it twice in its theatrical release. Reason being from sheer curiosity- curiosity to see if its creative team would literally remake the legendary all-star extravaganza from 1963 with all the MADs in its title. As it turned out, they did not. Zucker and company keep the fortune-hunting plot point from the original film but basically change everything else- from the reason the principals are brought together in the first place (SPOILER, sort of); a special jackpot won in a Vegas casino (instead of a dying thief's giveaway) to the film's finish (let's just say they shoot for the high road; I won't give away how). Of course there are reviewers of this film who find the nobility annoying and cloying, but such is the outlook of cynics. I liked and actually preferred this film's more upbeat ending than the all-for-nothing life lesson in MAD4 (ironically, a genius comedy for most of its 155 minutes only to become very heavy towards the end with all principal characters- shall we say- less than victorious. What fun.). As far as this film's own merit goes director Jerry Zucker takes the huge cast through some amazing adventures, and the real challenge is finding your favorites the mother-daughter team of Whoopi Goldberg and Lanai Chapman being led through the desert by maniacal squirrel peddler Kathy Bates; Cuba Gooding and the busload of Lucys; John Cleese (and those teeth!); Rowan (BEAN) Atkinson doing just about anything; or perhaps the film's comic centerpiece- brothers Seth Green and Vince Vieluf. The scene of then chasing a balloon while being chased by a runaway convertible (and then crashing into a cow) defies description. The DVD's companion documentary acknowledges the warm, family-like atmosphere generated by the cast of comics, but strangely, does not recognize (unless I'm mistaken) the film's 1963 predecessor anywhere. And that's a no-no. Or maybe I should say that's not, not, not, not good.  "},{"Title":"sleeper worth seeing","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i don't laugh much. but I did watching this film. I laughed so hard I had to stop the film, and take advil.  This movie is really just a silly fun film good for all ages.  Seth Green and Vince V. are truly masters of the pratfall in this film, and cuba gooding is GREAT.  Rowan is a fine italian narcoleptic!  rent it! buy it!  "},{"Title":"A Nice Update of Mad, Mad World","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I recommend this movie.  It borrows from the storyline of It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World and adds some creative touches of its own (such as the eclectic group of characters) that results in some very humorous scenes.  Also, the modern day setting makes it a nice continuation of the story line employed in Mad World.My favorite scenes are the helicopter assault on the cheating boyfriend and the scene with the hooker in the hotel room.   Very clever and original.  A good rent indeed! "}{"Title":"SPOILER","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THE MOVIE ALL THE WAY THROUGH DO NOT READ ON.This movie contains six people (and their six companions) all racing to get to two million dollars. Some people say this is the perfect comedy, because it has a perfect plot. Comedic actors. Basically six people doing whatever they can, even if it means almost getting run over by a huge monster truck, or jumping onto a train in motion, or stealing THE Adolf Hitler's car.The man behind all of this is Donald Sinclair (John Cleese), an extremely rich man doing this because he is eccentric.The six people -Nick Schaffer Breckin Meyer and Tracy Faucett Amy Smart -Vera Baker Whoopi Goldberg and Merrill Jennings Baker Lanei Chapman -Randy Pear Jon Lovitz, Bev Pear Kathy Najimy, Jason Pear Brody Smith, and Kimmy Pear Jillian Marie Hubert -Owen Templeton Cuba Gooding Jr. -Enrico Pollini Rowan Atkinson -Duane Cody Seth Green and Blaine Cody Vince Vieluf. ~~~~ And of course, the extras Zack, Lloyd, and Gus the cabbie. Wayne Knight, Silas Weir Mitchell, and Paul Rodriguez ~~~~ 9/10 ********* "},{"Title":"Wacky Race for $","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Summary-  Six teams are chosen at random to compete in a race to get to a locker with $2,000,000 seven hundred miles away.  All teams, the race organizers, and those they meet on the way are foolish/nutty/wild characters.Good Points-  Some of the situations are really  funny, for example, a Jewish family touring the Hitler Museum and stealing Hitler's limo was a highlight.  The wilder the characters were really a riot, two 20 something brothers personified a raft of generation X stereotypes.  I also enjoyed catching up on some new language; a child protesting her father's unwillingness to allow a bathroom stop complained that she was, prairie dogging.  That killed me.Weak points-  Real lack of sexuality.  In this day and age I think you should be able to expect some toplessness for the price of admission. "},{"Title":"I like this movie.","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK - you have to have a certain tolerance for slapstick comedy to enjoy this fluff.  Not quite as painfully funny as Zucker's classic 'Airplane', but not without its moments of sheer hilarity.  The actors seem to be having a good time, too, all of them energetic and all on the same page.  Maybe that's why this works as well as it does.  Or perhaps it's more of a testament to director Jerry Zucker, who is definitely in his element here.  So, watch it on a rainy day or whenever you feel like something that will leave you in stiches.  Something to offend pretty much everyone. "},{"Title":"Very  Funny & sometimes Unpredictable","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Being a lover of Airplane, Police Squad & It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World I was hoping for the best. And I was pleasantly surprised! This is going to be a keeper & if you decide to watch it, pay attention! This story moves fast and like most outrageous comedies, leave your disbelief at the door. The movie takes many cliches and freshens them. I was disappointed with Jon Lovitz and Whoopi Goldberg (She needs a good script really bad!) "},{"Title":"They work hard for their money...","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, after years of tiresome Mike Myers star vehicles, stodgy feelgood fare and tedious throwbacks to the gross-out lewdness of the Porky's / Animal House school of braindeath (are you listening, Farrelly brothers and Tom Green?), I assumed the golden age of screen comedy was dead. Then I loaded this one into the VCR and laughed myself stupid for almost two hours. Jeez, it's funny. A cast of performers hasn't worked this hard, or been this well-cast, for a very long time. As a big fan of one of the Zucker brothers' forgotten projects (the completely zany Elvis vs the Nazis spoof TOP SECRET), I was delighted to find that Jerry Zucker has revived that style of wacked-out, off-the-wall, joyously surreal comedy for the 21st century. This from the man who directed the excruciating GHOST. Great to see he finally got his sense of humour back.Although the plot is little more than a very loose riff on Stanley Kramer's IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD WORLD, this film ultimately scores several points over the sixties classic by virtue of its sheer pace and the near-hysterical sense of escalating madness it conveys. And the performers really work their socks off (Cuba Gooding Jr ruined a hamstring, Seth Green did that amazing stunt with the runaway car for real, and nobody's afraid of making a complete fool of him or herself, whereas the cast of Kramer's film seemed too often to be sleepwalking through something they obviously signed up to for a few laughs), so even the least sympathetic characters end up winning your grudging admiration. Even the opening credits and music are funny. You can't say that about many films.All the people who've slated this movie need to get a life. It's obviously very easy for those sensitive souls who consider anything less than Woody Allen to be vulgar and worthless to carp at such a deranged explosion of slapstick and cartoon mayhem, but sometimes all you want from a comedy is to be liberated from your own troubles and the drudgery of life for a couple of hours, and RAT RACE manages to pull it off. Whilst there are many great moments, the convoluted gatecrashing of the World War II veterans' reunion by a Hitlered-up Jon Lovitz is foremost in my mind right now. And John Cleese...well, even his teeth are funny. My advice is go out and buy this one right now. You won't be disappointed. And remember, it's a race! "},{"Title":"so funny","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  No, this movie will never win any Oscars, but who cares?? It is so funny from the get-go, and the madness and mayhem that plays out in the film had me and my friends in total stiches. I was so surprised at how funny the film was, mainly because I had heard nothing about it when was released. So if you're feeling down, this is the ultimate film for you. It's a wild, out of control, good-hearted, totally stupid, drop dead funny ride.  "},{"Title":"how to bet on everything, even it's ridiculous","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's a total madness! A lot of fun seeing this movies, the scenario is pretty forsseable but fun! Some jokes are really huge! And the mixing of cuba gooding jr and Rowan Atkintson give something strange but interresting I recommend road trip, Jay and Silent Bob strike back...  "},{"Title":"Let the Hilarity Ensue!","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Side-splittingly Funny! The jokes are slapstick, crazy, off the wall, and they come one after the other. If you just want a good time, rent this now! This is one of those movies that is actually FUNNIER than the reviews and trailers would imply. The best jokes are in the movie and not the trailer, as is the case so often these days. I laughed so hard I nearly gagged, and had to actually rewind the tape to catch what was missed! The absolutely hilarious heart scene will make you wet your shorts, so come prepared...dont say I didn't warn you! "},{"Title":"Silly, stupid....and FUN","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jerry Zucker has done it again!     Slick some popcorn in the microwave, put your mind on hold and be prepared to laugh for 100 minutes.   I agree with the many comments about Jon Lovitz, his `Hitler' scene is the highlight of the movie.   I also rented Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World and honestly, I liked Rat Race better.  Do rent the DVD version and see the scenes they omitted from the movie.   The only thing is I missed the wacky credits I've come to expect from Zucker movies "},{"Title":"It's worth the trip!","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I LOVE THIS FILM!!! The best thing about it is that no matter what extent of comedy you enjoy, you'll find a likeable character, from the insane antics of the Narcoleptic Italian Enrico Pollini (Rowan Atkinson) to the more down to earth style of Nick Schaffer (Breckin Meyer). Writer Andy Breckman nd director Jerry Zucker have definitely provided us with a potential classic film, it's non-stop flow of verbal and visual gags will have it stuck in your head for days after. Rat Race is only let down by it's ending. It may be as unpredictable as the rest of the film, but it lacks the comedy. One last thing which should be mentioned, Vince Vieluf has the most hilarious scream I have ever heard! "}{"Title":"Funniest Movie Of 2001","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie used to be my favorite. I loved it, saw it twice in theaters and 46 or more times on d.v.d.,i couldn't stop laughing.Its A race, Its a Race, It Really WINS!!!! I used to get everyone who was at my front door to watch it. I'm still very proud that its part of my d.v.d. collection!!9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Very Silly, Very Funny, Easy to laugh hard!","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not for the movie snob, this one is just silly and fun. What other movie offers us the unbelievable hell of a bus full of Lucy's! God, what a nightmare! All crying out like Lucy as a bus slowly tips over...So, loose the attitude and just enjoy this thing. "},{"Title":"A funny throwback...","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It has its hits and misses and doesn't hesitate to go for the broadest, dumbest gag it can find.  But Jerry Zucker includes many, many top-notch bits of physical comedy and visual business which make up for the familiarity of the film's chase-comedy architecture.  Seth Green and Vince Vieluf have many of the best moments, including a slow-motion ballet performed in the path of an airborne monster truck that's one of the funniest fifteen seconds ever put on film.  Everyone else pulls their weight, though, and even where the performances fall flat the way the situations play out more than compensates.  And unlike so many other recent comedies, the pee-pee/ca-ca jokes are (for the most part) buried in the background noise.  Well worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Without Doubt the funniest Comedy I've seen! FABULOUS!!!","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  From start to finish this movie has you in fits of laughter. Based loosely on It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World this story is a rolling chase that exploits the madness of a group of people's discoveries of what they would do if presented with a chance to get their hands on $2,000,000. There are so many points within each character that you could easily identify with and that's what makes it funnier because you know that if you're in the same situation you would probably act the same way. The cast is wonderful and with such a line up of fantastic comedians you're guarnteed a laugh a minute. You haven't stopped laughing at one scene before you're laughing at the next! Lets hope there's more movies like this one!!! "},{"Title":"Cannon Ball Run 2000 Style","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  An average film as I see it based upon the cannonball run style of films. E.G a dash from A to B in order to win money. Not as classic as the Cannonball run films, and this is one you would rent rather than buy but ok for a wet evenings viewing. "},{"Title":"It's A Race! It's A Race!","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSOur story opens in Las Vegas, where practically perfect lawyer (isn't that an oxymoron?) Nick Shafer tries to check out, but denies accusations from the desk clerk that he repeatedly watched a porno film. Also in this hotel was Owen Templeton, a football referee who called a bonehead play and ruined in the game, causing many people to be angry at him; a woman, Vera Baker, was going to be reunited with her daughter, Merrill, for the first time in 28 years; Randy Pear was on vacation with his family; and, bumbling con artists Duane and Blaine Cody, were trying to scam some cash. Blaine's speech was always slurred due to he pierced his own tongue; Now what do all these people have in common? Absolutely nothing, except they all played a slot machine and won a coin that told them to go upstairs to a meeting. So they all gathered there. Soon, in came another person who won a coin, Enrico Pollini, who was, well, wasn't playing with a full deck, so to speak. Soon, in comes Donald Sinclair, wealthy business man. He tells them of a prize to be won. In Silver City, New Mexico at the train station in locker #001, was two million dollars! It was a race! Whoever got there first would win. Now neither Duane, Blaine, Owen, Randy, Nick, Enrico, Vera or Merrill seemed interested at first but soon they all bolted for the door and headed to the airport, except for Nick who chose not to go for it.Duane and Blaine couldn't get a plane ticket so they tried to destroy the airport radar to stop all flights and they painfully succeed. So, Vera and Merrill rent a car, Randy and his family take their van, Duane and Blaine steal another car, Enrico falls asleep due to he's narcoleptic, Owen takes a cab, but the driver was bitter due to Owen's bonehead play so he left him stranded in the desert; Vera and Merrill run afoul of a hillbilly lady selling squirrels. She tried to sell them one but they were uninterested so she pointed them down a road that causes them to fly off a cliff and onto a pile of cars of other people who wouldn't buy squirrels; Nick meets Tracy Faucet at the airport, who could still fly because her craft is a helicopter and the ride goes great until she finds her boyfriend cheating on her so she tries to get even. The helicopter breaks down so they steal his truck; Owen commendears a bus filled with Lucy Ricardo imperonaters going to an I Love Lucy convention; Enrico awakens and hitches a ride with a man transporting a heart to New Mexico. Trouble arises when they open the cooler to take a peak at it. The results find the heart flying out the window and when going to retrieve it, Enrico is whisked away by a train.Donald Sinclair and his friends monitor the race progress and wage all sorts of meaningless bets; Vera and Merrill commendear a rocket car; Duane and Blaine run into many misfortunes and end up stealing a big foot truck; Randy and his family visit a Barbie museum, which wasn't Barbie the doll, but Klaus Barbie the Nazi. Duane and Blaine sabotage their van so the Pears borrow Hitler's car and run afoul of a motorcycle gang. But finally, all the parties arrive in Silver City and get the money and end up at a Smash Mouth benefit concert. He thought they were donating that money to charity but before they had a chance to explain, the head of the charity gave thanks so they put their money in the basket and rocked along with Smash Mouth.A real funny movie! It relates to 1963's It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World! There's an all-star cast here! Rowan Atkinson is Enrico Pollini, Cuba Gooding Jr. is Owen Templeton, John Cleese is Donald Sinclair, Whoopi Goldberg is Vera Baker, Breckin Meyer is Nick Shafer, Seth Green is Duane Cody, Amy Smart is Tracy Faucet, Katy Bates is the Squirrel Lady, and John Lovitz is Randy Pear. Everyone was good in their parts. So I recommend this movie to comedy lovers everywhere! It's a sure winner!- "},{"Title":"What a waste","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Why must I use four full lines to say anything about this movie? I hate wasting any more minutes out of my life on it. At least no talent was wasted because none was involved in it. No laughs, two chuckles, 4 stars! "},{"Title":"Nothing meaningful in this film, however it is somewhat funny with a few overly silly scenes.","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Premise - ultra wealthy think up new ways to amuse themselves and satisfy their gambling habit. Example, on takeoff the private jet is purposely flown turbulently, everyone has placed a bet on which one will vomit first! At a Vegas casino an ordinary group of 8 or 10 win slot machine tokens which invite them to a special opportunity. They are invited to a race to Silver City, NM, each with a key that opens a locker at the train station. The locker has a bag with $2Million in cash, first one there to unlock it gets the money.  Why? So the ultra wealthy can observe the race, get entertained, and bet on the outcome.Thus the fun, or lack of it, of the film. Each participant, or team (reunited mother/daughter, two brothers, man and his helicopter pilot girlfriend, man with wife and two kids) takes off in the race for the prize. Mother/daughter get lost, ask directions, go off a cliff (We should have bought a squirrel.) Man steals bus driver clothes, drives bus full of Lucy impersonators, wrecks. Helicopter pilot finds her boyfriend cheating on her, chases him with 'copter. Hot air balloon that snags a cow and pulls it along, inverted. SPOILERS - The humor is definitely lowbrow, slapstick, often funny, many times not. The big letdown, to the participants who just happen to all arrive together by totally independent means, decide to share the loot but it gets inadvertently donated to a charity concert they happen upon. And, the big gamblers get embarrassed into putting up matching funds.  Not a very good film in sum of its parts, but still somewhat enjoyable. Hard to recommend. "},{"Title":"** 1/2 out of ****","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Lesser Zucker effort offers some laughs, but mostly just falls into the trap of extreme sillyness to try to create humor.  Unlike Airplane, which had well thought out, albeit silly jokes, Rat Race simple just tries to make things as insane as possible.  Good for a few laughs, but nothing more. "},{"Title":"If this is family entertainment, I'm never having kids. *SPOILERS*","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The commercials for RAT RACE made it look too juvenile for me to enjoy, but since my boyfriend adores this movie (and the soundtrack), I finally relented and watched it with him tonight.  I make him watch David Lynch films and all sorts of obscure indie stuff (I recently forced URBANIA on him), so I felt I owed him an innocuous Hollywood product.I didn't want to hurt his feelings, so I saved my bitching for y'alls. Yeah, RAT RACE has its moments, but a great deal of it irritated me. Let's start at the beginning.  RAT RACE was marketed as a family film, so I was a little surprised to discover that the first scene centered around a porno movie.  (I can hear it now  Mommy, what does AFRO WHORES mean?)  This scene has no purpose in this movie other than to cram some naughtiness into a PG-13 movie.And while we're still on the segments in the casino, it's pretty convenient that all the characters happened to play, within the same time frame, the slots that held the gold coins.  What would have happened if they didn't? Would those millionaire gamblers just sit around and wait?  And how did they get those gold coins in the slots in the first place?But I'm belaboring a plot point that's necessary for the movie to exist, so I'll press on.  About Whoopi and her long-lost daughter they're meeting for the very first time, yet throughout their whole ordeal they don't discuss with each other anything about themselves.  Why make their relationship such a presumably complicated one?  Couldn't they have just been, say, a mother and daughter on vacation together?  Why the business concerning a long-ago adoption?  And why portray the daughter as a hard driving career woman chained to her cell phone who never again needs contact with her business? Did the screenplay just forget about this subplot and character trait?This illustrates the main weakness of this movie - the characters are inconsistent and interchangeable;  it's exhausting when everyone is equally zany and with no identifying traits.  And another thing - the events aren't plausible.  Oh, sure, the characters can do some quirky things, but the characters themselves have to be believable.  Take THE NAKED GUN (another Jerry Zucker movie) for example.  Frank Drebin has some pretty exaggerated moments, but everything he does is, in theory, possible in his world. (Jane is also funny, but it's a different kind of funny, which makes all the difference.)  A character in RAT RACE defying natural laws by leaping onto a speeding train destroys any plausibility the movie may have; these clearly aren't real people, so why should I care about them?Another problem I have with RAT RACE is a moral one.  The characters obtain their modes of transport almost totally by theft.  I know, I know, this is just a silly comedy, and the same actions didn't bother me fifteen years ago when I saw MILLION DOLLAR MYSTERY, but there's a lot of lawbreaking in RAT RACE, and it bothers me now.  And I won't delve into the whole airport-sabotage sequence other than to wonder if the screenwriters didn't consider the real-life implications of such an action; was that scene funny before 9/11?I'll skip over the distasteful bits concerning the heart, the drugging of one's family and the Nazis (whose buildup and payoff worked better in an episode of Seinfeld), and move on to complain about the acting.  Rowan Atkinson started out annoying and ended insufferable; I don't know when I liked a comical character less.  And the three Oscar winners need new agents.  Whoopi came off best, but she didn't have much to work with (loved the copper perm and purple lipstick though); Kathy Bates' part was shrill but mercifully brief; Cuba, was...oh, man.  Cuba, babe, please fire your agent!  Following INSTINCT and CHILL FACTOR, this is your third strike (be glad I haven't seen PEARL HARBOR or SNOW DOGS) - it's time to give your '97 Best Supporting Actor Oscar back to its rightful owner (Edward Norton, for PRIMAL FEAR).  An actor of your stature has no business running half-naked through the desert and being checked out by a transvestite Lucille Ball impersonator.  Do you even read the scripts to your movies anymore, or are you reaching into a bag and pulling your next project out at random?There's other small points that bother me (how did Grisham and the hooker get to the loot so fast?), but, basically, RAT RACE amounts to little more than your basic batch of character types being hindered by arbitrary obstacles on their way to a rather underwhelming and inexplicable ending. They give the money to charity?  What kind of ending is that?!?  Yeah, it's the noble thing to do. Never mind the probability of cross-promotion/licensing whores Smash Mouth (do they ever say no to selling out?) putting on a benefit concert in the middle of the New Mexico desert, but who would honestly do such a thing?  Yes, they say it's the journey, not the destination, that makes a trip worthwhile, but there's no journey without a destination.  If there was ever an example of a wrong happy ending, this would be it.  What a bummer end to a movie that, despite my nitpicking here, I did enjoy parts of (I confess to enjoying the bit with the cow and some of the Lucy stuff along with the character with the tongue piercing - at first I thought his indecipherable speech would run me up a wall, but he grew to be my favorite).But as far as my boyfriend knows, I found RAT RACE quite funny and charming. "}{"Title":"Absolutely ridiculous","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    If you are a fan of slap-stick that has terrible writing, awful acting and cliche after cliche this one is for you.  There is far too much to list for the reasons why this movie sucks.  In a brief synopsis, people with a combined iq of 100 journey to New Mexico on a race for 200 million dollars.  And yes they are all apparently super heroes, as they can do many things such as jump onto trains that are traveling 80+ mph, survive numerous car crashes, and endless instances of outright cartoonish roadrunner and coyote antics. If you are a teen, or dont want to think for a movie, this one is for you.. Not one actor outside of Lovitz is believeable at all.. Lovitz saves the movie from a 1 with the Hitler bit. 2/10  (save yourself the 2 hours of pain and $4) "},{"Title":"I love squirrels!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You know the kind of movie where from the moment you see the first preview, you think, Wow, that looks great! I gotta see that!? And then when you actually do see it, it's nothing like your expectations? It actually EXCEEDS them? Well, Rat Race is that kind of movie!From the opening credits, when those goofy little cutouts of the cast are dancing around and beating each other up, I knew we were in for a treat. And what a treat it was... one that built up with each laugh, each scene, making you want more, more, more, until the climax at the very end where we see that these screwballs are really great people after all.Now, first off, I would like to note that this movie would NOT have been so great if I had not watched it with our TV Guardian (which is a handy little machine that filters out bad language by reading the closed captioning). I can tell from the many times that the TV momentarily muted out that the language in this movie is quite heavy, but if you have the capability to watch it without hearing the cussing I say go for it! However, just so nobody gets the wrong idea, there ARE a couple of things that credit a quick averting of the eyes.Anyway, now that I have my moral problems with this movie out of the way, I can continue with my review! I was so impressed by the immense talent of this cast- John Cleese, Whoopi Goldberg, Breckin Meyer, Kathy Najimy, Jon Lovitz, Cuba Gooding, Jr., Rowan Atkinson, and yes, even Seth Green were all magnificent. Their excellent portrayals of these completely whacked-out people somewhat make you wonder what their real personal lives are like! And the star cameos, such as Dean Cain, Paul Rodriguez, Wayne Knight, and the always great Kathy Bates, were done to hilarious lunatic perfection.One thing that really struck me about the way this movie was done was that each team had so many mini-adventures... and each was funnier than the last! Randy and Bev and the kids visiting the Barbie museum, stealing Hitler's car, and crashing the WWII vet reunion; Vera and Merril's ride on the rocket car, trip with the mentally ill, and scafuffle with the Squirrel Lady; Enrico's sleeping problem, his ride with the EMT and chase after the heart, and his bug-like splatting on the train... the list goes on and on.  Normally, it seems like in a movie such as this, after every excursion the characters go on, the movie looses something of its charm and originality. Not in this one! The exact opposite is true here... every time they sidestep danger, we wait expactantly to see what will happen next... and each adventure is always better than the last one.I'd have to say that my favorite scenes were on the bus full of Lucy impersonators. I have always been a big Lucille Ball fan and the idea of having an entire bus full of Lucys was a stroke of true genius. The part when they all start crying like Lucy (Waaaaaaaaah!!!) cracked me up. Also, as I'm sure you can guess by the title of this review, I really enjoyed the Kathy Bates character and subsequent crash down the cliff. And of course, who could forget one of the greatest running gags in comedy history... the cow and the balloon. Boy, I sure would like to shake the hand of whoever thought that up.Anyway, all in all, it was a pretty great movie, full of memorable characters and impressive performances. I really liked the ending, too. Altho some people have said it was preachy or too contrived, I say it was the best way to close out what had been two hours of nonstop riotous laughter. And the ending shot, where the cast is being held up by the audience in the concert... priceless!! However, the inappropriate language and the other things (Randy and Bev's accidental signal to the biker, Harold's rather inappropriate request to Vicky, and the Pierced Girl's... um... unshyness) prohibit me from giving this a perfect 10 rating. I'll have to go with 5 1/2 out of 10.You should have bought a squirrel! "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When you start watching this movie you will either think  This is too stupid even to laugh about or This is so stupid it has to make you laugh. I went for the latter. The movie is in the style of Val Kilmers breakthrough-movie  Top Secret. It is not the performances made by the actors that impresse me the most, but all the crazy situations thatappeared throughout the movie. I rated it a 7. "},{"Title":"REALLY FUNNY!!!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Real funny without having to resort to using green jokes and sex for most of the jokes. And I loved the ending. This movie is so unpredictable, yet there's actually a lesson in the end, shown without getting too preachy. "},{"Title":"One of the better comedies of recent years","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK, this movie obviously isn't going to win any Oscars, but as far as comedies go (I usually don't like them), Rat Race is way above par. First of all, the cast is excellent, including staple comedy actors like Rowan Atkinson, John Cleese, Wayne Knight, Jon Lovitz etc. All of them do a very good job and obviously had a lot of fun while doing this movie.Secondly, this movie simply is a lot funnier then most other comedies out there. OK, a lot of the jokes are predictable, but at least they are delivered well, and the whole thing with the cow is absolutely brilliant. Furthermore, this movie doesn't give in to the recent trend towards toilet humor and gross sex-related jokes, so often seen in other comedies like Scary Movie, or Nutty Professor 2. Overall, an entertaining movie with a good cast and above-average jokes**1/2 out of ****    "},{"Title":"Great comedians!!!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is more than hilarious! You have to like this kind of humor, but for the people who like it it is a must-see. You can see all brilliant comedians, old and young, like Whoopi Goldberg en Lanai Chapman, Breckin Meyer en Amy Smart, Seth Green and Vince Vieluf, Kathy Najimy and Jon Lovitz, John Cleese, and of course Rowan Atkinson as a weird Italian with a sleepsickness (sorry, my English is not quite perfect yet, I'm 13 years old you see). John Cleese plays the famous casino-owner Donald Sinclair, who organise a race for six different people. In Silver City, New Mexico is a locker with two million dollars in it. The one who gets there first, wins the money. You have Enrico Pollini, a weird Italian guy, there is Vera Baker with here lost daughter, Jewish Randy Pear with his family, loyar Breckin Meyer with helicopterpilot Amy Smart, and two brothers, Seth Green and Vince Vieluf. The situations which a rises are brilliant, made by scriptwriter Andy Breckman and director Jerry Zucker. Not all stories are nice, Rowan Atkinson's story is even quite boring, but the great acting, hilarious comedy, en outrageous script makes this movie till a must-see for people who like screwball-comedy's as the Cannonbal Run.   "},{"Title":"I Actually Made Myself Sick...","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Because I laughed so hard and so often while I watched this movie. God- it was so very funny. Seth Green and Vince Vieluf as the brothers and Amy Smart as the helicopter pilot were wonderful. I usually prefer movies with witty, intelligent dialogue, while this one was mostly slapstick humor. But it was marvelous slapstick!I would recommend this movie to anyone with a sense of humor. I gave it 9 stars. "},{"Title":"I Loved This Very Funny Movie","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really did laugh out loud many times watching Rat Race. The script is very clever with gags ranging from the guffaw kind to some very sophisticated wry humor - you will get a kick out of the Barbie Museum and the touring car. If you want to see a funny, up beat movie with a good script and good acting, check it out.  "},{"Title":"Funny!!!","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  All I have to say is this movie is funny as hell, and I think It's the best comedy film ever made in my opinion. When I first saw the trailer i thought it would just be an all right film but i was wrong it was hilarious and had me laughing through the whole movie. I rate this film a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Woo hoo","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is pure genius.  I havn't seen anything this funny in a while.   I am making this my favourite comedy of the year.  If u like senseless, idiocy then this movies for you. LOL Specially a specific scene with John Lovitz(German).Enjoy... "}{"Title":"The best laughs since the Pink Panther or Baby's Day Out","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Movies often provide good laughs. One here, one there. A smart remark, a funny moment and you laugh. On to the next scene. 'Rat Race' is one of those movies where the sequence of hilarious moments can get so rapid and intense that before you even have started to laugh about that last scene the next funny moment is already showing while others are being introduced. The result is an extremely pleasant and relaxing laugh attack which will hurt your belly. This movie I will gladly, happily, see time and time again, adding it to all time hardy laugh favorites such  as The Pink Panther Strikes Again and Baby's Day Out.I must point out that this movie has one of the most peculiar car chases - and not even specifically because one of the people is on foot....Entertainment factor 5/5 (great!)Message hey, it's just a *fun* movieMust See Value you mean you're not watching it yet? "},{"Title":"Laugh race","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Great movie, great sense of humor for the kind of people who like Mr Been's movies and Monty Python. Reminded me a bit of the big hit 'Vacation' with Chevy Chase and Cannonball Run with Burt Reynolds. John Cleese is amazing.  "},{"Title":"I've never laughed so much through a movie!","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was hysterical! The acting was good, the plot wasn't so out there as to be absurd, and the situational elements were perfect. I laughed so hard I had a laughing headache by the time I left the theatre.I absolutely recommend this to everybody! "},{"Title":"Funny as hell!!!","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Good humor and good clean fun... I recommend everyone to see this one! All actors did a great job FUNNY FUNNY FUNNY "},{"Title":"Soon to be a comedy classic!","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is without a doubt the funniest movie of 2001, and could also be one of the funniest movies ever made! I've seen it five times and every time it just gets better. John Cleese shows off more of that irrisitible Monty Python charm as Donald Sinclair, the very rich casino owner who challenges six random people to a race for two million dollars hidden in a safe in New Mexico. Whoever gets there first gets it all. And that's all you need to know for a hilarious slapstick caper movie like this one. All the actors are great in their roles, particularly Cuba Gooding Jr. as the unanimously-despised football ref Owen Templeton, Jon Lovitz as the frustrated family man Randy Pear, and Rowan Atkinson, who revives the old Mr. Bean charm with the narcoleptic Italian tourist Enrico Pollini. These characters are pitted against a by-the-books lawyer (Breckin Meyer), a re-united mother and daughter (Whoopi Goldberg, Lanei Chapman), and two scheming twin brothers (Seth Green, Vince Vieluf.) Oh yeah, and a thieving hardware guy. It's near impossible to say which of these characters has an advantage in the race because the movie is so unpredictible. So, just sit back and relax until the ending, which is funny, and the eventual conclusion which is downright hilarious. Saying much more would be a spoiler, so go see it for yourself! If you aren't rocked out of your seat with laughter by this movie, you won't be by anything. (10/10) "},{"Title":"Decline of western civilization","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After reading the overwhelming approval reviews for this loser, I went and saw a bargain matinee today. I generally despise Whoopi, but she was the best part of this cast of lifeless cardboard drones. This is not a funny movie. I think I cracked half of a smile once or twice at most, and my expectations were in the basement when I went into this, too. I would go into more detail but Rat Race just isn't worth it. Don't even rent it. If you're thinking, heck, the kids will think it's funny.Don't. The kids in front of me didn't laugh once and kept muttering, this sucks.The kids are all right. "},{"Title":"The best comedy in a long time","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Sometimes movies where a lot of good actors are trying to compete results in a bad mix.  This is not the case with Rat Race.  It is simply a fantastic movie, well plotted and executed by all the actors involved.  Each with his/her own part to play without interfering with the others until the end, which I may add is funny and touching at the same time.  It is simply a perfect ending.  I wish they had put out-takes at the end as I just wanted a little more when It was over.Rowan Atkinson added the perfect Mr Bean like touch to this movie with an Italian accent.  Cuba was also very funny. And, John Cleese with all the ideas for different bets was perfect.Look closely at the details. "},{"Title":"A couple of laugh-till-you-cry scenes alone make this one a must see for anyone who likes inane, senseless, comedy.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you are looking for Oscar nominees, keep looking.  BUT if you just want to laugh various parts of your body off, go see this movie.  The culmination of several events triggered by Jon Lovitz's family's visit to the Barbie museum will have tears streaming down your face.  While it does drag at several points, and the end is just too feel-goody for my taste.  You will not walk out disappointed.  Just don't burn your finger on a cigarette lighter on the way home.  "},{"Title":"A slightly under-rated comedy gem!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   Rat Race is an all-out nut house of hilarity and mischief. A great cast of truly talented actors combined with smart writing and brilliantly devised embarassing situations make the movie a memorable one. It was nice to see John Cleese again too. Anyway, Jerry Zucker, co-creator of one of the funniest films ever made, Airplane!, switches to a more classic comedic style that will likely entertain for many years to come. My only gripe is the kinda lame Smash Mouth ending. But other than that, I was extremely entertained.     9/10 "},{"Title":"before you write your comment please read mine","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I already commented. I still think this movie is the funniest of 2001. But I'd like to say something to anyone considering writing a comment about this movie in your one line summary, please stop making up puns on the previous movie title It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World. (i.e., we have the very creative one just recently It's a sad, sad, sad, sad world - I'm practically bursting with laughter)It doesn't make you seem witty - everyone else has already thought of it and by now it's gotten old. Actually, it never was funny in the first place. So please stop doing it, it's gotten really annoying. "}{"Title":"Funniest film of the Summer!!!","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a fan of It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World I was hoping for the best from Rat Race, but expecting the worst. To say I was blown away by how truly funny this film is puts it mildly. Rat Race is a gas... this is the first film in a long time that I felt was worth the $10 admission. The entire cast is exceptional... even Whoopi Goldberg (who I'm not a big fan of). No, the plot isn't very deep... but the film is just plain funny! Definitely see this one in the theater before it gets away! "},{"Title":"Not quite a Mad Mad World <6 of 10>","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"     Well, I had hoped that it was a newer version of a Mad Mad World, but alas, it's not.  It tries to be and it's still a fun movie, but you can wait for video.  They could've done much better given the cast, but many jokes are repressed and unfunny.  I really wanted this movie to be better, but I can only give it a 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Old fashioned family fun","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There is but one scene in this movie that I felt was out of the scope of G rated taste. And, the film could have cut the scene to no detriment.Other than that, this is one good, clean, and very funny movie. It's going to be compared to It's a mad, mad....world all over the place, so let's go with that comparison. My dad showed me Mad, Mad world when I was a youngster, and I loved it. This film is that kind of fun. Kids and parents alike can love this movie.  "},{"Title":"Fine solo comedy debut from the other Zucker","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jerry Zucker, who was once part of the great comic trio ZAZ (famous for Airplane, Top Secret, Ruthless People and Naked Gun), now directs his first comedy, or rather his first solo comedy.  Now after Ghost and First Knight, he takes a plunge into a type of film that takes after It's a mad, mad world.  Is it better than that, well I can't say since I never saw that movie.  But I can say this- Rat Race is a funny comedy with some funny characters in funny situations.  The characters are 6+ people who are invited to be apart of a race to get $2 million.  Then what follows is a long yet mostly reqarding string of gags, pratfalls, outrageous jokes and in your face comedy.  Nothing like the other parodies he and his counterparts Abrahams and his brother Zucker did and still do, but it's still worthy, and above all watchable, in a season of un-funny comedies (well, mostly anyway).  Funniest characters go to Rowan Atkinson (of Mr. Bean fame), John Cleese, Jon Lovitz and Seth Green.  Flaws a little poor in rational things (although this shouldn't matter to most people) and a very very weak ending.  Otherwise, Go!  B+ "},{"Title":"extremely well written side-splitting comedy","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest movie I have seen in a long time. The skillful way in which the director sets up one scene and sight gag to flow into the next which is even more unexpected makes this movie enjoyable on various levels. The performances of such a large number of famous actors are all exceptional. It is hard to decide who was the best or the funniest. Perhaps this movie is not for the lowest common denominator in the audience but for those of you in the know out there, you will love it. "},{"Title":"Get ready to laugh","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I haven't laughed so hard in years. Yes, it's goofy and mostly sight gags. But it works!Amy Smart is great. The glee on her face after she gets revenge is priceless.Jon is a great comedic actor.The only disappointment was Cleese -- he wasn't as good as he usually is, but I think that's the script's fault.Don't bring popcorn -- you'll be coughing it up.  "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The gags fall flat at the beginning, mostly because we already saw them in the preview, but if you hang on until the race begins it turn into a very funny screwball comedy that doesn't let up.  It least it didn't for me. Oh, and there's no character development, the writer's were too busy throwing gags at us.  Go and enjoy, you can be intelligent and still laugh at silly stuff.   "},{"Title":"Close to 2 hours of continuous laughter","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was a lot of fun.  There are some scenes that made me laugh so much, I thought I was going to poop myself.The cast was great.  John Lovitz, Rowan Atkinson and Whoopi Goldberg were in rare form.  The only actor I found to be under-used was John Cleese.  I won't spoil anything for anybody.  All I can say is that he plays an eccentric millionaire.If you've had a rough week and truly enjoy yourself I would definitely recommend this movie "},{"Title":"Funniest movie of the year","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have not laughed so hard because of a movie, well...ever.  this movie has so many funny moments, that it would be hard to describe. See this movie and you will be rolling on the floor, I almost was, had it not been for the seat in my way. "},{"Title":"Wow! Pleasantly suprised","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I personally did not think that rat race would be much going into the movie, and my suspicion seemed confirmed by the first part of the movie. The movie starts rather dull and the jokes don't fly to well...was I in for a surprise! As soon as the race begins this movie becomes non-stop laughter for the whole 2 hours.The subplots are not only hilarious but are easy to keep track of despite having 6 teams. (*****Possible spoiler*****) One of the sub-plots, involving the Pear family accidentally going to a Nazi museum and driving off with Hitler's car - only to end up crashing into a World War II veteran reunion, is absolutely hilarious and is the best scene I have ever seen in a movie so far (*****End spoiler*****). I was also not expecting much from the rather ho-hum casting and I thought it would be disaster when I saw Whoopi Goldberg. The entire cast, even Whoopi, was top notch and flowed seamlessly into the comedy.The comedy in this movie also took laughter to a new level in the theatre I went to the entire audience burst out into laughter at most of the jokes. Some of you may think this silly comedy (which it is) is ridiculous or Cable Guy - Jim Carrey type. As silly as this movie is you won't find yourself saying this isn't funny, there's no way that could ever happen, even in the stuff which is beyond fantasy you won't stop laughing. Even the ending, which seems kind of lame at first will have you clapping for by the end of the movie with an appearance by Smashmouth.Overall this movie get's 5 out of 5, two thumbs up, %100 or whatever you want to call it. I could easily see this movie getting multiple Comedy of the Year Awards  "}{"Title":"A definite must see...hilarious","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Of all the movies that have come out this year, that I've seen anyway, Rat Race is the funniest and most original. All the actors and actress...Whoopi Goldberg, Seth Green, Jon Lovitz, Dave Thomas, John Cleese and many more...are all incredible in their roles. The movies has constant jokes, with hardly a slow moment in the entire picture. I would recommend this movie to anyone with a sense of humor, it is easily the funniest movie of the year. The screenplay is the most original and funniest screenplay that's come out in a while. It's nearly impossible to keep such a high energy for the duration of an entire movie, but Rat Race managed to achieve it. Everyone must see this movie, it's great.  "},{"Title":"Very funny!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I do have to say that, yes, this movie is very funny.  However, I predicted just about every single move they made like ten seconds before it happened. It stays within the current cow jokes fad, which seems to be getting old to me.  I am unsure where they wanted to go with this in the end, but it is a pretty trendy movie, with many popular jokes, and many familiar faces.  I personally like the cameo of Kathy Bates, it really is quite funny.  All in all it was a good movie, but when you go, try to guess what the next chain of events is, I bet you could make a better movie.  In the end you get a happy movie, but some parts were just weird.  Note For those who have seen it, didn't you think the lipstick scene was laugh out loud funny?  I was rolling.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Better than Average Comedy with a Very Positive and Energetic Cast,","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rat Race is a good movie with a pretty good storyline that is without a doubt more original and a lot funnier than a lot of comedies similar to this (Road Trip,Dude Where's My Car,etc) and a very good cast that are funny and energetic from start to finish.The movie was definitely just set up for a lot of funny mishaps between the different,this usually bothers me when the story is set up just for laughs,most of them being visual,but I overall enjoyed in in this,it was fast paced and spaced out the amount of time for each character well.My favourite storyline is either Jon Lovitz,mainly because the dialogue between him and his wife and kids was hilarious and if they had their own Vacation type of movie I would definitely watch it,or Cuba Gooding Jr.,his character was really funny because of how competitive he was and I found the situations he was put in some of the most enjoyable,also it was a very different role him.The only storyline I didn't really enjoy was Whoopi Goldberg and Lanei Chapman,I found their characters irritating (especially Goldbergs) and the situations they were put in to (especially the squirrel one) was just stupid and didn't make me laugh.Rat Race is in no way a perfect comedy,but its fun and different cast should keep many people entertained and many parts are funny enough for you to ignore the parts that wern't.Wealthy man Donald Sinclair (John Cleese) sets up a race between six groups of people in which the first to make it to a locker in New Mexico will receive $2 million. "},{"Title":"Poor movie, ridiculous characters, lame jokes and very bad taste","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Toilet humour, a segment that would probably get the movie banned in Germany, and Rowan Atkinson. Plenty of reasons to avoid this movie. It didn't start out well and got worse as it progressed. I managed about 40 minutes and then I'd had enough and switched off. Hollywood just can't do decent movies any more. They're either lame, like this one, or they are extremely violent. Spoilers The reference to concentration camps was in very bad taste and I doubt whether because of it the movie would ever be shown in Germany. And about 30 minutes in there was a little girl with her backside hanging out of a moving car window doing Number Twos because her father refused to stop the car. Who on earth writes this rubbish? "},{"Title":"Plenty of laughs but a weak ending","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film follows in the tradition of such films as 'It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World' and 'The Cannonball Run' where a cast of mostly well known actors, in this case including Rowan Atkinson, Seth Green, Cuba Gooding Jr. and Whoopi Goldberg, take part in a madcap race with no rules. Here they are racing from Las Vegas to Silver City in New Mexico where a prize of two million dollars awaits the winner. The race has been organised by Casino owner John Cleese who, unbeknownst to the racers is running a book with a bunch of high-stakes gamblers as to who will win. The racers were decided randomly and include very different people; a disgraced football referee, a family on vacation, a narcoleptic Italian, a mother who has only just reunited with her daughter, a lawyer and a couple of dubious characters. The obvious method of transport is put out of commission as all planes are cancelled after an amusing attempt to prevent other racers; this means they must go by land&#x85; apart from the lawyer who befriends a helicopter pilot&#x85; it is just a pity for him she decides to say hello to her cheating boyfriend on the way. The contestants get into numerous scrapes en route including stealing a bus, a jet-car, a hot air balloon and a car that once belonged to Hitler! This film contained many laugh out loud moments as well as one or two cringe-worthy moments; unfortunately the final scene fell into the latter category; after all the back-stabbing on the way it was a pity to have such a saccharine ending. The cast did an okay job although I think I can say none of them would consider this their greatest outing. It is a pity that the film contained some fairly crude humour as apart from that it is the sort of film children would enjoy, unfortunately because of those moments a lot of parents won't want their young children watching this. "},{"Title":"Rat Race was Fast Paced","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie sneaked up and bit me like nobody's business. No way did I think this movie would be good or even funny. It ended up being both. I mean, it was genuinely funny. I am always skeptical of all star casts because the hopes are higher and it is difficult for those hopes to be realized.The movie attacked the plot from several different angles. Each angle being a different participant of the game to get to the money first. Some characters and some scenarios were funnier than others, but they all held their own. It ended up being a feel good story in the end which added some extra flavor to it all. "},{"Title":"Its a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World...revisited.","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For what this was, it was done fairly well, and had quite a few laughs. This is about several people in Vegas, racing to get 2 million dollars in a locker in New Mexico, set up by an eccentric millionaire (John Cleese). The movie has no real plot, it's just a bunch of amusing going on's on the way to Mexico. The movie has an ensemble cast of several funny people including Rowan Atknison (Mr. Bean), John Cleese (Monty Python), Dave Thomas(SCTV), Jon Lovitz (SNL), Wayne Knight (Seinfeld) and a dozen others. As I've said, this is an extremely stupid movie, but, it had me entertained from start to finish and all the actor's were great and the movie was quite funny, so I recommend this for a good laugh.My rating ** 1/2 out of ****. 109 mins. PG-13 for Language, Crude Humor and Sexual Humor. "},{"Title":"My god this movie is funny","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" So I'm here in the Movie store. I did not know what to buy, so I grabbed Rat Race off of the shelf. The movie was fairly old (roughly 5 years ago) and took out $5 out of my wallet. Boy was I in a treat. The movie was continuously funny. just scene after scene of gut busting humor. What i really liked about this movie is the diversity of the characters. Each and every one of them has their own unique personality to fit perfectly with the story (in which i will not spoil to you). there some lows about this movie, including how the humor gets a little stale towards the end, and the ending was very disappointing, but if you look back before the terrible 10 minute ending you would have in mind a movie that is worth watching. I highly recommend this movie, you have to see it! "},{"Title":"One of the 21st Century's funniest movies","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My favorite movie genre is definitely comedies so this a good comedy is also an easy way to make me satisfied (on the other hand, a bad comedy could be a horrible experience). Anyways, Rat Race has passed my line of satisfaction and is one of only a handful of movies I have seen more than two times.Why is it so good then? Well, it contains good actors such as John Cleese (Fawlty Towers), Rowan Aktinson (Mr. Bean) and Cuba Gooding Jr. (Pearl Harbor) and more. Furthermore, it has an easy yet excellent story, a story which everyone can enjoy and become involved with. The characters are interesting as well which makes this movie even better.You will definitely laugh when you see this movie, no matter if you watch it for the second, third or the fourth time (which I am sure you will do)! "},{"Title":"A funny movie","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I did not see this film in the theaters, but I had seen the previews for it. They made it look like it was going to be funny and fast paced. It was out of the theaters for about two years before I finally was convinced to watch it. All of my friends were saying, Have you seen Rat Race? I always had to say no. Then they always told me how funny it was. I finally decided to rent it from Blockbuster.This movie was absolutely HILARIOUS! I would describe this movie as a constant bombardment of jokes and funny actions. It is so funny what a bunch of random people will do for two million dollars. My favorite character was Vera Baker, played by Whoppie Goldberg. If you have never seen Rat Race, head on down to the nearest movie rental store, make a bowl of popcorn, and get ready to laugh your head off for two hours. "}{"Title":"Very funny movie marred by a weak ending","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A rich obnoxious loudmouth English idiot played very funnily by john cleese tells 6 or so people where they can get $2 million In Silver City NM if they get there first - and the race is off. Extremely whacked out scenes one right after the other follow. Imagine Cuba Gooding who has just hijacked a bus full of Lucille Ball impersonators and is racing to the loot when he crashes into a cow hanging from a hot air balloon.!!! Jon Lovitz is hilarious as the typical boob American with his fat wife and his two fat smartmouth kids who among other adventures end up visiting a very strange Barbie museum.As for the ending - i won't say what happened but to this point the movie has been very funny in showing how stupid and greedy Americans are. But then they try to tack on an uplifting ending that to me really falls flat. Still a great show. Butcept for the ending, i'd have given this a 10.Incidentally, i would not call this a remake of It's a mad mad mad mad world made back in 1965. It's more a redoing of a similar theme. Both movies are super. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie with a lousy character","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rat Race, a movie to see to have the time pass by. Not the best movie in the world, but if you have some time to kill, i recommend this movie. Not to get off track or anything, but i saw it for the first time in SAP and the narrator read the tittle as The world is very very crazy! I just laughed. But back to the point. I enjoyed, how zany and wacky this movie was. Unlike other comedy movies, this movie didin't try to be funny, it was funny and it didin't rely on dialog alone for the job. But if there is one thing i would like to complain about is the one character Breckin Meyer played. I cannot let go of it. It's like a pet peeve of mine, to see an actor play so poorly but be a central character. He was not funny, and By George he cannot act. The movie would be a lot better if he weren't in it. But in all, a perfect movie to watch on a Sunday night with the family, so long as you're not Jewish or a WW eye eye veteran. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and inventive.","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The movie successfully tells an original, entertaining story, full of interesting characters and imaginative humor. All the characters are completely different, from the narcoleptic Italian to the guy with the bolt in his tongue. The humor is unique, as it draws from the viewers empathy for the character, as they're put into very uncomfortable situations every couple of minutes. These situations can range from embarrassing to downright terrifying.Like most comedies, the emphasis is on dialog and visuals, not camera angles or the soundtrack, so it shouldn't come as a surprise that the cinematography and sounds aren't worth mentioning. Music isn't too big in this movie, as the only memorable songs are at the beginning intro and at the end of the movie. The camera's show what needs to be shown, and nothing more. Not that that's a bad thing, but it does make the movie seem a little bit flat.All in all, this movie is definitely worth buying, or renting, if you're feeling cautious. If you love great characters, great comedy, and great movies, check this one out. You'll be laughing all the way through it. "},{"Title":"Rat Race","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Very funny! If you want to laugh, rent or buy this movie. When I first heard of this movie I thought it was going to be OK. I was wrong, very wrong. I laughed from beginning to end. A perfect set of cast members. Every person in this movie is unique in their own way. Including Kathy Bates in this movie was great. Funny jokes and a good plot. People from all ages can laugh tell it hurts. This is one funniest movie I have literally ever seen. If you like movies such as scary movie, ladykillers, or the T.V. series Family guy this will rank high in your favorites. This is truly one of my favorite comedy movies. It's a Rat Race. "},{"Title":"Fun and Silly","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rat Race, 2001. Directed by Jerry Zucker (Airplane!) With Whoopi Goldberg, John Cleese, Cuba Gooding Jr, Rowan Atkinson, Jon Lovitz I had the extreme pleasure of watching this film (DVD, actually) with some devoted Race fans. (I decided early on that Race fans sounds better than Rat fans.) They are always up for another trip to the Rat Race. Like all good film fans, they love to share their best film experiences with others who they know will love it as much as they do. For that, I sincerely thank them.There are a few comedies I can watch over and over, and always break out laughing even though I know the punch lines. The short list includes Rustler's Rhapsody (don't tell me YOU haven't seen THAT one&#133;), The Money Pit (perhaps Tom Hanks' greatest film achievement) and The Blues Brothers (the original, not the sequel). Some films just hold up over time.Rat Race is a mixture of reality TV, Cannonball Run, and Around the World in 80 Days. Well, actually a mixture of the best parts of those ingredients. There's slapstick, potty humor, and some good sight gags, and the old dangle a cow from a hot air balloon scene. What else could you want? I actually had about 90 minutes of pure escapist fun watching this one. I highly recommend it for anyone needing a short vacation from reality. In fact, it could probably get some good laughs if they show it on death row. It's THAT funny&#133;in spots. "},{"Title":"Just bad.","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rat Race is structured as a series of bad and tasteless jokes strung together by a flimsy clothesline of a plot dealing with a race of a bunch of random people trying to reach the same destination in order to obtain a huge stash of money that may or may not even really be there. Rat Race is disappointing from the very beginning, because it starts off by showing four or five of the exact scenes that we already saw in the preview and that have therefore lost all effectiveness. This is not a movie based on reality &#150; there can really be no question that even the most eccentric of casino owners would never seriously consider picking a bunch of random gamblers out of their casinos and sending them off on this all-expenses-paid excursion to find a duffle bag containing two million dollars. Sure, these casino guys are all ridiculously rich, but Rat Race doesn't acknowledge the fact that rich people didn't get rich by giving money away. There is no financial return at all in the rat race portrayed here, or even any publicity!(spoilers &#150; but does it really matter?) Rat Race is filled with actors who delivered goofy performances that are far below both their iconography and their reputations as actors. Cuba Gooding Jr. - after great performances in infinitely superior films like As Good As It Gets, Jerry Maguire, Outbreak, and A Few Good Men &#150; performs several idiotic and humiliating skits throughout the course of this horribly disappointing movie. John Cleese manages to deliver some of the only funny lines in the entire film through his comical dentures, but still sinks far below his talent in this borefest. Other bad career choices were made by Seth Green, Amy Smart, and even the more negligible actors, such as Whoopi Goldberg, Rowan Atkinson, and Jon Lovitz. Seth Green, actually, is mostly in a bad role by association. His brother in the film is one of the dumbest characters I've ever seen in a movie, and his disgusting tongue piercing only serves to enhance his tremendous stupidity. I've had my tongue double-pierced since early 1997, have made little to no changes in my oral hygiene, and have never had an infection. If his tongue was that infected, it is entirely a result of his own idiocy (as we soon learn, with the realization that his piercing is self-inflicted), and therefore commands no sympathy or respect. If he wants sympathy, Major Payne can explain to him where to find it. Incidentally, the way he met a girl on the freeway (who shows up later at the Smash Mouth concert) was a shocking move to an even lower level.The movie goes wrong at the very beginning. It's clear that a mass travel to a single location is not the foundation of a good comedy, so they decided to throw in this ludicrous scene where Duane Cody (Seth Green) and his idiot brother get their jeep dragged up the sonar station at the airport in an attempt to ground all flights so that their opponents will not be able to fly to the location of the money (and if they had caught their flight in the first place, the movie would have been over in minutes and we would all have been spared). So at the expense of their remaining means of travel, they have successfully drowned out radio airwaves and grounded all flights. It's too bad the movie was released so soon, because if they had waited until after the September 11 terrorist attacks, the scene would almost certainly have been changed, and the movie could only have been better. This is one of the most moronic scenes in the entire movie, which makes you wonder why they didn't just have Cleese's character add in a stipulation that all transportation must be done on the ground. If the movie had been set for release after the catastrophic terrorist attacks, and they had decided to remove the scene, such a stipulation is almost certainly the thing that they would have decided on, both because it would be the fastest and cheapest replacement, but also because such a tragic event would surely make them realize how foolish the scene was to begin with.While Rat Race manages to avoid sinking to the abysmal level of other ludicrous comedies like the Scary Movies, it is clearly a mindless film that does not quite manage to redeem itself by having at least one or two things in it that can be taken seriously enough for it to be funny. The movie is bad enough even without the appearance of Smash Mouth at the end of the film, who are playing a concert for the poor. The way that all of the contestants in the movie stumble on stage with their newfound wealth at the end of the flim (I typed that accidentally just now, but it strikes me as a better word&#133;), ultimately deciding to donate it to the poor, is both insulting and disappointing. Sure, it would be a bad idea to make a movie that did nothing but promote greed, but all that time and effort by the characters as well as the audience is completely wasted (this is also one of the many things that ruined Titanic). It certainly is a good cause, but it is entirely uninteresting. You'd think that the virtually endless possibilities of the cinema would have inspired the film's writer (or writers, could there possibly have been more than one?) to come up with something more creative than this. In reality, donating to the poor, especially such a huge amount of money, is truly honorable and earns you a well-deserved interview and article in the newspaper. In the movies, it is a cheap way to get out of being accused of advertising greed, and winds up as little more than a boring end to a bad movie. "},{"Title":"OK as long as it doesn't directly try to copy It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rat Race has widely been viewed as a semi-remake of It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. Personally, I think that no movie can equal the latter. So, as long as this one doesn't actually try to ape that one, it comes out pretty good. Once again portraying a gaggle of people in a wild race to try and find an exorbitant amount of money, the movie is mostly an excuse to be silly, not really focusing on greed the way that IAMMMMW did.Ignoring that, it's basically a litany of hilarity. Whether it's John Cleese's slimy weirdo, Rowan Atkinson's narcoleptic Italian (why didn't they cast Roberto Benigni in that role?), Jon Lovitz in Hitler's car, Cuba Gooding Jr. driving a most unusual bus, Whoopi Goldberg learning a lesson about squirrels, or something else, they just go all out here. All in all, it's good for a fun time, if nothing else. Also starring Breckin Meyer, Amy Smart, Seth Green, Vince Vieluf, Kathy Najimy, Kathy Bates and Dave Thomas. "},{"Title":"The Most Underrated Movie Ever?","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well, maybe not, but it is still very underrated. This is definitely in my top 5 comedy movies. Everything about it was great. The cast was so awesome, in my opinion, it couldn't have gotten better. Every character gunning for the money you could relate to in some way at some point in the movie.I haven't seen It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World and I really don't want to or care to. I don't care if this was a remake because this is a great movie.All of the jokes really played out well and I don't remember any jokes that weren't funny. The Barbie museum was such an incredibly hilarious joke. One of the best situational comedy moments EVER. I absolutely love Jon Lovitz character in the movie because he is just a regular guy in a dead end job who wants the money and he'll do anything for it. The Hitler joke was such a well played joke, I couldn't stop laughing.Whoopi Goldburg's character and her daughter were probably the least favorite of the bunch gunning for the money but still played a great part in the movie providing some funny jokes. Her breaking on the bus was so relatable.Rowan Atkinsons character was so incredibly funny. He provided some of the greatest one liners I've seen. Look, a drifter, let's kill him. Had me laughing so hard! I just can't list all of the GREAT moments of this movie. Some people may moan about the ending but it didn't hurt the movie at all, it was a great way to end the movie. The whole movie was pretty fluid through the whole thing and everything made sense. It never really had you asking Well, why didn't they do this? or Why did they do that?.This goes on my list of the most underrated movies ever right next to Harold and Kumar Go To White Castle and Kung Pow Enter The Fist. "},{"Title":"This is the BEST movie ever! )","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the best comedy movie ever made, so far anyway. It is also my favorite and has my favorite actor ever, Rowan Atkinson, who plays the part of Enrico Pollini.I also liked the Cody brothers, Duane and Blaine, who seemed to get themselves into the strangest predicaments. I liked the twist ending where you think Enrico has won the race, but then you see that he has fallen asleep because he has a rare sleeping disorder. Then they finally catch the money, but they are on stage during Smashmouth's Feed The Earth fund raiser. At first they don't want to give up the money, but when they do, especially the resisting Duane, they feel really good about it and get some rewards too. They all get cool jackets (also, when they stage-dive people actually catch them) and Blaine got a girl who actually has more piercings then him. It all turns out good. "},{"Title":"On your marks, get set, laugh your head of!!!","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" SPOILER WARNINGDonald Sinclair owns one of the biggest, snazziest casino/hotels in Las Vegas. He plants six unique gold coins in six normal vending machines. The people who win them are  two down-on-their-luck brothers one of whom can't talk properly because of his pierced tongue, a reunited mother and daughter, a referee hated by thousands of Dallas Cowboy fans, a strict lawyer who isn't to mad on gambling, a scruffy Italian immigrant who falls asleep at the most unexpected of times and a dad on holidays with his demanding family. Sinclair informs them that nearly 600 miles away, in Silver City, New Mexico, there's a locker with $ 2,000,000 inside. He gives them each a key to that locker. They all run off to the airport, but when the two brothers pull down the radar tower, they have to go the whole way without planes. The things that follow include monster truck competitions, insane squirrel ladies, dive-bombing helicopters, heart transplants and several hijackings. What they don't know is that Sinclair and his billionaire buddies are betting on who'll get there first. That's why they call it RAT race. I read several reviews for this and there are some people who think this is crap compared to the original Stanley Kramer film. I haven't yet seen it so I don't know how good it is. But no matter how good it is this will always be a masterpiece. It is piled-high with zany characters, belly laughs and an all-star cast. I remember when I first saw this I was guffawing like an idiot. It is also a much better way to spend the time than stupid overly-cheezily family films, Stuart Little to name a few. Well stop listening to me and pop this in to your video machine and see for yourself what you think. Enjoy! "}{"Title":"It's Only an Opinion But...","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's only an opinion but we found this better than the 'original'. Of course that's hardly an absolute attribute. I remember being taken to the cleaners on that one. Someone convinced me... One thing I think is almost always true when you see too many 'stars' in the same flick, run for it for something is fishy. Yes I distinctly found the original one of the most painful and discomforting movies ever. I'd like to process a civil suit against those responsible. It's that bad.This is slightly better, for the humour is fresher. Sort of. At least in the beginning. At least when Amy Smart is on screen. Just don't expect too much - not even from her. As far as I am concerned, the only thing interesting about it is Amy Smart. OK, and the Jon Lovitz family too. Because they're so totally gross. John Cleese wouldn't win an award for what he did here, and considering the quality writing he himself has done in the past, this is way beneath him.It's not ten laughs a second - it's a wee chuckle every five or ten minutes. If you have absolutely nothing to do, you will survive; but if you think of anything better, don't hesitate and don't turn back. This movie will be fine without you.And the sooner you run, the better. For it gets geometrically worse with time.Actually there is one demographic for which this work of art may be ideal someone who 1) has lived all their lives at Winnebago Acres; and 2) thinks Dukes of Hazzard is high brow comedy. If you fall into this group, eat lots of fish before you spin this one - you'll probably find it hard to follow the plot, too subtle, and too much of an intellectual challenge otherwise.And it's best if you don't pause the playback to take an intermission movies like these stay more magical if you miss the odd hour or two of the total running time. "},{"Title":"Nice Movie","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is really entertaining, of course the various characters are all well chosen and the story is well worked out. Rowan Atkinson always give a movie something more and he did it this time with his character.The Barbie museum is also funny and the movie is fun to watch for the most part.The story does take unexpected turns and it is fun to see how Rowan Atkinson does his magic again with his character.Not a very good movie, but it is fun to watch, therefore I give it a 7 out of 10 star rating.I think this movie is original and well worked out. "},{"Title":"One and a half cheers","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Within 20 minutes of Rat Race starting, you realise this is simply a rip-off of It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World &#151; same premise, same manic situations in which a disparate collection race each other to lay claim to the prize, in this case $1 million. Admittedly, it's been many years since I watched the Mad, but I seem to remember the wacky situations the hunters found themselves weren't half as contrived, and so twice as funny. Rat Race has 'screenwriters had a hoot writing this one' written all over it. But the laughs don't really translate to the screen. There are one or two quite good jokes &#151; a stereotypical Jewish family visit the Barbie Museum at daughter's insistence, only to find it is a museum in memory of that nasty Nazi Klaus Barbie and later take off in Hitler's limo. It's a gag only producers called Zucker could get away with, and to say it was contrived is being kind. But it was reasonably funny, as was the conceit that some people will bet on anything, even the price a hooker will charge for very outlandish services. Shame there were not more jokes like that, however much they are in bad taste. The rest of the film is though short on laughs unless you're desperate. (A coachload of Lucille Ball lookalikes heading for an I Love Lucy convention must have looked hilarious on paper, but never caught fire on screen.) The finale was puke-making. And I can't even be bothered to give it away. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Who in the world would think this was a bad movie in the first place?? Rat Race is one of those movies where it's so good that you want to see it again, and again, and again, and then you start to hate because you've seen it too many times like Shrek 2, or Finding Nemo, or Nypolian dynamite. Of course it has it's bad words from time to time but it's a great film even for the nine year old. It has many great actors like Seth Green, Joh Lovit, and especially the guy who played Mr. Bean. You will fall on the floor laughing. You will be too stunned at part so to even laugh since it's so unbelievable. It is definally not fiction that this is a great movie. If you're into movies that do make sense, as this one does (Sometimes), and that have action around every corner this is a movie for you. "},{"Title":"RAT DROPPINGS","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How should I begin my comments on this movie, hmm.......let me think......stinks.....sucks.....awful....non-funny......how about crap! This is without a doubt the least funny, least interesting, least intelligent movie I have seen this year and maybe in the last decade. What happened to Zucker? The poor guy used to have funny movies, not this slime he offered to the public. Rowan Atkinson, can you say an Italian Mr. Bean? Wayne Knight, can you say Newman from Seinfeld? Jon Lovitz, can you say any one of his boring bits from Saturday Night Live? John Cleese, can you say the manager from Fawlty Towers? So on and so on and so on!!! Don't let me forget the leading romantic couple...its hard to believe they could be any worse than they were in Road Trip, but guess what, they are in this garbage. Couldn't Zucker come up with any funny ideas? Oh wait, a cow tied to a hot air balloon....ha-ha-ha not! Wasn't funny. Wait, the dog and the heart....nope! The pierced tounge...zzzzzzzzzz! Ooooooo, I know, the Hitler car and the cigarette lighter....nada! I'm glad I checked this out from the library so luckily I didn't have to pay a rental fee. My only wish is that IMDB would allow you to give a 0 rating on movies, because that is the rating it deserves. Instead I gave it a 1. By the way, Mr. Zucker, if you are having nightmares in your sleep after making this dribble, its probably Stanley Kramer's spirit causing it. I think you owe his ghost a public apology. "},{"Title":"Free associations from a childish mind","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cynical and sad, the first adjective matches with comedies, but not the second one, this Zucker movie is not a movie in itself, but a couple of free associations whose IQ required to see it is less than a chimpanzee watching The planet of the ape. Some boring patrons and a excentric tycoon who run a casino choose by random a group of individuals which engage in a race to get 2 millions dollars. The individual zeal and greedy is overcome when they finally got the money and found a best and humanistic choice donate dollars to a NGO, Feed the Earth. Along the lines of Farrely brothers but without their intelligence and class sensibility, Rat Race is neither a comedy nor a movie. Not only the characters are kidnaped by the director's free associations, but one is also trapped by it. The great difference is -if you are not a critic- that after being 15 minutes in the multiplex you can leave theater.  "},{"Title":"repulsive","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  there was nothing about this movie that was not repulsive.  it disgusted me.  it was not funny.  it was a waste of immense talent (john cleese, whoopi goldberg, rowan atkinson...why?).  i wish it had not happened. "},{"Title":"What a travesty!","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film cannot be saved by its cast of some of the top comedians, like Whoopi Goldberg and John Cleese.  It's just that awful.  Bad script, even worse direction, and appalling production notions simple drive this dog into the ground.  As much as I like the participants, the result is definitely worth avoiding like the plague. "},{"Title":"Appalling and puerile","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The most surprising thing about this plodding, appalling comedy is the amount of critical attention it has been given. An attempt, presumably, to reproduce the all-star race movies of the 1960s, the result is a smug, tasteless piece of nonsense that ought to be banned under international law. The best thing that could be said about Rowan Atkinson's performance is that it is mercifully short. This is precisely the kind of witless rubbish that gives cinema a bad name.     "},{"Title":"Ugh! So bad! So lame!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is an embarrassment to the entire cast. What was Cuba Gooding thinking? Here's a tip. Watch the first ten minutes (if you can stand it) then skip to the end to confirm you've missed nothing. If you've already watched this entire film, rent Memento to restore your damaged brain cells. "}{"Title":"Doesn't disappoint","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsIf Rat Race was the big turkey some people made it out to be,it would be a turkey of epic proportions.After all,think of all the comedic talent that would have been wastedJohn Cleese,Jon Lovitz,Jerry Zucker,Whoopi Goldberg (in her first starring role in ages)and Rowan Atkinson.Luckily,this proves to be untrue.This is an original,rioutous piece,with one of the most intriguing concepts in a long time.It's great to watch  all the pratfalls the different characters find themselves in along the way,and some scenes will have you on the edge of your seat with laughter.If there is one fault here,it's that it drags on a bit towards the end and the ending itself is a total cop-out.Otherwise,this is one of the best comedys to come out in ages.**** "},{"Title":"wow...it must just be ME...","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" it makes me sad to see people i've enjoyed elsewhere do a movie like this... lots of enthusiasm on participants parts, very little else...of course, i only watched the first 10 or so minutes, but i wasn't going to wait, like i do sometimes, till it's over to realize... 'is that IT?'. i'm SURE there was a funny moment or two in it. or maybe it's just really not my type of humor... or maybe i liked it better when i saw similar slapstick sort of situations done by, let's say, the marx brothers... maybe i'm just getting old... or maybe i just don't go for things i'm supPOSED to go for just b/c all the ingredients are present... that still doesn't guarantee a good meal... "},{"Title":"A good, laugh-out-loud comedy!","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie a couple of years ago and caught it in the middle as it was showing on television. Soon after a few minutes, I ended up watching it 'til the end. It was so hilariously funny, it didn't take but a moment to realize it was a good movie. Never a dull moment while watching it, it enlightened me to see that all my favorite actors were in the movie. I loved seeing the adorable Rowan Atkinson appear in the movie, remembering his early performances from his days as Mr. Bean, I thought that he was a delightful choice to be in this particular kind of story. This all star cast (Whoopi Goldberg, Jon Lovitz, Seth Green, Cuba Gooding Jr.) are up to their usual scene stealing performances to go on this journey of destructful hunting for what is promised to make them rich. Awaiting for the one person that gets there first $2 million dollars at the finish line. Every actor gives a very funny performance that I enjoyed each and every one of. I thought this movie was very interesting and geniusly written for each character portrayed by each talented actor we've all seen and loved in our favorite movies growing up. This movie is great for on-going laughs, no violence or sexual content. For anybody who likes movies with a good sense of humor, this is the one. "},{"Title":"Not only a movie, an IQ test","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those comedies that some people praise as the funniest thing they've ever seen, and others attack as the least funny thing they've ever seen.  I've struggled to understand why, and I think it's about something more than taste.It's about IQ.If you have an IQ above a certain level (120, say), you probably won't laugh once at this movie.  But if your IQ is lower than that-- especially if it's significantly lower--you will laugh yourself silly.If your IQ is above that level, you'll find your average Simpsons or Seinfeld episode ten times funnier than this movie, so don't bother watching it.  But if your IQ's below that level, definitely rent it  you'll have a blast. "},{"Title":"I Want These Two Hours of My Life BAck","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw Rat Race on the recommendation of my brother. He thought it was hilarious, but I thought it sucked.It is a series of vignettes filled with boring, silly, humorless pranks. They never went anywhere, they just seemed to be funny in themselves; they never really come together. This is odd, because the premise of the movie is based upon the characters coming together.Was Jon Lovitz's character supposed to be Jewish? If so, why is it then funny that he was driving Hitler's car? Jewish people and Hitler. AAHHH! Indeed a comic delight!Rowan Atkinson should not EVER do an Italian accent. What makes him funny is not his accents but his face as well as his gags. He accentuates neither in this film. Furthermore, when he tries to find the keys inside the child's seat, he hints at a sick form of child abuse. Child abuse is NEVER funny, nor will it ever be.The only chuckles (and I do mean chuckles, never all out laughs) are when the billionairs take bets on everything, including how long maids could hang from drapersies.Jerry Zucker is better than this. See Airplane! or better yet, Duck Soup by the MArx Brothers. "},{"Title":"Worst Comedy Movie I have ever seen!!!","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't know if I'm wrong or everybody els'es that says this movie is good are, sincerely I just wanna do a favor to people that has doubts about seeing it, renting it or even worse buying it(don't do it really!).The trailers and very early previews might seem fun in some way or another but its not funny at all, it gets to fall in a series of you're-supposed-to-laugh-here scenes that tend to get in really bad jokes, bad very very bad acting, tasteless scenes, cheesy effects; this movie has it all, all wrong that is.As final comment the movie would have been funny due to the basic concept, but believe me is really way far from that. "},{"Title":"Horrible Film","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Considering that Zucker was involved and had a great cast, this movie was an extreme disappointment.  It was horrible.  I could barely force myself to sit through it to see how it would end.  Unfortunately the ending was as bad as the whole movie.  I loved Airplane, the Naked Gun movies, almost everything Zucker has done.  But this was terrible!  I'm very surprised by other positive comments here.  Have people lost their minds!  This humor was cheap and uncreative!  Don't waste your time or money on this.  Rent Airplane or some other creative, funny movie.  "},{"Title":"Too bad John Gleese doesn't do a lot in this one...","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" With all the good credits given to this movie, for me it's a slightly above average movie. I didn't laugh much and this says it all for me. A comedy should make me laugh and laugh hugely in order to like it much.There were ups in the movie but not too many. The characters were not that funny to start with. After seeing What About Bob?, Airplane, Peter Sellers', Dudley Moore's, Jerry Lewis', Lesslie Nelson's and Chevy Chase', it's really hard to accept this average of any movie.Liked Cuba Gooding Jr. though. He is good whatever he does. Great performers can do almost anyhow. John Lovitz is funny and probably he was the funniest of all in this movie. "},{"Title":"An inferior partial remake of It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World with some very funny parts and a bit of lameness","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this 2001 comedy a couple of times in late 2006 or early 2007, being familiar with a number of the cast members (John Cleese, Whoopi Goldberg, Seth Green, Rowan Atkinson, Wayne Knight, and Dave Thomas). The first time, I thought it was pretty lame to begin with but eventually got better. It improved with a second viewing. After that, I learned that it was loosely a remake of It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World, a 1963 comedy which I had never heard of before. After finally watching that film last month, I watched Rat Race again last night. This time, I was not quite as impressed as I was before, and like probably many other viewers, I think its predecessor is superior. I still laughed quite a few times during my third viewing, mind you.Donald P. Sinclair is a billionaire hotel casino owner in Las Vegas who has a whole group of billionaire associates, looking for something to bet on. Six gold coins are placed in different slot machines, and the gamblers who find them are brought together and told by Sinclair about $2 million hidden in a locker in Silver City, New Mexico! They are sent on a race from Vegas to Silver City, and whoever makes it to the locker first wins the money! Odds of winning are 1 in 6. Participants in this race are the Cody brothers (Duane and Blaine), Owen Templeton, Enrico Pollini, the Pear family, Vera Baker and her daughter, Merrill Jennings (whom she put up for adoption as a baby), and Nick Schaffer and his new girlfriend, Tracy Faucet. Mayhem ensues as each of these parties finds themselves on a different adventure, in bizarre situations! Meanwhile, Sinclair and his associates keep track of the racers and make their bets! During my third viewing, it looked fairly promising around the beginning, with Nick Schaffer (Breckin Meyer) being billed for porn films he claims he didn't watch. This part made me laugh, but a lot of other scenes around the beginning disappointed me. The film's introduction to Vera Baker and Merrill Jennings is rather tedious and not that funny, and perhaps it takes a little too long for the race to begin. Even after it does, there are some lame jokes, most notably Kimberly Pear (the Pear daughter, played by Jillian Marie) in the car, talking about how she has to go number 2. Blaine Cody's (Vince Vieluf) speech impediment caused by his recent tongue piercing isn't the worst comedy idea I know of, but definitely not the best. However, there are also a number of very funny parts, with some of the situations Randy Pear (Jon Lovitz) gets into with his family, how Owen Templeton gets a bus driver to give him his clothes, the Deep Voiced Lucy, Enrico Pollini's (Rowan Atkinson) adventure with medical services driver Zack Mallozzi (Wayne Knight) and the human heart, etc. Because of gags like this, I can say that despite the dull moments, at least I laughed, which is more than I can say about SOME comedies I've seen in recent years.The plot of Rat Race is the same basic idea as that of It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World, with a bunch of people letting their greed get the best of them, on a mayhem-filled race, with different people in different sorts of trouble, all for a hidden fortune! Also, like the film that inspired it, this movie features an ensemble cast. Of course, it is LOOSELY a remake of the 1963 comedy, so there are some differences, such as what starts the race, a different set of characters, different (but equally bizarre) situations the characters find themselves in, and in this film, it's not the police who are keeping track of the racers. The humour isn't quite the same, either. The kind of sexual and toilet humour featured in this film was obviously unheard of in 1963 Hollywood. The only unfortunate difference between the two films is that this one isn't as funny. However, if you like slapstick and silliness, and also like or at least don't mind some crude humour (this is not a family movie), you may or may not like this film, or you could find it to be a mixed blessing, like I did during my last viewing. "},{"Title":"Total Madness","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rat Race, 112 minutes of non-stop laughter, action and entertainment. A good comedy, with over-the-top characters, weird elements and well, mild acting. Nine Random people in a Casino are chosen to be contested into a race, the aim to travel 583 miles for 2 million people with 1001 problems. Sounds exciting doesn't it? And believe me the execution is brilliant. Each character who are chasing and killing for the two million are different in each way, all the characters are unique and all have a story behind them - I guess that is what makes this movie so fun. Seriously, you cannot take this movie seriously but if you want a laugh watch Rat Race, it's gold. "}{"Title":"Rat Race","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rat Race was one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. It has an interesting storyline and hilarious characters. I thought that by far the funniest one was Jon Lovitz. Also Kathy Najimy (Jon's wife in the movie). The funniest part in the movie was the Hitler scene where i was laughing until the end of the movie. This is one of those movies that you can watch over and over again and never get tired of it. I would recommend it to comedy lovers. The least funniest pair i thought was Brekin Meyer and Amy Smart. It's not that they weren't funny, it's just that there weren't a lot of scenes including them that were funny. But an awesome storyline plus awesome characters equals an awesome movie. "},{"Title":"still the funniest movie I have ever seen (2008)","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm just now going to comment on this movie. (I'm writing this comment in 2008). I remember watching this movie in like 2003. I was like 14 (it came out in 01). I thought the movie was hilarious. But now that I'm older and understand more about movies, this movie is more than hilarious. When they first made this movie they put (in 2001) so-so actors in it. And most of those actors are in lots of really good/funny movies now.They have big names like Breckin Meyer, Cuba Gooding Jr., Amy Smart, Whoopi Goldberg, Rowan Atkinson, John Cleese, Wayne Knight, Seth Green, Dave Thomas, Jon Lovitz(who is just hilarious). Most of those actors were pretty much nobodies in 2001.This movie is one of those movies thats gets funnier the second time you watch it. I think it hangs up there with Strange Wilderness and Forgetting Sarah Marshall, except this movie is actually PG-13 and those are R. Which makes it even better. It's a must see for anyone who enjoys comedies. This movie goes in my top 5 favorites ever. I can't say enough good things about it. "},{"Title":"Race this to the top of your cue","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Yes, this is very similar to It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World and/or Cannonball Run with almost an identical plot to the former. However, despite it's obvious similarities, Rat Race's characters are great, quirky, zany, and funny as heck. This film, like its predecessors, features a stupendous cast, hysterical gags, and somewhat witty dialog.I almost hurt myself watching this movie as I was laughing so hard. I would highly recommend not watching this while eating or drinking anything, as it may wind up in your own demise, or a lot of clean up. Definitely one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. It's worth renting, but better still worth owning. "},{"Title":"Amusing, But Nothing Special","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Compared often to It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World, (without the comedic heavy-weights and extreme wit) this work actually reminds me more of Cannonball Run, though without the cool cars, stars, and dialog. That having been said, it's really not much of anything at all, and either film previously mentioned would be a much better way to spend an evening.Oh, there are a few fun scenes, but they are far from redeeming. The few fun moments just cannot drag this work into the realm of enjoyable. Amusing, idiotic, well-cast, but inane.All in all? This goes with the others of its ilk Dude, Where's My Car?, Saving Silverman, and Road Trip. It's not terrible, but definitely not worth the time it takes to view it, unless you are an Immortal.It rates a 4.5/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"The mere irony of this indeed good slapstick is that ...","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The director Jerry Zucker, the writer Andy Breckman and all Jewish and non Jewish producers, to name Zucker's family amongst them, really gives a rat... ass about feeding the Earth. Its good to believe in miracles and to think the world is good place. Unfortunately you just cannot, after you watch this funny and not thought provoking movie. It is like a dry bread - you eat it, but it is not tasty enough, even that it foods you. What else to be said. Given the opportunities of better director, this movie has had all chances to become a classic. Unfortunately it ain't, it is also not something that did better to anyone except producers bank accounts. "},{"Title":"A slow start but lots of visual humour","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I only saw this film by accident and I'd never even heard of it until ten minutes before it was shown on television, but I felt that it was worth watching, overall.It did occur to me that perhaps the story was a little bit slow in getting going, but I put this down to the number of individual characters that had to be introduced at the start. Having said that, once the idea behind the race was set up, I felt that the film did start to pick up the pace within the first half-hour or so. There was much energy generated by the rush to start the race. I think a lot can be communicated with visual comedy. John Cleese's self-confessed eccentric personality went perfectly with the manic grin he wore at the start of the film. Equally, Rowan Atkinson's facial expressions are just right for generating visual humour, and he is also physically very funny - watching him dance at the end of the film was priceless and the crowd his character Enrico gathers when (being narcoleptic) he falls asleep standing up in the middle of a hotel was brilliant. Sometimes I think that you could give Rowan Atkinson a ball of string and he'd still be funny, and his accent in Rat Race also suits his his appearance very well.There were many instances - Where the hell's the airport? and the airline pilots' heads crashing into each other - that made me recognise that here was the work of one of the directors of the Naked Gun films. The You should have bought a squirrel sequence is another of these moments - it's that sort of comedy. The fight where two characters squirt each other with milk straight from the cow reminded me so much of the fight in Naked Gun 2 1/2 with the electric toothbrush and the hairdryer. It also struck me that many of the extras in the film - the girl who destroys her cheating boyfriend's house from the vantage point of a helicopter, the squirrel lady and perhaps even some of those participating in the I Love Lucy convention - are really quite mad. There are also a fair few unexpected twists in the story - the Barbie museum scene and even the end of the film were two bits I certainly didn't see coming. On a more musical note, I have never heard so much classical music in a comedy film of this type, but I have to add that I always thought Grieg's In The Hall Of The Mountain King was a perfect piece of music for any scene where you need to make a character look stealthy. An excerpt from La Traviata also gets a look in. "},{"Title":"I know that no one can do better than this when it comes to comedy and my dad mentioning greed every 10 seconds","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Nick Schaffer is a man who wants to be mature. He doesn't approve of Gambling, Strippers, or any wrongdoing. his only intention is to be clean for the rest of his life.Owen Templeton is an NFL Referee who wants to stay under the radar because of an incident where he fouled up during the coin toss at a football game.Duane and Blaine Cody are brothers who are looking to make a quick buck by any means necessary. Duane is the brains, Blaine is the brawn....with a badly done tongue piercing that he did himself with a mail order kit.Enrico Pollini is an Italian tourist with no family. He suffers from Narcolepsy, which will make him fall asleep at any given time. Despite his burdens, he seems to be the happiest man on earth.Vera Baker is a woman who is meeting her daughter merrill, whom she gave up for adoption 27 years before, and is meeting her in a casino, in order to make peace and catch up on life.Finally, We have Randy pear, a Jewish man who is on his first Family vacation in 3 years. His family is in Vegas to see David Copperfield, nothing else.What do these people have in common? they have all gambled, and won a special gold coin that has given them a chance to play a game where the odds of winning are 1 in 6, as long as they swear to secrecy. the game? they must race 562 miles across the united states to Silver City, New Mexico with a key to open a locker. inside the locker, is a red duffel bag. inside the red duffel bag, is $2,000,000. 50's and 100's. First one there, keeps it all. That's it. Go. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I didn't think this movie could possibly live up to the original, It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World, and of course it doesn't, but I was still pleasantly surprised at how good it was. The actors, for the most part, are a funny crew (especially Cuba Gooding, Jr., and the talented Wayne Knight, who for some reason doesn't get billing), and the script is very inventive, coming up with all sorts of wild scenarios. It's only when they try to go for dark humor that it falls flat (the cow abuse is embarrassingly unfunny). And the peppy, sunshiny, goody-goody, we've sure learned our lesson ending is so different from the PERFECT cynicism of the original, it's almost sad. But for the most part, it's a fun movie that is pretty much guaranteed to make you laugh. 7/10 stars. "},{"Title":"see it with all ya friends! unless you don't have any sense of humor.","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" honestly, this movie is so great as what it is a comedy. it's not lame gags or poo humor like American pie. It's simply FUNNY. And great actors and actresses help the movie carrying on. Intense and very likable plot and characters mixed with really hard and many laughs makes this a fun-fest for anyone! Watch it, my review cannot give it the credit it deserves!!Ooh, what a room, what a wonderful room, have you seen this room? Yes! We're IN it!I am Enrico Pollini. Now I know what you think, Enrico is a GiiiiIIIrls name.No I wasn't?Have you seen this food, oooh, have you seen this food? What a wonderful room, what a wonderful paaaarty. Mm, little cock-doggies.They're called cocktail weenies.AAhh, weeeeenies. Myn English is not so good, but don't worry, I am leeeeaaaarning.This movie is friggin hilarious! "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever!","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK, OK...so the plot line is almost the same as It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. Sorry guys, i forgot how many mads there were, so I just wanted to be safe. But, seriously, this movie is hilarious! And it is better than any other comedy I have ever seen for one VERY important reason when you look back on it, no single actor is funnier than any of the others. This is quite an admission on my part, because I am a big Seth Green fan. But honestly no one up-stages, and no one disappoints. The fact that every actor has several memorable scenes and quotes I think exemplify the fine film making that was at work here. If you haven't seen it, I won't ruin it for you. But, let me say this about the ending although some people say it is predictable, it completely caught me off guard and I loved it. "}{"Title":"Rat Race","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" An all star bunch of comedians are in this roller coaster film from director Jerry Zucker (Airplane!, Ghost). Some ordinary people use gambling slot machines and some manage to win a special coin. They go to where the coin instructs and then Donald Sinclair (named after the man who inspired Basil Fawlty, and played by John Cleese) is explaining about a town called Silver City in New Mexico. He then gives a bunch of ordinary people six identical keys that open a locker to $2,000,000. Basically, the first to get to the cash is the one who keeps it. Then when the pistol is fired the race begins. Many wacky and hilarious things happen to these racers. Enrico Pollini (Rowan Atkinson) is hit by a car by Wayne Knight, and survives. Vera Baker (Whoopi Goldberg) and her daughter Merrill Jennings (Lanai Chapman) drive a rocket car that can travel at Mach-one speed. Owen Templeton (Cuba Gooding Jr.) drives a bus full of women dressed as Lucille Ball/Lucy Ricardo. Duane Cody (Seth Green) and his brother Blaine (Vince Vieluf) strap a cow to a hot air balloon. Nick Schaffer (Road Trip's Breckin Meyer) gets tossed about in a helicopter by Tracy Faucet (Road Trip's Amy Smart) trying to kill her boyfriend (Dean Cain). Finally, Randy Pear (Jon Lovitz) gets his wife (Kathy Najimy) and kids into trouble speaking and looking like Hitler, and they stole his car. Also starring Gloria Allred, Dave Thomas as Harold Grisham, Paul Rodriguez as Gus the Cabbie, Kathy Bates as The Squirrel Lady, Smash Mouth and Rance Howard as Feed the Earth Spokesman. Good! "},{"Title":"I can't say enough about this movie - I wish there was more of it!!!","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the greatest assemble comedy ever!! And not only is it great by those standards, but also just by comparison to regular movies. It's a film that actually takes you away to this zany, fantastic world of funny, and It'll always be one of my favorites, if not, my ABSOLUTE favorite. If you're not going to watch it because of those reasons, then watch it for the cast! There are some of the funniest people I've seen on that movie, and when they're all combined? Well, the cast said it themselves It's comedy 24/7.P.S.~ I know THIS shouldn't matter, but I couldn't help pointing out what great special features they have on this DVD. They have the making of (with funny behind the scenes stuff), Gag Reel, Deleted Scenes, and more! When you like this movie as much as I do, you'll be thankful the director chose to do so many extra features.  "},{"Title":"Genius appears in unexpected places...","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this film I didn't even know existed on TV one night and I was so pleasantly surprised I have since bought the DVD.Although I am not a fan of films starring mostly motor vehicles (most American films being about cars and guns), I have to admit that as a clone of 'It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World', it is brilliant in concept, brilliant in execution and very often more inventive and funny than the original, even though I saw the original on the giant Cinerama screen and I have long worshipped it as one of the finest movies ever made. I never thought I would ever say this I laughed, I cried, I peed myself and I thoroughly enjoyed Rat Race. Its real genius is not in the premise itself, although that one was good enough for that other famous film. It is in the details, the acting and enthusiasm of every single participant. Vince Vieluf is a stand-out as this century's definitive lovable idiot and at least on a par with Rowan Atkinson. John Cleese shines in his interpretation of - of all things - an American. Jon Lovitz' family is actually believable as victims of circumstance and go above and beyond the call of duty (pardon the pun) to get a laugh. Cuba Gooding Jr. is at his most athletic, which is saying a lot. But a special Oscar should have been offered to Whoopi Goldberg for attempting a part that is absolutely against type a sentimental, polite, retiring, nave, soft-spoken and even-tempered soul to whom terrible things happen without ever affecting her sunny disposition. She and her daughter got the biggest laughs from yours truly, as did the cameo appearance of another Oscar winner who shall go unnamed so as not to spoil the fun. Those who respond to the phrase You should have bought the squirrel by soiling themselves will understand. "},{"Title":"The only thing worse than the movie was the ending!","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You know they've cast a third-rate musical group in the movie when the writers have to write in a character saying hey it's (fill in the blank). The actors were a B-rating at best.  The writing was maybe worth a D.  In fact, it was almost as if the writers knew the wit was depleting because the majority of the movie was bad slapstick and recycled I Love Lucy humor. Not only are Lucille Ball lookalikes in modern-times not funny, they're obnoxious.The only redeeming qualities were John Cleese, a great Monty Python alum, and Kathy Bates' cameo, which regretfully involved Whoopie Goldberg and was completely revealed in the trailer. Oh by the way the band was Smashmouth. "},{"Title":"Unfunny","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Every time a scenario was established in this movie it was very easy to figure out where they were going with it.  There were about 80 jokes presented during the movie, and about 2 of them were funny. I couldn't wait for this awful movie to end. "},{"Title":"Crap race, gutter movie !","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rate race has everything to be a good movie great actors and a not too bad story. Unfortunately it does not succeed in making us laugh. Don't get me wrong, there is plenty of interesting things but it never really takes off and all the humour is minus 10. Probably the most original parts of the movie are the one about nazi and heart transplant (they make you smile but nothing more). Besides that it is not funny... at all ! It becomes such a bore that one's only hope was for it to end ASAP.Making a movie is difficult. Making a funny movie is even more difficult. Neither the actors nor the director succeeded. I will not be surprised if it ends on the bottom shelf of your video store. But I'll be extremely surprised if anybody picks it up.Don't waste a Euro on this trash.  "},{"Title":"The only film showing I ever walked out of. Dreadful.","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went to see this film with my brother, not knowing very much about it before hand.From the animated opening credits I already had my doubts, and not least because Rowan Atkinsons's mug had shown up. (He was funny in Blackadder, and pretty much nothing else)The film began and the level of 'humour' was so bad it made me feel embarrassed that this film had been made and even more so that I was watching it Still, I sat there hoping it might get better. Of course it didn't. The list of banal and pathetic 'jokes' was unbelievable.  Abused live organs, balloon trapped flying cows, a Klaus Barbie Museum, an improbable Italian narcoleptic, oh it's hurting my brain to recall such stuff.For the people who have reviewed this and left comments of praise and adoration I can only wonder if perhaps they actually saw a different film from the trite I watched. Before anyone thinks I don't have a sense of humour I'd like to state that I certainly do, and I will sit through and enjoy many things, but this just wasn't funny.In the UK this film was given a 12 certificate. I think the classification system should have been inverted and the film should have been restricted to those only UNDER 12. it would have saved me the mental torture at least. Not even looking at Amy Smart could relieve the anguish.I had laughed 2-3 times, but sadly not at any comedy. I was laughing at how brutally bad it was I laughed at the fact I had paid to watch this bilge. I laughed at some of the naive youngsters in the audience who thought it was mildly amusing.We had given it a fair chance. We had sat through 75 minutes out of the 112 minutes it ran but could take no more when John lovitz broke into the Veteran's reunion and was bizarrely acting like Hitler, like yeah, I'd start sounding German and doing Heil salutes if I'd choked on a cigar lighter. Anyway, not funny. It sucked big time. We walked out promising ourselves never to watch a film on a whim again. "},{"Title":"Not as funny as Aliens","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Long, dull and without humour of any kind at all.I would write spoilers about what happens, but it's so bad there's nothing to spoil.Rent Airplane and see how the same director used to be able to do great comedy.I just can't understand why Rat Race got such high ratings and rave reviews. Maybe it's an age thing, so if you're more than 5 years old, think twice before bothering to see it. Actually don't even think once, just go out and do something less boring instead.  "},{"Title":"Special Addition My first ever walk out","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You must avoid this rotting pile of dog sh*t at all costs.  I've seen many awful films in my time, but this one made me feel physically ill.  Aside from being relentlessly unoriginal and unfunny, I was terrified by the fact that people just laughed at even the lamest jokes as if they were somehow programmed to.  I never expected to hate a movie so much that I would find myself walking out of the theater to play a video game instead, but this movie proved me wrong.  See this abomination only if you are one of those masochists.  The acting was was the equal of High School Drama class, the plot was as solid as baby food.  The film resorts to using one characters horribly fake foreign accent for a laugh of some kind, John Cleese wastes his comedic talents on his poorly written character as do Seth Green and Jon Lovitz.  Congratulations to Cuba Gooding Jr. for starring in not one, but two awful movies this year (along with PEARL HARBOR).  This film is not even worthy of a 1, more like a -345. "},{"Title":"Not funny. Waste of talent.","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I love John Cleese and I love Rowan Atkinson and I love most of what they've made. Whoopi Goldberg is a fabulous actress, and Lanei Chapman is a beauty and a pleasure to watch. But that's all the good I can think of to say about this film. These actors' talents are completely wasted in this movie. All the characters are clichs and stereotypes and occasionally act as if they were cartoon characters. It's not enough to cast two comedians to make a good or funny movie. You need a good story, a good director and gags that are funny too. All sadly missing here. Rowan Atkinson does not match his silly role as an Italian. It's not enough to try to imitate an Italian accent to be funny, or to repeat some of the mimics from Mr. Bean. Well, my 5-year old daughter did laugh at the gags, so if your style is simple slapstick humour without sophistication rather than British/English humour or the type of humour you'll find in The Big Lebowsky, then you might like this movie. But then again, if it is to be slapstick, then I much prefer the classics such as Laurel and Hardy. "}{"Title":"Best Film of All Time?","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For me, this has to be the best film of all time. Saw it on TV, and had to buy the DVD. It is just so funny, especially if you're watching it for the first time. An all star cast, great script and acting. It all comes together so well. It keeps you glued to the screen, desperate for more. There are some great scenes, the best of them with Rowan Atkinson. Fav moments include the parts when Lovitz was driving Hitlers car and the scene near the beginning at the airport. I can't praise this film enough. Never have i laughed so much. Also, thought that the titles and the music by the Baha Men was really good. Same can be said for All-star at the end. Could not have been better so its got to be a 10/10. A 6 is just too harsh. "},{"Title":"The very first scene is funny, the rest is not.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There is only one scene worth watching in the whole movie, it is the very first, checking out from hotel, scene. Younger people and people who likes jokes like slipping on a banana will probably like the movie though.Mr. Bean (Atkinson) is a lot more fun in the TV episodes and John Cleese was a comedic genius in Fawlty Towers (and Monty Python of course), but their talents are wasted here. I had high hopes but Rat Race turned out to be crap. Watch Freddy Got Fingered instead. "},{"Title":"HORRIBLE!","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok.. This movie was horrible. It had its few laughs, but all in all it was one of THE stupidest movies ever made. Why would you want to pay money to see a movie with a story that has no point to it what-so-ever. GOOOD BYE!!!! "},{"Title":"A certified bomb","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How can a film starring John Cleese and Rowan Atkinson, and directed by a Zucker, be a bomb?  They managed to produce it, and here it is.    Designed (inevitably, it seems these days) for fourteen-year-old males, the film presents us with car crashes, chases, toilet jokes, and violence.  What is lacking is wit, sophistication, and the barest trace of humor.  An utter and embarrassing dud. "},{"Title":"Waste of 2 hours of my life","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There were about 10 funny moments in this film.  We actually counted.  I was so bored I spent my time looking for continuity bloopers.  My friend (who laughs all the time at most anything) was actually upset at the end of this movie.  We got the tickets for free - and we were still upset at having wasted 2 hours of our lives.This movie was worse than Godzilla.  I don't understand how a talented cast like this and a director who has been involved in some great comedies - could have made this STINKER!!! "},{"Title":"Canonball Run IV only worse instead of Burt we got Whoopi","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is only the 3rd movie that I have ever walked out on. Living in Las Vegas, Rat Race was all the rage and EVERYONE couldn't wait to see this Las Vegas movie. It was so miserable, acting was terrible, editing was obvious - probably done by students, and the story was SO done before that I not only wanted my money back but I was willing to PAY somebody to get me out of the theater. Awful movie old jokes from Canonball Run...and I'm now convinced that Whoopi Goldberg in a GIANT RED FLAG for a bad script. DONT BELIEVE THE TEENIE BOPPER VOTE.... I wouldn't even recommend renting this film...wait for it to come on regular television or cable - and then make plans to be gone that night.  "},{"Title":"The worst film of the year","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a matter of fact it is one of the worst films I have ever seen, rarely do I switch a film off once I've paid for it, but after an hour of this tripe I could stand no more.Any one starring in this should be thoroughly embarrassed to be associated with it. And anyone who thought it was funny should be immediately taken off to the asylum to get themselves checked out.A truly terrible film in every way, avoid it at all costs  "},{"Title":"The Pefect Comedy Cast In An Highly Entertaining Race","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rat Rce (2001, Dir. Jerry Zucker) Donald P. Sinclair has placed six separate gold coins in different slot machines in his casino. The lucky six who find these coins discover an opportunity of a lifetime. The chance to own $2 million. Locked up in a locker in New Mexico, these six contestants must now race each other, to be the first to the cash. There are no rules in place and everything that could possibly happen, does. Whilst, behind the scenes, Sinclair's associates are placing their bets.You look at the cast for 'Rat Race' on paper, and it's definitely something to get excited names. With stars such as John Cleese, Rowan Atkinson, Seth Green and Jon Lovitz appearing together, you could end up with a great comedy movie. Although this doesn't reach the same heights of 'Airplane' and 'The Naked Gun', it sure does have a good try and ends up a fantastic comedy film to enjoy. It doesn't rely on filth and has some great phrases. There are some really fun characters included in the movie, with some great story lines to follow. There are seven separate stories included to follow, but they don't become confusing at all. This is definitely a movie you should really watch, when you have 2 hours free.Ah, little cock doggies. - Enrico Pollini (Rowan Atkinson) "},{"Title":"Fair It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World update","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There have been lots of movies updated, redone, spoofed, you name it. The classic 1963 It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World was due to be updated, and in my opinion, this is a fair update. One of the things that made MMMM World work was its huge assemblage of popular talent and comics, even small cameos. Here, you have a small group and very few added characters to the chase. In the original, lots of gags that hit every time; here, you have hits and misses, almost as many misses as you have hits. The Nazi Barbie Museum and the heart being the two biggest misses. Another big miss was when the two brothers ended up in the big wheel rally, and realized a big wheel truck was about to pound on them, they scattered out the car door, which took more time to do than simply put the car in gear and drive away from where they parked. The mumble-mouthed brother could have been in reference to Buddy Hacket's vocal style in the original movie, but if so, I think it's insulting.But with all its faults, RAT RACE is still a funny movie -- a one-timer for me -- with my favorite scene being the helicopter girl flies over her boyfriend's house. I haven't laughed so hard since Airplane! My favorite line was when after John Cleese told them Go! and everyone's still seated, he says, All of you have been racing for 45 seconds, and this guy is in the lead because he's the closest to the door. That got a huge chuckle from me. Definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"An archaic film; something of a remake","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film is apparently a throwback to chase comedy films of the past, and it has attracted an all-star cast of comedians who apparently relish the chance to make a film like those of their youth. With such talent, and Jerry Zucker directing, I had high hopes for this film.Unfortunately, such a constellation of talent seems to have produced a traffic jam rather than great art, and rather than building upon each other's talents, the many comedians in this picture seem to have found their collective lowest common denominator. I cannot say that this film is altogether terrible, but it is probably the most over the top live action film I have ever seen, and 'looney tunes' cartoons would seem to be a considerable influence. At the same time, the film itself seems to take itself seriously, and rather than a Zucker comedy, one has a campy throwback.This film might be hilarious to the right person, or possibly pre-teens, but I could not recommend this film to most modern film-goers. "}{"Title":"it was an OK film","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i found that this film had a lot of good moments i nit and that it was quite funny and interesting to watch for a couple hours but their was some boring filler in there so thats why i gave it a 7 out of 10 i think if u are letting kids under the age of 10 watch this film that parents should be with them when they watch it .i think it was a good film for film makers to invest in it had a lot of humor in it ,very amusing .what i liked about this particular film if that not too many parts in it were dull and boring i like that in a movie nothing to make you say why did i spend money on renting this if you know what i mean i would recommend this movie to people who love a good laugh . i think i would buy this film in the future this is my comment on RAT RACE. hope u find it use full . "},{"Title":"Not your average comedy","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'll tell you first that I did not really like this film.  I thought the humour got very old very fast and there wasn't enough good humour in it to satisfy those expecting something similar to Zucker's other efforts.  But having said that, let me say this.  Rat Race does one thing tremendously well and that is it never stops trying.  I don't think I have seen a film where almost every scene has the potential to be funny.  Many and most comedies just take their linear route and go from point A to point B and try to put in some humourous situations along the way.  Well Rat Race is ubiquitous in it's attempt to humour us.  Every scene is ripe with potential and I would only guess that if this is your type of comedy, then you will enjoy this film.  There is everything from Jon Lovitz inadvertently looking and sounding like Hitler just as he ends up on stage in a WWII veterans ceremony.  We also have Rowan Atkinson and Wayne Knight chasing after a heart after it has fallen out of a window.  You have fathers that make their little girls put their bums out the window and go while the car is still moving because of greed.  You have Whoopi Goldberg and her daughter acting like mentally handicapped people after they get off of the fastest car in the world and you have Cuba Gooding Jr. driving a bus full of winy Lucille Ball look alikes.  There is also Seth Green and his brother chasing after a cow and a hot air balloon as it almost takes out a bus.  Now if this is something that sounds appealing to you, then I guess you should rush to see this film.  There is enough humour in here to satisfy everyone and this is coming from a guy that didn't even like it that much.  If you happen to dislike this kind of comedy, then avoid like the plague. I found Rat Race to be unfunny but I can't really tell you why.  The jokes were fast and frenzied and most of the audience, including my wife, was laughing quite hysterically but I just didn't see the humour.  But as I said, if what is described above sounds funny, then you will probably appreciate the film in some or all regards.Rat Race is about a bunch of people that have to get to a bag that contains two million dollars in it.  A casino owner gets all of best betting customers together to wager on the contestants along the way.  While the race is on, we cut back every once in a while to the bettors to see what silly practices they are betting on next.  In one of the funnier scenes, Dave Thomas tells a call girl that he wants to get naked with her in a pool of Pepto Bismol and have her wear a cowboy hat and lick her feet while she shaves his butt.  She looks at him in a queer manner and then finally replies that she will do it for $3000.00  From behind the curtains all the bettors appear and they begin handing over money to the man that bet closest to $3000.00.  These guys are shameless and will bet on anything.Rat Race is a review that I am actually having trouble finishing.  I know I disliked this film immensely yet when I think about it, I know that it is zany and quite off the wall and that scores points in my books.  Maybe I was in a bad mood that day, maybe I just didn't get the humour or maybe it is really as bad as I say it is.  Whatever.  See it for yourself and be the judge.6.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Rat Race proves, it's a mad, mad, mad, mad, world!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" RAT RACE (2001)(4/5 STARS)StarringROWAN ATKINSON JOHN CLEESE WHOOPI GOLDBERG CUBA GOODING, JR SETH GREEN JON LOVITZ BRECKIN MEYER AMY SMART WAYNE KNIGHTDirected by JERRY ZUCKER Written by ANY BRECKMANFrom the very beginning of RAT RACE I knew it was going to be hilarious. The all-star comedic cast alone draws you to the movie, much less the jokes themselves. But let me tell you, the jokes did not fall flat at all. I don't know how many times I laughed, but it was countless. Unlike most comedies, RAT RACE delivers the whole way through, then has a HUGE comedy scene during an already funny movie (a few in particular among many, such as the airport scene, the helicopter scene, The Lucy Bus and the Hitler scene.)Basically a remake of the 1969 film IT'S A MAD, MAD, MAD, MAD, WORLD, the plot of the movie is a little different, and goes a little something like this A billionaire tycoon named Donald Sinclair (Cleese) puts gold coins inside 6 slot machines in his hotel, to draw people on a game of his to be the first to get to Mexico City, and find a million dollars stored in a locker at a train station. First one there, wins it all. We find that a football referee (Gooding) who has made the worst call on a play in history, two money seeking brothers (GREEN) looking to sue the hotel, a mother (Goldberg) just reunited with her daughter she gave away years ago, a man taking his family on their first vacation in years (Lovitz), an uptight young man (Breckin Myer) who finally takes a risk gambling one coin into a slot machine, and last but definitely not least a Frenchman named Enrico Polini (Atkinson) all find a coin. After being let in on Sinclair's game, at first they all say they won't go after the money. Then it begins. ALL of them rush away after the money, except Breckin Meyer's character, which leaves to take a flight home. On the way however, he meets a young female helicopter pilot (AMY SMART) who agrees to fly him to Mexico City, unaware of the little gamble. Later she is let in on the secret however, and she agrees to head to Mexico with him anyway.All the characters are completely loveable, especially Atkinson's. There're some famous cameos in this film as well, to name two are Kathy Bates and the band Smash mouth. There're a lot of interesting things about this film. One, is that it's the first to have two African-American actors in one movie together. Two, the character progression and introduction is done so well, it's incredible. It's truly amazing how good a comedy CAN be, and this is a good reference to look at if you're filming comedy. Another thing this comedy has, is the fact that while you're rooting for everyone, you wouldn't REALLY care if your character doesn't get the million. That's just the way the movie goes. And the end, unlike most comedies is truly great, and while a bit predictable what action the characters will take, we never guess HOW they do.If it's Donald Sinclair betting on who's going to throw up first, to your favorite characters doing wild and zany things, RAT RACE proves, it's truly a MAD,  MAD,  MAD, MAD WORLD , full of laughter and other great things, too many of which to wrap up in this comment! 4/5 STARS "},{"Title":"Passable but really dumb and only for those who like their comedy basic","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A Las Vegas casino owner has found that he must create more interesting things for people to bet on.  He plants several gift tokens in the machines in his casino.  The winners of the tokens are then told that a locker in a small town in New Mexico contains $2million and that whoever gets there first can have it.  By fair means and foul, the race begins.When my friend rented this I was filled with dread at the idea, but gave it a chance.  Needless to say it is all very dumb.  The plot is a very basic way of getting some action and really it's hard to care who wins or loses the race &#150; which is just as well considering how daffy the ending is.The humour is perfect is you like people knocking into each other and falling down.  I don't but I still laughed occasionally.  Some of the jokes are clever and surprising (the Barbie museum is funny) but most are laboured &#150; for example when something happens and it is made clear, it means it is part of a set-up for a joke.  It makes it feel very staged and dull, taking much of the spark off the jokes (if they had any!).  It is amusing but no more than that &#150; for some parts the sheer energy of the action carries it but overall it is just too dumb and lazy to be really funny.It's hard to believe there's a couple of Oscar winners in here &#150; all the cast get by with absurd mugging and shouting.  Gooding Jr proves yet again that his Oscar was an one-off by delivering a performance of such cartoon quality that you wonder why he bothered.  Goldberg is as bad &#150; but do we expect any better from her now?  Lovitz is amusing but has no really good material to work with.  Green and Vieluf just scream and run around &#150; some of their stuff is funny but really they're jut poor clowns.  Talented British comics Cleese and Atkinson are wasted &#150; Cleese is really poor and has little to do and Atkinson is ruined by a terrible accent, like a 3rd rate Mr Bean.Overall bits of this are funny but really you should only watch this if you love comedies that don't get anymore advanced than people falling over and knocking each other down in a range of forced ways.  I laughed a handful of times but I hated myself for it. "},{"Title":"Nonstop wackiness","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In Rat Race, a Las Vegas casino magnate selects a motley bunch of people at random, gives them keys to a public locker containing $2 million in cash in a town 500+ miles away, and tells them to go for it. What ensues is nonstop wackiness as the characters try to beat each other to the cash. A gag-a-minute, this flick is packed with unbridled and unabashed silliness in a sort of contemporary Vaudeville-meets-Hollywood road trip format. Well worth a look for those with a taste for unsophisticated, wacky comedy. "}]