[{"Title":"Hilarious!!!!","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"25 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I absolutely LOVE this movie and have to say that it is by far my favorite comedy. There are parts of this movie where you are laughing so hard that your stomach hurts and you have to re-watch those parts because you were laughing to hard to hear exactly what was going on.Have to admit that I'm a fan of Chris Kattan and loved him on Saturday Night Live. He's great at comedic acting and this movie is most certainly proof of that! Although, still, he seems to be at ease in the parts of the movie where things get a little serious (although nothing can be too serious in this movie!).I recommend it for watching. Not all sense of humors are the same, but personally, I loved it...as did my entire family! "},{"Title":"one of my favorites!","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" MIGHT BE A SPOILER!!!!! I LOVE THIS MOVIE! what else can I say it's hilarious! it's about a VERY dysfunctional family...Corky who is cut out for absolutely nothing, goes undercover as a FBI agent and the boss thinks he's just what they need for the case of the night vulture. But all wanted was to steal evidence against his father, Pop Romano, but every time he comes a step closer they pull him back five. Corky Romano is one of the funniest movies ever! I told my best friend about it and I was shocked she'd never even heard of it! But I got her to watch it and our favorite part is the same as almost everyone else's...You guys want some cookies? This is what some call a dumb comedy but that's what makes it SO funny! "},{"Title":"Before and After Corky.","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Corky Romano is I believe a good movie. Well of course not a good movie in terms of story line but good enough. The good thing about this movie is the hilarious parts. Honestly I don't know Chris Kattan before I watched this movie. I just saw it's poster on a mall and I decided to watch. Why? I don't know why did I watched this movie, but to tell you, I really had a great time laughing all by myself inside that cinema. That's the time when the movie CORKY ROMANO became one of my all time favorite comedy.Sometimes the story seems nonsense. But that's the beauty of it. This movie never makes you think of anything. It just makes you laugh. I recommended this movie to a friend of mine and he liked it as well. Although we have the same reaction.... The story is not impressive. 4/10 for story.. But who cares? This movie just made my day..Good choice if you want to relax and just laugh for an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"A good How-to video  How NOT to make a comedy","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Admittedly, I didn't have high expectations of Corky Romano.  But then again, who did?  However, I felt it deserved the benefit of the doubt.  I had no high hopes of Joe Dirt either--another recent comedy starring an SNL cast member--and I ended up being pleasantly surprised.  But this film is just as bad as it looks in the previews.  Chris Kattan is actually a talented comic actor--contrary to what you might think after watching this movie--with great energy.  He's been in many hilarious SNL skits, and I think he's one of the most talented cast members on SNL as of now.  In this case, he's given a lame, pointless script and he tries to remedy each scene with his incessant mugging.  Throughout each scene, he attempts a lame Jerry Lewis act and fails miserably.  Jerry Lewis knew how to pull off this type of physical comedy, not to mention he worked with much better writing.  Kattan simply looks like some ignorant fool with ADHD who had one too many Cafe Lattes.  He doesn't even wait for the punchline; he assumes we'll all laugh once he starts jumping around like an ape on crack.  In one scene, he ends up in a tugging match with a dog who has a package of cocaine in his mouth.  The package explodes and the cocaine splashes all over him.  He comes back to the job, strung out on coke.  Now, how are we supposed to laugh at the fact that he's acting hyper and on-edge, when he's doing the same thing throughout the whole film?  As for the rest of the cast members...Vanessa Shaw is really hot, Peter Berg is wasted in a thankless role and so is Chris Penn.  Peter Falk is also wasted, though he has a few funny lines that I'm pretty sure he improvised.  I hope Falk gets a decent movie someday soon.  That's too much talent too waste on a clunker like Corky Romano.  I didn't like Falk's last movie Made all that much either, but at least he had a decent role. I chuckled a few times, but I could not get a single laugh.  Each gag is performed with no sense of timing or delivery.  And it's made worse by Kattan's hammy acting.  And there are certain gags that are streneously dragged out.  For example, when Kattan is about to fart in his two brothers' faces.  He stands there for 2 or 3 minutes, trying to get out a fart and when he finally he does it's a little tiny one.  It's bad enough when you have a gag that's funny and drag it out, but when you have a lame gag and you drag it out it's a hell of a lot worse.  And another example of this is when he tries to translate what those two Asian men are saying during a drug bust.  I can go on and on about what's wrong with this so-called comedy, but I'm not gonna waste my time.  Like I said earlier, if you predicted bad things from the trailers--you predicted right.  My score  3 (out of 10)     "},{"Title":"Quirky Romano","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Corky Romano's ambition is to get the cheapest laughs. I'm a sucker for slapstick humor, but it only works if you have either two great comedy actors who have shining chemistry (Farley and Spade in Black Sheep) or you have a group of actors who get into mischief when they're trying not to (The Three Stooges).With that being said, Corky Romano doesn't measure up to great comedy, and in the slapstick genre it is only standard fare. Kattan is fine, but not memorable. Mostly because the humor we are faced with is defined in a scene where we see Corky (Kattan) working as a veterinarian and mindlessly running into things left and right. Going back to Black Sheep, there is a scene where Chris Farley closes an old couple's trunk and his tie gets caught. The couple takes off without noticing Farley's character is stuck. That was better and funnier because Farley was trying to be serious and was trying to avoid trouble. He wasn't deliberately doing something over and over again.That's the true moral here; slapstick is funny when you put characters into situations they really don't want to be a part of.The plot Peter Falk is typecast as a mob boss who is on trail, but has coincidentally fallen very ill. Desperate to erase any evidence of his wrong doing, he hires his son Corky who neglected the mob business at a young age unlike his other siblings. Corky is a simple guy, but trouble has a way of finding him. Corky is persuaded by his father and his brothers, who take him undercover and change his named to Corky Pissant (pronounced Pee-sawnt). Now, Corky is still his same old, oddball roots, but the only difference is his name and his setting.At an incredibly short eighty-six minutes, Corky Romano doesn't accomplish a whole lot. The ending is contrived, the only thing likable about the lead is his innocence, and even two all star actors like Peter Falk and Fred Ward can hardly believe they're in such a film.If Corky Romano has included a less attention demanding character, more scenes that revolved around the family, and maybe even gave Corky a sidekick it all would've worked out favorably. The problem is that Chris Kattan is a one man show. His character isn't built to occupy more than a few minutes before cutting to someone or something else.Although it was just a ho-hum experience, Corky Romano did give me the strangest feeling I've felt in a film in a long time. The fact that the film is named after a character who is barely capable of a feature length film, when other characters in the film are more interesting than him personally.Starring Chris Kattan, Viness Shaw, Fred Ward, and Peter Falk. Directed by Rob Pritts. "},{"Title":"As goofy as it gets when it comes to crime/mafia cinema spoof.","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Let me tell you something. I can only remember about this movie because of Vinessa Shaw wearing a skimpy, sexy mini nurse dress. Ohhh, that memory helps me when I'm sad.Seriously, Corky Romano is the goofiest movie you can get in terms of spoofing crime/mafia cinema. It's that goofy, that makes the Wayans Brothers look serious! To be honest and quick; watch this movie only if scatological humor, extreme cheese, and goofy performances make you laugh.Otherwise, don't watch it. I watched it on the theaters and well I had a decent time with it but it was back in 2001 when I was still 17. "},{"Title":"One of the all-time worst movies","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I could only get through about 25 mins of it. Not one laugh in the 25 minutes I gave it, one of the most painful films I've ever had to endure. Chris Kattan is so nervous on screen that it made me nervous to watch him. Just a horrible movie. "},{"Title":"Chris KattanStay on SNL","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chris Kattan is a great sketch actor on Saturday Night Live...but he should probably leave the movie industry alone unless he gets some sort of creative control. He plays an annoyingly peppy character who basically comes off as mildly retarded and on speed. Wanna know the only funny parts? The stuff they showed in the previews. Yes, his rendition of take on me is funny. Nothing else is. ESPECIALLY when you can tell he's trying very hard to be a physical comedian, which he shouldn't have to try at because he is one. And yet, his 'demolishing the vet's office' bit comes off as cringingly bad. This movie made me develop an eye twitch. Avoid it at all costs, and keep watching SNL. "},{"Title":"A friend's 9-year-old daughter thought it was hilarious . . .tell you anything.","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Probably the only thing that got the movie up to a four for me is the fact that I love Peter Falk.  One of the world's great portrayers of bumbling incompetence . . . and yet he is one of the only anchors that prevents this from being a chaotic disaster.  As Pops Romano, he provides a respectable mix of gangster charm and straight man to Chris Kattan's manic foolishness. Respectable performances are also offered by Richard Roundtree as the harried boss, Vinessa Shaw as a talented female FBI agent bouncing her head off a glass ceiling and Fred Ward as Falk's advisor and Benedict Arnold.The plot concept actually has some wonderful possibilities and, in the hands of a young Steve Martin or Chevy Chase, could have proved a great comedic vehicle.  Kattan, who seems to idolize Ernest or Pee Wee Herman, just provides a muddled mess. Sadly, Peter Berg and Chris Penn, who portray his misfit brothers, both fall far short of their proven capability.There are some very funny scenes, but they are far too few and separated by way too many boring ones.  What I truly miss here is what always attracted me to the Leslie Neilsen movies.  There is no 'second level' of wit riding over the slapstick.  No cultural references that only the adults get. . no double entendre. . it is just silly.And, by the way, this doesn't all mean that I am recommending it for your 9-year-old, because hopefully they have better taste and less fascination with some of their body parts and their functions.  "},{"Title":"Great comedy, but not for everyone","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When I was a kid, my dad absolutely refused to allow me to watch Jim Carry movies. Now, Jim Carry may have some more adult material in his stand-up and has done comedies and dramas aimed at adults, but the reason my dad refused to allow me to watch his kids movies like The Mask and Liar, Liar was simply because Carrey's very frenetic, over-the-top, physical comedy style really turned him off. He didn't get it; he saw it as low brow/low class; and he saw Carrey as a sleazy person and an idiot.Now, all of that seemed pretty judgemental to me, but it's understandable considering my father's background and personality type. And I think it's reasonable to expect a lot of people to be similarly turned off by Chris Kattan's equally eccentric and outlandish slapstick style. I think a lot of people enjoy his characters and skits on SNL, but certainly not everyone. And I can see how some might find it annoying (even without having an extremely uptight personality like my father).However, if you do enjoy that type of bizarre slapstick comedy, Corky Romano is right up your ally. It's it's weird; it's funny, and it's just a lot of feel-good fun.If you like watching a sweet, lovable goof get in way over his head but always come out on top due to fortunate and funny coincidences and mishaps (frustrating the bad guys to no end), then this is the movie for you. If you're looking for an intelligent film with witty writing or edgy humor, then this film will absolutely disappoint you. But taken for what it is, it's a solid comedy in its category.Basically, if you haven't watched Chris Kattan on film or on TV, you should probably check out an SNL skit first to find out if you like his style of comedy or not. Otherwise, you could end up loving the film or absolutely hating it. "}{"Title":"Corky is annoying","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  (SLIGHT SPOILERS) The lead character is your average, annoying goofball. I will give Kattan some credit since this movie is better than anything ex-SNL members, Rob Schneider and David Spade, have done. There are some chuckles thrown about.  How can you not laugh at the old lady who answers the phone with poodles and pussies.  And of course, how Corky is declared a hero and great detective by his colleagues when all he does is screw up.  Another funny moment is when Corky is supposed to be the translator between these 2 Asian guys and he just repeats everything they say.FINAL VERDICT  Not the worst movie to come from an SNL cast member.  It is short and bareable to sit through. "},{"Title":"You Guys Want Some Cookies?","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I thought Corky Romano was funny. Chris Kattan did a great job as the title character, a veterinarian who's given a big job from his father/mob boss Pops (Peter Falk) to pose as an FBI agent to destroy the evidence of a crime he didn't commit.With help from his dysfunctional brothers (Chris Penn & Peter Berg), Corky successfully enters the FBI. Quickly, he becomes the top agent of the bureau, thanks to his constant clumsiness. Soon, he saves the day and clears his father's name.Corky Romano has good laughs with funny scenes (such as when Corky gets high on cocaine and then has to deliver a speech to children, or when Corky breaks in an underground casino club, enduring mace, a paint-mixer, and kicks in the face by a midget.)However, this movie could have been a little more funnier if it had a better director and editor. First-time director Rob Pritts needs some more learning on setting up a gag, but he does fine enough (it's his first movie, anyway), but the editing by Alan Cody (Inspector Gadget) could use some work.Most scenes barely have a transition it justs cuts to the next day or scene. The slapstick scenes are edited good enough to be funny, but they're not as hilarious as they are in the trailer and commercials.This movie could also be more funnier if writers David Garrett and Jason Ward didn't nearly fill the film to the brim with profanity. For a PG-13 movie, there were way to much use of the s word.Aside from these flaws, Corky Romano is still funny entertainment. "},{"Title":"THE WORST MOVIE I HAVE EVER SEEN!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  please save your money and go see something else.  this movie was such  piece of crap. i didnt want to go, but i had to so i thought i'd laugh at least once, NOPE.  not a single laugh, it was that horrible! chris kattan will never get a good comedy role after this and a night at the roxbury. this movie is completely obvious, has no smart humor at all, and just repeats itself over and over again. listen to me, and stray as far away from this movie as you possibly can! "},{"Title":"When will I ever learn?","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I vowed a long time ago to NEVER, EVER watch a movie that has ANYONE who EVER was a regular cast member of Saturday Night Live. I didn't rent Corky Romano but I was forced by my unfailing good manners to watch it for half an hour. Then my good manners failed.  Stupid, not funny. Tedious, not hilarious. Bad, not good.  That in a nutshell is all I can say for this video.  "},{"Title":"The Horror....The Horror","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wow.  Some movies just leave me speechless.  This was undeniably one of those movies.  When I left the theatre, not a single word came to my mouth. All I had was an incredible urge to slam my head against the theatre wall to help me forget about the last hour and a half.  Unfortunately, it didn't work.  Honestly, this movie has nothing to recommend.  The humor was at the first grade level, at best, the acting was overly silly, and the plot was astronomically far-fetched.  I hearby pledge never to see an other movie starring Chris Kattan or any other cast-member of SNL.  "},{"Title":"Stop Thinking and Laugh!","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When the mobster Francis A. 'Pops' Romano (Peter Folk) is sent to the court, the Romano family decides to send an undercover man to destroy the evidences against him without knowing that there is an informer in mafia. The clumsy loser veterinary son Corky Romano (Chris KattaN), who is not a criminal, is infiltrated in the FBI to destroy the evidences against his father.Based on the bad reviews in IMDb, I saw Corky Romano with the lowest expectation I could have, but I liked it. The story is silly, but there are many funny situations. The lead character is a completely a**hole, but all his mistakes work in the end. It is also worthwhile to see also the sexy Vinessa Shaw. Do not think, watch this film with low expectation and in the end you might be surprised laughing a lot. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) A Arma Secreta da Máfia (The Mafia's Secret Weapon) "},{"Title":"Toilet Waste.","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Corky Romano (2001) Dir Rob Pritts / Cast Chris Kattan, Vinessa Shaw, Peter Falk, Chris Penn, Peter Berg The hero sticks his ass in someone's face and grunts and groans until his face turns red. Is this suppose to be funny? Chris Kattan stars as a timid veterinarian whose father undergoes a heart attack. His father was involved with the mob and is under surveillance after evidence is presented against him. He has two other sons, one whom is gay, and the other not being able to read. Corky is ordered to go undercover as an F.B.I. agent to infiltrate the feds and destroy the evidence. Director Rob Pritts does an uninspiring job. Corky is an idiot straight through. Nobody this stupid just walks into a police station and does what he does, and Kattan doesn't render it funny even for a split second. Peter Falk is typecast as Pops Romano whose role consists of him sitting about waiting for someone to please him. Vinessa Shaw plays a female agent whose job is to be a potential romantic target for Corky, as if he would know the first thing about getting her in the sack. Chris Penn and Peter Berg tarnish their resumes by appearing as the two moron brothers. Their basic skill is to appear meaner than Romano and therefore look like bigger jackasses when he comes up on top by sheer luck. Dreadful production in a film that Corky should place his ass upon and grunt until his face turns red. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Low Ratings are misleading","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have a feeling that the people that scored this movie so low did so because they are part of the small group of ultra sensitive people who are offended by politically incorrect movies or just have no sense of humor, but I would be willing to bet it is the same group of people that rated Eddie Murphy's Norbit as a bomb. This is one of the few movies that had tears of laughter running down my face. And I am a harsh critic on what is funny- a stand up comedian's worse nightmare. Yes, it is a goofy movie. It isn't meant to be serious. Chris Kattan is absolutely hysterical. Chris Penn plays a great mobster and is quite funny even thou his role is meant to be a more serious role. If you want to laugh for an hour straight, don't miss this movie. You'll thank me later and be perplexed on the ratings like I am. "},{"Title":"It was just OK","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I watched this film late one night on Bravo. I'll just be honest with you not a single joke in this film is funny every single one falls flat! And the lead actor is just so uncomfortable to watch. This movie's problem is it tries way too hard to be over-the-top funny and it just doesn't work. Also the script was very poorly written and it was pretty poorly directed. I mean I think the love interest part of the movie was pretty cute I actually enjoyed that part but that was really the only part of the film I enjoyed, that's the reason I'm giving it a four out of 10, which is actually a very generous rating for this film. The acting actually wasn't all that bad, it was just average. So I say all that to say this, basically there are a lot better films that you could watch other than this, so I really would not suggest it. 4/10 "},{"Title":"not funny boring","Date":"28 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The only good thing about this movie is that V.i.n.e.s.s.a S.h.o.w is beautiful and looks great in tights. And R.e.n.a M.e.r.o is even more beautiful and looks amazing in a red bra. But other then that nothing. It's not funny. It's kind of sick a times. It's very stupid. And funny stupid just stupid. It's piece off pooh. Don't wast your money. It's just pooh pooh. It sucks. It sucks. Pooh pooh. Pooh pooh. Pooh pooh. Stinky stinky pooh. A great big pile of pooh pooh. A bad taste. The taste of pooh pooh. To many mush of C.h.i.r.s K.a.t.t.a.n hurting his crotch. Not funny sick. Sick is not funny. Sick is just sick. I hate this movie. Pooh pooh. Pooh pooh. "}{"Title":"Chris Kattan was terrific!","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The only way I can even stomach an over the top, silly movie is if the acting by the lead character is good and/or the direction is excellent. This movie made us a big fan of Chris Kattan. So many comedies I have seen lately have actors that you can tell are simply going for a laugh, the acting isn't genuine and the characters are not consistently believable. I want to believe the character regardless of how ridiculous or goofy the character's behavior is. This movie has some really silly moments in it, yet what made it work perfectly is that Kattan performed a genuine character effortlessly. He had a lot of natural charisma and the director highlighted this well. It was very easy to have empathy for this goofy character. There were some moments in this film where we had to pause the movie because we were laughing so hard. I saw this movie at least five years ago and I still have a couple scenes pop into my mind from time to time that make me smile. If you admire Chris Kattan's work, this is definitely worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Night at roxbury better","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love chris kattan on SNL, from his monkeyboy character to jibberish guy. He has such an energetic spirit about him, which shows in this film. Unfortunetely, many comedic scenes were very predictable, and laughs are far and few between.  Not to mention nothing frustrates me more when they show some bumbling fool that screws up, but the manager sees a different positive view to it.  I particularly laughed during the translator scene, and when he just accidently got coke on his face, and has to give a speech to kids, and he's all hyped up questions? no? yes.. no? yes.. hiba jiba je ba jiba jeba jibba  the only way you'll laugh at this movie is if you really like chris, or mob movies. "},{"Title":"Very shallow","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I didn't mind the film that much, but it was incredibly dull and boring. A few laughs here and there but nothing to go crazy for. You should give it a go if you like silly, stupid humour because this is the film for you. "},{"Title":"This movie ROCKS","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a great movie that is filled to brimming with many funny jokes about all kinds of things you can think of. It is so enjoyable that it resembles a familiar touch on the back from a kindly relative in a time of need. I thought it was really great in a way (but in all ways). The music is one of the best things about the film but also the direction and editing is a phenomenon.This movie is about Corky Romano, a little gay man who becomes an FBI agent to fight crime. But get this you, his family is all criminals which makes a nice twist on the usual. It's a very funny film that will make you laugh your pants. "},{"Title":"Corky Romano qualifies as hopelessly cretinous but tolerably amusing.","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Nice guys finish first in director Rob Pritt's Corky Romano, and the bad guys lose out in the end. As the incredibly naive and gullible title hero, gifted Saturday Night Live comedian Chris Kattan does everything short of faking his own death to divert attention from the utterly preposterous, predictable, and derivative David Garret & Jason Ward screenplay. Essentially, these scribes have recycled the ruse Martin Lawrence's Blue Streak jewel thief adopted to recover a diamond. Posing as an FBI super-agent with fabulous but forged credentials, Lawrence searched sporadically for the gemstone when his FBI bosses weren't assigning him other cases. Similarly, Kattan impersonates a Fed, so he can steal evidence that the government has amassed to indict our hero's Mafioso father for murder. Sadly, despite a cornucopia of comedy, the big laughs are few and far between in this mildly scatological, low-brow, dumb-shtick farce. The best jokes are the hardest to spot. Hint keep your eyes on neckties. Further, the writers named an FBI agent after the 'Brick' Davis character played by James Cagney in the 1935 movie G-Men. Talk about an esoteric in-joke! Anyway, as with the best comics, Kattan and a seasoned cast featuring Columbo's Peter Falk, Fred Ward, Peter Berg, Chris Penn, and Richard Roundtree of Shaft fame maintain straight faces throughout this elaborately plotted potboiler. They remain oblivious to its many stupid, sometimes flatulent, but more often than not infantile sense of humor.Basically, Don Corleone crime lord Pops Romano is looking at serving considerable time in a Federal correctional facility. Government prosecutors have nailed down more than enough airtight evidence to convict this godfather. Pops suspects their information came from an informant. Up front we're told Romano's right-hand man Leo Corrigan (Fred Ward of Miami Blues) ratted him out. Pops wants one of their guys to infiltrate the FBI. Neither of Romano's sons, the functionally illiterate Paulie (Peter Berg of Lions for Lambs) nor repressed homosexual Peter (Chris Penn of True Romance), can go undercover because they are too well known. Leo suggests Corky Romano (Chris Kattan) to everybody's horror. Peter has credentials fabricated so their kid brother boasts an elite record beyond reproach. Were Corky a typical, ordinary guy, perhaps the Feds might swallow this subterfuge. Corky Romano is too bizarre. An aspiring veterinarian, he works at an animal hospital and has a winsome way with critters. He drives a mustard-yellow Miata and sings along with songs like Ah-Ha's Take Me On. Harmlessly eccentric, Corky has no mean bones in his body. He believes Pops owns a simple landscaping business. Never does he suspect dad is a big-time racketeer into prostitution and illegal gambling.Corky has no trouble fooling the FBI that he is legitimate. He butts head with gung-ho FBI guy Brick Davis (Matthew Glave of Rock Star) and gets the hots for sexy special agent Kate Russo (Vinessa Shaw). Meanwhile, FBI Supervisor Howard Shuster (Richard Roundtree of Shaft's Big Score) assigns Corky to find the Night Vulture, a homicidal heroin dealer. As Chris Kattan's first solo starring role, Corky Romano qualifies as hopelessly cretinous but tolerably amusing. "},{"Title":"A Laugh riot!","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you like the comical styling of Chris Kat tan, then this new comedy is sure to please you! The movie is about a klutzy veterinarian who has to prevent his father (a leader of a family crime business) from being arrested by the FBI. So they send Corky into the FBI as a new agent. His goal is to find the evidence against his father and destroy it. But Corky runs into a few dilemmas along the way! Overall this movie leaves you with a satisfying ending. You'll probably want to see it again! "},{"Title":"uhh-huh...","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'll be very brief.  Corky Romano is a joke, a waste of film and probably the most stupid movie in the world today.  It makes The Adventures of Ford Fairlane look like an Oscar contender.  But, there again, there are people in this world that have such  low intelligence, they will give it rave reviews.   I love a stupid slapstick comedy any day of the week, but Corky is just plain stupid.  Want to see a great stupid movie?  Go rent Monty Python movies, those are top notch slapstick funny stupid movies, Romano is just plain stupid. "},{"Title":"Great movie; hilariously funny","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First and foremost I've got to say that this movie was just so much fun to watch.  I cannot believe (well, actually I can) that Chris Kattan was so funny! It really lifted my spirits and made my day because I couldn't help but laugh.  It had that cheesy, quirky funniness to it, which made it all worth while.  It was so spoofy!  I loved it!  It was all I had expected from Chris.  It just made me admire him even more.  You can't get any better than his hilarity.  All in all, I loved this movie because it just made me forget where I was.  It was just too funny and a real delight to watch.  "},{"Title":"Kattan is funny; Corky is nto","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  CORKY ROMANO (2001) *1/2 Chris Kattan, Vinessa Shaw, Peter Berg, Chris Penn, Richard Roundtree, Peter Falk, Fred Ward,  Matthew Glave, Vincent Pastore, Rena Mero, Roger Fan, Dave Sheridan.  (Dir Rob Pritts)Adding another eponymous titled buffoon in the tradition of Ace Ventura Pet Detective and Deuce Bigalow Male Gigolo comes Corky Romano (originally subtitled Special Agent and apparently tossed so as not to cause a rift with those afflicted mentally or physically in these oh so politically correct times) played with rubber limbed and Putty-Faced gusto by SNL freak Chris Kattan who seems to be running in place as if his life depended on it.  Same could be said of this star vehicle sadly stalled in stupidity overall. The one-note joke is Corky is a chipper assistant veterinarian in sunny Florida whose upbeat disposition could light up the city of Miami with his tangerine sports car and love for kitschy 80s tunes (he's introduced singing shrilly to a-ha's Take On Me).  Unbeknownst to Corky his father - Pops (the ever crusty Falk, whose crinkly eyed mug suggest sleeping while standing upright) - is not a landscaping magnate as the ever-trusting youngest son would believe but a wanted gangster dallying in everything illegal under the sun and after a battle with health ailments decides to have his boy infiltrate the feds who've been eyeballling him all along to get some dirt on them.  With the assistance from his older sons (Berg and Penn, an illiterate and closeted homosexual - are we laughing yet?) Corky is reluctantly bullied to wear a wire and pose as an FBI manque. Corky willfully does his best for his dad but his slapstick fish-out-of-water antics prove to be his downfall for his family's plan and instead has his unorthodox behavior seen by his supervisor (Roundtree) seeing strokes of brilliance as a crackerjack hotshot newcomer much to the anger of his immediate agent overseer (Glave) and the not-so-bemused sexy co-agent in arms (Shaw) who proves to be all not she appears either in spite of her limbre, sexy ways. Kattan is a nimble physical comic who earns every penny on SNL but his talents seemed squandered in this Adam Sandler hand-me down (that's the impression one gets any way) with some clunky jokes (i.e. upon investigating a long-deposed of corpse Corky traipses through the grisly remains) and inane dialogue.  There are a few chuckles here and there (I liked his accidental intake of cocaine and his unfortunate encounter with Amazonian giantess Mero, The Wrestler Formerly Known as Sable, who uses his head as a can of paint in a paint-sifting machine.  However his character seems half-baked at best despite his game efforts (he saved the otherwise unspeakable Monkey Bone earlier this year) and perhaps he'll have better material in his next venture before abdicating King Geek @ SNL.  "},{"Title":"Kattan tries to skip through by-wrote generic pap.","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's a bad sign at the top of a movie when the filmaker feels he has to describe each character before they are introduced to make you 'get it' when they arrive. While I don't expect more than random drivel for a script when going to anything titled 'Corky Romano' one would expect these random chimps to type at least something of worth accidentally. Chris Kattan has no lines to work with and yet manages to dance about this film and have fun despite being surrounded by actors who were obviously not only asleep during his coverage but their own as well. It just seems that with actors like Peter Falk, Peter Berg and Chris Penn that just letting them make something up on the spot would have been more preferable. Instead, we are left with punchlines like shut up, you suck and the always reliable gay innuendos. Classic. Kattan has a face that if it isn't doing something you are certainly captivated wondering what it is going to do as well as a gift for physical comedy. Corky/ Kattan are at least a beacon in this drudge until the film starts to tie up plot points and attempts (for whatever reason)to make Corky a hero. From that point even Kattan becomes a bore and you start pondering what 80's song they will try and pawn off in the credits to trick you into thinking you had fun.  "}{"Title":"Hilarious movie!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought Corky Romano was a great movie. I'd recommend it to anyone who just wants get away, or watch a silly movie. Great debut for first time movie director, Rob Pritts. Chris Kattan does a great job at being the dim-witted vetrenarian. "},{"Title":"I loved this funny and delightfully amusing film!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I liked this movie mainly because Chris Kattan is in it! i was waiting forever for a good movie to come out with him in it. I thought that it was funny, i went with my friends and we laughed so hard, out stomachs hurt. However there are those of you who may not find some of the humor funny, it has a tendency to be crude but that puts a little smile somewhere or lifts your spirits because you know that it was funny but you dont want your reputation hindered. but yeah the mvoie was great Chris Kattan looked finger licking good! luv you Chris! "},{"Title":"Very funny!!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie last night and couldn't stop laughing!  Chris Kattan is excellent as Corky Romano, a very lovable character.  The ending was a bit sappy, but still humorous. there seemed to be a lot of younger kids in the movie theater despite the PG-13 rating, and my whole family enjoyed it. The orange Miata was great... "},{"Title":"Irresistible Fun","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Okay, so Corky Romano isn't for everyone, as is apparent from the bad reviews coming in from critics. But, if you're in the mood for a good old fashioned brainless laugh, this movie is one of the best you're going to find this year. The plot centers around Corky Romano (obviously) a veterinarian, vegetarian and all around too happy guy who happens to come from a mob family. When his father and gang-leader Pops Romano gets some incriminating evidence on him in the hands of the FBI, he and his 3 other sons recruit long time family shut-out Corky to infiltrate the FBI to retrieve the records. This of course, leads to many, many comedic opportunities, all of which are followed up and taken full advantage of. Corky and his family steal the show every time they're on-screen. And it all builds up to an exciting and completely unexpected ending that turns the entire movie upside down. This movie never stopped being entertaining.. in fact, it's only fault may be it's 126 length, which leaves you wanting more. But, that's what the best movies do. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Not bad..but not great either..","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As much as I love Chris Kattan on SNL, this felt suspiciously like an SNL skit drawn out too long. (ie The Ladies Man, Night at the Roxbury). There were some laughs in it, but don't hold your breath to hear them announce And the Oscar goes to... Corky Romano! "},{"Title":"Corky Romano is worth the money","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Corky Romano is the funniest movie I have seen in a long time. I think it is the funniest movie this year. Chris Kattan is so funny, he makes the movie. He is the only one who can pull stupid crap and still look good. I can't think of one scene that was boring! The whole movie kept you laughing till the end. Even when I left the movie theater I was still laughing my head off. Go see Corky Ramano it is worth the money. Anyone who says this movie is stupid, they are the stupid one because this movie is funny, funny, funny. "},{"Title":"A tragic attempt at a Mafia comedy.","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I did not watch the entire movie. I could not watch the entire movie. I stopped the DVD after watching for half an hour and I suggest anyone thinking of watching themselves it stop themselves before taking the disc out of the case.I like Mafia movies both tragic and comic but Corky Romano can only be described as a tragic attempt at a mafia comedy.The problem is Corky Romano simply tries too hard to get the audience to laugh, the plot seems to be an excuse for moving Chris Kattan (Corky) from one scene to another. Corky himself is completely overplayed and lacks subtlety or credulity - all his strange mannerisms come across as contrived - Chris Kattan is clearly 'acting' rather than taking a role - it bounces you right out of the story. Each scene is utterly predictable, the 'comedic event' that will occur on the set is obvious as soon as each scene is introduced. In comedies such as Mr. Bean the disasters caused by the title character are funny because you can empathise with the characters motivations and initial event and the situation the character ends up in is not telegraphed. Corky however gives the feeling that he is deliberately screwing up in a desperate attempt to draw a laugh from the audience.If Chris had not played such an alien character (who never really connects with the other characters in the movie) and whose behaviour is entirely inexplicable (except for trying to draw laughs) and the comedy scenes weren't so predictable and stereotyped - all the jokes seemed far too familiar) this movie could have been watchable. But it isn't. Don't watch it. "},{"Title":"Hilarious.","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I had been reading some of the reviews over here and I actually wondered what is wrong about this movie. I mean, the outcast son of a mafia family going undercover for the FBI is just kind of hilarious. Corky Romano really lives up to his name.He was actually this vet but then one day he was being summoned by his family that he has to be an undercover FBI agent (along with fake identity and all that) to destroy whatever evidence the FBI has on his father. But maybe whether is it a nasty coincidence or not, when Corky is now being part of the FBI, his first assignment is on his family's case. At times, his inconsistencies almost appeared in front of his fellow colleagues and it's really funny.But end up, he became the hero in solving the case.Now, comedies are actually meant for some laughs. Or else the purpose will never be there. I do like it actually when I saw it few days back here on the television. "},{"Title":"Who knew Chris Kattan could be funny?","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Wow! Corky Romano is funny! I like movies or skits that make fun of the mob. Corky is one of the craziest movie characters out there. My favorite parts in the movie were when Corky inhaled all that cocaine and he was talking to those elementary school kids and he was going crazy and also when he was spying on those tough Nazis and he got captured. Without Corky I liked that little scene where Peter and Paulie were at the ice cream truck and Paulie couldn't read the sign and was holding up the line. Peter Fawk did some good acting in this. He was always great in Columbo. I also think it was neat to see Blake Clark in this. I like his stand-up back in the eighties. Anyway, if you want to see a crazy little guy whos in the middle of a bunch of trouble, watch Corky Romano Special Agent. "},{"Title":"You have to accept it for what it is...","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" No, this movie was not a pioneer; and no, this movie did not earn an academy award. Many people may say that this movie was horrible, but what do they expect? The next revolutionary saga?Corky Romano is an excellent 'light comedy'. When getting by the lacking special effects, you cannot expect them to be better. It is a silly movie that is funny...When watching a light comedy, all you should be concerned with is whether you laugh or not.I say, that the problem with the movie is the pretentious audience expecting the next big thing.So watch it and laugh.It's that simple.And, if you take away all of the low-budget-like problems, it's actually a great movie.Believe it. "}{"Title":"What a film!","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Anyone with a sense of humour should own this film, what a jest, the guy is living the dodge and the dream at the same time! Classic stuff, my mate dizzy hizzle also loves it, we are going into town on Saturday to try and buy it, but i think it'll be hard to get hold of cos it must be a rare movie cos i mean who wouldn't want to own it. I heard that in some places in the UK such as Reading and Norwich there are no copies of this movie left as it caused such a rush for the DVD buying public they sold out within a matter of hours. The stores in the Uk cant cope with the demand for this movie, so if any American distributors are out there send us some copies please please please! our nation needs them Corky RULES! "},{"Title":"Kind of Pointless","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...I guess I didn't get this film. It just wasn't funny at all, period!I'm normally a fan of actors from SNL who go on to make solo efforts but this was a disgrace!Chris Kattan is better than this surely? The producers of Adam Sandler films should have learned this by now!The story is absurd! Not really important but it's poor all the same!Straight to video in England and straight back on the shelf it goes!2/10 "},{"Title":"Moderately funny comedy..........","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not that I don't enjoy watching Chris Kattan, there was just something about Corky Romano. It was kind of boring and the story line was just putrid! It did make me laugh a COUPLE of times. It is definitely not a movie I would like to own, its one of those one-time things. So, if you wnjoy watching Chris Kattan, you should see this movie. "},{"Title":"it's not that bad. . .","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Corky Romano is probably the worst reviewed movie of 2001, next to Freddy Got Fingered. But, it isn't all that bad.OK, the acting is pretty stupid, but come on, THIS ISN'T MADE FOR OSCAR CONSIDERATION! IT'S JUST A MOVIE WITH STUPID HUMOR! If critics weren't so serious all the time and just lightened up this wouldn't have gotten such bad reviews. See it if you're in a good mood. Grade B- "},{"Title":"A funny no brainer, enjoyed it as such!","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Okay so what really grates on my nerves are the people that judge movies like this as if they were Siskel and Ebert making their picks for the upcoming Oscars. First, might I bring to everyone's attention that this is a screwball comedy. Not meant to be taken seriously as a Sundance Film Festival entree or anything similar. Critiquing artistic/dramatic/or even serious romantic comedies of course should be taken seriously. But what I have seen of the comments already made on this movie, they were analyzed with the analogy of a Whitney Houston fan giving Avril Lavigne's album bad marks because they didn't think she sang as well as Whitney. That's the point here...it's comparing Apples and Oranges. They are two different catagories here so let's analyze Corky Romano for what it's worth. A simple screwball comedy.So it's a given that not everyone is going to enjoy Corky Romano because some people don't care for the style of humor that it portrays. I myself, am more of a cynical, black comedy kind of person, but I love Chris Kattan. He is the key element here, and you watch the movie souly for the purpose of a good laugh at Chris Kattan's expense. Now the movie isn't great, but Christ Kattan IS...so i enjoyed it. It's supposed to be goofy and stupid so therefore it was a no brainer. I recommend this to anyone who is into that Duece Bigalow/Night at the Roxbury kind of humor. Dennis Leary fans heed this movie...it's too sugarcoated for that kind of darkness.Just treat it as a no brainer, and the rest is gravy. =o)  "},{"Title":"Marginally entertaining","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie wasn't as funny as I thought it would be but I think it had enough good laughs to make it marginally worth watching anyway.  I also think that it had a good story that was a bit exciting at times. Definitely not one of the best movies you'll ever see but it does have some redeeming qualities. "},{"Title":"A good choice for the second movie in a double feature","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was expecting a luke warm comedy but found the ubsurd (Steve Martin) style of humor refreshing. If you like the ubsurd style of Steve Martin and Chevy Chase, you'll like this one. It's actually a little better than some of the Steve Martin films. "},{"Title":"Sub-funny comedy","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Corky Romano could've been better if Kattan didn't try and go over the top in his comedy.  On Saturday Night Live, he is usually hilarious (Mango, the garbled voice coach, etc), but here he does stuff that's meant to be funny, but it isn't.  It's stupid humor in a too-ridiculous way to be easily enjoyed.  The story is also pretty dumb, with Kattan playing a dunce veteranarian who has to infiltrate the FBI to destroy evidence involvoing his father (Peter Falk, who was funnier in Made and doesn't fit this role really either), a mob boss.  Only one funny scene in the movie to look for- Kattan fights with a cop dog with a big pack of coke, the pack (obviously) explodes in front of them, and then he has to do a speech about the FBI in front of grade schoolers.  C- "},{"Title":"...average fare...","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went to see Corky Romano, knowing full well that the film would be, in a word, silly. Hopefully, a kind of silly that conjured up images of other silly, but fun, movies of the past.  Corky *almost* delivers.The plot, which actually is kind of good, is straight-lined, with no surprises. The acting is, well, exactly what you'd like (or expect from this sort of thing), and the number of interruptions was kept to a minimum, which is amazing since this is (although not in name) an SNL type skit-turned-movie.All in all, really, this is just an average movie. I was not offended, nor was it a standout. It won't withstand multiple viewings, but hey, neither does Zoolander. And Corky Romano is better than Zoolander, but only just barely. "},{"Title":"Horribly embarrassing and LARGELY unfunny","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Corky Romano has to be one of the most jaw dropping and horrific comedy's ever made.While the sometimes amusing Chris Kattan who pulled off a very funny performance in the hilarious 'Undercover Brother' his character in Corky is so stupid and so unfunny-which is a shame since the premise is a wonderful idea. To bad they ran out of them when they got to page 3 on the script. "}{"Title":"Predictable scenes spoil it a bit","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Corky Romano isn't a serious film and shouldn't be taken that way. It's a physical comedy with some good jokes but it could have been a little better.The first scenes are too exaggerated, and that spoils the beginning of the film. Towards the end there are a couple good sequences - like the one that involves a Nazi group - and the film gets a little better. The problem is that some of the scenes are too predictable. A couple of better one liners and less predictable scenes would have made it a better film.This kind of film/comedy works for some people (some of the guys and girls at the theater laughed A LOT), I think it's a nice way to spend some time if you don't want to think too much and don't mind having it all delivered at you. If you don't take it seriously, it works nicely.I give it a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Quite surprising","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"       Chris Kattan of Saturday Night Live plays the title character in this send-up of mob movies.  His character is the disowned son of the mob boss currently being investigated.  While his two brothers are enforcers in the family Corky is a lowly assistant vet with aspirations of owning his own animal hospital.      When it is discovered that someone in the family is turning informant and feeding the Feds information they decide that someone should go undercover in the FBI to retrieve all the incriminating evidence.  Corky is picked and forced to do this.  His cover is designed as that of a super-agent and suddenly he finds himself leading a few different task forces as while as trying to protect his real family.      Possibly having low expectations concerning this movie helped, but there were some scenes in it that just about had me on the floor I was laughing so hard.  It is well executed and Kattan is great at the physical comedy required for this role.  Is this a thinking person's comedy?  Not at all.  This is strictly something that you watch if you want totally light fluff and don't have high expectations.  Be prepared though, it just might surprise you.  "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I've seen in a long time!","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went and saw ABOUT A BOY yesterday and I was sadly disappointed when it failed to deliver loads of the immature Adam Sandler-type humor that I was hoping for. So, I had to watch BIG DADDY and then when I saw CORKY ROMANO on the shelf at Blockbuster, I had high hopes as it starred another member of SNL. And thank god that this one came along! I think I must've laughed the whole way through. Chris Kattan is a complete riot and so are Chris Penn, Peter Berg, and Peter Falk who looks like he can barely open his eyes. This is one of the better comedies of the year. It is almost like BLUE STREAK with the plot of 'guy-must-pretend-to-be-cop-in-order-to-get-evidence-file'. I love all the films that are done by the cast of SNL. They all make me laugh hysterically. I hope I laugh this hard at the up-coming MR.DEEDS. But, for right now, CORKY ROMANO gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"Stupid fun. Completely under rated.","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"   Chris Kattan of SNL is Corky Romano, the son of a mafia boss a.k.a. Pops Romano, played by Peter Faulk. After a heart-attack Pops must get someone to infiltrate the FBI and get rid of any evidence against him. Because his other two sons, one illiterate,and one gay(although he hides it well as the movie says)already have crime records, they must bring in Corky, who, after being kicked out of the family after his mother died, has become an assistant veterinarian. Reluctantly, Corky decides to infiltrate the FBI and destroy the evidence against his father.  Although people complain against the plot holes in this movie, it's really the whole point. It's not to be taken seriously. I mean anyone who takes a slapstick comedy seriously has a very severe problem. But judging by comments on this movie, I guess some people do. This movie also has some other problems(to be ignored) especially the character change in Corky from the brains of a Pre-schooler to the brains of an adult at the end. Although that's probably because he was supposed to get smarter the longer he was in the FBI. Still, I don't really care about that. And although the comedy was at some times not funny(the mouth to mouth dog scene), one scene made up for everything. The A question! Scene where Corky is high on Cocaine(I won't spoil the scene don't worry). I loved that scene. And if you rent it, rent it on DVD so you can see the HILARIOUS extended skin head scene. Why was this cut from the movie? that and the question scene were the best! Anyway, I thought this movie was hilarious, it's not really a great comedy, but it's one you can watch over and over a couple times and still laugh. It was much better than I was lead to believe by reviews. 3.5/5 stars "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I was expecting a bundle full of laughs.  I was kind of wrong.  It was funny but not as funny as I thought it should've been.  Chris Kattan controls nearly all of the laughs and he makes them all good.  Whenever he was on-screen it was good.  The rest of the movie is really good and I enjoyed it enough.  Don't listen to the IMDB rating of 4.6 because it is much better than that.Overall the whole movie was really good and the reason it gained an extra point is because of Chris Kattan but lost a point for not enough laughs. Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In my opinion it was pretty funny! I mean a dog on cocaine. IT'S FUNNY! You know a midget beating up a 5'10 guy. IT'S FUNNY! A snake sucking on your...WHOA! Don't need to get in to that right now. I'm just sayin i'll give this movie a 9/10 *'s. Because the only movies that i'm giving 10 *'s to are Speed, Behind Enemy Lines, Boyz N The Hood, Menace II Society, & The One. "},{"Title":"A 4.8?!?!?!?","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  when i visited this site to see how this movie was doing, i was surprised to see it had a rating of 4.8. i find this ridiculous to the point of ubserdity, if thats how you spell that word. Come on people, this movie was a lot funnier than that. now normally in a situation like this i would take exerpts from other peoples comments that don't share my views and make those people look like idiots. However, since i am the first person to comment on this movie so far, i can't do that. so, let me tell you about the movie, something i haven't done in awhile. first of all, if there is anyone on this site that dis-liked this movie for it's plot (or lack there of), may god have mercy on you soul. this movie was not made to win oscars and it was not made to become some critically acclaimed epic, it was made to be a hilarious and stupid comedy, which is exactly what it is. Chris Kattan is as funny as he always is (whether you find that good or bad). but i was surprised at how well peter falk was at playing Corky's father Pops. This guy had me laughing my butt off the whole time he was on the screen. Along with Richard Roundtree (Shaft!) and an array of other characters, this movie is a stupid but fun hour and a half to kill on a sunday afternoon. go see it. "},{"Title":"Chris Kattan's best movie to date!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Going in to CORKY ROMANO, I was expecting a bad, funny movie. Well, it was funny, yet it wasn't bad. It was surprisingly good. It stars Chris Kattan as Corky Romano, a veterinarian who's two brothers Peter Berg and Chris Penn and father Peter Falk are in the mafia. When his father needs someone to destroy some evidence in the Justice Department. Soon Corky is posing as a federal agent and making everybody in the movie theater I was in laugh like crazy. The plot and the laughs gets heavier as the movie goes on and the performances from Chris Kattan, Chris Penn, Peter Berg, and Fred Ward are hilarious. Recommended to any fans of the cast or to people who just want to laugh their heads off. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie!!","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Corky Romano was one of the funniest movies I have ever seen! It was hilarious. I would recommend it to anyone who is looking for a good laugh. At some parts I couldn't stop laughing.  Go see this movie! "},{"Title":"Just about as corky as you would expect.","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Corky Romano is obviously a vehicle for the absurd comedic talents of Chris Kattan, but it's good to see that he is able to slow down and be serious when the content of the story calls for at least a tiny bit of seriousness. It's odd that a movie like this, that is clearly made to be goofy and stupid, still manages to be not nearly as bad as something like Mickey Blue Eyes, which similarly dealt with someone trying desperately but in vain to fit in with a Hollywood-style Italian crime family.As is to be expected in a comedy like this, the characters are skewed just enough to make them weird and goofy, like the one brother who is manly and violent but latently homosexual, or the other one who has become a full-grown man without his own father ever realizing that he never learned to read.Evidently there is a huge case against the father of the family, although he is only guilty of the lesser crimes like money laundering and whatnot, not the murder that he is being charged with. In order to destroy the evidence that they have against him, they need someone to get a job on the inside, get into the evidence room, and destroy the evidence against him. Since they can't have someone do it that the feds would recognize (and also since, obviously, they can't trust someone outside the family), they have to have their somewhat estranged brother Corky, the black sheep of the family, do the job. Or maybe `the yellow canary' would be a more apt description of him. Or maybe something pink. A pink canary in a whole family of black sheep.Corky accepts the task out of respect for his father, despite the fact that he has not been a very big part of Corky's life, but he grows cautious when he finds out how serious the charges are. Corky's antics while he is working for the FBI are some of the least convincing things that I've ever seen in a movie, it's almost insulting that we're asked to believe that someone who behaves like he does would acquire so many fans within the Bureau almost immediately. There are a couple guys who work with Corky who are so enamored with him and look up to him so much because of his accidental successes that they are more like cheerleaders than FBI agents.Some of the slapstick scenes are miserable failures, but at least it's easy to see why they were expected to work. There's a scene where Corky has a tug of war with a dog that's trying to get a package of cocaine away from him. It ends up exploding and getting all over both of them, and the ensuing madness is expected to be funny, but it's the worst kind of comedy - it's funny until you stop for a second to think about what you're laughing at. Charlie Chaplin did this exact same scene with spectacular success in Modern Times in 1936, so it's almost sad to see it redone so badly here.Matthew Glave pops into view again after giving a spectacular performance of a spectacular jerk in The Wedding Singer to play another spectacular jerk in Corky Romano as the rival FBI agent who is sure that there is something up with this new guy that doesn't quite fit. He is constantly thwarted in his efforts to expose Corky and then immediately begins to act like a high school kid not getting what he wants (`Aww come on!!').I would say that this is just another goofy SNL movie except that there have certainly been some good SNL movies. Corky Romano is, however, nothing more than you would expect from the previews. It is a series of scenes involving the overacting of Chris Kattan, which just leaves you hungry for less. "}{"Title":"Comedies are meant to be stupid, otherwise they would not be funny","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a sweet story about a lovable idiot where exaggeration and sarcasm prevail. You would have to look deeper for the real meaning of the sarcasm which narrow-minded, shallow individuals could never even touch the surface of. It was awesome. It deserves at least a 9/10! It is similar to Mr. Bean or Benny Hill and the whole world knows those movies were funny. Just because they were not produced by British but Americans and Pamela Anderson doesn't play in it, it still deserves the proper credit. Unfortunately, there are no perverse scenes to increase a chance of higher score or nor there are no killings and deaths in the plot of the movie. I guess it is just boring to watch something without any kind of adrenalin rush or sexual arousal. This movie depicts an innocents and naivety in the good soul hearted very few individuals, as you know, walking this earth. It means intelligence covers speculation, while innocence gets you nowhere. "},{"Title":"What a steaming pile.","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This may not be the worst comedy of all time, but it's close.  The producers of this movie stole an hour and a half of my life, and I want it back!Chris Kattan is funny for about 10 minutes.  His high pitched voice and mad flailing start to get old, and then you realize that the rest of the movie is much worse.  He falls into a long line of former SNL-ers that have attempted movies.  Some have been brilliant, some have failed miserably. There's not much middle ground in this category.  Although Chris Farley was brilliant, and then okay, and then not so funny, and then dead...so I suppose he hits the entire spectrum in one career.Avoid this movie like the plague.c "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am truly guilty on this one even though this comedy is at times overly bizarre and odd, I cannot help but endear Corky Romano as being one of the funnier films that I have seen. Perhaps it is due to a lack of maturity, but really enjoyed the film. Although one may feel guilty for liking it and that their IQ has dropped a few points after the film, it is still a movie that is good for your heart as far as getting you laughing.I feel as if the plot line for a comedy was certainly original, and that the progression of the film was done excellently. Chris Kattan does an absolutely terrific job, never failing in his goal to make your sides hurt.Just the very basis of the film is funny, and as the film progresses, it is both interesting to see where it goes and pleasantly amusing. Overall, not an intellectual work-out for anybody involved, but if you are in the mood just to laugh and enjoy yourself, this is one of the better films for the job. If I was to show people years from now the better side of the comedy from my generation, I would be inclined to show this film as a good example. "},{"Title":"mildly funny, Kattan goes well as a goofball","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The best aspect of this film is the cast. Familiar faces like Peter Falk and Chris Penn that just have that crime family look about them give it some class. Chris Kattan makes an excellent idiot but sometimes is too predictable in his stupidity, meaning what he does isn't as funny as it could be. However there are still some moments where its pretty obvious whats going to happen but it turns out funny anyway. For example trying to translate Vietnamese. Aside from Corky's actions there were lots of other things I didn't see coming. Some don't even have an impact on the story but still result in funny moments. It seems the first three quarters of the film was made up off the cuff with some pretty standard comedy scenes. I think they may have hired a writer for the last part though it gets funnier and the plot thickens and resolves nicely.  "},{"Title":"For true Chris Kattan fans- Give this movie a try!","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Okay, I've heard critics talk about how stupid this Corky Romano movie is. And I guess I could see the stupidity of the movie but it takes some really close looking to find a scene that is not funny. The story line is a little weak but the characters are lovable and hilarious. I'm a fan of Chris Kattan, Chris Penn, Peter Falk and Peter Berg. This movie is funny throughout most of the storyline. However, the trailer shows some funny scenes, even if a few of them are not in the actual film entirely. I recommend that viewers of this film allow themselves to laugh at the stupid and funny parts, even if the scene only brings a smile to your face. It gets better every time you watch it. Just give this movie a try and maybe you'll start quoting it (KAD).*I should buy a boat*(KAD)*  "},{"Title":"Positively risible","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Many critics have bashed this movie and Chris Kattan's talents herein. I personally found this movie completely bewitching.Corky Romano is a mama's boy who was sent to college while his two older brothers kept at home, working for Pop. Therefore Corky has an education and a promising career as a veterinarian, while his older brothers are nothing more than thugs for their mob-boss father.Upon the death of Corky's mother, the brothers kicked him out of the house and converted his room into a gym for themselves, leaving Corky on his own, but he appears to have done quite well for himself without any help from his family. But now, Dad (Peter Falk as Pops Romano) is in trouble with the FBI and now they want Corky to actually care what happens to them. Personally, I would have let them rot, but being the kind-hearted, sweet, and gentle soul that he is, he agrees to help by infiltrating the FBI with phony transfer documents and a lot of guts.His mission To steal back the evidence files against Pops or his father could spend the rest of his very short life in prison.It sounds serious, and could have been, but Chris Kattan is absolutely jocose in his role as Corky Romano. I laugh every time I watch this movie. He is insightful, caring, and intelligent, if a bit nervous and spastic at times, but that is part of his charm. Some of these scenes will have you wiping the tears from your eyes from laughing so hard.This movie is a delightful fish-out-of-water story, and another of the Fiend's many favorites.Do you guys want..some..cookies?!It rates a 7.6/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Not nearly as retched as you might think.","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I caught this on of all places Encore's Action Movie Channel! It was 2 in the morning and I was having trouble sleeping.  I was tired, but my eyes were watery and uncomfortable.  And then this came on.  I went into it fully expecting a total all-out crap-fest, but it really wasn't that bad!  It was by no means good, but I've seen much worse pictures. I didn't laugh very much, but I did do a lot of inside chuckles and head shaking.  In the hands of other people, it would of probably been REALLY bad, but Kattan's energy and Chris Penn and Peter Falk being the actors they are rise the muck up just an inch.  I'm not giving this film a thumbs up, and certainly do NOT recommend seeking it out, but if it ever shows up on TV, and there's nothing else on, and your DVD/VCR is broken, give it a chance. Can't hurt. "},{"Title":"Relax - it's a COMEDY! )","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It seems that women love Chris Kattan, but men don't seem to have a lot of tolerance for him.  That point seems to be pretty consistent with the reviews I've read so far.  I really like Chris Kattan, so I was already prepared to give him the benefit of the doubt, even if he was horrible.That said...he did well in this movie, but even I have to admit it wasn't his greatest performance, even for a physical comedy.It takes a lot for me to criticize a movie!  I  thought the 'Night Vulture' guy was SO funny in the 'Old Cotton Balls' and the 'Groovy Tie' scenes. Chris could have made it better if he wouldn't have acted like such a smart-aleck during the movie.  He had a little smirk on his face all the time and looked too much like he was about to start laughing himself.  The Night Vulture remained serious during the funny parts which was what made it so funny.It had MANY funny parts that I really laughed at, but it seems that Chris is still fascinated with fart and booby jokes at the age of 32 (which is also my age).  He is also STUCK in the 80's, much like my husband! )Also, people who say that Chris should stick to SNL need to understand that comedians go on SNL to try to make contacts to get into the movie business. I'm sure that Chris isn't working 70 hours a week on SNL for peanuts just b/c he feels like it!  Things like Corky Romano are his GOAL, not a pasttime!If you've read this far you already know the storyline.  In all, it's definitely worth seeing at least once.  I laughed a lot, but rolled my eyes a few times when it seemed that even I could have written a scene that had more wit than some of those in this movie.I thought almost ALL of the scenes were REALLY funny, but that scene where he tries to squeak out the fart was so annoying- I couldn't wait for it to end.  I felt like telling him to 'GROW UP!'  My 2 year old thinks that's funny!But...it IS a comedy so we should all relax and treat it as such! "},{"Title":"Light fluff, but excellent fluff at that!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was perfect for Chris Kattan. It is light fluff for a movie but damn it is funny and the audience seemed to really get into it. The story revolves around Corky, a son of a mafia boss who goes undercover in the FBI to steal evidence. It has all the characteristics of a slapstick film, which Chris Kattan handles easily. There is the love interest, the token gay and the happy ending. It's predictable and silly but I'll tell you what, I loved it! "},{"Title":"very interesting","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a really good movie and i agree with Jerry Smith's comment. Not as funny as i thought it would be, but good enough. Chris Kattans good at making people laugh. I wish some of these phony dillhole voters would stop with their bull****. this is one of those movies where you shouldn't pay attention to its slightly lower rating. "}{"Title":"'Corky' is a querky comedy that is funny, but fails to develop a vital character","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ** 1/2Starring Chris Kattan, Vinessa Shaw, Peter Berg, and Chris Penn.Corky Romano is a kind-hearted veterinarian who is called in by his family to act as a cop in order to help out his family.  Chris Kattan does a hell of a job as Corky Romano, but the movie fails horribly to develop Vinessa Shaw's character who turns out to be pretty important. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a very funny movie. I have given it a 10. You have to see it with a few friends and a couple of beers. Corky comes always out as the hero and all he does is screw up. You really have to see this movie "},{"Title":"Undeniably bad but so what?","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am a pathological fan of Chris Kattan. I think he is dead sexy as well as too funny. However, I was entirely prepared for Corky Romano to be a dreadful film, and in many ways it is. But I still enjoyed the time I spent watching it. You might want to wait till it's off the New Releases wall, though, so you won't feel overcharged for its pleasures. I hope these comments will help you decide.Worst thing The effect of the shooting schedule as evidenced in the editing. Kattan appears in very few two- or three-shots with other actors, especially the name ones. I theorize that, setting aside any possible genuine personal difficulties in the company, Chris was very busy and/or the film was much more affordable to make this way, e.g., OK, Mr. Falk, just sit in bed and say all your lines in the entire script, then hug Chris a few times and you can go home. He'll do his lines later, sitting 180 degrees from where you are now.Most of the actors in Corky could easily have been playing the lead in another film shooting the same week, with the possible exception of The Fellowship of the Ring. This disconnection was not just a problem in the Falk scenes. Only the female lead appears with Kattan regularly. The ensemble acting is thus very superficial--but so what?Second worst thing Chris Kattan didn't do any of things I love him for so very, very much.Relatively good thing But the film is somewhat clean and wholesome, at least partially because of that.Quite good thing A couple of hysterical moments. Others have mentioned the cocaine scene, but my big favorite is the final mano-a-mano fight between Corky and the bad guy. Lost my breath. Had to pee. Laughed enough to last me several days.I disagree with criticisms of plot holes and the inconsistent intelligence of Corky the character. I am accused of having people skills as well as book smarts, I'm a Jeopardy! quiz show champion, but I didn't see Corky as unintelligent, just a sweet, guileless guy with the best of intentions who is clumsy and innocent and trapped outside his milieu (and, okay, darn annoying). As for the plot, I could follow it, so I was pleased (but, yes, the script is bland and dull).Corky Romano is definitely an I'm already in a good mood, just want something undemanding to watch while I snuggle with the S.O. or do some cooking type of movie. And I bet that the 11- to 17-year-old crowd does like it a lot. I hope its apparent low cost makes more Kattan vehicles sound good to Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"very Saturday Night Live-ish!!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went to see Corky Romano and I absolutely thought it was Hilarious. However, I love Kris Kattan and Saturday Night Live so people who really don't have a taste for that particular kind of humor shouldn't see it. The whole idea behind this film is totally ridiculous, which is what makes it funny. Kris Kattan plays Corky Romano-a quirky assistant veterinarian who gets contacted by his long-lost brothers to help them destroy incriminating evidence against their mobster father. To do so, Corky must parade himself about as an FBI agent, in order to get to the evidence room to destroy the documents. Though a very stupid idea, it comes off as pretty funny to see this nerdy, animal-lover...convince people he is an FBI agent. Kattan delivers a typical SNL performance, but nevertheless, he is extremely funny. "},{"Title":"Loved it, not Genius, but loved it","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Thought this was a good movie. It wasn't perfect, and it wasn't genius, but some scenes were funny enough to get 5 minutes of laughes for me and my 11-15 year old neighbers. I personally think those who don't like this movie are idiots who take movies far too seriously, but, hey! It's a free country. "},{"Title":"Watch This!","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is hilarious!  Robb Pritts delivers a funny and well acted out movie starring Chris Kattan, Chris Penn, Peter Berg, and Peter Falk.  If you're up one day looking for some good laughs, then rent this movie.  You will be perfectly satisfied! "},{"Title":"Just say no","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Good God!  I never would have seen this, but a good friend a mine would not stop screaming about how great it is.  He has seen Corky Romano five times now.  I am shocked, horrified and confused that someone I thought I knew well could find any pleasure in this film.  What, I ask you, is funny in here?  The . . . .I can't even think of any examples.  Just pure crap.  OK, the coke scene did make me laugh.  But then one realizes  that the scene embodies Katan's entire schtick - nervousa speeding silly flittering flubbering clumsy dumbass with questionable sexual orientation.  I know this was a light comedy, but the fact that writers get out of bed everyday and write scenes and dialog this bad makes me wonder, do the people responsible for this stuff laugh all the way to the bank or cry themselves to sleep at night? "},{"Title":"C'mon guys, it wasn't THAT bad...","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It was just perfect for a group of my 13 year old son and his friends. Granted, it wasn't cinematic genius, but compared to some of the movies I've had to sit through with them, this was at least cute and somewhat clever. "},{"Title":"A great comedy...","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"   Corky Romano is a very funny movie.Some of the jokes in this movie aren't all that funny,but most of the jokes are hilarious.One of the things I didn't like about Corky Romano was that in some scenes,they focus too much on certain parts.The point is that Corky Romano lives up to some peoples expectations,but on the other hand,some people might find this movie to be filled with third rate humor that only kids can enjoy.Seriously though,Corky Romano has great comedy elements,the acting made the movie even better.The ending wasn't all that great,but those small flaws don't drive this movie into the ground. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Facts of Life- Comedy movies","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was an excellent,knock-your-socks-off funny movie. You wouldn't want to miss it. If you like television action/comedy shows such as Charlie's Angels and Get Smart, you'll love this. I can guarantee you that you'll love it. "}{"Title":"Who is Corky Romano?","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First there was Ace Ventura. Then there was Billy Madison... then Happy Gilmore... Austin Powers. And now, here comes the next main-character-named-comedy-feature starring MTV's Chris Kattan as the ever-smiling, constantly happy Corky Romano! A trainee vet that can barely administor two braincells must go undercover as an FBI agent to retrieve and destory a casefile that the FBI have made against his shady father!Although it was critically panned right from the opening credits (which themselves are amusing anyway), Corky Romano features the normal slapstick humour one would expect to see in a Jim Carrey film. Granted, Jim Carrey is undeniably more talented and effective in his roles, but Chris Kattan shows promise as a physical comic. The situations are also pretty mediocre and unoriginal, but if you're in the right mood and viewing it with the right people, it's still funny and very watchable.It made more than double it's production cost in U.S. grossings alone, so you need not worry about not seeing Kattan on the big screen again (a sequel is probably already in the works), and if you take along a bunch of immature friends you're bound to have a good (not great) time! 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Corky is the son of a mobster and doesn't know it. This is a comedy that doesn't know it. It's not funny. No Flys out of Five","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Corky Romano is not funny. I think it's meant to be but if just isn't!.                Chris Kattan plays Corky as a jerky, bumbling oaf with a radiant smile. Corky even lives in some sort of fart free zone. Can't even get a decent one of those off. Jim Carrey might have been the role model but Kattan doesn't appear at this stage to be in the same league. Perhaps he can blame the writers but in any case it didn't work.                In Corky Romano Corky is so dumb he hasn't realised that his dad (Peter Falk) is a gangster and that his brothers (Chris Penn, Peter Berg) are mobsters. Corky wants to be a vet but he's useless at that and then his father enlists Corky into the FBI to steal evidence that has been collected on the Romano Family.                The FBI accept his fake ID and put Corky in charge of everything. Corky wins the day and the girl.                It's obvious instantly when comedy is forced. Comedy is fantastically difficult and way beyond this team.No Flys Out Of Five  "},{"Title":"Funny, funny, funny","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a funny movie!  I never laughed so hard!  The movie moves fast and you never get bored!Good cast of characters and well-written script.Chris Kattan is the new Jerry Lewis! "},{"Title":"More of the same????","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As I've said before, Saturday Night Live is a great comedy show if we start from the concept that most of its people know how to handle this type of live show and their actors/actresses perform very well just what is needed for every detail of their comic, crazy and sarcastic performances on TV.   Unfortunately, I wouldn't say the same for most of this actors, who just cannot repeat themselves in movies as successfully as they do in SNL.We've already seen the examples of huge failures like The ladies man', `Superstar' and `A night at the Roxbury' where Tim Meadows, Molly Shannon, Chris Kattan, Will Ferrer and other SNL fellows, worked in dull and nonsense extensions of their Saturday Night Live sketches and honestly weren't funny at all.This time, Chris Kattan is back as Corky Romano in another family & Mafia situation, where Corky (a veterinarian assistant) is called for his family to get undercover as an FBI agent and eliminate crime evidences that supposedly have his father and family as big gangsters.This whole story is a huge comedy cliché that cannot stand by itself and what is even worst, very dull and packed with bitter-tasted jokes. Chris Kattan gets you tired with the same stupid face gesture from the beginning until the end of the movie.There are very few laughs but in general the movie is a total waste.Robinson Almanzar. "},{"Title":"Good movie to see if you are in the mood or on a casual date.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Corky manages to bring out laughs and he's a likeable character. I really loved the movie. The problem that I saw in it, is the fact that too many things happen that aren't believable, even for a comedy. I did not mind the simple plot since I wasn't looking for an Oscar type movie. I felt like it had too many loose ends. "},{"Title":"You don't need to see this film to know it's bad","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Corky Romano is one of the worst movies of 2001. There are hardly any funny parts of the movie. When i was watching this film, my friends and had to hit me for me to wake up... that's how bad this film is. I can watch Chris Kattan in Saturday Night Live for five minute and think he it is funny but a whole movie this Guy. Chris Kattan should just stick to Saturday Night Live. Please, do NOT waste your time OR your money to see this horrible movie.There is not much to say about this film other that it sucks, so do not see this movie... it will just be a waste of your time.I give it absolutely NO stars out of ***** stars.  "},{"Title":"Simply awful!  Makes my 10 worst list.","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Direction must be the problem here. I recently heard John Cleese speaking of working a skit for Fawlty Towers. He was supposed to attack his car with a branch. The first branch was too flimsy and not funny. The second branch was too stiff to be funny. The third was just flimsy enough to be funny. This sort of attention to detail is missing from Corky Romano. No matter how embarrassingly unfunny a comic bit was, it wasn't fixed, and wasn't left on the cutting room floor. The one value I can find in this movie is as a study of a very flawed movie which somehow escaped into distribution without being repaired.I've scanned dozens of other reviews here. The number of reviews praising this absolute waste of time bolsters my suspicion that some people are getting paid to promote titles. I can't fathom how anyone over the age of 9 could rate this title more than a 4, MAX. I mean, come on, 5 is average. I can't imagine anyone, even those making money off of this, rating it even as much as average.This makes my list of the 10 worst movies of all time. And, hey, I actually LIKE the Three Stooges and can even tolerate Ed Wood! "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When my boyfriend started doing stupid gestures, like, holding his arms out when I opened the door, I thought, what movie influenced him now.Well, I got laid-off again from another job and he stated he saw the movie and he couldn't stop laughing.Since laughter is good for the soul, I was eating and watching the movie and couldn't stop laughing. I had to stop the movie until after I ate. Once you start laughing, everything seems funny.The best part of this movie for me was when the dog and Corky was immersed in cocaine and Corky had to speak to an elementary school audience.Every time I feel low, I put in the movie at this part and laugh until I cry. "},{"Title":"Holy Canoli - Pure torture","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a horrible movie. This is beyond even MST3k'ing with a couple friends who were drunk WITH me while watching. We all were in pain. I watched in horror. If you though SNL lost direction years ago, this will only solidify the torture. Schindler's List had more funny moments. I think it's about time everyone looked at the entire SNL franchise and decide that it's time to cancel the show if only simply to save us from such catastrophic movies as Corky Romano.This makes Attack of the Killer Tomatoes seem like Raising Arizona. AVOID at all costs. I wouldn't even normally watch a movie like this for free except for a crazy set of circumstances. I suggest a Corky Romano Bebelplatz - everyone bring their dvd/vhs copies to town square and light them on fire. Trust me, the world would be a much better place. "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is just about the worst comedy ever made.  I don't even believe it exists.  It's just a big trick on all of us.  Someday all the copies of Corky Romano are just going to disappear from the shelves, and one day in some video store somewhere some guy's gonna be like Hey, remember that crappy movie Corky Romano?  I wonder whatever happened to that.  I haven't seen any copies of that lying around in forever.  And everyone in the world will hear this big, scary laugh coming out of the sky, and that'll be it for that.One funny part Corky accidentally takes cocaine and makes a weird retarded dolphin noise at some woman for like 5 minutes.  I laughed, a genuine laugh, and then became sullen and withdrawn for the rest of the evening.A word of caution  Drinking does NOT help.  "}{"Title":"Avoid this stinker - it's for the planet 'brain dead'","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Have you ever not been able to look at the screen because it is so horrifying or the effects were so dramatic? Well, in this movie you won't be able to look at the screen because Corky is so obnoxious, stupid and childish that watching could cause damage to the part of your brain that monitors your level of intelligence. There is ABSOLUTELY nothing funny about this terrible movie. If aliens were ever to see this movie transmitted through the depths of space they would mount a campaign to rid the universe of disgusting examples of cinematic butchery -- and Earth would be first on their list. "},{"Title":"This movie couldn't have been worse.  It could have been better.","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  We are told in the opening credits sequence that one of Corky's brothers is a closet homosexual and the other can't read.  Throughout the film, we periodically are prodded to laugh when one of Corky's brothers scopes out guys' butts and the other dodges opportunities to read stuff.  In the end, a big deal is made out of Corky bringing his brothers' issues out in the open. And their father bursts out at Corky's wedding that he loves his defective sons.Funny stuff, huh?Now imagine if they hadn't blown the potential of this running gag by flat-out telling us their secrets in the first seconds of the movie.  This movie's biggest problem is that it desperately needed a rewrite.  I can actually laugh at Chris Kattan being a freakish weirdo on SNL; so why didn't they make a feature-length Mr. Peepers?  Everything funny about Kattan is drained from his character and the script is an awful, awful series of first-draft ideas. "},{"Title":"Basic, broad comedy that will amuse those with low standards but few others","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Pops Romano has had a long career as a mobster but the FBI has seemingly build a strong case against him and it looks like either jail or stress will claim his last few years on earth. His sons are helpless to do anything and really they need someone to go undercover in the FBI and destroy the evidence. However none of them can do this as they are all known to the FBI, meaning that Pops must turn to his long-rejected son Corky for help. Currently working at a vets, Corky feels he has been welcomed back into the family and accepts the mission to get a fake ID and go in as a special agent. However can the rather simple Corky manage to get the evidence before he blows it.Despite having lots of recognisable faces in the cast, this is a very basic and dumb comedy that draws few laughs from many contrived setups and the type of humour that peaks with a man farting. The plot involves a mobsters son going undercover in the FBI (see what they did there) and suffice to say that this isn't going to rival Infernal Affairs in regards plotting or tension. It isn't really rubbish but it is certainly not any good whatsoever, although it may amuse those with low demands and expectations. The comedy is very basic and childish and even the John Woo spoof is wasted. Teenage boys may find it funny but the majority of casual viewers will barely amused and rarely laugh.The cast don't help the material although some should know better. Kattan is one big flailing, gurning mess from start to finish and he comes over like a poor man's Ernest. Shaw can barely contain her loathing in a thankless role alongside him. Berg and Penn deserve so much more than this but at least they have fun in minor clichéd roles. Ward and Falk should know better and neither have anything to do that justifies them lowering themselves to this level. Roundtree, Pastore, Glave and others are all wasted too.Overall this is a poor comedy that has few laughs and nothing of real interest. It aims low and I suppose for some audiences it will be enough that it hits those low targets. However for the majority of viewers this will be far too pointless, puerile and unfunny to be worth even 90 minutes of time. "},{"Title":"Very good!","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" You know what's cool? My friends uncle directed this movie! So we naturally watched it in New York on its premiere. It is a really good movie, great acting, and great concepts.The only downside I could find was the 'electroshock' effect. It lacked something.Overall, this movie is one of my favorites. It didn't seem to have been advertised enough when it was released so you may have not heard about it.The camera shots and scenes were great. As said before the actors were great, and , of course, the directing was great by Rob. Thanks! (By the way my friends last name is Porterfield, Rob is on his mom's side of the family. His mom changed last names upon marriage.) "},{"Title":"A study in comparative fecal anatomy","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When analyzing this film and its subtext of complex cultural allusions one must keep in mind the morphological similarities between this film and rat guano.  Both are small, brown and are persistent biohazards. Rat coprolite is ubiquitous and is consumed by mechanistic lower order life forms.  Corky Romano is ubiquitous and is consumed by mechanistic lower order life forms.  But here the similarities end.  Rat manure is funny.  Corky Romano is about half as funny as a quadriplegic trying to sign her name with a rubber pencil.  So don't give me that I-went-to-film-school-so-I-can-drive-my-Lexus-over-baby-seals attitude.  I challenge anyone to try and refute the cast iron logic of that line of reasoning.  My cinema studies professor said I'd never be able to support THAT argument, but here it is.  It just goes to show you how wrong a hermaphroditic transsexual can be sometimes. "},{"Title":"Oh, My God(father)!","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I never heard of Chris Kattan.  I hope I never do again.  What a talentless creep in a horrible piece of trash.  I was given the movie to watch by a friend (well, maybe not a friend), and I watched it because of Peter Falk, and old fave of mine.  Still, I couldn't get past forty minutes.  Poor Peter!Did someone actually think we needed a Peewee Herman clone without any charisma whatsoever to attempt slapstick?  He can't pull it off.  Nor can he pull off straight lines.What WERE they thinking? "},{"Title":"Pleeeeeease!!!","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" So, anyone who has experienced TV here in North American will testify, trying to find something good to watch at the weekend, if you are not a sports fan, is nigh impossible. Therefore you end up watching s**te like this. I was always of the opinion that most people leave the TV on for the sake of it while they do something else. This has to be the case as I cannot imagine anybody actually watching this garbage. Soooo, there I was writing some letters and this movie came on. Now the remote was no more then a few feet away but like a fool I left it lie while this film droned on and on and on and on. Now normally movies like this will go two ways. One, its so bad that you actually laugh at it or, two, it gets annoying. It was definitely the latter, definitely. What a waste of a good cast and the star whose name I can't remember was no actor. I believe he is a comedian but he couldn't act to save his act. One to avoid. One more thing, why don't they make remotes that are easier to get at? Bah! "},{"Title":"I am not just saying this, the worst movie ever made.","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have never seen a film that was more irritating than this. I mean, get on your nerves, get on your shoe, can't scrape it off with a stick kind of irritating. Should we blame Chris Kattan for his pathetic and failed attempt at physical comedy or the hopeless moron that wrote this drivel? Well, why not both? Kattan is awful! There are numerous scenes where his attempt at physical comedy is confusing, but in an infuriating way. It is as if he was receiving the wrong motivation for each scene. You sit there watching and instead of smiling, you just get irritated. It is so far from funny that words cannot begin to describe it. I have had better times at the dentist and at funerals than I did at this hunk of ..... Just avoid it. "},{"Title":"The SNL curse continues","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I feel bad for Chris Kattan. Will Ferrell (the less talented of the two) hits with OLD SCHOOL and ELF, while Kattan gets stuck with B-level crap like UNDERCOVER BROTHER and CORKY ROMANO. Keep your agent, Chris, and you'll be the new Dana Carvey in no time.Which is too bad, since Kattan has the stuff. CORKY ROMANO is by no means a good movie, but he gives it his all. I braced myself for another painfully awful comedy (like VAN WILDER), but although it starts horribly (and at first appears to have the oddest title character since CLIFFORD), it, like A NIGHT AT THE ROXBURY, does get a little better as it goes along.There are the makings of a decent comedy here; the premise is hardly credible but has promise. Unfortunately, the script is typically lazy, resorting to isolated gags instead of building laughs with smart, character-based humor.Two sequences are particularly embarrassing. The first, in the vet's office, tries to find humor by having Corky knock over everything. When will hack writers realize that acting funny isn't funny? How are we supposed to laugh when it's obvious that Kattan is intentionally knocking everything over?The other idiotic scene is the one with Knee High P.I. Here we find characters defying laws of physics and gravity in a sequence of forced slapstick that starts with Corky unwittingly sniffing panties and ends with characters floating in the air. Don't ask me how.Other quibbles were probably considered by the writers, who just as probably ignored them. No that it matters, but the plot is a total shambles. Some questions When all is said and done, aren't indictments automatic for both Corky (for impersonating a federal agent) and his family (for most everything in their file)? How did the watch connect to the real criminal? Could any schmuck really infiltrate the FBI so easily? In New York?But I guess I'll let all this slide (along with the fact that an out-of-control vehicle wouldn't get ten feet in this city), since the movie, with the exception of one shot, was clearly not filmed in Manhattan. IMDb states it was filmed in California, but the outdoor scenes screamed Toronto or something. Wherever it was made, the movie looks cheap (I cite a moment when a gym bench, ostensibly bolted to the floor, wobbles when nudged). Did all the budget go the the B-cast, since we've all seen movies with lower price tags look more polished?And what about that supporting cast? I like Peter Berg, but comedy is not his strong suit. Doofy fares better, but this Vinessa Shaw chick, if memory serves, gave a better performance as a corpse in EYES WIDE SHUT. I know this is supposed to be a comedy, but, c'mon, isn't she a bit young, naïve, and, well, hot for an FBI agent? And Peter Falk nearly literally slept through his role.Then there's Chris Penn. Dude, you were in RESERVOIR DOGS and TRUE ROMANCE. Why the hell are you wasting your time in an SNL movie by a first-time director? Your closeted character had such potential but was terribly written, and since you, like Berg, aren't naturally funny you better have a damn good script to get laughs. I wish this movie were more thoughtful with the gay thing, but such weight would seem odd next to Kattan in a Girl Scout uniform.Which brings me to the good parts. In movies like this you take what you can get, so I admit Corky's undercover outfits gave me a chuckle or two and his affection for ultra-cheesy '80s pop hits (Take on Me and the undead DIRTY DANCING theme) were somewhat endearing. And I laughed the most (faint praise) after Frank Drebin-esque verbal exchange about J. Edgar Hoover. But David Garrett & Jason Ward are, natch, no Zucker Brothers (I give you Exhibit B their next movie is a DEUCE BIGALOW sequel). But then again, the Zuckers, with SCARY MOVIE 3, ain't the Zuckers anymore either, so this train of thought is as pointless as CORKY ROMANO.3/10 "},{"Title":"Some laughs, but way too much throw away humor. ** (out of four)","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  CORKY ROMANO / (2001) ** (out of four)	I laughed hard at the trailers for Corky Romano. I made many stops at the movie's official web site, which features a partially animated Corky leading two weenier dogs in a wild dance to A-Ha's Take on me. I became interested in the newspaper ads that ask us Who is Corky? With funny promotional techniques, I expected big laughs from Corky Romano	Surprisingly, though, you will get most of the laughs this film offers by watching the trailers and visiting the web site. Corky Romano really is not very funny. It does offer a few big funny moments, and I grimaced several times throughout the film, but it never takes off with these funny ideas. It doesn't deliver the laughs it leads us to expect.		Corky Romano is an original character, not another Saturday Night Live blowup. He is portrayed by SNL veteran Chris Kattan, who tackles the role with enthusiasm, energy, and zest. He's the kind of character you will either love or hate. I loved him. He is spastic, clumsy, wacky, and full of sunshine and life. Corky Romano, an assistant veterinarian, loves his job with all of his good-natured heart. He is surprised, however, when his family asks for his assistance. His father (Peter Falk), an underground crimelord, has been indicted by a grand jury. With the trial just weeks away, the aging criminal needs someone to investigate the FBI and destroy the evidence against him. The authorities would recognize his two sons (Peter Berg and Chris Penn), thus all the fingers point to Corky. I wish I could tell you Corky gets himself in a whole lot of trouble because he is stupid, but I cannot. The movie's can't make up its mind about Corky's intelligence. At times he acts like a preschooler, yet he figures out a very complex villainous scheme against his family. The least these writers could do is provide Corky with intellectual consistency. It's no fun watching a character who is utterly stupid for one minute, and a crime solving genius the next. The movie actually takes the plot seriously. Sure, the plot does act as a clothesline for tons of creative comic opportunities-with few actually making us laugh-but we do become involved with several character twists and interesting plot points. Corky Romano has a wacky side, but the wackiness does not tread outside the boundaries of the story. Regardless of the story, however, Corky Romano features way too much throw away humor, lame physical comedy, and recycled slapstick jokes. We can see some of them coming from miles away. Example A snake crawls up Corky's pants. Guess where our slithering friend exits. After an accident, a weenier dog needs mouth to mouth resuscitation. Remember that one from There's something About Mary?This comedy, directed by Rob Pritts, does not provide quite enough laughs to warrant a recommendation. It's not as bad as some people are saying, and if you are into fart, klutz, crotch, and gay jokes, and lowbrow physical humor, Corky Romano might be your ticket to fun. I prefer my humor a little more sophisticated, though.  "}]