[{"Title":"Loved the Creatures","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"81 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A lot has been said about what's good and bad in the movie. I won't revisit those comments. I thought the creatures were creative and hysterical.Sure they weren't logical or realistic, but they were fun in a fantasy sort of sense. I enjoyed the watching the entire alien ecosystem evolve.Fortunately, I'm the kind of person that understands a movie made to be predominantly a comedy doesn't require scientific accuracy, nor should the audience expect it. It was intentionally silly.One last thing. I thought David Duchovny did a great job playing a character that had a wry, dry sense of humor. He wasn't exactly a straight man, but it was clear to me, he was laughing at the world.Rating, I gave it 8/10 because it entertained me AND my wife, something many movies can't do.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly fun!","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"75 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't say I suspected much from the previews.  I anticipated another lame comedy and a cheap imitation of Men in Black.  Evolution can be compared to MIB in certain aspects, but it breaks new ground.I can't give a really scientific review, because quite frankly I was too busy laughing to weigh out the pros and cons.  This is a great popcorn movie!  (Metaphorically speaking, I was eating nachos) There are scary moments involving slimy creatures, so chances are if there are any females with you--they will be clinging onto your arms.  Ivan Reitman is the famed director of the Ghostbusters movies, and Evolution has much of the same charm and quirky sense of style and humor.  David Duchovny (who really has a good sense of humor off-camera, but happens to get stuck with mostly serious roles) is terrific in a looser role that enables him to flaunt his knack for comedy.  Of course, Orlando Jones is the funniest in the bunch.  He has a terrific scene in which a bug crawls inside his skin and doctors have to get it out...rectally.  I have to say, that was the highlight of this offbeat comedy and had me on the floor!  Julianne Moore plays the clumsy assistant.  I can't say I found her role all that humorous.  Her pratfalls are pretty lame and predictable.  But that minor hint of cheap slapstick didn't ruin the overall experience. Evolution is great fun from start to finish (a very interesting finish with an innovative product placement)!  Sure, it's all low-brow, but it works and the crude humor is tamed down to a tolerant level (Well, compared to the average contemporary comedy).  This is not a movie to be studied or analyzed or discussed for hours at a time.  Just sit back and HAVE SOME FUN!!!  Because chances are (considering previous 2001 releases) you won't be having this much fun at the movies in quite a while.  I could be wrong, but better to be safe than sorry.My score  7 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"Great Googa Mooga!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"92 out of 126 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, this may surprise you, but, this film is way better than every one says it is.  It's hilarious.  It is kind of like Ghostbusters, well its alot like Ghostbusters, but who didn't like that one?  I'm sick and tired of movies going down thanks to bad reviews, hint hint look around at some of these.  People, if you've read this far it may already be too late to catch the next showing of EVOLUTION however go see it asap.  Dan Aykroyd alone is worth seeing in this flick.  In my opinion this is one of the best of the year.   "},{"Title":"Buggy Fun","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"59 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first read about Evolution, the latest sci-fi scheme to come from DreamWorks, I was interested.  A story about aliens with humor, not bad. Then when I read that Ivan Reitman, the BEST comedic director of the 80's and one of the best of all time was at the helm, I was thrilled.  I mean, come on, after he was given duds like `Father's Day' and `Six Days, Seven Nights' to work with, isn't it about time that Hollywood gave him a project worth while (I won't even mention the bombastic disaster of `Junior'&#133;oh, I just did)?It begins with the introduction of Scott's character, Wayne Green, a wannabe fireman practicing for his fireman final (questionable at first, hilarious in the end).  Then he gets an unexpected visitor - a meteor, carrying alien organisms hits the heart of the Arizona desert. After a community college science professor, Ira Kane Duchovny, working with one screwed up screen name)and his eccentric geologist buddy, Harry Block (Jones) discover the meteor, they find that the `bleeding' rock starts to create these weird alien creatures and soon they begin to multiply.  Kane's nemeses, Gen. Woodman (Levine) and the military get involved, things get too out-of-control, so it's up to the teaming of Kane, Block, Green and government scientist Allison Reed (Moore) to stop the evolution.If you're a Reitman fan, the plot of this could make you go in expecting some kind of tribute to both `Ghostbusters'.  In a way it is, and is that a bad thing?  Hell no!  If you liked, or even loved (like me) `Ghostbusters', I can bet my clean pair of boxers that you'll get a hoot out of `Evolution'. But of course any film must maintain some distance from the films its being compared too, and `Evolution' does that.  The characters and situations are different, atmospherically.  Duchovny turns in a `cool' performance, by that meaning he wasn't Mr. Badass or Mr. Laugh-a-Minute, he was just, well, Duchovny and that itself is always pleasing to watch.  Jones is his usual funny self, delivering some funny lines. Moore's ability to do just about anything comes in handy here, playing the hottie-yet-clumsy love interest. Scott's acting resembles the other roles he's done in the past, and I've come to appreciate that (that thing he does w/ his eyebrow is getting funnier every time).  Can't say the same for Levine; his cliché performance as the bad-guy-who-doesn't-listen character gets annoying fast.A lot of the film makes me question what it is, and really what it could have been.  The script, penned by three writers, was originally written as a sci-fi THRILLER, not a sci-fi comedy.  There were a lot of laughs, but because of the script's origin, there could have been more.  But considering the script was originally a sci-fi thriller, the filmmakers, including Reitman, did a great job.  Can't say much for the ending, though the ending looks and feels like a meshed-up result of what-could-have-been, and from that mushiness, the filmmakers poked at and took at least some of the good elements.  Thank god the film is a comedy; if it was its original idea, the ending would have been disastrous.`Evolution' is a overall crowd-pleaser with nice special effects and makeup (those dead aliens looked great).  It's a few laughs and comedic situations short of comedic greatness, but look on the bright side-Reitman is back in his lovable kick-ass form.  He's tapped into the present and how most comedies are made, but he didn't dare forget his roots there is a sequence in the film where Duchovny, Jones and Scott chase down a flying creature in a mall.  The three, equipped with shotguns, dispose of it in true Ghostbusters style.  And with me being a big Ghostbusters fan, I fell in love with the it, plus its the best scene in the film. (The trio singing after their battle; nice touch).GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"57 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It has been ages since I've seen a movie that I laughed so hard it brought tears to my eyes, this one did.  It was hilarious, I highly recommend it to anyone who just wants to laugh.  I intend to purchase it as soon as it comes out onto video. "},{"Title":"This is Under-rated!","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" While this film is far from a masterpiece, Evolution deserves better ratings than it currently enjoys here at IMDb. The cast and crew contribute superior work, and the storyline is quite inventive. The premise has been done a few times before, however, it has never been done quite as well as the treatment it receives here.Alien spores land here on Earth and begin to wreak havoc.I found this highly entertaining, cleverly witty, with a slick production quality which tends to draw in the audience, who finds its members laughing, sometimes in spite of themselves. You won't WANT to like this. There is a large amount of juvenile humor, which usually would detract from a work such as this, but this is a sci-fi comedy that WORKS.Again, it's no masterpiece, but it IS clever and fun, in spite of the sophomoric humor.It rates a 7.3/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"37 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution is a step up from most gross-out comedies. With a nice idea for a plot, it starts off quite serious before the stars show their comic talents off. David Duchovny has good comic timing that hasn't really been tapped before, Orlando Jones is far better here than in Double Take and Say It Isn't So and Seann William Scott is a damn fine comic actor who uses his goofy charm to his advantage. Julianne Moore's constant falling over isn't funny, but you can't have everything. It's a shame that it flopped in the US, because it's really good. The special effects are decent, the turns are likeable and the script is loaded with sharp wit. OK, maybe some jokes go dead but seeing Orlando Jones getting lubricated after a bug enters his body and Scott singing to a flying monster in a mall is reason enough to go see this excellent summer blockbuster. "},{"Title":"Excellent! Great fun!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"50 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution, starring David Duchovny, Orlando Jones, Seann William Scott and Julianne Moore, is a terrific fun summer romp. A meteorite crashes to Earth, bringing with it microscopic alien organisms that rapidly begin evolving and threaten humanity's very existence. Enter our heroes, two community college science professors Ira Kane (Duchovny) and Harry Block (Jones). They investigate the meteorite, take samples and Kane quickly realizes what is going on. But the Army has been monitoring Kane's work ever since he was drummed out of the USAMRID because of a tremendous mistake he made. They try to take over the situation, but don't really know what they're doing. CDC scientist Allison (Moore) at first works with the Army on the project, but soon realizes that it's Kane who is making the most sense.The whole movie is done as a comedy and the jokes are fast, furious and really funny. The chemistry between the leads is fantastic. Special effects -- the alien creatures -- rocks. Don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"A fun special effects movie","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"38 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie makes no pretensions--it's a simple, fun summer movie full of special effects.  The cast handles its duties in a professional manner, and there are enough laughs to keep you entertained throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"Ghostbusters + MIB = Evolution Funnest movie of the Summer!!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"47 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So far, this has to be the funnest movie of the summer. Director Ivan Reitman got MIB & Ghostbusters and smashed them together and found himself a perfect comedy. The cast works perfectly and the Aliens were amazing. Great Special FX. If you want to have a blast at the movies, don't miss this one. "}{"Title":"Fun flick","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"28 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution is meant to be nothing but a fun flick and that what is. The fil is vein of Ghostbusters and has very funny moments. Seann William Scott makes this movie for me though. He's on the verge of being a superstar. The atcion sequences and direction also make this a good film. Check it out for a good time. "},{"Title":"Choke-on-the-popcorn funny!","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ivan Reitman has made a new classic sci-fi comedy, but that isn't a huge surprise coming from the man who helmed Ghostbusters.  The movie is absolutely hilarious; I laughed harder in Evolution than I had in years.  Some of the gags are somewhat overused, such as Julianne Moore's CDC scientist's clumsiness, but the rest of the movie easily overshadows these blemishes.In his first few scenes, Scott's acting seems absolutely awful, but that quickly disappears (and I have no explanation for it whatsoever).  Unfortunately I think he is working towards the typecast of young, doofus goofball.  Hopefully he can get around that in the future.David Duchovny gives a very refreshing performance, breaking out of his usually dapper moods as Fox Mulder.  One line about government officials seems to draw from the audience's knowledge of Duchovny's other role, and received an even bigger laugh for it.Orlando Jones also shines in this movie.  He has come a long way from his days on Mad TV, and has a bright future ahead of him.  Perhaps he will be the next Chris Rock (or Chris Tucker).All-in-all, this is a fantastic movie.  The overused gags and inexplicable temporary acting deficiencies of Mr. Scott pull this movie down to a 9-out-of-10 stars. "},{"Title":"Mindless summer fun.","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not going to be a great classic &#150; but if you want broad humour and a silly story &#150; with a few laugh-out-loud jokes &#150; then this is definitely the film for you.  It is always nice to see Julianne Moore and she shows her comic side at its best.  Her portrayal of Alison Reed, the clumsy scientist from the Center for Disease Control, is probably her best comedic turn to date. David Duchovny is out chasing aliens again and, in some ways, spoofs his `X-Files' character; he was a good bit of casting.  He has good comic timing and his deadpan delivery is perfect for the character.  He and Ms Moore have good screen chemistry and it would be nice to see them together again.More directors need to think of Orlando Jones when casting films&#133;  He really can act and, while the material in `Evolution' doesn't offer too many opportunities to do so, he takes the chances he is given and runs with them.  Seann William Scott (Wayne Green) has the &#145;not-too-bright good guy' role down letter-perfect.  He has some of the better lines in the movie and, remembering that this is a farce, is probably the most believable character in the movie.The location photography is, at times, dazzling; however, some of the special effects looked very cheesy &#150; very obvious &#145;green screen' shots &#150; so obvious that I wondered if they were bad on purpose.  Unfortunately the sound track detracts from the overall end product it seldom had anything to do with the action on the screen and sometimes was outright annoying.This is a good summer movie  just go, laugh and don't think too much.  "},{"Title":"Think Ghostbusters with aliens, the heart and mood of Galaxy Quest, better special effects, and Orlando Jones.","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me say this I was never a fan of Ghostbusters.  I guess I never got in on the bandwagon on that one.  I never found it to be as funny as a lot of people (tons of people actually) found it.  I thought parts of it were cool (like the Stay Puff Marshmallow Man), but most of the movie was too drab for me, for some reason.  Someday I'll write a review of it, but I'm too lazy to do it right now.  Why am I talking about Ghostbusters when I'm reviewing Evolution, some of you ask?  Well, it's simple.  The same man directs both movies (Ivan Reitman) and both movies have very similar plots.  Except that, in my opinion, Evolution is better.  Basically, think of Evolution as a remake of Ghostbusters only throw out the ghosts and put in aliens, which I like because aliens, in my opinion, are cooler and more realistic than ghosts.Let me mention some bad stuff, just to get it over with because I have to do at some point.  This movie misses some serious opportunities to be funny.  Sometimes, when you are expecting a joke, there is none.  It's almost as if they really weren't trying.  Sometimes the jokes are a little corny.One last bad note some of the aliens suck.  The ending alien is a bit of a let down.  It kind of reminded me of Akira, if you've seen that movie.  There is also this cute alien who turns out to be nasty via the mouth within a mouth, a la Ridley Scott's Alien.Now on to some good stuff.  This movie is really funny in a happy kind of way.  I compare the mood of this movie to another Dreamworks alien-comedy, Galaxy Quest (a movie I thought was hilarious).  If you liked Galaxy Quest, and I think most people did, then you will like Evolution.Something else I would like to point out is how scientific Evolution is.  The movie seems very intelligent as far as talking about how the aliens evolve.  I for one and happy to see a movie that isn't completely dumbed down for the uneducated.  I like alien stuff and space stuff, so this kind of science interests me.  Overall, I found Evolution to be very intriguing apart from being funny.Oh, I want to mention Orlando Jones.  He's the black guy from those 7-Up commercials.  I love this guy.  He steals the show in this movie.  I knew the guy was great ever since I saw the first of those 7-Up commercials.  He was also in the Replacements (that lame football comedy which was also somewhat entertaining), and he's probably been in some other stuff I haven't seen or can't remember.  But let me tell you, this guy is going places.  As for the other actors, they're decent.  I like the touch of having David Duchovny on board.  Julian Moore is a good actress, but she got shafted in the character department.  She has a basic walking cardboard cutout character with little personality.  Oh well.In conclusion, please do me a favor of not going into this movie expecting a great movie.  Why do people do that?  Every movie can't be the Godfather or 2001 or Saving Private Ryan, so why don't you just shut up and enjoy the movie.  You won't look back at Evolution at the end of the summer as you favorite summer movie this year, but you're not supposed to.  Evolution was made to be entertaining, not great.  It was made to give you your money's worth and put forth an enjoyable show.  I think it accomplishes its mission.7/10  "},{"Title":"great one","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Excellent movie with lots of new ideas. Such fun to watch funny creatures and all the sticky liquid coming out from the aliens. The combinations of Mr Duchovny and the other are great but some extra do not perform very well such as the scene at with the flying creatures.The last part where the movie almost end, looks so fake on the big huge aliens and that make this story weakness at that part. Other than that, all have been done very well. "},{"Title":"Great Fun, Great Movie","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" You gotta see this one. The cast is great and Orlando Jones shines as the resident comic. The rest of the cast is excellent. Kudos to the casting crew. The director controlled the talk only scenes and punctuated them with the right amount of humor.Some might vote this one low but that's because some of the humor borders on stupid (but I like stupid movies - when they're well done). And this one is perfect. I'll see it again and again. There is *one* thing wrong with this movie - it's TOO short! it's only 115 long. ( They should have made it 2 hours long! heck, it is sooo much fun.See this with someone you hate - you'll feel so good you'll end up loving them! )buy popcorn, have a cola, and have some great FUN!- LivingDogPS If you don't see this one I will be very disappointed. hehe )- LDPPS I have seen this over and over again. I subscribe to NETFLIX now and listened to the commentary by the director, Duchovney, Jones, and Sean. It was almost as much fun as the movie. Now I plan on buying the DVD. But I still insist - it is way too short. Then again why wasn't there an Evolution 2 with the same crew and all??-LD_______________________________________________my faith http//www.angelfire.com/ny5/jbc33/ "},{"Title":"Funny and Enjoyable","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I judge a comedy by one criteria.  Does it make me laugh.  This movie does make me laugh and in fact has quite a few laugh out loud moments.If you're one of those holier than thou types who can only laugh at Woody Allen or British humor, then don't watch this movie.  I am not a fan of that type of humor, but you won't find me here calling it stupid or bash the people that do enjoy it.If you just want a few hours of entertainment, then rent this.  If you can find the DVD, I recommend it because the commentary is pretty funny too.If you think a fart joke is the last sign of the apocalypse, then please don't watch this movie.  If you just want to sit back and have a few laughs, the enjoy! "},{"Title":"For a cheesy comedy, this movie lives up to it's billing and more...had me laughing so hard!!","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I gave this film a 10, because it simply lived up to what it was supposed to be to a tee, and then some.  It wasn't a drama or an action film or a romantic flick, it was a cheesy comedy, which had my girlfriend and I laughing so hard it was difficult to breath.  Actually when I rented it, I was worried it might be some stupid movie with bad acting and bad directing, but I couldn't have been more wrong about it.  Orlando Jones was absolutely hilarious (who knew the 7-up guy could act so well), while David Duchovny added that off the wall dry humor which blended perfectly with Jones. And then to top it off, Julianne Moore's (from Hannibal) character was hysterical in an offbeat style as well.  As for Sean William Scott, he basically played the same role he usually plays in all of his movies, the idiot, but nobody in acting pulls that off as well as he does.  He's a riot!  Granted, this movie is not Saving Private Ryan or The Green Mile, but for a cheesy comedy that is just supposed to make you laugh, it's at the top of it's genre.The movie deals with an asteroid which strikes the Earth, but it is no ordinary asteroid.  This asteroid brought single cells with it, but for some reason these cells are multiplying at- a high rate of speed.  As time goes on, the cells become more advanced evolving from single celled organisms to multi-celled organisms and so forth.  Don't get the wrong idea though, this movie is more about just being funny, than it is about sci-fi, or even evolution for that matter.  Granted, the cells evolve into much more complex beings, but really folks, it's just a comedy to take your mind off of life for awhile.  If you want something to make you laugh, then I highly recommend Evolution. "},{"Title":"Fun movie worth watching once","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, so it's not as good as Independence Day, but at least it's not as bad as some less-than-B movies out there (Mars Attacks!). It wasn't the best acted, but it was fun to watch. The plot is stupid, the aliens are cheesy, and there are plot holes that you could drive a fire engine through (see the movie for why I chose that metaphor). But, the movie doesn't take itself seriously, and therefore if you watch it just for the fun of it, you won't be disappointed. David Duchovny is hilarious, poking fun at his character from the X-Files, Fox Mulder, and Seann William Scott is what you would expect, although I thought casting him in the American Pie movies was more appropriate. Otherwise, the actors were listless (Julianne Moore), or cliché (Orlando Jones). But it was worth seeing, and I admit I laughed. I wouldn't consider this classic cinema, but if you have nothing to do one rainy afternoon, go see this funny and enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"A Good, Original Feeling Film....","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first thing to say is that this review is written by a non-American. This is to say that a different set of principals are brought to bear on the subject matter. I'm sure that other in the U.S and around the world will(and have)expressed opinions, but this one comes from a whole other country. Evolution is a very enjoyable film. It has been made in a summer of super event movies, and film/game conversions and I feel stands alone as the only comedy with an original source material (in sci-fi anyway).It is highly enjoyable. If you're paying 5 pounds (or $8.50) you need to find a film that refreshes your sentiments with regards to just what a big money film should be. As I sit here smoking a cigarette and drinking a 7up, I figure this film to be a winner. The principals act in a manner appropriate to the subject material, and although Mr. Duchovny is not a comedy actor, I feel he acquits himself admirably in an unfamiliar field. Mr. Jones is a relative newcomer to the cinema, and I reckon that over time he may very well ascend to the the same esteemed level as Eddie Murphy, or his latterday composite (of sorts) Will Smith.The plot is most sound, and although it draws some comparisons to Ghostbusters as other critics have noted, it stands alone as Summer 2001's most original comedy event movie. Mr Reitman, a veteran knows how to make films play easily, is one of the few directors who knows how to use good comedy actors. With this in mind, no one is underused, perhaps with the one exception of Mr. Dan Aykroyd, nowadays underrated for some insane reason, but who is extremely talented. It's a shame that Aykroyd's presence as a big man is more valued then his acting talent, because he's always a delight to watch.To cut in some sourness, there's not a lot of involvement with the central characters, and you do find yourself watching people being cheated into a state of reaction at the expense of the colourful effects, but that's the way it was made, and we can't change that.In all I would recommend this film to the less morose viewer, as it's cheerful, colourful, and does not require an over-critical view. Watch it, and the hell with the printed criticism - you'll enjoy it. "}{"Title":"Fruit-basket for Russel Woodman!","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie administers a High Colonic to High Comedy Just to SEE David Duchovny's Butt against Glass mooning Russel Woodman/Jamie Gumb (Ted Levine) is worth any admission fee or rental price. I missed this film in the Theatre, I should have gone.David Duchovny parodies his own Fox Mulder character in this 2001 Ivan Reitman extravaganza- It's Amazing, how every Reitman film follows a kind of formula Which was laid down in the first Ghostbusters movie. We have the two Academics - Ira Caine (Duchovny) and Harry Block (Orlando Jones) - Then there are a few kids under their tutelage - Then there is the Loser (Originally, the Lewis character in Ghostbusters)- Here, that is played out by Seann William Scott. Reitman always has the Loser character redeem themselves, which Scott does with his Bird Call and Singing to an air-breathing alien in an enclosed shopping mall.An Asteroid falls to the earth, right on top of Scott's Blow-Up Doll as he practices his would-be firefighting skills in the desert of Arizona. Harry Block is the local USGS investigator, he Clicked over to the USGS site while looking at Girls Volley Ball Team Photos- As he needs an actual scientist to help him figure it out, he endorses the help of his friend, Chemistry Professor Ira Caine who has a sordid past with The Pentagon.They discover some unusual things with the Asteroid, but in true Reitman fashion, the US Army (by keeping tabs on Caine's Computer) moves in and takes over the whole operation.But they are screwing it up, and it is up to Caine and Block, with the help of CDC Specialist and Ice Maiden Allison Reed (Julian Moore who is an obvious parody of Dana Scully) to set things straight - If not, the rapidly evolving Aliens will soon spread across the world within a matter of days! Reitman films start small- and get Big, and then even Bigger - The Stay Puft Marshmallow man? There is a version of that in this film as well! Reitman sticks to his formula, and it works here.This movie moves fast, so if you turn your head, you miss key information. But it is not that hard to keep your eyes glued to the boob tube in this one. There is some great Location work, and lots of great Character Actors with typically Reitman dialog. Especially from Sarah Silverman who plays Caine's former girlfriend, and who is still wearing his SHIRT - And tries to give it back to Caine in the middle of a restaurant!As a Science Fiction story, there is an interesting thing about Life Forms based on Selenium. So naturally, which shampoo would you use to kill them? Duchovny pulls out all the stops and no part of Fox Mulder is sacred as he rips The X Files a new belly-hole.Actually this film runs quite a bit like the Comedy X-Files episodes, like Dreamland I and II. Like Ghostbusters, what begins with two guys (Caine and Block) rapidly becomes a small Team - First the addition of Scott as a Sidekick and wanna-be Fireman, then Moore adds her expertise, and finally, the two heavy Kids, the football Players from Caine's Chemistry Class join the club - And THEN and ONLY THEN is this unlikely team of heroes ready to save the world as we know it!One More Word - Duchovny Turned Down an opportunity to be in the 2nd Prequel Star Wars Trilogy Film - And this was a good move on his part, because as low rated as this film is, THIS film IS Duchovny. Just like Playing God - There are certain movies Duchovny does good in, and this was one. So I give him my HIGH respect for choosing this role over the obvious easy money role Lucas would have tossed him.After you watch this film - LET'S SHAMPOO US SOME ALIENS! "},{"Title":"A lot of fun for the whole family","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is really funny , I really liked how all the Aliens creatures are total different from one and another and the way some of creatures looked were really great special effects.One of one favourite part of the movie, which I can not, not mention is the house full of the those Women and one of the women open door and then appears nice looking creature and one of women say's When did you a get dogThat scene made me laugh so much also most stop breathing and as I on the floor. There are some really great funny moment in this movies, that had me laughing out loud.The acting for the whole cast was really good and liked how the movie ended.I am little shocked there was no sequel to this movie, I would love to see a sequel to this movie. "},{"Title":"So Fun To Watch!","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution (2001, Dir. Ivan Reitman) When a meteorite falls to Earth, two college professors, Dr. Ira Kane and Prof. Harry Phineas Block is assigned the job of checking the site out. At the site, they discover organisms not of this planet. Soon, the site is taken over by the government, forcing Ira and Harry to the side. Soon the new life-forms begin to evolve and start to get more and more dangerous. It's now up to the two professors to save the planet.Ivan Reitman is back with another wonderful sci-fi film which can be watched as a family. The script has been carefully written, with the inclusion of scientific terms but with a story which can be easily understood. The special effects in the film are actually very good. Some of the aliens look beautifully made, and sometimes look realistic. The cast of the film look like they are having a blast whilst filming, with a great appearance from Dan Akroyd. 'Evolution' is one of the those sci-fi films which appeals to an audience of all ages and will definitely be enjoyed by everyone.Let's shampoo some aliens! - Let's shampoo some aliens! (David Duchovny) "},{"Title":"Do the evolution!","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this movie is underrated. I'd give it 7 points if it wasn't for the lame ending. Okay let's make a list of pro's and con'sPRO'S a really good and original story, (mostly) great special effects, the humor isn't overdone & Ivan Reitman is directing. It's like the Ghostbusters sequel I've waited for so long (with O. Jones as Vankman, Duchovny as Ray/Egon, S.W. Scott as Winston, Julianne Moore as Dana and Dan Aykroyd as the mayor)CON'S fortunately, it wasn't turned into Ghostbusters III as planned because for a Ghostbusters-movie it wouldn't have been good enough. There's the lame ending as mentioned above and the lack of really good jokes and dialog.All in all I was pleasantly surprised by Evolution. It doesn't fail to entertain you.  "},{"Title":"LOL!","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this movie.  I've seen it a number of times now and the combined talent of David Duchovny and the rest of actors along with a very funny script really shines.  It's an amusingly sarcastic movie that takes full advantage of Duchovny as a straight man (something he showed he's a master of during the X-Files years.) I think the studio really missed the boat on the way this film was marketed and subsequently very few people ever saw it.   "},{"Title":"If it makes me laugh out loud it must be good","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was one of those evenings when there was an opportunity to go to the cinema but I wasn't really sure what I was going to see. OK, I'm a big X Files fan, but Duchovny isn't known for his prowess in Films. I also find Julianne Moore to be aesthetically pleasing. I knew nothing about Orlando Jones, but Seann William Scott is a young actor on the Teen Movie scene. I loved American Pie and Road Trip. Indeed, Evolution tries to use the Teen feel, as the original scenes are based around two college lecturers in an American High School. The school jokes come thick and fast at the start, but they are are original and funny. On the whole I have to say that much of this film left me in stitches. It's easy humour with Dan Ayckroyd thrown in. Ted Levine (The cross dressing Psychopath from Silence of the Lambs) is disturbing in a comedy role, but he just about gets away with it, in his foil role in this film, playing the bad guy against the rapid fire wit. Obviously, Duchovny is used to ham up his X Files role, which he does very successfully. It's often hard not to imagine Moore with her kit off in Boogie Nights, but not to bad as the first time I've seen her in a comedy role. On the whole, I laughed a lot. It's a mickey take, it's Caddyshack, it's a teen movie mixed with Sci Fi idiocy. Try comparing it with Galaxy Quest, another film I found to be amusing and thoroughly absorbing. It's not going to win awards, but who gives a monkeys.I loved it. "},{"Title":"Gooey alien fun","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A meteor crashes into the Arizona desert - disturbing a trainee firefighter (Seann William Scott) who's carrying out a rather unorthodox rescue.  Two scientists from the local community college (David Duchovny, Orlando Jones) get wind of the happening, and on arriving at the scene, discover a few curiosities about the meteor - not least of which is the appearance of alien life.  What's more, it's alien life that's evolving at a dramatic rate.  As ever, Big Brother is watching, and the military's scientific team (including Julianne Moore) get in on the act.  As the army aren't known for their sense of restraint, it all leads to an explosive finale, that'll make you think twice about your brand of dandruff shampoo.One of the things that makes this movie great is that it works, not just as a roaring comedy, but as a sci-fi thriller.  In fact, if half the script was slightly modified, and the roles were played a bit straighter, it would be a real edge-of-the-seater, because the narrative is spot on.  Highlights include Julianne Moore as the rather clumsy love-interest (come on, you know you love slapstick really), and Orlando Jones as the excitable and unfortunate professor/volleyball coach.  Look out for an old-skool comedy star's turn as the state governor as well. Throw in a heap of sexual innuendo, an unhealthy dose of flatulence gags, and the most vertically-blasted car in special effects history, and laughter is guaranteed. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi comedy takes several steps backward with Evolution.","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" My totally negative critical opinion of director Ivan Reitman's Evolution has nothing to do with Charles Darwin. This sophomoric aliens-vs.-humans comedy with X-Files defector David Duchovny battling carnivorous extraterrestrials never evolves beyond its amoebic humor, its cretinous characters, and its Petri dish deep plot. Indeed, campy 1950s B-movie sci-fi classics, like The Giant Gila Monster or The Killer Shrews, deliver more laughs per minute than this feeble, uninspired potboiler. Okay, some of the gross-out gags may prompt a snicker, but you won't split your sides howling with hilarity like you might have done at Reitman's original Ghostbusters. Imagine a Ghostbusters trio of heroes combating aliens gone AWOL from Men In Black, Tremors, Gremlins, and Jurassic Park, and you have a fairly accurate idea how wholly derivative and hopelessly predictable this lame creature feature is. Basically, Reitman stages these life and death exploits as if they constituted multi-million dollar Saturday Night Live skits.The prefabricated screenplay by Don (Vampires) Jakoby, David (The Family Man) Diamond, & David Weissman opens one night when goofy firefighter wannabe, Wayne Green (Sean William Scott of American Pie), sets an empty shack ablaze in the desert and practices his rescue routine with a life-sized female dummy. Suddenly, a fiery meteor plunges from the heavens, obliterates the shack, hurls Wayne's car two hundred feet into the sky, and crashes out-of-sight in a cavern! Duchovny stars as Professor Ira Kane, a disgraced ex-Army scientist now teaching biology at Glen Canyon Community College in Arizona. It seems the Pentagon gave Ira the boot after platoons of troops contracted dire side effects like diarrhea, blindness, facial paralysis, and hair loss when he inoculated them. Meanwhile, Kane's colleague Professor Harry Block (Orlando Jones) divides his time between geology lectures and coaching the girls' volleyball team. Kane and Block gather asteroid samples. Staring into a microscope, an alarmed Kane watches these single-cell organisms evolve at an unearthly rate. Kane tells Block What took us 200 million years has taken them only a few hours. Without warning, the U.S. Army commandeers the investigation, banishes our protagonists from the premises, confiscates their research, and summons attractive CDC epidemiologist Dr. Allison Reed (Julianne Moore of Hannibal) who has a clumsy habit of falling down wherever she walks. Gradually, the slimy creatures acclimate themselves to Earth's ecosystem and behave like predators. Despicable Army General Russell Woodman (Ted Levine of Silence of the Lambs) decides to napalm them. Unfortunately, our heroes learn too late these monsters react to napalm like Gremlins to bathing after midnight.Not only does David Duchovny lack Bill Murray's comedic genius, but also he cannot pass up any opportunity to spoof his Agent Mulder persona. Meanwhile, Orlando Jones of Bedazzled suffers a far worse fate. He submits reluctantly to an anal probe when an alien burrows under his skin, then later finds himself administering a shampoo enema to a gargantuan monster to destroy it! Evolution really hits rock bottom with its shameless product placement for Head & Shoulders!Sci-fi comedy takes several steps backward with Evolution. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution stars David Duchovny and Julianne Moore with Seann William Scott. It is a typical fun, pointless summer movie where you're just supposed to sit back, enjoy your popcorn and watch the monsters run around. The simple and predictable (but again fun) plot has a meteorite crash into the Earth, and it predictably contains alien organisms that rapidly evolve and begin attacking humans. Duchovny and Orlando Jones are two college science teachers who learn about this meteorite and the alien life forms it contained, and they try to solve the problem only to run into the army and namely the commander who has a big problem with Duchovny who used to be in his unit until he was discharged due to a horrible mistake he made. This is where they meet Julianne Moore's CDC character who is the only one involved with the military's operation who might listen to them. It's a comedy with a lot of jokes and silliness with some great special effects for the kind of movie this is, silly summer fun that's worth watching for sure. "},{"Title":"Who you're going to call? Creaturesbusters!","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Never saw this movie in its original release, but we recently caught it thanks to a cable network. Ivan Reitman, the director of the more successful Ghostbusters must love the genre. Otherwise, it's hard to imagine what attracted him to this far fetched tale of mutant creatures that come into themselves after two naive geologists from a nearby community college, Ira Kane and Harry Block, decided to take chunks of a meteorite that landed in the Arizona desert. The result of their experiment bring horrible consequences for the nearby city.Ira Kane discovers in his microscope the ability of the liquid taken from the space rock to mutate into million cells rapidly. Suddenly strange reptile-like creatures begin to appear. That is when the Pentagon decides to send the misguided General Woodman to the site to take over the investigation. The only positive thing in the arriving force is Allison Reed, who soon after the arrival realizes the big problem posed by the creatures that begin appearing all over the place.Evolution turns out to be fun for a while, but it is just another predictable movie that in the end relies on special effects, but no real smarts. One thing though, the creatures designed by Phil Tippet are perfectly creepy and menacing. The best sequence of the entire film has to be a fly-like monster that enters the skin of Harry Block and one sees it move under it. The creature moves all over his body under the skin and we watch its shape perfectly. The only way this thing out is to go through a part of his anatomy and involves the use of a device that is too painful to describe. David Duchovny and Orlando Bloom do a good job with their roles. Julianne Moore and Seann William Scott don't have much to do. Ted Levine is perfectly oily and menacing. Dan Aykroyd has a small part as the governor of Arizona. "}{"Title":"Not the Best Comedy, But It Has Enough Good Parts","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A duo of small town college professors stumble upon a meteor with alien life present. This is great news for them, at least until they find out that the alien evolves and reproduces at a rapid rate, so much that the earth may be devoured in a matter of days.This film's strong point? David Duchovny. While the jokes are so-so and the plot is a pleasant variation of The Blob, it is Duchovny that makes this film watchable. Without him, it would be easily forgettable and probably wouldn't have the underground geek following that it does. I also appreciated the brief appearance from Sarah Silverman.A few years later, the film Slither came out which once again tackles the idea of an evolving, blob-like life form. I think Slither is the better film better effects, much more horror-oriented and still with a healthy dose of comedy. Though I wouldn't say it made Evolution entirely obsolete -- they are two distinct films with distinct charms that may appeal to different audiences. "},{"Title":"I was really looking forward to this movie.....","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first heard of Evolution, it was just a movie poster (with the three-eyed smiley face), I had no idea what it would be about.  Then when they started showing commercials for it, I thought it would be really good. I mean, David Duchovny, playing a twist on his 'X-Files' character, and Orlando Jones, the 7-Up guy,who had only been in a couple movies.  Well I went to see it the second night it was in theaters.  It started off all right, then, for a while, I wasn't laughing, and I started to think, This might be a bad movie!  But, thankfully, it picked up again, so I would say it was a worthwile experience, and I'll probably see it again when it's on video. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was extremly funny with Orlando Jones and David Duchovny. The sound track was great with KC and the Sunshine band. The special effects were great. The story was great. Dan Akroyd was a great edition to the movie as the governer of arizona. Man i give this movie 10 out of 10. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Seldom does one see a film so awful. Even Baby Geniuses wasn't this bad. Duchovny's comic timing is terrible, and the witty repartee that one normally finds in buddy movies such as this is completely lacking between Duchovny and Orlando Jones; it's absolutely amazing, watch this movie and you'll see that there is zero chemistry between the main characters. I wonder if this was deliberate.Here's one reason this movie doesn't make any sense a meteor crashes to earth and a community college instructor and his buddy discover that life is evolving from the meteor. So now that the most astounding scientific discovery in thousands of years has happened right under their noses, what happens? They casually go about their normal routine, taking students on a field trip to visit the meteor, sitting around chatting, basically ignorant of the miracle that is happening under their very noses. It's so stupid, it just wouldn't happen like this unless the main characters were made out to be stupid in the first place, but Reitman doesn't take this angle. He plays it seriously like a black comedy, but then pulls out something stupid like the golf course dude falling asleep at his fireman exam. The characters aren't well defined at all. Why should I care about any of them, Reitman doesn't take the time to flesh them out, he seems to be ridiculing their superficiality while simultaneously starving them of the witty dialogue necessary to pull off a black comedy. The result is a mishmash of facial expressions and clichés mined from one hundred years of comedy and vaudeville, all thrown together in an attempt to get something to stick. It's like taking everything in your refrigerator and mixing it all together and hoping it will taste good.It doesn't.I'll echo the sentiments of another reviewer who said the film lost him when they were taking the mosquito thing out of Jones. If that isn't bad enough, Jones hops up and threatens the doctor never to do that again. So? Next time the doctor will just leave the insect inside of him? This movie is painfully stupid. "},{"Title":"Sickiningly Pathetic","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is absolutely the worst thing I've ever seen. Everything about is ridiculous and unrealistic, and yet it is not the least bit funny. ALthough the movie is engaging, and there is some suspense, I hate how this movie follows uses all of those silly Hollywood clichés and stereotypes; aka crazy, funny black guys, dumb blondes, cocky scientists, evil generals, dumb fat guys, and the list goes on. The creatures are sickeningly faux. And of course, the plot is the most unrealistic thing I have ever seen presented as scientific.Overall, this movie brings you on a roller-coaster ride of stupidity with no end. "},{"Title":"Stupid and boring....","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I honestly had to skip this movie from the beginning to the end because it just was honestly so dumb and it would make you go asleep after watching 10 minutes of it. I thought it was a bad idea to involve too many people to be on the team. Two professors,two fireman and a scientist doesn't work out too good to save the world from aliens. That's like the worst plot that they ever came up with. Involving Seann William Scott was a bad idea joining this since he always makes dirty jokes, we all know that from him being involved with American Pie!I would love if this movie did not exist, it would avoid me even touching it! "},{"Title":"Good Fun","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Every time I watch Evolution after a year or two of not viewing it I expect the film not to hold up. Thankfully I'm wrong about this and find myself laughing throughout the movie. That's not to say that this film ranks top tier in comedies of all time, but it definitely lodges itself as a guilty pleasure comedic flick. The story is about Ira (David Duchovny) and Harry (Orlando Jones), two community college professors, who are the first to investigate a meteor that crashed to Earth. The meteor brings with it basic alien life forms. Wayne (Seann William Scott), a want to be firefighter who discovered the meteor, and Allison (Juilianne Moore), a klutzy government scientist, join Ira and Harry to combat the alien organisms that have been rapidly evolving since their arrival on Earth.It is a simple script with not many twists or turns, but the thing that gets me every time is the chemistry between the actors. Duchovny, Jones, and Moore are the heavy weights in this film and they bring great skill to the table. Wile it is a straight forward film with not a lot of surprises the one thing that you can depend on is great situational dialogue. The movie doesn't rely on gross out humor or shock value but rather on well crafted scenes that allow for mature comedic dialogue. And at the end of the day I'm always down to watch this movie once a year just for some good fun. "},{"Title":"Cute creatures","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The best part of this movie is the cute creatures that we encounter along the way with the evolution of the aliens. A couple of community college teachers (Orlando Jones and David Duchovny) deal with some aliens that evolve after a meteor crashes into Earth.David Duchovny is alright. Interesting to see Julianne Moore in a comedic role - she often doesn't do them. Sean William Scott is his usual dumb character role. Interesting to see a pre weight loss Ethan Suplee.Some of the jokes aren't funny but about half of them are so it's worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Good Fun!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the same tradition of Tremors and Men In Black this film has some excellent dialog and action that make it a cut above most of the films of this class.  Don't worry about the plot or some of the contrived situations, just sit back and enjoy this very funny movie with likable stars and some pretty interesting aliens.Hmmmmm, about 1/3 of the way through you just might wonder who is stranger the aliens, the college students or the military.  Any way to cut it, it's a enjoyable romp that will be worth the $2 to $5 dollars you spent.  "},{"Title":"Watch it as a science fiction rather than a comedy","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was better than I expected.  I'd actually put off seeing it, but now I'm glad I went.My girlfriend told me this movie was a spoof, but I don't think it is.  The laughs are too thin on the ground to be a comedy.  I'd say it was a science fiction with its tongue firmly in its cheek.  When the comedy appears it's very funny and silly.  Particularly the ending.I'd compare this movie to Ghostbusters.  There's the same silliness mixed with a few bits to make you jump, but nothing particularly scary.  The story itself is competent enough and some of the CG segments are pretty impressive.I give it 7/10. "}{"Title":"Good funny film.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed this film. The special effects are quite good, and the actors do good performances David Duchovny is ok (as always), Orlando Jones is very very funny (I like this man) and Dan Aykroyd is the funniest one for me. Julianne Moore is ok, too (she already did Jurassic Park 2 and has some experience on films of this kind).The script is well done, too. I could see that the writers had some science knowledge and didn't include senseless elements as in many expensive movies of today. I appreciate that very much, much more than the special effects. Back To The Future (1985) is a good example of what I mean.As a whole, I didn't get bored at any moment and I laughed many times. Don't miss it. 7 out of 10 for me. "},{"Title":"The Funnier side of Science Fiction!","Date":"8 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is believed that Evolution was to be a movie with a lot of science fiction and alien terror in it. Somehow, the script changed for good and this one turns up as a thoroughly enjoyable comedy with a great dose of science, or at least the likeliness of it thrown in. With big names of serious cinema like David Duchovny of X-Files fame and Julianne Moore of Psycho and Hannibal fame, a comedy of this kind was nice treat for sure.The peaceful town Glenn Canyon in Arizona suddenly becomes a hotbed of activity as a meteorite crashes in the nearby desert. Local science teachers, Ira Kane a disgraced Army Colonel and researcher played by David Duchovny and Harry Block steal a sample from the meteorite and find unusual cellular activity and quickened evolution. Just then, a trainee firefighter discovers strange happenings in the canyon that nearly spook him.The movie’s many comic moments are delivered by Orlando Jones who plays Harry Block and Seann William Scott as firefighter Wayne. The best comic though comes on screen when Ted Livine better known for his role of Buffalo Bill in Silence of the Lambs plays General Woodman who leads the Military to cordon off the area and nuke the evolving creatures. He is assisted by a pretty scientist Allison Reed (Julianne Moore).While the movie shows a host of dinosaurs and humanoid chimps that involve a good amount of work with graphics, they are not as scary as a typical Jurassic Park or a Godzilla movie. The fun here is more in the nature of Ghostbusters where ghouls are not really scary and the heroes ward them off. By the time you reach the end of the movie, you just realize that your regular head and shoulders shampoo has new uses too!This movie may have hit screens and gone away without much fanfare but makes a regular appearance on Television. Evolution shows the non-serious face of David Duchovny although he deals with a seemingly dangerous situation on hand. If you don’t plan to have too many expectations with this one, then, without doubt, I would recommend this movie as very funny, yet exciting albeit in an absolutely silly sense. "},{"Title":"Decent time waster...","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I liked it. I thought the story to be original and entertaining. All in all I would say its one of those kind of movies you watch once every couple years or so whenever you happen to catch it on.I must say tho, I have always liked David Duchovny! ;-)I liked it. I thought the story to be original and entertaining. All in all I would say its one of those kind of movies you watch once every couple years or so whenever you happen to catch it on.I must say tho, I have always liked David Duchovny! ;-)I liked it. I thought the story to be original and entertaining. All in all I would say its one of those kind of movies you watch once every couple years or so whenever you happen to catch it on.I must say tho, I have always liked David Duchovny! ;-) "},{"Title":"Cute aliens, dumbed-down dinosaurs, and a 101 minute commercial for Head & Shoulders","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Growing up in the 1980's, I instantly became a sucker for almost anything director Ivan Reitman put his hands on. The man that did the impossible in making Arnold Schwarzenegger look funny (Twins, Kindergarten Cop) captured my heart and soul with Ghostbusters 1&2, two creative and visually magnificent pieces of cinematic eye-candy that hold a candle even to today's mega-budgeted blockbusters. Obviously, when I heard he was creating a modern day equivalent to the aforementioned duo only with aliens instead of ghosts, my heart skipped a more than a beat. This effect grew stronger upon learning that David Duchovny (aka Fox Mulder from The X Files) is appearing in a comical lead role, corresponding ironically with his serious, moody self from the 1990's hit series X-Files.To tie this all up neatly, the movie itself was everything I hoped to receive &#150; and then some. Apart from top notch comic appearances by Duchovny and Julianne Moore &#150; actors we're used to seeing in much more serious roles, we also get an awkwardly funny Orlando Jones (where the hell did he disappear?) and an embarrassingly stupid Stifler&#133; Er, Sean William Scott.So how does the end of the world feel like? In an alternate future where an asteroid crashes into Earth and rapidly starts developing an intensive alien evolution, the result is cute aliens, dumbed-down dinosaurs, and a 101 minute commercial for Head & Shoulders. Have fun! "},{"Title":"The Critics Jipped This One!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The critics generally regarded this movie as a flop and general failure. I feel an obligation to differ heavily on this, since the movie did a pretty good job of making me laugh.Most importantly, the movie has a generally smooth rolling and easy to understand plot; very, very few times during the movie did I feel lost. Secondly, the humor within the movie is great. The scene in the cave with Duchovny and Jones is perhaps my favorite, simply because of the spontanuity behind it. Sometimes that's the funniest thing.Furthermore, I think the special effects in this movie should NOT go unrecognized. Granted, it's a comedy, and the last thing you're really watching for are special effects. I mean, it isn't like this movie is going to compare with Star Wars or something, but it certainly carries some amazing effects. For example, anyone who has seen the movie can tell you that the primate should be in some terror movie that you tell your kids about and warn them never to see. For a comedy, I can remember shuddering in my seat after seeing that thing. But they give you some comic relief after, which I won't state in case you want to see the movie! But, even more importantly for the special effects are the creatures. They LOOK almost real, well, most of them anyway. You can almost envision yourself stepping outside and seeing them!Lastly, the movie definitely provides an understandable plot. I will admit, frankly, that it is probably the movies weakest element. You feel little knowledge over the outline of the movie. BUT, it is strong enough that you can follow, and in a comedy, that's all you need. I mean, lets be honest here, who really cares how Austin Powers ends, right? You just want to hear the lines and see Heather Graham/Elizabeth Hurley, right? Well, same thing here. And I must say, I've never been a Julianne Moore fan, but, she did look good in this film. Maybe it was the whole scientific motife around her, I don't know...but if you want to laugh, while enjoying a zanny, somewhat pointless but understandable movie, then definitely see this. And remember, the critics aren't always right; make your own choices! I did, and I'm glad I did! It won't become some major movie classic, but, you'll be glad you spent a few bucks for a good laugh! "},{"Title":"waste of time","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie sucks! One of the worst storylines I've ever seen, flat characters, cheap special effects, stupid dialogues,... and not even funny! That movie is below B-movie standards - 1950's monster movies look like works of art compared to that crap. Absolutely a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Bottom of the food chain","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Evolution' is the movie equivalent of your tonsils You're not sure why they were made, and once you're done with them you're left with only pain and discomfort.Director Ivan Reitman has made some good stuff, most notably 'Ghostbusters.' This movie is 'Gross Bluster.' Like Ghostbusters, the plot revolves around some misfit scientists who discover a paranormal (this time alien) threat to humanity. But rather than ensuing hi-jinx, Evolution is hi-junk.David Duchnovy plays the 'Bill Murray wacky scientist' character with alarming comedic indifference. His sidekick, Orlando Jones, is sort of Harold Ramis, Ernie Hudson, and Dan Ayckroyd rolled into one annoying character. Ayckroyd himself even makes a cameo, just to remind us we're watching 'Ghostbusters,' only without the laughs, story, characters, script, or direction.Julianne Moore and Seann William Scott round out one of the most wasted groups of talent in recent film memory. Most of the jokes (and the plot) revolve around Reitman's seemingly endless obsession with rear ends. Fitting, since that seems to be where 'Evolution' crawled out from Ivan Reitman's rear end. For him, this is definitely 'De-volution.' "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst movie since Ishtar","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rented this movie this past holiday weekend.  What a tragic waste.  The movie plot is disjointed.  The dialogue and acting weak.  Little to nothing is actually funny about the plot, characters, or their interactions with each other or the aliens.David Duchovny, who does an okay job in this unfunny movie, seems out of place trying to do comedy with an Xfiles-type investigative character.Julianne Moore play an uncoordinated government scientist.  Her character is neither engaging nor believable.The only saving grace of this movie is Orlando Jones who's character does deliver some funny lines.  But unfortunately his persona is unable to rescue this ill-made movie. "},{"Title":"Evolution","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Goofy sci-fi spoof set in an Arizona community college desert town has two scientists (David Duchovny and Orlando Bloom) discovering a variety of alien lifeforms evolving into scary monsters at an alarming rate, deciding it would be best to kill them before the extinction of the human race. How to do that? Head and Shoulders shampoo, of course! Duchovny gets to riff his X-Files image and is comfortably relaxed as a ladies' man with a rather unfortunate history regarding his work at the Pentagon&#x85;which a former associate, General Woodman (Ted Levine; Silence of the Lambs, Monk), likes to remind him of. Bloom coaches girl basketball, must endure a rectal removal of an alien fly, and seems to be having fun as Duchovny's wise-cracking sidekick&#x85;certainly hard to forget is how Bloom is literally sucked into the anus of a giant alien monster! Seann William Scott, obviously cast due to his Stiffler character from the American Pie movies of the time, is a fireman wannabe who assists the scientists in trying to stop the aliens from evolving into a menace that would destroy all of mankind. Julianne Moore is another military scientist that eventually sides with Duchovny and Bloom after initially being on the side of Levine. Dan Aykroyd is the Arizona governor and Sarah Silverman is a former lover of Duchovny's. As you might expect, Moore and Duchovny (Moore being a redhead has a special irony to it, considering Gillian Anderson was opposite Duchovny on the X-Files) eventually hit it off. The obvious ending Ghost Busters homage is hard not to notice. Some cool special effects giving life to the aliens add substantially to the spoof; this might make a fun companion piece to Mars Attacks. The comedy aims to please and perhaps tries just a bit too hard, but I guess it succeeds more than fails. I thought William Scott was rather inconsequential to the film, lightening up his usual shtick and offering a rather dimbulb bimbo who is all gung-ho to help the scientists. A type of winged dinosaur flying through a mall could be the special effects highlight, but there is an underground cavern that becomes its own alien world which gives it a run for its money. Moore was about to move on from this kind of movie to focus on far more dramatic work. Bloom's asking for his leg to be removed before the fly inside his body reaches his testicles should get a good laugh. There's plenty of winking in Duchovny's performance which signifies that he (nor us should) doesn't take this seriously at all. "},{"Title":"as inept a studio film as you will ever see - literally nothing works","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of films I've seen in the last however long, only Jupiter Ascending, among studio films, is as ineptly made. Every single joke fails. Every single moment fails - every feeling or response the film (presumably) intended to elicit from a viewer, it fails to elicit. None of the performances is any good, but you can't even blame them because there was just nothing at all to work with. These aren't even characters. The 'relationships' and pretty much every single thing that occurs in the film, is given such short shrift, is told so abruptly, that none of it can possibly pay off or work. We're in the middle of this thing and Julianne Moore's character (the whole character consists of a profession and an exaggerated clumsiness) starts talking deeply and familiarly to Duchovny's character, as if they've shared some great film flirtation and relationship prior to that, and we were seeing the latest episode in this great antagonistic flirtation - except no, they'd had like one scene together before then and had barely even talked. The whole movie's like that. And the jokes, or the humor - I mean just nothing works. You just have to guess where the humor was meant to be, so little is it actually there. Like, you have to try to figure what in a given scene or moment or interaction could have been meant to be funny. It's just terrible, scene for scene, shot for shot, moment for moment, joke for joke. A bad, bad movie. Also, there's one scene that I found especially hilarious (not on purpose). The guys have just killed the thing at the mall, and then there's just the most inexplicable little interlude I've ever seen in a movie - they cut to the trio in a jeep driving home, and they're all loudly singing Play that funky music white boy while doing like Night at the Roxbury head dancing. It's a complete non sequitur. It follows from nothing. Nothing follows from it. It isn't funny. It isn't interesting. Well, it's kind of interesting, as an object. But not interesting in the context of the story. So. Yea I just have no idea. I have no idea what this movie was even supposed to be. I regret having seen it but I'm proud I finished it.Oh I almost forgot - the Ghostbusters references. And honestly, in retrospect, maybe the entire movie was a Ghostbusters reference or an attempt to recapture that magic (this film DID succeed in recapturing the 'magic' of Ghostbusters 2, imo). OK, so Dan Aykroyd shows up as the governor and does his usual thing, and then - there's just a Ghostbusters scene. I mean Reitman basically just throws up a Ghostbusters scene, except with a much worse script and horrible characters in a horrible movie with horrible performers. The scene it's copying is the Ghostbusters scene where the EPA guy and the Ghostbusters are arguing in front of the mayor of NYC. In this film it's Ted Levine's general as the EPA guy, the good guys as the Ghostbusters, and Aykroyd as the mayor. It was weird. Just really weird. I dunno. If I've made this movie sound at all interesting or worth investigating, I apologize. It's not interesting. Don't see it. Watch something else. "}{"Title":"Monsters and Moore are the humor here","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution won't leave one rolling in the aisles with laughter, or even chuckling that much. The plot is simple and will seem very familiar. There's nothing special about the script or acting. But it is a fun movie, mostly on two scores. The first is the bumbling and fumbling that Julianne Moore's character, Allison does. The usually serious Moore adds something to this film in her unusual straight-faced clumsiness.The second thing that boosts the film to above boredom is the monster, or monsters. The sci-fi aspects of Evolution are excellent. The special effects and/or CGI in this film are very good. It's not a scary movie, but one of those sort of tongue-in-cheek sci-fi action films. The terror or fright of a serious sci-fi film is replaced here by a bemusing humor at the antics and attacks of the creatures. Indeed, those will get more laughs than the lame lines of the two male lead characters, Ira and Harry. I wouldn't run out and buy this film, but it's worth watching if it plays on TV or if one can find it somewhere for a few bucks. "},{"Title":"nice","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" a nice comedy, mixture of classic gags and scientific crumbs, smart, seductive, chaotic , hilarious. a crazy story and a good cast. and it is enough for a show who contains all comfortable ingredients. its success source - the imagination in right clothes. and the memories about X Files creates for David Duchovny a real advantage. Julianne Moore seems be the perfect choice for the cold scientist in search of adventure of her life. but the best remains Orlando Jones as the ambiguous, childish, crazy Harry Block. a film who reminds many invasions or contacts. but who preserves its charm not exactly for originality but for the manner to translate old fears in nice forms. "},{"Title":"grotesque and hilarious","Date":"30 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Meteor strikes Wayne Grey (Seann William Scott)'s car. Glen Canyon Community College professors Ira Kane (David Duchovny) and Harry Block (Orlando Jones) investigate. Block is working for US Geological Survey. The meteor lands in an underground cavern and they find a blue liquid coming out of the rock. Kane discovers alien life growing exponentially and evolving exponentially. Soon the military moves in led by General Russell Woodman (Ted Levine) with Dr. Allison Reed (Julianne Moore) from the CDC.It's a cross between a disturbing grotesque horror and broad comedy. It's a bit unusual because comedies aren't normally that gross. I laughed hard as I squirm in my seat. There is something disturbing and hilarious about pulling an alien fly out of Orlando Jones' backside. I like that the guys are selfish oafs. I even like the forced pratfall from Julianne Moore. This being an Ivan Reitman film. There are going to be some Ghost Busters comparisons. The creature feature is a bit too scary to be as funny as GB. However I cannot minimize how big some of the laughs got. "},{"Title":"A nice idea, a funny movie","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" David Duchovny will, probably, feel the curse of the X-Files for decades. Fortunately it seems that he is smart enough for doing this kind of jobs, making some fun of his own character in the Fox series.The movie starts with a very deep idea an extraterrestrial life form comes to earth and starts a light-speed evolution from the simplest cell structures to the most complex and self-conscious animals. This invasion menaces to extinct us and any other life form currently living on earth in no more than a couple of months.Duchovny and Jones are really funny in their characters, but Moore is clearly over-acting, trying to be funny and she, simply, looks stupid. Dan Aykroid is great in his supporting role as Governor Lewis, as well as Ted Levine as evil General Russel.CGI/FX are not something to open the mouth but they're better than other things I've seen around and the producers have put money enough to make some complex scenes, like that in the mall, pursuing the flying monster.It's not a deep movie about life, but a regular blockbuster product, that makes full service for spending Saturday evening on the coach. Enjoy it. "},{"Title":"GHOSTBUSTERS 3","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this was Ivan's and Akroyd's versin of GHOSTBUSTERS 3.  Ive read on several sites, and the official ghostbuster site how Akroyd and Ivan got very upset at SONY because SONY was giving them a hard time with the script, so they walked.  It's funny how this movie comes out at about the time Ghostbusters 3 was supposed to be out, and it had 3 main people, 4 counting the red headed actress.. and they replaced the proton packs with guns and a fire engine.  Think about the past and this movie.  Chris Farley was also supposed to be in the new Ghostbusters 3 movie. "},{"Title":"Need more movies like this","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had good fun watching this. Sure its not gonna win oscars but it was pure simple popcorn fun. It had good comedic elements and good enough visuals. I recommend this movie to anyone looking for some simple fun. "},{"Title":"Evolution Grows On Me","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw Evolution, I really hated the movie and gave it a 3 or 4 out of 10.  I didn't think is was a comedy as the trailers had first made it out to be and it seemed pretty weak and disturbing with its humor mixed in with a rather harsh, serious undercurrent of monster horror.  As I've continued to watch subsequent viewings of Evolution, I've come to appreciate the movie for what it is.  Instead of a relatively light-weight, entertaining hilarious comedy, Evolution is more of a dry humor, characteristic of David Duchovny and similar in tone to the wry humor in Lake Placid (1999) where Bill Pullman and Bridget Fonda are confronted with a monstrous allegator menacing the populace of Lake Placid.  Seven out of Ten Stars. "},{"Title":"WILD WILD WEST meets MIB 2","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As I watched EVOLUTION I thought to myself, this film would actually work if it did away with the attempted comedy and stayed serious. Therefore, I'm not surprised to read here that Ivan Reitman turned a straight sci-fi plot into a unrepentant series of butt gags.Let me cut straight to the chase not once did EVOLUTION make me so much as 'crack' a smile. It's a movie that oozes gooey potential; potential that is ultimately wasted on anal humor.One of the strongest aspects of GHOSTBUSTERS was the chemistry among the cast members. There is no such discernable chemistry between David Duchovny (who's about as funny as a hunk of steel wool) and Orlando Jones. And when that chemistry fails (which is quite often), the film descends into a stream of uncomfortably forced racial humor reminiscent of WILD WILD WEST with Wil Smith and Kevin Kline. Oh, and did I mention the anal jokes?On the positive side, the special effects are wonderful ... the critters steal the show. The basic plot is also compelling.EVOLUTION is a failure, but it's an interesting failure. I found it amusing to hear Reitman remark on the DVD how the strength of the film was its comedy; it reminded me of listening to George Lucas insist on the Phantom Menace DVD that Jar Jar is the key to the whole movie.EVOLUTION could have been a classic had the story fell into a different pair of hands. Rent it to ooh and ah the F/X eye candy. "},{"Title":"A Fun Movie to Watch","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not much style but for a comedy, it's done pretty well.  David Duchovny and Orlando Jones make a pretty funny and sarcastic duo.  Add Sean William Scott and Julianne Moore and this is not that bad of a movie.Oh yeah...let's not forget the aliens, crawling into different orafices of Orlando Jone's body.  Cheap laughs, but good fun. "},{"Title":"Not great, but consistently clever and entertaining","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this movie was quite up to the level of TREMORS, maybe even a little bit more sophisticated. The F/X is great, and if you pay attention to the dialogue, the double entendres and the puns redeem a fairly predictable plot line. Julienne Moore is quite good, and Orlando Jones is hilarious. Duchovny is rather wooden, as usual, but he seems to fit. All in all, a fun movie to watch on a lazy Sunday afternoon.  "}{"Title":"A waste of time!","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unless ofcourse you spend your time kissing with that special someone...It's another one of those movies where you should of turned it off before reaching the first half. It sucked! There were times where I would think Oh, that's funny! Won't laugh, but hey, they tried.I liked David & Julianne... but they really wasted their time on this one. A combination of Ghostbusters & Tremors.  Tremors was so much better!Anyway, record it from cable, watch it on your spare time, or get it from the library for free. Not worth renting! "},{"Title":"A rare thing -- a funny sci-fi movie!","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie the first time I saw it, and I've loved it every time I've seen it since then (which has been often).  If you can appreciate a skillful blend of imagination, science fiction, and comic genius, you'll love this movie.On the other hand, if you've got an unreasonable prejudice against (A)David Duchovny or Orlando Jones, (B) a film that pokes fun at the rediculous theory of evolution (now there's COMEDY for you), or (C) the delightful blend of sci-fi and comedy, then you won't like this film.Oh well, it's your loss.    "},{"Title":"Silly stuff.","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why would an actor who has spent the last 10 years of his life in one series , who was seriously in danger of being type cast make a film that is so close to The X Files? What was Ducovney thinking of? Ok if this was a ground breaking sci fi like Close Encounters than yes ,but Evolution is just a modern Ghost Busters that apart from some very good special affects has very little to offer. This isnt all bad , it is quite funny in parts but all in all it's just silly and adds nothing to any good film goers memory. The story has so many holes it could be used as a net but that hardly matters in a film that is really just a kids comedy. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"great sci-fi comedy,","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS*-- the makers of ghostbusters bring us a great sci-fi comedy about a meteor that crashes into the Arizona desert and un-leashes alien monsters that start to invade a town. The best part about this movie is Phil Tippet's creature effects, witch were excellent. The humor is funny, the acting was good, and the out come is a effects-laden comedy that rocks. worth owning. You will not be disappointed!!!!! "},{"Title":"Very funny, but lacking.  Still worth the watch","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is at times very funny, but has a sort of tug-o-war with corny and at times corny is winning.  The movie is of course unbelievable, and I think it's overused about how they accidently find out the way to kill the alien.  But the whole thing is a fun ride, and worth a watch. C+, 6/10 "},{"Title":"Making fun of X-files?","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had waited for a long time for this one.  Not so much expecting some master piece, but I'm a big fan of David.  He was great in Kalifornia, and never failed in X-Files.  When it was released on DVD I bought it, even before seeing the film.  I loved the first viewing, but when I watched it again couple of days later I wasn't so impressed &#150; to the point of being bored.  There are few jokes in the film, and none where you do anything more but smile (with maybe the exception of scenes with the two fat blokes).  The good and relaxed spirit between the actors saved a lot though.  I think the film should have been longer, with less monsters and more humor.  Evolution tries to hard to be serious, while at the same time including scenes with pure idiotic humor.  Each method might work well on its own, but mixed like this in one film didn't work.  This is sadly only an average comedy, which could have been so much more.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Fun with some thought","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fun film to watch, the acting was interesting, the special effects varied and the plot only had a few quirks. I rented the DVD version of this film and have a message to the editorsPut the deleted scenes back in you idiots!!  Not one deleted scene was worth cutting out.  It would have added even a little more life to the movie. Anyhow, this movie was good.  It is not a replacement for Ghostbusters, but similar to it in many ways.  I'm not so sure i buy the SE theory on how to kill these things, or even think the Oxygen poisoning idea is that good either but other wise no complaints. If you liked Ghostbusters, give this movie a chance. "},{"Title":"not that much fun","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For all it was hyped up to be, I didn't particularly enjoy this movie. Sure, it had its moments... usually thanks to Orlando Jones, but overall I think it shows the rustiness of Reitman's directorial skill. Most of the jokes are stale and fall flat on their face. What's worse is that so many of the actors try make bland material seem hysterical. It's a wasted effort and it's almost embarassing to see them try so hard. A good example is Dan Aykroyd, who doesn't utter one funny line his entire time on screen. Clearly someone thought his one liners would be hysterical but they were gag inducing. It's full of cliches, wasted characters (Sean William Scott is a GREAT man to have around in a comedy but he has nothing to do in this movie), and some pretty bad acting all around. The special effects are extremely well done and the music has a nice, fun, campy feel to it. In the end, though- Evolution is primed for extinction. "},{"Title":"Its no Ghostbusters!","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has a lot in common with one of the directors earlier films Ghostbusters, but its nowhere near as good. There are some likeable performances, especially Julianne Moore who is fantastic, I wish she was on the more screen more, and a lot less of boring, wooden David Duchovny, he was good in the X Files movie but just doesn't seem right for this part. Also Men in Black covered similar ground to this film and that film doen it with more class. It does have some funny bits and some of the special FX is great but I expected more, nice to see Dan Ackroyd in a cameo role, pity he didn't bring Bill Murray, Harold Ramis and Ernie Hudson with him! "},{"Title":"Just did not work for me","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yeah, I like David Duchovny, other things being equal.  Yeah, the other actors are okay, though Ted Levine can make any movie depressing.  And yeah, the movie had moments.But it just didn't work for me.It's as if one took some elements from Ghostbusters and removed the fun, the magic, and every last shred of connection to or care about the characters.  And then, conscious of the fact that the movie wasn't being very funny, the creators throw in jokes about sex and passing gas, always sure laugh-getters (they must assume).Not here.  At least, not for me.I won't say it was agonizing.  It wasn't.  Four Seasons was agonizing.  This was just disappointing.  And that's bad enough. "}{"Title":"Okie dokie........","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  EVOLUTION is a funny movie that wants to desperately be the next MEN IN BLACK. David Duchovney is an okay actor, but I was disappointed with his performance in this film. Julianne Moore did an okay job as a ditzy, blonde scientist, but other than that, most of the cast was just regular B movie stars. See this sometimes funny attempt at a sci-fi action comedy on a Friday night when you have nothing else to watch. You might actually find some of the humor funny. But most of the action scenes are just predictable and dumb. The acting isn't that good, but it isn't bad either. Just sit back, realize what you are watching and enjoy. EVOLUTION 4/5. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  a little too random","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution wasn't bad; it just wasn't very inspired. There are some genuinely funny bits, but a good parody needs to not just mock its target subject (The X Files, in this case), but also have a compelling protagonist and theme of its own (such as Austin Powers).Unfortunately, the story was slow, there wasn't much tension (because it was played goofy), and the ending was a real let-down.This despite some fine acting by Seann William Scott, whom I hope to keep seeing, and Orlando Jones.Who should see this film-- comedy lovers, but only on a rainy day when you've gotnothing better to do. Don't expect a romance.-- sci-fi movie lovers, but only on a rainy day, and don'texpect any science.-- X-Files buffs a must-seeI'll give Evolution a disappointing 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dimensional Warp-factor","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film appears to have been dimensionally phase-shifted! What should have been jokes are not...what should have been cool effects are not....what should have been a Ghostbusters for the 21st century is not.The film is off-the-beat (not offbeat) and off sync from the nod. Having Mulder-man as the lead investigating weird goings on should have been the start to lots of jolly, jolly. ho-ho-ho hilarity - instead it leads nowhere.**************minor spoiler****************There is one bit where Julianne Moore's character trips over (she's supposed to be helplessly clumsy) - I wondered if I was supposed to laugh or at least grin inanely and this is how the I felt throughout the film, the feeling of 'oh was that meant to be a joke? Let me see if can muster a smile' - the tricky bit is that if you watched this pig-swill by yourself you might just put your morose expression down to being in a bad mood - luckily I had several other people with me who confirmed my sentiments - this film makes Ghostbusters II look good.The funniest bits are in the trailer - they should have just released that as a film and left the screen blank for the other hour and half. "},{"Title":"Do not expect much.","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For a movie stocked full of excellent makeup and special effects, it's a surprise and shame that the wrong blend of jokes and brought in. The acting is good and there is absolutely nothing wrong with the imagery or mood the film sets, but juggling between butt jokes and sexual innuendo hinders the characters and everything feels dumbed down until the whole team comes together.A meteor crashes with fast evolving aliens. It's up to two community college science teachers, a fireman-in-training, and a government scientist to save the world.This is typical Ivan Reitman work where sane, yet silly people live in a belligerent world. The direction is very elementary and the quick explanation for how the monsters get around was pretty lame to say the least. Ira's ex should have been left out completely, whereas the blatant product placement of the TJ should have wasted another minute or two of my time (No, it should not). So add some excellent special effects and superb acting. Mix it with toddler potty jokes and adult content and you have EVOLUTION a movie with some dignity but too bland to have a lasting target audience. "},{"Title":"A could-have-been-OK special-effects flick that failed.","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution started alright.  But it went haywire when they let the military in and we had a combination of ET and Ghostbusters in terms of the way authority is depicted.Better they would have kept this at the community-college level where students come tracking in on a field trip to review the steady changes that are unfolding.David Duchovny clearly was breaking out of his X Files persona with this one and I don't know that he did himself any good.  He comes off as a likable type better suited for character parts than as a leading man.The problem with movies dependent on special effects is that they rarely know when to ease up.  The best stuff here was in the alien's formative stages with little creatures.  When you push ahead to dinosaurs, it's just Jurassic Park all over again.  And what was with the blue ape?  If this was a comedy, shouldn't the culminating creature been, well, funny?But then this was a forced comedy.  According to notes on this web site, the film was initially contemplated as a sci-fi thriller and converted to comedy.  Whoops--didn't work.  Julianna Moore as a klutz?  Not funny--just meaningless.But stupidity apparently rules the planet.  Think about the premise here--an alien life form sprouts in Arizona.  No one--not even the academics--care a fig to save it or study it.  It's as if everyone got tired about 2/3 the way through the film.  Ghostbuster alumnus Dan Ackroyd arrives as the imperious governor and all hell breaks loose ala that aforementioned ghost movie.  We're just rushing to end this thing--director, actors and audience alike. Kids like the creatures.  The rest of us just have to shrug it off as an evolutionary throwback. "},{"Title":"A good, fun movie","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is by no means record breaking, and it does not have the same appeal as some other greatcomedies, but it is a nice way to waste two hours.It is good at building up the plot, has nice elements of surprise, and a good ending. The aliens are funny, and it is good to see David Duchovny in a different kind of alien movie. Good fun, but not record breaking. "},{"Title":"Nah...","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This isn't a brilliant film - the story seems to be based around a series of badly-developed cliches. They're all here - the burned out *insert profession here* who is finally given a chance to prove himself, a fair share of bumbling idiots who prove that even bumbling idiots have a role in society, a military force portrayed as a bunch of arrogant, trigger happy idiots, and some unlikely scientific breakthroughs, to name but a few. All of these concepts are developed to a basic level, and basically left that way through the rest of the film. The script itself was fairly unremarkable, as was the acting.However, as is frequently the case with these films, a lot of basic mistakes can be forgiven for the special effects which, while not exactly groundbreaking, certainly lift the movie at various points. Some of the comedy (when it steered away from the obvious dick and fart gags) was quite good, although not really rolling in the aisles stuff.This is a film you can put on and veg to - I don't think it has anything which will keep you glued to the screen, but it's semi-decent light hearted fodder if you're bored on a Sunday. It falls well short of Ghostbusters (but what could match Ghostbusters), but it is not a hopelessly bad film.6/10, mostly for effects, and the points which I chuckled at. "},{"Title":"Worth having in my dvd collection!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution has its funny moment, I am a huge Orlando Jones fan, and the dude from American Pie was hilarious in this one. I am a big fan of the movie Ghostbusters, and this movie has many similarities, with it's goofy humor and paranormal creatures.  The alien's looked great, but cgi's don't impress me anymore. However the dead alien's were all puppets and the makeup was excellent. I laughed, and if you're in the mood laugh watch Evolution. ** 2 stars..(good) "},{"Title":"a movie to generate a huge throw-up...","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very interesting movie. Nice actors, some cheap fun. The same federal stupidity, alien stories, with some new computer made effects. Jurassic park imitations are flying around in a store. Also, the best way to be a fireman... is to kill an alien with shampoo. The final scene is dirty, a huge throw-up, which of course hits the bad guy. The commercials in movies suck big time. Anyway, I saw worst movies too... so, if you really don't have nothing valuable to do, watch it. "},{"Title":"Ho-hum","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, not too shabby, but then again not the best alien-comedy made.  The movie has its definite plusses such as There´s a fly in my suit, but too much of it is hampered by stereotypes and poor analogies to other movies.  Once you´ve seen the trailers, you´ve seen the funny bits.   5/10 "}{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can you expect when S.F. and comedy are bought together. Actually I liked the movie because it is very funny. David Duchovny plays 'cool', and he supposed to do so in this movie. But Orlando Jones is really funny. The special effects are OK, the story is OK. Not bad for a night to enjoy. "},{"Title":"It Ain't No MIB","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented this movie because I enjoyed Men in Black and it had been compared to this movie.I was very disappointed.  It had all the weird silliness of Men in Black but lacked the fundamental cleverness and little plot twists that made MIB so fun to watch.  There were a few good lines (most of which were in the theatrical trailers, go figure) but not enough to make it outstanding as a comedy.Warning...The following paragraph contains a spoiler...at least it is if you don't know how to recognize a pitifully predictable story line.The basic plot is this meteor hits earth, releases life-form, stuff grows and gets big and ugly, the protagonists save the world.  Boom, there you go. "},{"Title":"funny and witful","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Definitely one of the funniest films to come along in years...since the Mask. I think David Duchovny needed a break from the tense X files and this was the break he needed. Orlando Jones is going to be an up and coming star, all his MAKE 7 UP YOURS commercials were funny too "},{"Title":"I guess I have watched too much of the X-files!","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The title sounded interesting, and the fact that David Duchovny was in it coaxed me to rent this movie.  Unfortunately it was a little too juvenile for me.  If you are over 35, you may be wasting your time with this one.  I watched the whole thing since it was only 101 minutes, but I was glad when it was over.  I guess the special effects were pretty good, but it was not enough to make up for a weak plot and poor acting. In summary, I wish that I had rented something else! "},{"Title":"Very Very Good!","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!!*When I saw the previews for Evolution, I was interested. When itfinally came out, I went to see it. There were only two other people in the entire room. Anyhow I was never a fan of The X Files but The Lost World (1997) I liked and the older MAD TV I liked. I had only seen Shawn in Road Trip and enjoyed that as well. A meteor has hit earth and aliens are inside. Starting as small as a cell, these aliens go from dog-like to slug-like. Two college professors, a wannabe fireman, and an FBI agent try and stop earth from being overrun by aliens.  Overall this movie impressed me. All the actors did well with their characters. David had said he wouldnt have done Evolution if it wasnt a comedy. Supriseingly David is a very funny actor. I always knew him as a drama kind of guy. Moore's character was a beautiful and clumsy Humorless Ice Queen in need of a good humping. Wayne's character was the first guy who actually saw the meteor and keeps acting like he's important since he first saw it. Jones' character was sorta like David's. Both big brained scientists using words the other characters probably dont know.Evolution Funny movie. Rent it or buy it today.  "},{"Title":"Very original and funny movie","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsDirector Ivan Reitman makes a sparkling return to form with Evolution,one of the must-see movies of the year.Why,you ask?Well,it has so much going for it in it's favourlikeable characters,spirited performances from David Duchovny,Orlando Jones,Sean William Scott,Dan Ackroyd and Julianne Moore,special effects to rival those in Men in Black,moments of laugh-out-loud hilarity and all at a compact running time of 97 minutes.If it has one fault,it's probably that the story lacks any real structure.But to be honest you'll be having so much fun,it's hard to notice.Highly recommended.**** "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable movie","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Science fiction movies can be spell-bounding, thrilling or scary. But very rarely do you get humourous ones. This movie intends to be one and succeeds quite well.Two teachers (Duchovny and Jones) in a small town college in Arizona chance upon a discovery through a fire-man aspirant (Scott). To be brief, they are witness to an alien evolution. The military enters the scene and so does a government scientist (Moore). They team up to see to that good triumphs over evil in the end, as usual. If you still can't believe some room for humour here, just take my word.There are some crude jokes, especially targetting an embarrassingly clumsy Moore. There is the usual love angle, which is half-baked and unnecessary.Duchovny (X-Files) and Moore (Hannibal, The Lost World) are just adequate; their roles are certainly not upto their potential. Jones (Say It Isn't So) and Scott (American Pie, Dude, Where's My Car?) are the rib-ticklers. Ivan Reitman (of Ghostbusters fame) never lets a dull moment creep in. The special effects are good.A thoroughly enjoyable movie worth the money, overall. "},{"Title":"it's simple but it's funny!","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No difficult story, not to much thought about what people would think  just go for it and make a funny movie. It is the first time since months that I have been laughing in the cinema. With Shrek I could laughed the first time, the second time it was less, and the third time it was boring. Evolution is more exiting than Jurassic Park 3, and funnier than Dolittle 2. Great, I needed it after so much misery this week in the world news! "},{"Title":"Sci-fi light-weighter that sparkles in places","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is much better than I expected, the level of humour never rose above the lavatorial but had me laughing despite myself. The plot looked as if it had been taken from a serious book and grafted onto a Viz/Mad magazine by mistake. While most of the actors pulled their weight, David Duchovny sauntered from scene to scene as if he'd been forced to do the movie under duress and couldn't wait to get down the pub for a beer. This film will definitely be improved by watching it after you have had a few beers yourself! "},{"Title":"YET ANOTHER CASE OF THE CGI VIRUS SYNDROME...","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This flick has suffered from what I call the 'CGI virus syndrome'. It's a highly contagious condition where an abnormal amount of CGI is stuffed into a movie to the point where the plot explodes, leaving you with 2 hours or more of computer animated effects and nothing much else to back them up. And guess what? Dozens of other movies are infected with the same virus! (Many thanks to Star Wars T.P.M?)SIGH.I love special effects, honestly!!!SIGH.But could they, like, be 'real' ones?  You know, like the effects we saw in Terminator 2, or even Empire Strikes Back?? David Duchovny was miscast in this flick. Every time I looked at him, I kept seeing agent Fox Mulder. Not his fault, however, he's a pretty good actor, and I enjoyed his humor in the X Files. This movie was disappointing. Some of the humor was funny, and the CGI monsters were fine, but the Ending is what ruined it for me. Why can't Hollywood come up with an original End Act for once?I gave this flick 6/10, partly for Mr Duchovny's performance, and partly for my favorite alien the adorable (!) puppy dog with the huge innocent eyes. "}{"Title":"It isn't as bad as most people say","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Made by the people who brought you Ghostbusters, and this has EXACTLY the same feel to it, except with 2001 computer animation and graphics.  It actually is a decent movie, as was Ghostbusters.   Enough humor to keep you entertained throughout.  A meteor lands on Earth, and micro-organisms begin evolving at an alarming rate, threatening to take over the world.  B "},{"Title":"Hmmm... welllll.... kinda fun...","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some parts very funny, some parts just ordinary homegrown American all-that-is-vaguely-taboo-is-fun (hence the ass-poking scenes), some grossness thrown in and, last but surely not least, a famous actor well-known for his TV-series to which some jokes can be directed. Evolution is a bit strange, a combination of fun and not so fun that just doesn't really land very well and that has an extremely silly ending. Stupid characters and some redundant along with a dimwit script (I mean the periodic table deal, what the hell is THAT!?) - but sometimes it manages to be very funny. I have a soft spot for Duchovny, so lets hope he finds better movies after this one. "},{"Title":"Reitman is ready for Ghostbusters III?","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I see the poster of Evolution, the first impression is It's a parody of the classic sci-fi movie. The journalist write the same thing. But this say Reitman copy her most famous movie Ghostbusters. Well, I'm a fan of Ghostbusters, and when the movie exit in Italy I go to the cinema for see this new Ghostbusters. And this is the new Ghostbusters!IVAN...YOU ARE READY FOR GB 3?! "},{"Title":"Fun and enjoyable","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I sat down to watch this movie, knowing nothing about it, except that it had David Duchovny in it. I was also under the impression that it was a drama, so I expected it to be of The X Files type. It was a surprise to find out that it was, in fact, a comedy. And one of the best ones I've seen recently. Evolution is a light entertainment, aimed to relax and cheer one up after a stressful day --  perfect for a Friday evening viewing. It has a good cast, plenty of jokes for all kinds of tastes and nice visuals with the plot a bit predictable, but never dragging or boring.Overall, it's a fun and enjoyable movie, I'd give it 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Quite enjoyable - spoiler maybe","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film did at least take itself less seriously than many of the other recent Hollywood films that tend to make an obsession out of pyrotechnics. It was a reasonably funny comedy-cheap-sci-fi type-film, if one is to sum it up. At times, it was unfunny in the cynical, gross-out style, but enough laughs were raised through some amusing moments. The idea of having Julianne Moore as a slapstick sideshow was embarrassingly executed, however; not funny, just ungainly, and even less funny when done for the tenth time... Moore does not impress at all here, not judging the comedy correctly at all, and failing to add a compelling straight performance either. David Duchovny hardly gives a great comic performance, but is passable, totally underplaying his role as a questionable scientist. I was quite impressed with Orlando Jones, who did have some grasp of comic timing, and around whom most of the humour was centered. Dan Aykroyd's appearance, and one or two other roles, were superfluous though.  I thought perhaps the way it ended was a little too manipulatively ironic and, while the final commercial is lightly amusing, one didn't expect it to be literalised, when after the film, Head and Shoulders took the chance to use an outgoing movie crowd as literally a free market for its product. The film is enjoyable stuff for the most part, but I don't suspect it would at all hold up well to subsequent viewings. With the frequency of sexual references and content, I am surprised to see this rated a PG instead of a 12.Rating- ***/***** "},{"Title":"Silly movie worth watching at a drive-in or rented","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Possible spoilers ahead  CAUTIONPutting aside the many holes in the entire field of Darwinism, this remains a reasonably watchable show. The cast is not perfect, and neither is the plot, but Evolution manages to capture some laughs.It is perhaps unfortunate that many commenters choose to analyse the show to such great detail. This is one of those movies that you should go in with no preconceptions and come out with no profound thoughts, save perhaps a renewed appreciation for Head and Shoulders Anti-dandruff shampoo. )The premise of the show is simple; have alien unicellular organisms start 'evolving' when heat (or flame) touches them, take two college lecturers, an aspiring fireman, the military and various others. Throw them into the mix and watch the fireworks fly. Some situational humour, and more physical humour.I would not pay good money to watch it in DTS/SDDS/THX whatever, but definitely enjoyed it at the drive-in, where the cost was very amortised. It is a very silly show, especially with the last advert plug. Perhaps that was what I liked.You see the show and the cast don't take it very seriously. Approach it from the same angle. Watch it, laugh at it, and forget about it. "},{"Title":"Ghostbusters ver 1.5","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I won't comment too much on this but I will say it's not a bad film. It's enjoyable and watchable. Often though I could picture Ivan Reitmen (Director) saying Okay let's do this scene like that one from Ghostbusters when.... Not a bad thing though Ghostbusters is an all time classic. This is more like what Ghostbusters 2 should have been. Although the cast is good I can only imagine how much better it could have been with Harold Ramis and Bill Murray.  "},{"Title":"Waste of my money and time!!!!!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a waste of my money and my time......It's starts out OK, but then descends into a really lame movie. It's like it can't decide if its action, horror, thriller or comedy, and besides that it just sucks!!! The acting and the story is just some of the most lousy I've ever seen........So don't you dare waste money in this.......That's all.......thank you "},{"Title":"BORING, BORING, GONE!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Based on the huge marketing campaign leading up to this movie, I was expecting at least a couple of hours of light-hearted laughter. However, when it finally reached the end credits, I felt like having wasted my time completely. Except from some pretty cool special effects, this is one of the most boring and not-funny movies I have seen in years. Not even the fairly talented actors managed to turn this incredibly bad script into something slightly funny. A GREAT disappointment! "},{"Title":"An X-Fail!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What could have been a great movie, fell really flat because of the abysmally poor jokes.  David Duchovny can be funny in X-Files episodes but here he fails to deliver a funny line from the films begining to its end. Every attempt at humour fell completely flat. One redeeming feature is the various aliens, which saved the film from being completely rubbish.  My advice, have a night in and rent Men in Black!  "}{"Title":"Patchy but reasonably enjoyable","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really hate going to see movies that do nothing but remind me of other movies.  Now I don't mind the odd knowing wink or sly dig at a genre or series of movies, but when you decide to rip off wholesale what already has been a winning formula and just give it another title that is when I get a little annoyed.Evolution, if you haven't already worked it out from the trailers and publicity, is pretty much a rehash of the Ghostbusters formula.  Which is not surprising considering the creative team behind the two films.So in Evolution we have a group of misfits out to save the world from the dirty aliens.  A meteorite crashes in the desert and begins to spawn off an amazing variety of nasty creatures that seem hell bent on destroying the good 'ole US of A.Our three hapless heroes (Duchovny,  Orlando Jones, Seann William Scott) are the first to make the discovery, which is quickly and rudely taken away from them by some nasty, nasty army intelligence types (Ted Levine).But of course it soon transpires that our underdogs are really the ones with all the clues and the inside line on ridding the earth of these nasty speedily-evolved critters.Evolution unfortunately is not the sum of its parts; a film made up of a series of set pieces that do not really tie together well or even work well on their own.Many of the gags and situations fall flat primarly because of Duchovny's bizarre sense of comic timing - they ar e only saved because Orlando plays such an over the top character that it hides much of Duchovny's faults.Once our three heroes are allowed to shake the movies tendency to play it straight for the first 30 minutes it truly starts to shine.  They initially seem confined by the need to get across the necessary exposition before they are allowed to truly stretch their wings and enjoy themselves; and allow the audience to finally get some good laughs.Julianne Moore as the scientist with a heart of gold is probably one of the most miscast parts this year - she is truly at sea in this film and her characters tendency for clumsiness only makes this reviewer more bewildered about her inclusion other than somebody for Duchovny to eye off.The CGI on the whole ranges from average to good - you get one scene of dazzling work only to be confronted the next scene with some truly ordinary effects.On the whole Evolution isn't that bad - it just could have been a whole lot better.7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Vaguely entertaining sci-fi spoof, but it's no MIB.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Isn't evolution just a great idea.  Think for a second - without it, we'd all be a floppy race of fish people, eating plankton and not tuna, in case it used to be a relative.  Charles Darwin truly is the daddy. However, the rest of creation hasn't caught on to the advantages of the idea yet. Personally, I think slugs are just lazy and should try harder to grow arms and legs like normal species.Such an accusation can be aimed at 'Evolution' the movie. A sci-fi comedy in the same vein as the far superior Men In Black, Reitman has simply remade Ghostbusters and replaced the ghosts with aliens. 'No bad thing', you might say. After all, Ghostbusters was a classic of its time and a thoroughly entertaining film. Yet, the second time round, it just seems as though he couldn't be bothered to advance the plot any further and the formula simply doesn't work as well.It's a promising if unoriginal premise. A meteorite lands on outskirts of small town, local scientists with shady past discover it before a government cover up, culminating in much chaos and eventual showdown (pick your 50s B-movie). Yet the plot is laboured and poorly developed, and it takes an age to get moving. Unlike its more illustrious predecessor, 'Evolution' has no 'big scene' until two-thirds of the way into the film, and often has to rely on the charisma of its lead actors to keep it moving. This wouldn't be a problem if Bill Murray, Dan Akroyd et al were on hand - but they're not (Akroyd actually has a cameo late on in the film, just to remind you of what it's missing). Orlando Jones and David Duchovny (not the most charismatic of actors at the best of times) try hard with an inoffensive and occasionally witty script, but are defeated by its sheer predictability. As for Julianne Moore's attempts at slapstick - spare me. Even the effects, one of the main selling points of the film, are nothing special. True, some of the creatures look great, but perhaps someone should tell the FX man from Jurassic Park (on set here yet again) that too many dinosaurs can eventually get a little boring? Despite this, 'Evolution' does have its moments. The Alien gestation spoof is genuinely funny, as is the alien dinosaur chase through the Mall. Orlando Jones is good throughout (though no Chris Rock), and Duchovny shows enough to suggest that he may make it on the big screen after all. Yet, with MIB available for half the price and twice the laughs (and Ghostbusters for even less), it's hard to get too excited about such an average film. Mildly entertaining, but no more.5/10 "},{"Title":"Head and shoulders above the lot","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a harmless enough film, that's overcome with utter silliness.  The farting scene at the end is probably the worst without spoiling it, but throughout it's often quirky, possibly even charming and witty in places.Yet, it's never actually funny.David Duchovny plays the same character as ever, and Dan Ackroyd is present in the same stereotypical role he also plays most of the time nowadays.A film to make some money, if you take it as it is, it's not all that bad. "},{"Title":"Ghostbusters 3","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution isn't Ghostbusters.  It clearly wants to be, but alas nowhere near.  But saying that it was still a top draw comedy.  I saw this twice too.  On the same day.  David Duchovny doesn't veer too far from his X Files persona, and handles the serious moments and the comedic ones equally successfully, Orlando Jones is his co lead and is actually really good, even though he initially has come off in previous roles as just another Eddie Murphy wannabe.  There are not as many fx in the movie as I thought th ere would be, but it's all impressive.  This is about the characters more than the fx, just as Ghostbusters was.  Interesting to note that this was originally conceived as an all out gore fest, but Ivan Reitman took it on and gave it the new angle.  The presence of Dan Aykroyd further improves things, giving a stamp of approval from the father of Ghostbusters, and the fact that he has stated his long awaited third instalment will never happen (due to Bill Murray's lack of interest) makes this film all the more important.  Gremlins was an important film form my youth and that was reworked as the excellent Small Soldiers (one of my favourite films ever) and so Evolution represents the reworking of GB's themes, but alas this is not as good a successor as Small Soldiers.  This will be a film which will come and go, I cannot see that it will change anyone's life.  Watch it as a parody on science fiction conventions, showing the way things have changed between the 50's and the 90's.  There are nods to ID4, The Blob, The Thing etc, but essentially Mars Attacks did that better.  This is Ghostbusters via Men in Black and X Files, good performances and good fun.  See it. "},{"Title":"Standard summer comedy (bit of a spoiler)","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution is one of those summer comedy films Hollywood releases as a relatively safe bet to make money - use an established director (Reitman), make it similar to something that worked before (Ghostbusters), but use the latest CGI effects if possible, and have a leading name who is well-known, but not too pricy. The result in this case is something that is better than the average summer comedy (I have an ability to laugh at stupid jokes, but most summer comedies push that beyond the limit), but will probably have disappointed if you were expecting either something as good as the original Ghostbusters or something with a decent plot.Which is the other thing - I read in other comments that this was originally intended as a sci-fi thriller (written by the same chap who did Arachnaphobia and John Carpenter's Vampires). Although some of the seriousness remains, I suspect the reason they changed it to a comedy may be partially because some bits are too sterotypical (things you learn from films - no US general ever listens to any advice whatsoever) and the way they tie the film up at the end is too contorted compared to some of the better ideas that they had before to fit in a thriller. I can just see the suits now saying 'Well, it's a good idea, but the plot's a little thin, the characters are two-dimensional, and we really don't like the ending as it is. So let's make it a comedy, give it to Reitman, and end it with a big monster and lots of slime, and most people won't care...Given my tolerance for silly jokes - 7/10. "},{"Title":"cool film","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well. Evolution was fun. I did not know quite what to expect. It was visually stunning and quite fast paced. I think it could have been a more thrilling film if the comedy was not as accentuated. It had potential to be so much more than it was. Although the director has done a superb job i am still left wondering what if it had been a horror movie. If that film was made as a full on horror/thriller it would have been even better. But that aside i still enjoyed it. what more can i say!  "},{"Title":"An amusing if slight summer distraction","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution is one of those movies that tries a little too hard.  Set in Northeast Arizona (in Page, in fact, although this fact was never mentioned once in the movie), the plot centers around the arrival of an alien-microbe filled meteor that crashes near Glen Canyon, whose inhabitants begin to evolve and destroy at an ever increasing rate.Orlando Jones is hilarious as the professor who relishes the idea of getting credit for the discovery. David Duchovny looks like he wants to be in another movie, however.  As the serious professor who is interested researching these aliens, he seems uncomfortable with the tweaking of his X-Files personae and mostly just looks constipated thru most of the film.Julianne Moore's role is a throwaway, a humiliating comic scientist whose total humorous input into the film is that she trips alot.Ivan Reitman has created a lesser film that is nevertheless amusing and entertaining while watching it.  Just don't think about it too much afterwards or the Semitruck sized plot holes will be all too evident.  "},{"Title":"Funniest film I've seen in ages!!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wasn't really all that bothered about seeing this film - it was one I thought I may rent when it comes out but my friend on the other hand was desperate to see it!So being the good friend that I am I went along with her to see it and didn't regret one moment of it!!This film is absolutely hilarious and is one of the funniest I've seen in a while!A couple of parts had me crying with laughter! The main characters make this film what it is!Wayne(Sean Williams Scott)is daft but sooo funny-I'd heard from a critic that he found Sean's character 'annoying' but I found him far from it!Ira (David Duchovny) had the dry sense of humour that we are all familiar with and Harry (Orlando Jones) is just brilliant and so funny!!I don't like the sci-fi, x-file type, alien films and thought this was going to be one of those but it was totally different!Overall this is a cracking film that I highly recommend to anyone and everyone (especially those who want a laugh!!) "},{"Title":"Best line shown in previews - Fat people stereotyped","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie had some really good laughs in it, but, as I said in the subject, the best line was in the preview you already saw on TV and before other movies and, perhaps, on the IMDb.There were some surprise stars (to me, anyway), and there was some good acting.It's always refreshing to see actors step outside the box and do something we haven't seen them do before, too.  David Duchovny (forgive me if I mispelled his name) is, surprisingly, a pretty good comedic actor.  He was, for the most part, the straight man in this movie (the guy who stands by and looks on while the comic relief person is constantly cutting up).The only thing I strongly disliked about this movie was the obvious assumption it made that fat people are stupid.  The two students in the college class that were stupid were very overweight, and they were constantly played out to be lazy, stupid, beer-guzzling good-for-nothings.  The only saving grace of this obvious stereotyping was they knew where to find something important toward the end of the movie when none of the other characters knew where to get it. "},{"Title":"Watching this is better than having your teeth crushed by pliers","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Probably, anyway. I actually laughed weakly two or three times as I watched this supremely poor film, but it was only to try and convince myself that I was enjoying it. I wasn'tIt is easily possible to watch this movie without laughing at all, but that's only because nothing funny ever occurs. Not one aspect is done well, the writing, dialogue, acting, or direction. David Duchovny, who's ability to act and emote contain more wood than a lumberyard, mumbles his way through each line as if it's the first time he's read it. Orlando Jones, who may have talent, waits the whole movie for The Funny Line By The Black Guy So White People Will Laugh, never really gets to it, Julianna Moore is the luckiest person who gets paid vast sums to be in movies, because she has zero ability to deliver a line of dialogue. I'd be surprised if she could deliver a pizza. She, Senator Quayle, is no actress. Seann Scott attempts a few awesome, dude type lines but they never come close to working, mostly because of the feeble dialogue but partly because he can't act either. Even the aliens are too brightly colored to look real, but countless films have had fake-looking creatures and have been able to make things work.I might have been better off seeing this summer's blockbuster (literally, 'bomb') Pearl Harbor, which I steadfastly refused to do insisting that Evolution would be funny.Now I have had to give my pledge to see Ben Affect's movie to make up for this one. What a lousy summer movie season, so far!  "}{"Title":"For the braindead only","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *****SPOILERS******SPOILERS******SPOILERS******* This movie is awful, yet so many rabid fans are swearing by this illogical, unfunny garbage that I must state my case. I understand Ivan Reitman's style (I loved Ghostbusters) but watching Evolution you'll realize that he's either lost his skill/edge or his mind. This movie contains no sort of originality.  Yes, it completely copies Ghostbusters 1.Main characters are professors; one sly, witty, skeptical wise-cracker hopelessly after the female lead.  The other is laughable scientist, butt of the jokes.  Sound familiar? (This doesn't work in Evolution b/c there is no char. development & the main actors' personalities are constantly being switched & traded b/t one another, contradicting earlier actions.) 2. The citywide invasion/people's reaction sequence.  Just not funny or original anymore.  (Did anyone really find the women's reaction to the alien dog believable or funny?). 3. Battle in the mall.  (Think &#145;Slimer in the hotel' sequence).4. The goofy intrusion of the military/gov't stripping the main char's of their duties.  (Remember the EPA trying to shut down the Ghostbusters?) 5. The climatic ending w/ the ragtag bunch using their wits to battle a physically enormous creature (i.e. Staypuft or the overtaking slime in Ghostbusters II which Evolution's amoebae monster was the same consistency & color as.) 6. Finally the lame commercial ending reminiscent of the Ghostbusters' tv ad.Evolution is also riddled w/ plot holes, scientific inaccuracies, & continuity errors... -As other's noted; the ridiculously small crater left by the massive meteor. -Why the dangerous flying lizard alien killed/ate no one at the mall, just scooped up a shoplifter for a joy ride(?!). -The flawed plan to lure said mall alien to the podium through the sound of Seann Scott's singing in the mic.  If its amplified through the mall's speakers, how did the alien suddenly turn around & locate the source? -If the aliens were multiplying & evolving at such a rapid rate (in the cave system) why weren't their thousands of primates escaping through the tunnel system & wrecking havoc on the city?  (There were only like 4 amongst the main colony days after they appeared) -Like these science professors would jump at the shampoo idea & order millions of bottles w/out even testing its effects. -Why didn't the shampoo spray out of the hose after we see &#145;Scott open the valve? And why doesn't the attached fire hose brought into the caves trail behind the fire truck after they dropped it & drove off? So many other ill-thought out aspects of this cinematic mess make me realize this was the work of several hack writers & amateur editing.I was also less than impressed with the tired looking computer-generated f/x that ripped from another movie, Starship Troopers.  Did anyone else notice the non-computerized close-ups of the amoebae monster (enema scene) resembled nothing like the slimy digitized version?  And can Hollywood imagine aliens that don't look like glorified insects, lizards or blobs with tentacles?! This is an insult to intelligent sci-fi fans everywhere! The plot is copied, the effects are bland, the acting mediocre, & the cameo's not funny in Ivan Reitman's hodge-podge disaster Evolution.  Wait for dvd/video to see the scary primates- the only value found in this glut. "},{"Title":"A different comedy","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution was a good movie. It was an Ivan Reitman movie and he always does a great job. The film wasn't hilariously funny but it did have some very entertaining moments. As usual Seann William Scott is VERY funny (And of course cute.) and might I just add he has a great singing voice too. Orlando Jones was really funny too and it was interesting to see David Duchovny and Julianne Moore both doing a comedy film like this. They both did a really cool job. I give Evolution a 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Better than I expected but not as good as I'd hoped","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution is the George W. Bush of comedy movies  proving once more how lowered expectations can actually work in your favor.I only went to see this film because my fiance really wanted to go.  I was worried that Orlando Jones was just going to reheat and dish out his 7-Up ads character, that David Duchovny was going to laff it up with inside jokes about X-Files (I know these government guys), and that it just wasn't going to be funny.  I was surprised on both counts  Jones turned out really quite a good performance, hitting high points with comic lines and still pulling off the relatively serious mien of his college professor role believably.  Duchovny, on the other hand, phoned it in.  He seems to have forgotten the difference between acting deadpan, and acting at all. I swear the only time his face moved was when they were singing along to Play That Funky Music in Jones' character's jeep -- and then, it was only his lips.I'm not a really picky movie viewer.  My one criteria for good movie is that I don't mentally heckle it until after the credits start rolling.  If it entertains me for the entire time it's on, it was a good film. Evolution made it for about half an hour.  By the end, I was amusing myself by looking for continuity errors and other gaffes -- and I'm not even the type of person who usually catches that sort of thing.  I mean, a character can be wearing a different colored shirt from one minute to the next and I won't notice until someone else points it out.  So if I notice that in one scene Duchovny's dripping with shampoo from head to toe and in the next when he's locking lips with Moore he's got a few token drips over the hair but hardly any on his face, it's either a big error or I'm *really* bored.The last thing that detracted from the story was the toilet humor.  Big alien farts and sphincters just aren't that funny to me.  One or two can keep the movie lively.  The grand denouement though, --.  There are probably dozens of 13 year-olds who thought it was the funniest thing ever, but as for me, I thought it was tacky and tasteless.  (I also hated Kingpin and Dumb and Dumber, if that gives you an idea of what I think is tasteless.)In terms of content, Evolution had an okay premise.  'Ghostbusters' meets 'Men in Black' it was not, but it could've stood on its own with a little more work.  Alien meteorite falls to earth, bringing with it its own creepy-crawlies.  The effects were quite good, I thought -- the little blue dog alien was so cute that I could hardly blame the Avon lady for trying to pet him (although you know that it was going to lead to no good), the dead flying aliens were realistic, and the insect-like ones were downright neat.  The score was well-done and fitting.I went in expecting to exit the theatre wishing I could retrieve the previous two hours of my life.  I actually came out with a more favorable opinion than I would have thought.  Whether that's a good thing or not is anyone's guess. ) "},{"Title":"The FIlm Independence Day Wanted To Be...","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the film that Independence Day wanted to be before it went and got all self conscious and frankly ridiculous. Highbrow, Evolution is not. Entertaining, it most certainly is. The plot (as ever), is an alien threat to human existence - this time posed by the crash-landing of a meteor. Oozing blue goo, there's something defiantly dodgy about this meteor, as Ira Caine (David Duchovny) and colleague Harry Block (Orlando Jones) soon discover.In true alien-flick tradition, the military heavy-handedly take over the potentially 'delicate' operation, swiftly sidelining 'good-guys' Caine and Block. Who'd have thought it eh? The gung-ho general in charge, doesn't understand the nature and gravity of the situation and the need for appropriate action! Ira and Harry therefore form a rebel alliance to save the nation from the life-threatening consequences of the blue goo and it's dramatic evolution.The cast list on paper is bewildering, the likes of professional 'goofball' Seann William Scott (Road Trip, American Pie) as the favourable accidental hero, alongside sometime acting-heavyweight Julianne Moore (Hannibal, The End of the Affair)as the klutzy, awkward yet likable love-interest and Fox Mulder! The trademark dry wit is there from Duchovny, along with some not-so-trademark and not-so-sensible blonde/reddish highlights. And yes, there are some genuinely funny references to his FBI alter ego as the crew discover that Ira Caine is indeed more than just teacher.You must suspend all disbelief and be prepared to enjoy the film in all its formulaic glory; toilet humour, shameless yet hilarious product placement and the inevitable underdogs save-the-planet-while-twisted-old-authority-figure-gets-his-just-rewards type narrative.An American laugh-out-loud film seldom comes along these days, oh wait, there was Pearl Harbor? But Evolution will have you laughing out loud from as early on as the opening scene, which sees Scott's aspiring fireman, practicing his rescue techniques with a plastic dummy in the middle of the desert (watch it!).In a nutshell, when there's something strange in the neighbourhood, who you gonna call? David Duchovny! Yep, the makers of Ghostbusters have well and truly exorcised the demons of Ghostbusters 2 with this latest outing. "},{"Title":"Funny and great special effects","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That was a very funny movie, i mean i never expected DavidDuchovny to be that funny, well it is a little bit like men in blackand ghost busters, put those 2 movies in 1 and you'll know if you'lllike it or not, i think it was a very nice popcorn movie, and forspecial effects lover you'll be very happy because they are very verygreat. So end of the line, it is very pleasant to watch and you don'tget out of there with deception. "},{"Title":"Simply out, the best movie I've seen all year","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I walked in the theater of this movie expecting a plain old story with a few laughs, and knowing I was going to come out of the theatre saying, ah, could have been better. Apparently, I was wrong. 'Evolution' has a basic, simple story like I expected, but it is packed with originality, impressive special effects and hearty laughs. The movie is about this meteor that falls on earth. This meteor suddenly begins to excrete a special liquid that over time, turns into monstrous creatures from outer space which are, well, you know, the bad aliens. Two college teachers, Duchovny and Jones, and one aspiring fireman, Scott, team up to stop them from spreading across the globe, but as you would expect, the government wants to do things their way, so they ignore their valid advice. The movie goes on from there.Throughout the movie, Duchovny acts with really no effort (well, does he ever not?), Jones plays the role of serious/funny guy perfectly, and Scott does also a good job as the goofy young slacker who follows the guys everywhere.There's this one scene, when this flying alien is in the mall with the three guys trying to capture it, which totally kicked ass. Expect it when you watch the movie.All in all, 'Evolution' is a great movie. Of course it won't win any Oscars or anything (which it should, but those people are stupid...) but it is a movie which entertains you for the whole time, and you'll never wonder what time it is and when you're going home while you're watching it.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great Film! (If you are 10 or younger....)","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am an Ivan Reitman fan, but this was not his better work. It had the potential to be a lot of fun, but seemed forced at many points. My kids liked it, I found it tolerable. It may be OK for a hot day when you must find a cool theater and nothing else looks better, but I recommend waiting for the video release. "},{"Title":"Could have been better....","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought it was a pretty good movie.  I saw it on cheap night prices so it was not a waste.  Some of the recycled plotlines were overdone, such as Julianne Moore's character didn't *need* to be a klutz.  I didn't find it cute or funny, and after the first time she fell I could tell practically every other scene she was in was going to have her tripping.And Head and Shoulders has enough advertising.  ) "},{"Title":"awesome!!!","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i loved this movie, and i would reccomend it to anyone who loves comedy and David Duchovny! he rocks in this movie! i thought i was going to pee my pants laughing! i loved the effects, although the aliens werent really realistic, i didnt go to see the sci-fi aspect of it like some people did. i went because it looked funny, and i wasnt dissapointed, believe me! i give this movie 2 thumbs up! "},{"Title":"This Year's Battlefield Earth","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie may quite possibly be the worst movie ever. Evolution not only insults your intelligence, but scientists and Fireman alike. Ivan Reitman should be run out of Hollywood. The movie starts out with some humor, but then you realize that it is nothing more than another stupid Orlando Jones movie. With the enamorous success of Double Take and Say it Aint so, Orlando Jones is by far becoming the next Dan Aykroyd......who is in this movie and who's role in this movie can only be described as unnecessary. Duchovny and Moore play far inferior to what they are capable of doing, and Seann William Scott is only in this movie to get the younger generation to come to this.....thinking he might do his Steve Stifler routines, I guess....All those who have seen this movie are now dumber for having done so. Get your money back.  "}{"Title":"Doesn't quite live up to its potential","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was mediocre. It was essentially Andromeda Strain meets Jurassic Park meets Ghostbusters, plus a couple of other recognizable sci-fi stories thrown in for good measure. There were some funny moments, but overall it was rather disjointed and didn't quite work for me. The acting was fine (Duchovny is terrific given the writing he had to work with), and the special effects were pretty good, but the story was weak and so was the comedy. It was a concept with a lot of potential, but they should have rewritten it two or three more times, and with the help of a veteran comedy writer like Harold Ramis. It needed a lot of tightening up. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not Quite Ghostbusters","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There were a lot of scenes in this movie that sort of fell flat. Scenes that Ghostbusters pulled off.This movie had a lot of potential and delivered a few good laughs thanks to Mr. Jones.All in all I felt that it fell a little short. "},{"Title":"This movie is full of fun adventure, intrique, science, hidden love, and invading slimy aliens.  What else does a movie need?","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really enjoyed Evolution.  Oh, I know it is not deep, serious entertainment like a play by Shakespeare, but so what?  The premise that some sort of alien life form could infest our planet from a meteor strike is not all that far fetched.  Microbes and such that live in space might spread all over the universe that way.  Of course, I doubt (and hope) that if something did come our way, its ecosystem would not produce such different forms of life quite so quickly.I thought everyone in this movie played it as unstated over the top as possible without being too silly. It reminded me of one of my favorite movies, Ghostbusters. Maybe because they were both directed by a talented gentleman named Ivan?All of the actors and actresses were terrific.  The chemistry between them was great. It seemed like they were all having a good time making this evolve into something the whole family could enjoy together.The only really serious and not make believe part of the movie, was the mention of the hard times some of our soldiers are experiencing after they had taken the Anthrax vaccine. I think some have even been court- martialed for refusing to take it. That David Duchovny's character, Ira Kane, had invented the vaccine, was thought provoking.      A snippet of wee negativity from this movie goer.  In the scene where the police were taking pictures with the meteor, didn't anyone ever warn them of a hazard called radiation?  Even our heroes didn't check for that possible gift from space.  Picky, picky, I know.John Powell's music is wonderful.  The scenery is lovely.  Michael Chapman did a great job with the cinematography.  All of the alien gritters are very colorful, albeit hungry little devils.Out of a possible ten, I give Evolution an eight on the Alien Scale of fun science fiction movies. It made me laugh and think at the same time. "},{"Title":"Ouch.","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  About half way through Evolution I wished that I had ordered hemlock instead of Diet Coke.  I have not been this let down at a movie in a long time; possibly ever. I really wanted to like this movie.  The summer is the season for big, effects-driven alien flicks, and I was hoping that this would be at least as enjoyable as MIB or Independence Day.  Especially since the cast included David Duchovny and Julianne Moore.  I was expecting snappy dialogue.  Alas, there wasn't even tolerable dialogue. There were three writers who are responsible for this hideous screenplay.  I would think that between THREE writers a half decent script could be produced. The movie started out poorly and just kept getting worse.  At first I thought that Julianne Moore would enter into the picture and make things better.  She actually may have made it worse.  I barely remember that she was even in the film.  The romance, or whatever, that formed between her character and Duchovny's was unexplained, bizarre, and mostly irritating. About 2/3 through the movie a terrifying thought occurred to me Dan Akroyd is also in this movie!  This is going to get WORSE!  Indeed he showed up and played Dan Akroyd rather convincingly. It struck me that perhaps Reitman wanted to make a movie with Jeff Goldblum and Will Smith, but could not afford them.  Although I would not in any way blame the acting for the painful experience that this film turned out to be.  The actors really had nothing to work with at all.The film lacked a single interesting moment.  The aliens were not unique-looking.  I half-expected the dragon thing that was in the department store to start talking like Sean Connery.  There were an amazing amount of other movies being ripped off in this film.  I stopped counting at about 15.   Duchovny said that he chose to do this movie because he wanted to get as far away from the X-Files as possible (??!!).  If he meant that he wanted to do something that was unoriginal and poorly-written, then mission accomplished.  But it seemed to me that aliens, an evil government/military cover-up and an icy red-head hint at a really bad X-Files spoof. I am a fan of Duchovny's and I really hope that he has a good movie career, but man I hope that he doesn't do more movies that are way beneath him like this.  Same goes for Moore.  The best part of the film was Seann William Scott, who I had anticipated would be the worst part.  Perhaps because he did not look quite so out-of-place.   At the end of the movie (I would not call this a spoiler) when the three male stars did a spoof commercial, I was hoping that it would be an apology instead.  I can say one good thing about this movie it has given me hope that I can write a Hollywood screenplay. "},{"Title":"Was This A Sci-Fi Thriller or Comedy?","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unfortunately, this movie couldn't really smoothly blend the serious, mean nastys (alien monsters) and the light comedy.  Unlike Ghostbusters, Evolution takes its alien material seriously and tries to make a comedy out of it.  It was mean spirited for youngsters and terribly inconsistent for adults.  This was one of the worst movies I've seen this year.  It needed to decide what kind of movie it wanted to be and play it straight instead of trying to be something for everybody.  The R-rated material really had no place as a children's movie.  And the lightheartedness really should have been found in a real comedy, not a sci-fi movie with real monsters. "},{"Title":"Just sit back and laugh..","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now let's make one thing clear, this movie is NOT science fiction, maybe that's why I actually enjoyed it.  I think I would classify 'Evolution' more as 'ScienceFUNction instead. There are some real genuine laughs, as well as some nicely done special effects. In my opinion Orlando Jones was the glue that held this movie together. It was also a nice change to see Julianne Moore play a different role than she usually does. I think it showed how good an actress she really is. David Duchovny actually looked like he had a lot of fun, and enjoyed making this movie.  If you're in the mood for a nice light comedy see 'Evolution' you might enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Typical Ivan Reitman film, and his stuff is great!","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went into this movie, just expecting a stupid comedy.  I came out pleased to have seen a smart stupid comedy.  Ivan Reitman has a gift to put people in situations and make them act stupid.  Somehow, the audience finds this stupidity funny.  You know why?  Because it is!  People doing stupid stuff is what keeps this world going.  That is what makes Evolution, an enjoyable flick. Not only is the comedy present, but the special effects and sci-fi intrigue are there as well.  David Duchovny and Julianne Moore are perfect for the roles.  Evolution, has been done before, its extremely formulaic.  However, this stupid comedy formula works, and that is why Ivan Reitman keeps delivering these hilarious flicks.  The only downfall to the movie, is that at points is becomes too comedic or too much like a sci-fi flick.  Besides this unbalance, the movie is quality Reitman!  ***-B+  "},{"Title":"Plain and simple--NOT FUNNY!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see this movie on Saturday night.  This is definitely one of the top 10 worst movies I have ever seen.  What a waste of money.  The story was all right, but this movie was billed as a comedy.  I really don't know anyone over the age of 7 who thinks that Julianne Moore falling every five minutes is funny. 0 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"This movie SUCKED!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  EVOLUTION is not even close to GHOSTBUSTERS.  This movie was a total let down.  If you have seen MULTIPLICITY which was also made by Ivan Rietman, you will know what I mean.  Rietman has been trying to recapture the magic he made with GHOSTBUSTERS, and he has repeatedly failed.  EVOLUTION was very thin, and very stupid.  Not to mention, the writers knew they had nothing good to work with, and resorted to PATHETIC, low brow humor.  Including making Julian Moore fall down repeatedly.  I got sick of that kind of humor in the DICK VAN DYKE SHOW!  And they also resorted to basic CHILD humor, such as FART JOKES and ASS JOKES.  That kind of humor works on grammar school kids, but for adults, its just not imaginitive enough. I hated this movie.  Its a shame, because the cast is very, very talented.  I like all the stars, including Duchovny, Jones, Moore, and that guy from American Pie.  What a waste of talent, time, and MY MONEY!  This movie SUCKED.  Don't bother watching it. "},{"Title":"theory of devolution","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution starts out promising, but gradually sinks in a sea of bad jokes and bad science.Granted, I didn't expect Bio 101.  Afterall, it's just a comedy.  But as farfetched as a sci-fi comedy wishes to be, it should at least strive for some degree of believability.  **Spoilers**So an asteroid hits, and the organisms start evolving at a rate several 1000x faster than normal.  Okay, whatever, I'll believe it.  The federal government discovers it so they send... the U.S. Army and one CDC representative?  Wouldn't there be a reaction of just a bit more magnitude?  As fast as these organisms evolve, they still can't evolve to breathe oxygen.  They can evolve wings, fins, teeth, claws etc, but no oxygen lungs...  until they are already at dinosaur form. And then it just so happens that Duchovny and Jones happen to be there to witness the first organism that successfully evolves into an oxygen breather.As if the bad science wasn't bad enough, there is a fair degree of plain bad logic as well.  What about that method by which they discovered the magic formula for destroying the aliens?  All of this plot sloppiness ends up discrediting Duchovny's and Jones' characters as intelligent scientists.**end spoilers**So maybe I am being a bit too harsh and picky with the messy science.  However, especially in the latter half, Evolution failed as a comedy as well.  When I saw this movie, a lot of the jokes and lines fell completely flat on a packed theatre of eager and willing movie-goers.  As with many mediocre movies trying to cover their butts, most of the funny moments are shown in the trailers.  By the end of the movie, it has completely degenerated into lowgrade slapstick.Jones' character has some potential to be an original role, but ends up being the classic goofy, dirty-minded, trash-talking black sidekick instead.  Julianne Moore' character was pretty flat.  The audience laughed the first 2 or 3 times she tripped, but after that it got old.  The role of attractive, yet clutzy, female works sometimes, but Moore was a poor choice.Some of the visual effects are well done, though they're nothing special in today's movie market.  The cutesy monster was probably one of the most entertaining parts of the whole movie.In the end, Evolution is just cliche and predictable.  I don't mind cliche movies, as long as they are done well, which Evolution isn't.  If you think about it, there really are no surprises.  So my best advice is to try to not think as you watch this movie.  Just absorb it, but don't process it too much, much like those sea-sponges that suck in debris.  This might be difficult to do if you have more than a third-grade understanding of evolution.5 stars out of 10. "}{"Title":"Was there a Writers Strike After All?","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Juvenile, slapstick/bathroom humor hijacked a decent premise and substituted poorly executed, lowest-common-denominator sleaze for a plot.  Even if this was honestly advertised as a summer teenage Animal House Meets Star Trek movie, I would have expected more.The careless writing was so annoying! Didn't they bother to employ an editor for the script?The lack of continuity was jarring.  Why did the biology teacher teach his students the periodic chart.  Mmmm&#133; how about a chemistry teacher doing periodic charts??  Did I have to get jerked back from the willing suspension of disbelief to deal with that poor verisimilitude?  And, couldn't they have spent another 12 minutes on writing the plot to make some of the CDC, army, college, or ANY of the situations the tiniest bit realistic.I could go on and on (like the movie).  But, it was such a disappointment that I will leave with a quick warning to anyone over 12 with ANY intelligence  evolve away from this primordial ooze!  "},{"Title":"Just about the worst that I have seen.","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie kind of accidentally.  I went to a drive in thinking this was the 2nd of a double feature with Shrek.  We went in anyway after hearing this movie was first.  All I can say is that this is a VERY BAD movie. Moore and Duchovney have done and could do MUCH better. My opinion....don't waste your time or money. "},{"Title":"Not Bad but never Evolves into a Classic","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Evolution' is brought to us by Ivan Reitman; the director of 1984's comedy classic, `Ghostbusters.'  It is immediately obvious that he is attempting to recreate that magic with `Evolution.'  Slightly wacky college prof's thrust into bizarre circumstances?  Check.  Finding ways for the character's to laugh in the face of danger?  Check.  Presence of Dan Ackroyd?   Double check!  Reitman had all the ingredients for another classic.  But the movie never evolved into one.The normally dour David Duchovny is actually quite funny here, and the rest of the cast does a fine job.  The direction seems fine.  But the script never evolves beyond the now ancient Hollywood formula for films of this nature.  Even worse, `Evolution,' though frequently funny, is never hilarious.  And this is a problem that `Ghostbusters' never had.  Still, its not a bad movie, for a cheap Tuesday viewing.  3 STARS OUT OF 5.     "},{"Title":"Just Stale","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'll admit when I saw the previews to this movie, I wanted to see it.  It seemed like a goofy, funny alien spoof in the vein of GhostBusters and Men in Black.But, unfortunately Evolution is pretty stale.  First, there were no really hilarious break-out scenes in the film.  There are parts that you see coming that you think are going to be really funny, but just fall flat.  And overall, the film just wasn't that funny for a comedy.Another thing that was surprisinging to me, was the character design.  In spoofs like Ghostbusters and Men in Black, the characters had a cute feel to them. But, the creatures in Evolution are actually pretty scary looking.  Even the one dog creature you think is cute ends up having a hideous turkey-head thing in his mouth.  I'm not dissing what the characters actually looked like or anything, I just felt it ruined the tone of the movie a bit.As far as this being compared to Men In Black , it's obvious why, it's an alien spoof.  Men in Black will always be a favorite of mine, for a while when it hit video, I watched it a lot, and grabbed the DVD when it game out. Men In Black just seems to have the right balance between everything and is actually funny....In conclusion, the movie just seems like an aging director trying to capture past success with a genre and just failed.  I'd hold your ticket money for one of the (many) movies coming out this summer, hopefully they will deliver. "},{"Title":"Funny and fairly good","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ivan Reitman's most recent outing clearly reminds us of his Ghostbusters films, but with plot holes you could drive a fire truck through.  It is also slightly reminiscent of Galaxy Quest, but lacks the warmth and character development of that often-underrated film.  David Duchovny, Orlando Jones and Julienne Moore put a fair amount of effort into their portrayals of goofy but well-meaning scientists, and it seems like they had a good time in the making of this film.  This is a lightweight sci-fi romp, and any attempt to make it into anything more will result in disappointment.The effects carry the biggest load here and they are plentiful and done well.  Representing many evolving forms of alien life come to earth, the creatures are interesting, cute, funny and scary in varying ways.  Don't expect too much and you should find this outing reasonably enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Super Camp","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like a lot of movies this summer the critics won't give it good reviews. What do they know any how ? This is a fun movie and you should go see it. Take the kids, I only heard one bad word in the whole movie. This is the kind of movie that will be on early Sunday afternoon for many years to come.  "},{"Title":"It's ok","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nothing special. It's funny and gross. It can get really slow but overall, it's good! See it. It's not a disappointment. Go see it. Lots of surprises and laughs. It's like a good Ghostbusters! Oh, and Head And Shoulders must have paid about as much as FedEx did for Cast Away! "},{"Title":"Lazy attempt nets lazy results","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While Evolution isn't necessarily a bad movie, it inexplicably shys away from it's main idea, and often comes off as trying too hard to be funny.  Ivan Reitman has a stellar idea (crossing X-Files with Ghostbusters) but can't quite get the performances he needs to bring it all home.Plot is fairly simple, a meteor crashes into the earth carrying a strange life form.  Once settled, it begins converting the atmosphere within the caverns in which it crashed to one habitable for the life forms it carries with it.  A couple of science professors, Ira Kane (Duchovney) and Harry Block (smartly played by Orlando Jones) are the first to investigate the crash site.  Eventually, as is always the case, the US Army becomes involved and manages to botch everything up, and eventually provide the final ingredient needed to allow the organisms to overrun the planet.  Of course, Kane needs a nemesis/love interest, and that is provided in the form of Dr. Allison Reed (Julianne Moore) of the CDC.Moore plays her character far looser than she needs to, and her attempts at slapstick humor (think Chevy Chase's Gerald Ford impressions on SNL) are laughable only because they're so bad.  David Duchovney's character is slightly better, played dry but comes across as likeable and humorous. Orlando Jones makes the movie as Harry Block.  Coaching the women's volleyball team at the community college gives him a chance for some cheap self-gratification, He is also the area USGS rep, thus allowing Kane and himself access to the meteor initally.  Jones steals the movie, and the full version of the bug in the leg scene used in the trailers (most of the funniest stuff is in the trailers BTW) is fall out of your chair funny.Seann William Scott also shines as the dim witted Wayne Green.  While practicing rescue missions for the firefighter test, Wayne witnesses the meteor hit and is front and center once Kane and Block prepare to battle the alien threat.  That's the best I can do for the cast...Dan Ackroyd puts forth a token effort as the Governor of Arizona, Ted Levine plays the irritatingly irrational Dr. Woodman of USAMRID.  Rest of the cast is forgettable and mainly just background clutter.The ending is just as silly, and while I won't ruin it here, the film concludes with (of all things) a commercial for the product.Evolution had a very original idea and quite possibly could have been a sleeper hit for this summer had the material been nutured correctly.  While it does have some funny sequences, more often than not the material passes by with nary a laugh.2 out of 5  "},{"Title":"Good, entertaining summer comedy","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution, though not the most original movie ever, is still a very entertaining comedy. Although the story uses some cliches, it uses them well, and so it's not really a problem. The three main characters (Duchovny, Jones, and Scott) are fairly typical underdog hero types. However they are all very funny, and some of the comedy is far better that a lot of recent comedies. Going in, you're going to have a pretty good idea how it ends, of course, it's getting to that ending that makes this movie good. For instance, you know that our heroes will come up with some ingenious method to stop the aliens, but in Evolution, they come up with an idea (which I won't spoil) that is also very funny. The script for Evolution is far better than many recent comedies. There are quite a few witty conversations between the characters that go beyond the typical slapstick, shock-oriented humor that has become popular of late. That said, the film does occasionally lapse into some gross-out humor (like an extended fart gag near the end), but fortunately there's not too much of it, and there's enough of the more intelligent comedy to make up for it.The acting in Evolution was also quite good. David Duchovny proves that he can do comedy, and in a way, almost mocks his X-Files character in this movie. He deadpans many of his lines, but his timing is good, and so this works for great comedic effect, instead of being boring. I was especially impressed with Orlando Jones, who was not only very funny, but proved that he could be serious at times. Jones actually had some of the lines that made me laugh the most. He's one of the few comedians who's acting skills constantly impress me. Seann William Scott is pretty good as well, though he does play basically play the same character he's played in many of his films. He seems like he could be a pretty good actor, I'd love to see him try something different. Julianne Moore is, of course, a very talented actress, and brings as much to her role as she can. Her character is, however, the least developed of the four, and so she doesn't really shine here, but she at least manages to keep her character from seeming too one dimensional.Overall, I enjoyed Evolution. It's not perfect; there's a few plot holes and a few of the jokes misfire. Most of them, however, do not, and the movie manages to become an entertaining, well-acted, summer comedy. And even if you DON'T like the movie, you'll still love the special effects. So go see it...there's plenty of worse things you could do to kill a couple hours.Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Theory of EVOLUTION With Apologies to Darwin","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Quick...what's funnier than a fat dumb guy with a bad hair cut???  That's right!  TWO dumb fat guys with bad haircuts!  Director Ivan Reitman constantly sinks lower than primordial slime in order to coax a few meager chuckles out of this sad GHOSTBUSTERS wannabe movie.  Along with the tubby twosome, Reitman adds a bug-eyed black guy (paging Ernie Hudson), a buxom blonde beauty queen, a geeky military guy with coke bottle glasses, anal sex humor, fart jokes, a leading lady with the grace of Gerald Ford, a hardass Army general obsessed with blowing things up, some of the dullest aliens ever to be computer generated, idiotic dialogue, and X-Files David Duchovny mooning.  And just in you don't get the GHOSTBUSTERS connection, Reitman dumps amiable Dan Aykroyd into the mess.  What Reitman failed to realize is that the formula that made GHOSTBUSTERS and its ilk such a success was that except for the ghosts (here aliens), everything else in the film was perfectly believable - characters and all.  In EVOLUTION, reality flies out the window in the opening scenes (Duchovny's college prof gives to losers who don't know a biological cell from a prison cell a C instead of flunking their fat asses) and never returns.  When Duchovny's back story is revealed, it is so stupid that you'll wanna go out for popcorn and never come back.  At least he has a back story.  Co-star Orlando Jones doesn't even merit one.  Oh, and of course Duchovny and leading lady Julianne Moore have instant attraction syndrome.  I won't tell how the pic ends (duh!) but suffice it to say that Head & Shoulders Shampoo has taken the place of the Staypuft Marshmellow Man. Is it still too late for a bio-pic of Charles Darwin?  Throw in some fat kids, farting, buxom babes, aliens exploding and leads with good tv and teen Q and it might just be the hit of the summer!   "}{"Title":"Clumsy, filled with continuity problems and narcoleptic acting","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sad excuse for movie-making. Sort of poor attempt at Marx Brothers meets Invaders From Mars. An opportunity to cash a check for Duchovny and Moore. Pitched to eighth-grade mindset and cannot be made up for with stunning graphic effects. A notch above Adam Sandler dreck, but only by a one-celled organism. "},{"Title":"We're in for a tragic summer","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If this is the Ghostbusters of the season, then we've got trouble my friends. Hollywood is on its knees and nearly down for the count if this is what Dreamworks and Columbia pictures TOGETHER come up with. This would have been a disappointment if it had been a Troma picture seen on a stoned August evening with a heavy date. But I'm not doing drugs anymore, and I didn't have a date, so it's worse than that. SPOILER ALERT Imagine how good a movie is if the best comedy is stuff that Borscht Belt comedians were tired of doing in the fifties, if anal probing is the most hilarious running joke, and if the hero is, believe it or not, a product placement. Movies were the last great export of America. Now we got nuthin'. Can you say, Ni hao ma? "},{"Title":"lame and lazy","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those silly movies that the college crowd, and younger, will enjoy. It's a clone of the Ghostbuster series with all the adolescent humor and potty jokes. Duchovny sleep walks through it and all the energy is taken up by Jones and Scott. The people who made this movie were lazy, not bothering to do more than reprise a tired old plot line and passe special effects. Alright, I know it's supposed to be a comedy, and entertainment is what I went for, but it was too limp to hold my interest.  "},{"Title":"X marks the hole.","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Depending on the degree of a viewer's intelligence, you may find certain words to be included in an opinion of this movie.  In a descending order, they are- Proctologist- Flatulence- AssConstipation may also fit somewhere in there.Evolution is a movie that prompts us to question the mentality of the movie-making process.  I figure that there could have been two possible scenarios when the producers were preparing for this movie.  The first one must have involved the idea of rapidly-evolving extraterrestrial lifeforms invading earth;  after the idea was realized, perhaps somebody decided to include a bunch of ass jokes.  Or, scenario number 2I want to make a movie with a lot of ass jokes.  What scenario could we develop to fit these jokes into?How about aliens invading earth?  The king alien could have a really huge ass and blow everything to smithereens with sheer willpower.  We could then have a couple scientists attempt to clog up the problem.I like it!Fortunately, somewhere along the line somebody decided to make it tasteful, or either PG-13 friendly, so what we get here is nowhere near as crass as most of today's R-rated comedies.  But it still leaves a little something to be desired when jokes revolve in and out around the same idea.Sometimes, the performances of the main characters are enough to salvage a film;  in the case of Evolution, the main roles give the movie a type of innocent air that luckily makes it both enjoyable and exciting.  David Duchovny plays Ira Kane, a former government scientist who after an unfortunate turn of events became a community college biology professor.  Along with Harry Block (Orlando Jones), one of the other resident scientists of the college, they set out to investigate a peculiar meteor crash out in the Arizona desert.After taking a few samples, they realize that the cells retrieved from the meteor are multiplying at an alarming rate, completing an evolutionary process that would normally take aeons in just a few hours.  They then go back to the meteor crash to pursue their findings, only to find the military involved and casting them out of the project.  So, along with an aspiring firefighter (Wayne Green) and the military's head scientist (Julianne Moore), they head out to expunge the aliens from their planet, no questions asked.The chemistry between Duchovny and Jones is what makes the movie shine, keeping it continuously fresh despite its inherent banality.  There are a few missed opportunities that in the end truly detracted from the overall grade, however.  The first is that during potentially funny situations, absolutely nothing was done to lighten the mood of the narrative;  the first thirty minutes of the film can very well lead you to believe that you're going to be watching a drama if you don't know what the movie is about in the first place.  The second missed opportunity comes in the form of the aliens.  Though featured in more than a couple of scenes, they never managed to constitute a sensation of dread.  Jump-out-of-your-seat scenes, yes;  but there never really was an established danger to humanity to justify wiping them out in the manner that the movie's characters do, unless you consider flying reptiles taking young girls for a stroll in the mall a grave danger.In the end, Evolution misses the target by a couple of meters.  Nevermind that the characters involved are all caricatures;  it's what this type of movie mandates, and manages to work in really well.  Forget about the cheesy special effects or the lame reactions to the CG extraterrestrials.  The problem here is that in order to work in a few good bellylaughs, the story sets up for them in a ho-hum fashion that incorporates any type of bathroom humor conceivable.  It's enjoyable, but considering how much the stars improved this picture to begin with, a good screenplay could have worked marvels.6/10 "},{"Title":"Just what you need if you're in a silly mood.","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I already knew walking in that this was not going to be a brilliant piece of work.  But I found myself enjoying it anyway.  It definitely had its moments.  Sometimes you dont' want to see something very serious or something that makes you think too much.  I went into the theater in a silly mood and I got exactly what I needed.  No more, no less.  If you want to see something that's not heavy and will make you laugh at the wackiness and outrageousness, go watch it.  It's worth watching once. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Cheesy","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hilarious! Expecting a lot of cornball humor, I was not disappointed with Evolution, which actually stuck in some scientific jargon every once in a while. David Duchovny is great in his role, and was the highlight in my opinion. Go see this movie if you're in the mood to have some fun, laugh, and overall have a good time. "},{"Title":"Another hit for Reitman","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ivan Reitman's Evolution follows his most famous film, Ghostbusters in the type of formula, but it is not that movie (especially since it's one of the funniest films ever).  But Evolution still is a worthy summer comedy, filled with funny in joke puns and jabs at aliens and a very, very likeable cast.  The best gag though in the movie, and I think it's one of the few comic gem scenes in the past year and a half, is a scene where Orlando Jones (who hold most of the films funniest one liners) has a weird Mosquito alien crawling inside of him, where some of the funniest dialogue in a Reitman movie including the following There's no time for lubricant There's ALWAYS time for lubricant and What type of ice cream do you want It don't matter, it's for my ass.  Even Dan Aykroyd has fun in a role that almost seems like a take off of the mayor character from his prodigy Ghostbusters.  Kudos to pretty much everyone; Tippet gets big props (as always) for his ingenious alien creations.  A- "},{"Title":"Hilarious? No.  Entertaining? QUITE.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It could be that I saw this with a total count of 18 of my friends on the opening day of this movie, but I enjoyed it.  I'll admit, there are many funnier movies out there, but this one has a few things going for it.First of all, David Duchovny.  I personally think he's hilarious, and he did a good job in this movie.Second, Orlando Jones.  I think he's hilarious as well, I loved The Replacements.Third, It's about aliens coming that take over the planet.  Nothing new, I agree.  But the way the aliens begin to take it over is completely new, and for more intelligent than before.  It follows the logical steps of evolution, and throws in some things you wouldn't expect.  Overall, I say see it in the theater because I think it's better than Pearl Harbor.  It's guaranteed to make you have a good time.  And, it features some disco music. "},{"Title":"Undecided until the plug at the end...","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...then I was sold. As a sci-fi flick, this is good stuff. A fun premise with completely original creatures and fantastic effects. The blue apes kinda hearken Congo, but otherwise the creatures provide scares, thrills and laughs just when they need to. As a comedy, this is right alongside Men in Black and the movie this was most associated with, Ghostbusters. This really isn't that much like Ghostbusters, in tone, premise, or look, but I guess I can see where people would think they're alike, what with the buddies chasing creatures in a Reitman movie. Anyway, there are typical hit-and-miss jokes here, some good, some bad, though the good seems to outweigh the bad here. The scene with the alien birdy is probably the highlight of the movie comedically, with both outright humor (Scott, who was surprisingly good here, trying to lure the creature with George of the Jungle bird calls) and some more subtly funny things (the guns used by the heroes still have price tags dangling on them). As for the performances, this is pretty much Orlando's show, but the rest of the actors do what they can. Akyroyd is great, as usual. Moore seems to have had a lot of her scenes cut, but she's still a good heroine. Duchovny is basically a laid-back Mulder, which is just fine here. Scott plays the exact same character he always does, only with funny galoshes and rubber pants.Altogether, worth the money and the trip. A fun movie you can see with a couple pals. And if you're sitting close to the back, don't leave right away- just wait a couple seconds for that hilarious plug at the end. Perfect ending, in my opinion. Check this sucker out. "},{"Title":"Not unwatchable, but disappointing.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution didn't have to be a great film. It just had to be entertaining and funny. The story is good, the cast is good, the effects are fine, and they seemed to have picked the right director. But unfortunately, the script just plain isn't funny. "}{"Title":"The watered down Diet Mr. Pibb of comedy films","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went into the theater expecting something decent. Ivan Reitman directed it, who directed the great Ghostbusters movies. However, I was very disappointed with the film. They jump right into the action, not even letting there be the least bit of believability to it. There was no setup. What there was an idiot in the desert practising for firefighter school and an asteroid hitting his car.  It's burnt up, dude. David Duchovney is NOT funny whatsoever in this film. He's way too boring and one dimensional for this kind of role. Orlando Jones did have some funny scenes, and was the star. That guy from Dude Where's My Car was absolutley terrible. He had pathetic one-liners that left the crowd silent, acted TERRIBLY, and made me want to vomit. He's no comedian. Then there was poor Dan Aykroyd. What happened to his career? He was the governor of Arizona, and didn't do too great of a job. He's so out of shape now, it's just sad. Don't get me wrong, I absolutly loved him in Ghostbusters, but he just can't get a good part anymore.I'm sure you can see, I was terribly disappointed. I'd like to say something positive, but I laughed only once or twice thanks to Orlando Jones. I didn't think he had it in him. In a little theater in South Carolina it was $6. In the big cities, I'm sure it is considerably more. So, just wait till it comes to your local video store. You don't want to waste your hard-earned money on this bomb-shell. "},{"Title":"Well, I liked it","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not a great film but it is an enjoyable film.  Yes, it is pretty much a script assembled from flicks all over the place.  GHOSTBUSTER provided much of the basic format, especially in the early section, while THE BLOB (remake) provided the conclusion. Moore and Duchovny are having a good time not having to be serious.  Coming off the filming of HANNIBAL, this must have been a needed respite for Moore.  True, she doesn't really do much in the film but, folks, a movie about hyper-evolving aliens is not the kind of flick where you look for character development.While the flick does stint on the human side, the critters are incredible.  The best way to describe them?  Dr Seuss as re-designed by Hunter S Thompson.  I'd love to have a set of Evolution critters as a toy set.  Yeah, I'd love to see more of the critters' side of things.  That hillside off the housing complex, where the rotting remains of alien dragons lay....  I see that as a scene showing the determination and the tragedy of these critters.Oh, one continuity error--  the critter that dies in the house deflates, but when his remains are examined, he's looking pretty fat.  Of course, the deflated corpse was CGI while the later corpse was a prop, so we can chalk this up to the two departments not quite talking to each other.Oh, and if anyone every gets around to filming McCaffrey's PERN series, I hope they keep these FX guys in mind, as they do a highly believable dragon! "},{"Title":"Good movie, great laughs ...","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the movie was funny, mostly because of Orlando Jones's (7Up Guy) funny one liners, i like those, its a great video rental and a good $6.00 theatre movie, it doesnt really require a sound system,so in conclusion, good funny movie with a silly ending. (not as much gun-play as i hoped)  NSMC "},{"Title":"I was let down by the movie but not by the actors.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I looked forward to seeing this movie but I was highly disappointed when I saw it. Although all the actors were good as their characters, the dialouge was ridiculous. There are lots of jokes in the movie that either didn't make sense, or had no relevance to the scene. If you see this movie, rent it so you can skip the dumb scenes. I did like David and the other actors, they acted as well as they could considering the movie. Watch out for the X-Files reference in the movie; it's the best line of the movie, delivered by DD!!! "},{"Title":"Weakest Link","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Charles Darwin once published a very controversial series of essays titled On the Origin of Species. The works was based on his studies of nature in the Galapagos Islands and formed the basis for the modern study of evolution and species. In 2001 Director Ivan Reitman, who brought such Blockbusters as Ghostbusters and Twins to the silver screen gives us a look at evolution on a cosmic basis and how the rules on Earth may not apply elsewhere in the universe in his new film Evolution   The films star David Duchovny of the X-Files as Ira Kane a once prominent government scientist who has fallen from grace and ends up teaching at a small community college in Arizona.  Ira is making the best of his situation and spends his days dispensing knowledge while grading with a very liberal grading curve to the delight of his students. Ira's day takes a slight detour when his fellow teacher, and college Womans Volleyball coach,  Harry Block (Orlando Jones of Mad TV) tells him that he has been assigned to check out a meteor that has crashed nearby, and that he would like Ira to come along.   Before long, Ira and Harry discover that the meteor is something out of the ordinary, as it contains alien microbes that evolve at a rapid pace.  With visions of fame and fortune in their heads, the two conduct their studies in secret, less they have to share their Noble Prize. Before viewers know it, The Military gets wind of the site and steps in to take control of the situation.  Matters are complicated for Ira and Harry when the General in charge of the site, General Woodman,(Ted Levine) is a former colleague of Ira's who remembers all to well Ira fell from grace. Heading the research team is Allison Reed (Julianne Moore)a klutzy yet brilliant scientist who sees the meteor as the find of a lifetime.  It does not take long for the Government to be in way over their heads, as the microbes evolve at a rapid pace and soon, nasty lifeforms are starting to sprout up all over town, at a pace that will have the new lifeforms in control of the entire country in just two months. Not content to let the Aliens take the planet, General Woodman, and the Governor (Dan Aykroyd) decide to blow them all sky high, despite Ira's warning that the heat in the explosions will only make the life forms grow even faster.   With the destruction of humanity evident, it is up to Ira, Harry, Allison, and a vapid fireman hopeful, Wayne Green (Sean William Scott to save the day. The film does have its funny moments, but there are some big lags between the jokes, and the characters never seem to gel. Duchovny and Jones work well with one another, but Moore seems to be there to only be the love interest as her character provides little to the film.  Scott also suffers the same fate as Wayne is little more than comic relief and onboard to play the loser, who is the wrong guy in the wrong place, at the wrong time. I would have liked to have seen a bit more story to the film as despite the rapid evolution of the creatures, we did not see much menace from them, unless you count mall shoppers being buzzed by a flying lifeform, menace terror.  It seems that Reitman was trying to do a homage to the old Alien invasion flicks of the 50's but those films always had images of the mass destruction and terror caused by the creatures and this film had little of that. I discovered that the film was planned to be a serious film but had the tone lightened significantly when Reitman came on board.  what could have been a comedy/sci-fi  classic, quickly becomes an exercise in waiting for the jokes in between special effects that are not so special.  If Evolution is any indication of the films being offered to David Duchovny, then perhaps he might want to rethink his decision to leave the X-Files less he becomes the next David Caruso. One can only hope that Darwin was right about only the strong surviving, and that Evolution will wither on the vine, as the film is disaster, that is badly in need of evolving a better story, dialogue, and more substantial parts for the very talented cast2.5 stars out of 5 Gareth Von Kallenbach gareth@nwlink.com  "},{"Title":"Better than I thought","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, this is not Galaxy Quest and (Duchovny aside) it is not an X-Files spoof either, but still it is fun to watch - especially in the beginning.Nice effects, numerous interesting aliens (not the kind you see in every other movie), characters and dialogue are funny, too. Duchovny is good, though Orlando Jones is much better!Unfortunately towards the end the movie gets more and more stupid. Even the unavoidable fart joke is there - I think, we could have done without that.All in all however, if you like SciFi comedies and do not expect too much from this one, you should have a good time watching Evolution. "},{"Title":"If nothing else, an entertaining film","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to a private screening of this movie last weekend and I wasn't expecting much. I got about what I expected. Orlando Jones is pretty hilarious, Seann William Scott has a couple of funny parts (nowhere near as funny as what he was in Road Trip though) and the other two leads provide the straight characters. The script is weak and the movie as a whole is very cliche, but the effects are cool and the pace of the movie keeps you interested. Not anything special, but not terrible either. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Not A Bad Flick -- Ghostbusters for the Millennium","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had a chance to see Evolution last night at a preview screening.  Overall, the movie was enjoyable.  It was a good comedy.  Not, bust a gut funny, but funny.  The story was cookie-cutter.  Citizen discovers aliens, government takes over, aliens turn bad, citizens try and save the world.My biggest problem was with the characters.  Duchovny, Jones, and Moore all played scientists and they were either clumsy, dim-witted, or anything but smart acting, most of the time.  Jones did show that besides being funny he can be serious.  Sean Scott I fear is geting typecast as a the dropout goofball, but he's still funny and one of my favorite young actors.It's worth the time ( and $$) in the theater. "},{"Title":"It's No Men In Black","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having seen a sneak preview of Evolution, I can guarantee that the comparisons with Men In Black are going to be non-stop. It's a science-fiction/action-adventure/comedy flick about an alien invasion, starring a white guy and a black guy. However, sad to say, it doesn't quite live up to its genre predecessor. Some of the plot seems contrived at best and downright baffling at worst, as though several important scenes had been left on the cutting-room floor (due to resurface, no doubt, on the DVD). But with that out of the way, Evolution is pretty good. None of the acting is bad, and the script delivers a few genuine side-splitters. The best part of the movie by far, though, is the creature design-- if they release an art or making-of book, I'll snap it up in a second. All in all, it's not the best film ever made, or even the best of its kind, but it's worth watching on the big screen. Six stars. "},{"Title":"Funny and fast evolution","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution was heavily marketed weeks before it was released world wide, but it seemed like the audience wasn't especially keen to see it. The movie barely made the budget at the box office, it didn't prove to be a popular movie. I found that a little odd, because personally I thought it was funny and entertaining, and at times exiting. It attracted me from the beginning - the genre, the good visual effects, and most of the actors.. therefore I found this an amusing story, after all it is a comedy and I didn't take too seriously, but it made a good couch time. Okay, you can pick out some verbal and visual clichès - David Duchoyny is hardly a magnificent comedian, and Orlando Jones had a tendensy to overplay his role. But two actor did well - Julianne Moore and Dan Aykroyd, both good as always. However, it's the visual effects that take the prize; CGI made it with great skill, and unquestionably with much work and time behind. My judgement - a nice, funny movie! "}{"Title":"Half silly, half funny, all entertainment","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching Evolution is great run. Even after ten years, the movie holds up amazingly well. When it was first released, the movie was panned by critics and reviewers, yet for some reason has remained a cult favorite. Why? Because it stands the test of time. The jokes remain funny, the plot remains silly, the characters still make us laugh, and it contains the greatest collection one-liners ever placed in a single film. Add in the best on film performances by Orlando Jones and pure comedy with David Duchovny, and you've got one well rounded film. Also, the special effects by Phil Tippett hold up better than most other films from that same year.There are comparisons to Ghostbusters and Men In Black that are just unfair to this film. It's a great comedy that is more than able to stand on it's own two, four, six, or eight legs. "},{"Title":"There's ALWAYS Time For Lubricant!","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a meteorite falls to Earth two college professors, Dr. Ira Kane and Prof. Harry Phineas Block, are assigned the job of checking the site out. At the site, they discover organisms not of this planet. Soon the site is taken over by the government, forcing Ira and Harry to the side. As the new life-forms begin to evolve and start to get more and more dangerous, it's up to the two professors to save the planet.I Can Safely Call This One Of The Funniest Movies Of 2001 - The Absolute Funniest Is Jay And Silent Bob Strike Back - I Really Can't See Why This Only Has A 5.9. This Is Just As Funny As Ghostbusters. The Showstealer Is Orlando Jones As Far As The Jokes Go. He Was Hilarious When They Were Getting The Bug Out Of Him In The Hallway. The Other Best Part Is When Sean William Scott Sings You Are So Beautiful (To Me) And David Duchovny Says Stand Back I'm Gonna Shoot Him And He Replies No I Want TO Kill Him Myself, When He's Still Singing It He Says Would You Please Stop? You're Embarrassing Me. They Aren't Funny Lines But The Way He Delivers Them Is What Makes Them Funny.As Far As Overall Quality Goes This Is Meant To Be A Gigantic Stupid Movie. It Has Product Placement For Head And Shoulders To Stop The Aliens And At The End The Trio Do An Endorsement For The Shampoo (Priceless). Overall I Recommend This If You Are A Fan Of The Movies Paul And Ghostbusters. "},{"Title":"I suppose a proctologist might find this amusing....","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes we come across movies that take a solemn, serious approach, but when it's all over and done, we realize that it should have been a comedy. That's not the case with Ivan Reitman's Evolution. Rather, this is a comedy that should have taken a solemn, serious approach because as a supposed-to-be-funny movie, it does not quite work. The concept of this movie is one I liked. A meteorite crash-lands on earth and when the scientists begin to investigate it (as they inevitably do in science-fiction movies) they discover a unique organism attached to it. And within days, the organism has mutated and rapidly evolved into a wide variety of creatures that begin to wreck havoc across the frontier of Arizona.As a serious, competent science-fiction thriller, Evolution might have worked. And it might have worked still as a comedy had the filmmakers taken a different approach to the jokes and humor. I knew Evolution was a comedy when I sat down to watch it, but I was surprised by one thing. I was expecting a science-fiction comedy that might have an appeal to a microbiologist. But by the end, I realized it was more of a science-fiction comedy for a proctologist. Frankly, there were just too many butt-of-jokes and butt-jokes for my liking. There's a scene where a guy moons another character, Orlando Jones has to undergo proctology to remove an alien infection, and then there's the climax which turned my stomach instead of making my laugh.Apart from the proctology-centered jokes, there was more in Evolution that just gave me the creeps as opposed to making me laugh. Instead of making me laugh, the alien organisms and their variety of shapes and sizes made me want to gag. And this ties in with how much better the movie would have been if it had approached the subject matter from a more cemented angle. It's at these moments that you realize the movie has an identity crisis and that also gets in the way of any pleasure you might have otherwise absorbed.Bottom line, there are a few moments to the movie that I did enjoy, but they did not outnumber the parts that made me cringe, roll my eyes, shake my head, and wish I had chosen another movie. Perhaps a proctologist would find this movie amusing. Personally, I thought it was kind of repulsive, disorientated, and very, very dry. This is a first-class example of a missed opportunity. "},{"Title":"A good laugh, evolution delivers","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this movie years ago and only decided to watch it again recently.I forgot how good it was. It's a great movie to watch on a Saturday night with some mates.The story is a meteor crashes down to earth bringing a new life form which threatens to makes humans extinct. Sounds like a dark subject but it has it's comedy moments like Sean Williem Scott making stupid noises and singing you are so beautiful.Definitely essential for any person who likes the blend of comedy and sci-fi.The acting is good and the special effects are also really good.Worth 2 hours of your time. "},{"Title":"Just Awful","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was impressed during the first half, partly because the science was actually almost plausible, a rare thing indeed in any SF film. It showed promise and could have been excellent if the writers had taken the plot in a different direction and there was a less childish director. As soon as the fart and butt jokes started coming, I knew that was it. (Why is the expulsion of intestinal gas regarded with such mirth?) As it was, the movie just got stupider by the minute in the second half, very few of the gags were funny, the science went down the drain and the shampoo commercial ruined whatever was left.Although it is possible to mix SF with comedy, it is very hard to make it actually work. This is a miserable attempt to roll Ghostbusters, MIB and X-Files into one. It didn't just not work, the end product is just embarrassing.If it was going to be merely a vehicle for potty humour, then why didn't they do the obvious and just hire Jim Carrey to do the lead? I can't work out why Duchovny and Moore would agree to be dragged into this career-smearing, steaming turd. The money must've been good.Finally, I would like to comment on all the rave reviews I see here. This is a sad indictment of what this Western society of ours appears to regard as good entertainment. Anybody over 9 years old who finds this funny should immediately do some serious self-examination.I give it a 2, only because the SFX were not too bad, other than the cutesy, Spielberg_esque facial expressions on some of the Aliens. Puhleez.If you're a big fan of butt humour, you'll like this. If you don't want your intelligence insulted and don't want to watch a long shampoo ad, then stay right away from this. "},{"Title":"Giant bugs, slimy aliens. Now who you gonna call?","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take Though derivative, its funny and insanely enjoyable. It's summer and what else could you possibly have in mind? A meteor that's about to strike earth? An unlikely duo of college professors who happen to discover that the military is covering this up because it happens to contain alien life forms? Or what about kicking these aliens' butt when they start getting nasty? Whatever your summer-viewing pleasure hankers, EVOLUTION delivers, even if sometimes you wonder if you have seen this all before. I first watched this in the theaters, then watched it numerous times on TV, and I never got tired of watching it. Lots of laughs, suspense and over-the-top fun, what more can you ask for. The film closely goes with the same line of the genre as in great hit monster flicks like MIB Men in Black and the hit Ghostbusters films. This film is directed by Ivan Reitman, who also directed both Ghostbusters and the sequel. Reitman once again gifts the film with hilarious touches of humor, and some weird bits of suspense, resulting into a hilarious summer action delight. David Duchovny, Orlando Jones, Julianne Moore, Sean William Scott and the rest of the cast don't just bring laughs, they also have the charm which will make you adore their characters. Sometimes, the movie works because the chemistry melds together, and these guys have it. As far as summertime entertainment is concerned, it ain't really about trying to come up with something original, it's really more of how you wave the magic wand to make it work. Reitman may have used his GHOSTBUSTERS formula to the death here (while throwing in a little MIB and an X-FILES send-off, or maybe a dash of reptilian monsters borrowed from JURASSIC PARK), but he has the right magic to make this one work at least one more time. Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Outrageous Alien Fun","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ira Kane (David Duchovny) and Harry Block (Orlando Jones) begin an investigation into a meteorite that landed near the local collage; they find that life around this meteorite is evolving at a geometric rate, and its not long before the government get wind of the discovery and their own scientist Alison Reed (Julianne Moore) takes over the investigation.Evolution has many funny moments, some wonderfully created aliens and a good cast, but Orlando Jones definitely steals most of the laughs, he is hilariously entertaining. Oh yeah and the end is so silly it fits the film perfectly and will have you in stitches.7/10 great fun if you like that kind of thing. "},{"Title":"Much better than its reputation suggests","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution is a lot more fun that its busted summer would-be blockbuster status implies, although like most Ivan Reitman comedies the concept is funnier than the script. For the first half David Duchovny and Orlando Jones have more exposition than jokes to deal with and Julianne Moore is game but is no natural comedienne, especially when it comes to pratfalls, while Ted Levine's clichéd general is a villain too far. But once it hits its stride and the constantly evolving critters that are the real stars of the show start multiplying and threatening mankind with extinction, it's an enjoyable monster mash that even manages to make a joke of its product placement for Head and Shoulders. Like the aliens it's no world-beater, but it's a brisk and enjoyable romp. Nice score from John Powell too. "},{"Title":"Entertaining alien comedy!","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have always enjoyed Evolution - it is a funny, original and exciting film. Though it did kind of bomb at the cinemas, this film has so much to offer - lots of slime and alien beings exploding, lots of idiotic scientists, several big explosions and a fair bit of science. It may not be a masterpiece, but Evolution has never failed to entertain me and I shall enjoy watching it many times more. Whoever had the idea to fuse an alien invasion with comedy should be proud of themselves - this really is sci-fi/comedy. The funniest scene was when Harry Block had to have a bug removed from his backside - who can honestly say that wasn't the best scene of the whole film? Things stay suitably silly throughout, and it isn't horrifically inappropriate or terrifying either - the kids will also find it amusing. Highly recommended. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Fun movie","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution has quite a beastiary which is normally not found in similar movies. The designs were quite interesting and effective as alien monsters but did they really have to go and screw up some of them with bad CGI? While most of the CGI is passable, the dragons really look fake and unconvincing. The story is the standard sci-fi alien invasion thing but with some really neat ideas and amusing consequences extensively thrown in. But the entire movie itself is very witty and thoroughly enjoyable. I would thus recommend this movie as a must watch at least once, not just to pass the time. Of course, you should'nt expect one of the best movies ever. "}{"Title":"its ok but if you don't get to see it ... I wouldn't worry","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theatre in 2001 and I thought it to be goofy.  My only saving grace in this movie was the person I was with.  Basically, the movie is about the discovery of alien presence here on earth.  The lead actor is david decoveny from the x files and although he is a good actor, this movie doesn't really do him justice. "},{"Title":"Excellent comic Sci-Fi with great FX","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What an exciting & hilarious movie that's technically well made, stylish and has great directing from Ivan 'Ghostbusters' Reitman that's a huge improvement on his previous features - The bland 6 days 7 nights & criminally unfunny 'Father's Day'. I didn't think I could take David 'X files' Duchovny in a comedy role, but he was fantastic and a was a really good start to his career in theatricalmovies (hopefully he can forget 'red shoe diaries' pretty soon). Orlando Jones was Ok in a token black guy role, with lots of funny (some racist) lines. Julianne moore didn't have much to do except fall down a lot.. why? Teen movie/comic actor Sean william scott is your token dumb funny guy.All in all it's a very good for a aliens vs theworld movie that's played for laughs.I have only one complaint- The typically nasty general (ted levine) who thinks he knows best is a annoying cliche which gets used too many times in moviesit's only rated PG so kids will enjoy it too!my rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely terrible","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only reason I continued to watch this movie after the initially painful first three minutes was because I found myself simply transfixed by each subsequent level of stupidity the film attained.I never realized David Duchovny was such a pathetic actor.  He had about as much on-screen charisma as a comatose frog.The whole black man exploited by the white man comedy angle was about as creative as microwaving popcorn.  No need to fish for a laugh 50 times using this same overdone, trite topic when the first attempt fails miserably.More examples would follow but I can't subject my mind to such painful memories.Do people in Hollywood - actors, directors, producers, etc. actually read scripts?  I can't believe a sentient human being would actually agree to work on, direct, produce, fund, etc. a movie so incredibly bad.  This movie has sent western culture back 100 years.And to those of you who *like* the movie and even watched it over and over - please don't vote in any of our elections.  Thank you. "},{"Title":"I think this type of comedy has had its day","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution, produced by Ivan Reitman and directed by Harold Ramis is a cliched sometimes even annoying movie even the presence of Dan Akroyd and Julie Anne Moore add little to this production. Set in Arizona the film follows the exploits of a group of misfit quasi geeks who happen upon an extra terrestrial life form that in turn evolves and threatens the existence of humanity. Along the way the government becomes involved, shuns Duchovny and pals from their discovery but ultimately are shown up as being incompetent by two over weight George W. Bush brainalikes.I am sure that the cast and crew are wonderful people and the movie is certainly well produced and shot but I found myself fast-forwarding through most of the dialog after the second act. Duchovny is as charismatic as a boiled carrot, Jones is irritating in the token black guy role and Moore is wasted in this project. The only redeeming features are the special effects, which are superb, and Dan Akroyd whose presence is a Godsend. The constant barrage of wise cracks and sexual innuendoes reminded me of Starsky and Hutch and Jones performance in the scene where he and Duchovny return to the crash site is nothing short of embarrassing.This is far from being the worst film I have ever seen but I believe that this type of comedy now belongs to another age (more than likely the 80s)  "},{"Title":"Involution","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS  I don't think I'm the only one who has the feeling of having seen a Ghostbusters rehash, right? Because Duchovny, Jones and Scott are wannabes for Aykroyd, Murray and Hudson, I guess, if not Ramis - at least in the last 10 minutes of this movie. They get splashed with a disgusting slime similar to the pink one in Ghostbusters II. They do a lot of stuff warning the authorities but they are not paid credit, just like the guys back in the 1980s. Nevertheless, great makeup effects, great aliens but too bad it's all wasted on such an impartial movie. You don't get attached to the characters, emotions go down to zero and it's kind of sad to see great talents not having what to do, really.  "},{"Title":"Raised my Dander","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like movie monsters. They're my guilty pleasure.  So the monsters in Evolution allow me to give this thing two stars.  Otherwise there are a lot of things that -iles it.  Like juvenile and puerile.  The script is atrocious.  I'd be embarrassed to act in it.  David Duchovny moons in it.  Expressing his predicament?One couldn't give any spoilers for this thing.  One can only spoil a movie.  This isn't a movie.  It's a shampoo commercial.The only other point of interest for me was seeing the psycho in Silence of the Lambs (Ted Levine) in the same scenes as Clarice Starling in Hannibal (Julianne Moore).Insulting to my intelligence. "},{"Title":"It's a fun movie!","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If most of the people who posted negative comments here would just loosen up and decide to let themselves be entertained, they would realize that.I enjoyed it, and I've watched it a couple of times -- I'm watching it again right now on Cinemax.It's simply just a fun movie - unless you're an uptight prude of course!Watch it if you like to laugh and are open-minded enough to sit back and let yourself be entertained!  ) "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I usually don't comment on these kind of films, but I must say that Evolution was really funny! I really laughed my head off at how the film really takes the mickey of all the famous sci-fi films. Good Sunday afternoon film! David Duchovny and Orlando Jones are just hilarious but I must make a special mention of Sean William Scott. I hated him in American Pie but this guy is really funny! "},{"Title":"Terribly disappointing","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have been a fan of Ivan Reitman's for a number of years.  Ghostbusters, Twins, Kindergarten Cop were all feel-good fun movies.  After I saw the trailer for Evolution, saw who's film it was, heard the premise and saw the cast I thought it would be a sure fire winner.However, after the movie failed at the box office I wondered what happened. Did the competition just bury it?  Was word of mouth poor?  Did it not open on enough screens?The answer, sadly, is just that it's a bad movie.  On DVD it looked good and the special effects were excellent, but the positives must stop there. Almost every comedic moment was forced and awkward.  The acting was dull and totally unattached.  And who can blame the cast?  David Duchovney, Julianne Moore and Orlando Jones are all decent actors when given a chance. Unfortunately they weren't.  The script was illogical, juvenile, and at best, formulaic.I really could go on for quite some time but I think you get the idea.  In the end I finished watching the movie saying every five minutes I can't believe how bad this is and yet still continuing to watch hoping and believing that it had to improve.  It never did.Out of 10 I give it a generous 2. "},{"Title":"forgettable sci-fi parody","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Evolution' is Ivan Reitman's wan attempt to replicate the formula of his most successful film, 1984's `Ghostbusters.'  In this film, David Duchovny, Orlando Jones, Seann William Scott and Julianne Moore portray the oddball foursome who uses its wit and `expertise' to help eradicate an otherworldly menace.  Instead of ghosts, in `Evolution' we have a host of single-celled aliens who crash land in the Arizona desert aboard a flaming meteorite. The problem is that these organisms seem to have the ability to evolve to higher life forms in a radically sped-up time frame and, in no time at all, the Southwest desert - and soon the whole world - stand in deadly peril of being overrun by this invading force from another planet.`Evolution' is a mediocre attempt to parody those cheesy sci-fi monster flicks of the 1950's, right down to the discovery of the one chemical that turns out to be the creatures' Achilles Heal.  Of course, the special effects are far more impressive in this film than they ever were in any of those earlier works - which goes to prove that, when it came right down to it, even the makers of this multi-million dollar summer blockbuster didn't have the nerve to go all the way with the parody, possibly risking a loss on their investment (the film was a disappointment at the box office and lost money anyway).  In fact, if anything, the special effects end up burying the humor of the film -which isn't all that rich to begin with.  The jokes are often crude and juvenile and much of the film's running time is spent trying to up the `ick' factor through the disgusting nature of the creatures that develop.  The film often succeeds in that respect.  Of the performers, Jones and Scott are given the most material to work with in creating comic characters.  Duchovny and Moore are basically relegated to thankless straight-man status.  `Ghostbusters' veteran, Dan Akroyd, provides some genuine laughs as the bombastic and pompous governor of the state.There really isn't much to say about `Evolution' - except to say that there isn't much to say.  It's watchable but hardly memorable and fails to fulfill its potential of becoming a hip sci-fi comedy on the order of, say, `Men in Black.'  Reitman does better when his threats come from right down here on earth. "}{"Title":"Cool","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The film is quite 80s.... But fun! Good music, great actors and special effects that remind me of what JPLost World in the city could have been.Apart from the last alien thing which was a bit ... ugly and uninteresting.All I can say about this film is IT IS FUN... nothing more, nothing less.And I want Seann William Scott in more movies.  "},{"Title":"Better than Ghostbusters - Ghostbusters II, that is.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watching Evolution, you'd never believe that it actually is possible to introduce humour to a genre piece without diluting the overall effect, as both Tremors and Arachnophobia proved in 1990. The latter also had Don Jakoby as its primary writer, and he's complained that later rewrites of both the spider movie and this new one punched up the comic quotient - but Arachnophobia knew to take its scare scenes seriously, and this doesn't. But that's to be expected, since Arachnophobia was executive produced by Steven Spielberg, whereas Evolution was directed by Ivan Reitman.Reitman and DreamWorks (and Columbia, who released it outside North America) clearly hoped for another Ghostbusters, even to the extent of having Dan Aykroyd along for the ride (we already have Bill Murray in the form of David Duchovny, with Orlando Jones doing Ernie Hudson, Seann William Scott as Rick Moranis, Ted Levine as William Atherton etc), and the result is certainly a vast improvement over Ghostbusters II, Extreme Ghostbusters and especially Filmation's Ghostbusters, but not up to the original film or The Real Ghostbusters. In fact, the early going veers closer in quality to another supernatural outing with Dan Aykroyd, namely Psi Factor - it's not scary and not too funny either, with Julianne Moore wasted as a clumsy scientist (bringing up unpleasant memories of Emma Thompson in Junior) and the kind of obsession with backsides usually associated with horny fans of Jennifer Lopez.The serious moments are overall more effective than the comedic ones, which helps demonstrate what a wasted opportunity this is, and some of the FX by the Tippett Studio, Sony Pictures Imageworks, PDI/DreamWorks and KNB EFX Group are uneven - but while it has too much effects work and too little script work (and those who were furious at Cast Away for its FedEx plugs have a fresh target here -  I won't give it away, but let's just say a cameo from Denise Richards would not have gone amiss), Evolution manages to get its act together in the second half, meaning that if it misses the target, at least it also misses the endangered species list. "},{"Title":"Good old Ivan Reitman","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen Evolution just last evening and I must say that this is one of the best comedies of this year. I mean, Ivan Reitman did great job, many scenes have awaken in me the memory of the excellent classic Reitman movie Ghostbusters, almost the one when Duchovny, Jones and Scott load their weapons and put them on their shoulders. David Duchovny did surprisingly excellent comedic performance (I liked the quote that seemed to target the X Files something that yes the government hide everything or something like that) and also was supported by great Orlando Jones (his quotes on the Nobel prize were superb) and Sean William Scott. The last I don't know 20 minutes when the movie changed was a fresh way to end such a movie that isn't and doesn't want to be serious sci-fi nor a typical action movie. It's just a very fresh and funny comedy from great creator and with great comedic performances. "},{"Title":"Silly, but fun","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution is not going to win at the Oscars. We are not going to see Ivan Rietman thanking the Academy for his Best Director Award or see Orlando Jones accept his Best Supporting Actor Award. But Evolution is quite an amusing (and surprising) film.I went into the cinema expecting American Pie/Dumb and Dumber as a Sci Fi film and was grateful to find the sick gags to the minimum. There was no shagging Space Pies or Warp Diareheora; all there was was good fun and a few laughs. Granted the film was ridiculous and saw a Oscar worthy Julianne Moore reduced to falling over and generally being clumsy, but Orlando Jones and Sean William Scott were incredibly funny and made the film glide along swiftly.Evolution is an amusing, often hilarious film, but it was never going to be brilliant. David Duchovny made an interesting, if sometimes inconsistent lead, but when heavily backed up by a fun script and great acting support, Evolution is a film worth watching. Rating = 3/5 "},{"Title":"A comedic roller coaster of fun, action, humour and shampoo¿","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I personally didn't know what to expect from Evolution. Not being an X-Files fan at all I had never really seen Duchovny in anything. I had never heard of Orlando Jones but after seeing evolution I think that I will have to keep my eye out for anything he is in. Aykroyd, Scott and Moore add the finishing touches to what has been one of the best casting jobs of all time.The story is preety simple, Aliens come to earth via a meteor and they are able to, in a  matter of hours evolve from small bacteria into walking creatures (Something that has taken humans hundreds of millions of years). So as you can see the story is fairly different to any other sci-fi movie of today and I think that it could probably beat them.What drew me to the movie (besides my friend) was the director Ivan Reitmen. Reitmens previous movies include Ghostbuster, Ghostbusters II, Road Trip and Twins, all of these being in my favorites movie list. And after seeing Evolution I can see that this 55 year old director still holds magnificent power for movie making.Another factor that helped Evolution move along was it's comic genius. All the way through there was humour shown by all characters and not old humour but new and improved humour. Little gags or puns help the movie move along and also keep the audience entangled and enthrawled in the movie.Overall, Evolution was an excellent comic sci-fi. Everything from the acting, to the directing, to the comedy, to the inventive aliens this movie had it all covered. I congratulate all involved and award EVOLUTION with a perfect *****.    "},{"Title":"Ghostbusters meets the Blob","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution is an 80s style comedy / horror / thriller a la Ghostbusters, boasting elements of several other genres, e.g. buddy and college frat.Jones' acting is superb and so is his dialogue. Duchovny balances those excesses with his usual quiet style. Moore is a jewel as the stern-faced but synpathetic government scientist (a sort of Scully or Starling figure with personality). Scott was just great as the yokel that found the meteorite. Ackroyd could have been much more than the straight Governor (a Dragnet fetish for strictness would have added something).However, the two to watch for are those lovable wobbly students in Duchovny's science class. If they ever make another Animal House style film, they should book those guys early.80s style one-liners guarantee the viewer will be kept laughing.And I haven't even mentioned the great special effects...This is definitely one to watch which will appeal to everyone. "},{"Title":"Watch this funky movie!","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really liked this movie. A great fun, enjoyable movie that isn't trying to be anything else. This is a funny and very enjoyable movie with a distinctly 80's feel from Ivan Reitman.  The cast are all excellent with David Duchovny proving that he is very much capable of doing comedy (as regular viewers of The X Files will already know), Orlando Jones was great too, a new name to me and probably most people in the UK too! David and Orlando made a great and very funny comic duo and I'd love to see them work together again.Seann William Scott was also cool, playing a role that we've seen him play before but that didn't stop him being funny! Julianne Moore was great too, playing against type - although she has done comedy before she isn't well know for it.The script was cool - ridiculous but in a wonderful way and the direction was good too.I definitely recommend this! Just sit down, relax and enjoy the ride!  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny and lots of action","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The trailers were somewhat misleading. The film was not a complete spoof of sci-fi alien invasion films. It was seriously funny. (oxymoron, I know).Orlando Jones' performance is great. It was fun to see Julianne Moore in a comedy role. Some of the humour was well, ... Freud would have some interesting comments about the butt (oh, I'm so clever) of some of the jokes and gaffs.Well worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Ghostbusters who?","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although I loved the first Ghostbusters movie, and this is clearly done in a similar style, I have to say this movie works well as a standalone.  The casting department did a fantastic job in their selection and I have to say I was really impressed by Orlando Jones in this role.  Based on the commercials I had seen I expected a Jim Carrey (who I don't enjoy, yes I'm the only one in America) attempt but instead the job was done without going crazy or too wild.The film itself starts out a bit slow and without too much humor, but as it goes on it showcases great action and suspense as well as some mystery.... and then of course a great deal of humor.I don't believe this will be the big movie of the summer, however this is probably one of the top comedies to see.  This should go down as a classic, following the traditions of it's big brother.... Ghostbusters.  "},{"Title":"One of the few late night movies I've seen that I have not fallen asleep in","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution wasn't all that flashy of a movie and the plot wasn't too spectacular but the movie was very entertaining. I went out of it totally satisfied. The team of Orlando Jones, David Duchovny and Seann William Scott were hilarious. Jones especially. He was a scientist by day and a women's volleyball coach by night. Interesting career mix he has there! Throughout the movie those 3 made lots of funny jokes. I'm not going to go over the plot because I'm sure you can figure that out for yourself. In a nutshell, if you're looking for a few hours of entertainment give this movie a look.  "}{"Title":"Can I Hear Ghostbusters 3?","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw Evolution on June 9, its second day of being out. I had been wanting too see it ever since February because of one little thing Ghostbusters, my all-time favorite movie. And Evolution pleased me. I can see Ghostbusters re-incarnated in this movie throughout the whole thing. The similarities Ivan Reitman directs it, Dan Aykroyd plays in it, average people trying to save the world, and an otherworldly creature infestation. Now that Evolution is becoming a hit and getting fairly decent reviews, I can pretty much say that the next thing good 'ol Ivan comes out with will be Ghostbusters III. Ivan and Dan are shouting into Sony's faces The premise still works! The comedy still works! If you won't let us do 'Ghostbusters III,' we'll just haunt you with a thousand versions of 'Ghostbusters'! But they'll all have different casts and monsters! with the coming of Evolution.Now all we need is an Evolution 2 for summer 2003. This time with Bill Murray and Harold Ramis.9/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ivan Reitman does it once again!  With the same feeling of the original Ghostbusters, as well as the guest appearance by Dan Akroyd, it turned out to be a great flick.  It seemed to be a little slow in parts, but other than that, it really kept me awake and excited.  Definitely see this movie if you haven't yet; if you have, see it again, but not as much as a Titanic person. "},{"Title":"Ghostbusters Alien-style","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I laughed a good deal, but I found myself yearning for a little more gritty realism with the aliens.  The 2001 Space Odyssey tribute to the primates was especially disappointing and campy.  And my biggest gripe is that Block is obviously contaminated with the alien spore and they have left the thread dangling purely to port to Evolution 2.  Nevertheless, it's good eatin' even though Hollywood has watered down the sci-fi broth once again.  Overall, worth the matinee price to see on the big screen! "},{"Title":"The Ghostbusters 3 We'll Never Get.","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It seems everyone else has been making the same comparison as well.  Of course, *minor spoiler* our heroes fighting the bird alien in the mall is definitely the scene that makes the similarities seems more than a little coincidental. *end spoiler*.So basically, you have a film about a group of wacky university scientists running around and saving the world when no one seems to be able to.  And while this movie lacks some of the sly wit of Ghostbusters, there were more than a few occasions that I laughed out loud at either a ridiculous situation, or a well-placed comment.  The special effects were really nice looking, and didn't seem out of place (i.e. a noticeable addition onto the frame).  But for the life of me, I can't remember any of the musical score.  I don't know if that's a good thing or a bad thing, but it didn't make an impact, whatever it was.Okay, so the fate of the world rested in the hands of a well-placed product placement.  And yes, I thought the movie was pretty silly at times, sometimes too much for its own good.  But I think what pulled it all together for me, was the fact that it had an enjoyable cast (Duchovny and Jones were enjoyable, as was Scott, who was so goofy, it surprisingly actually worked for me), it's more than obvious similarities to Ghostbusters (one of my favorite film series from the '80's), and you know, this film was a blast to just turn off reality and sit back to have fun with.  I think that counts for something in itself.For all the Hollywood red tape, Ghostbusters 3 may never see the light of day.  So I guess Evolution takes on a while different meaning, as this is the best (foreseeably for now) that fans are going to get to a sequel.I can live with that. "},{"Title":"This is an 'evolution' you will want to be a part of!","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  EVOLUTION is one of the most entertaining movies of the year with its amazing special effects, spiky bits of dialogue, crude but funny humor, great comedic performances, and a fantastic music score by John Powell. The movie was directed by comedy legend Ivan Reitman who also directed GHOSTBUSTERS which guarantees at least a few good chuckles. This is the first movie he's directed in four years after the failure of the Billy Crystal movie FATHERS' DAY, but he still know how to put together a comedy classic that is sure to entertain the next generation. Even though some people might see EVOLUTION as just another GHOSTBUSTERS rip-off, the truth is that EVOLUTION is a bigger and funnier movie than GHOSTBUSTERS was. It finds new ways of surprising us and new ways of making us laugh without using old hollywood cliches. The movie runs a little long, but that is only because it takes a little while for the plot to set up. After the plot is set up, the entertainment begins and so do the laughs. This one will keep you laughing for a very long time. It made me laugh for hours after I got out of the theatre. It's not exactly an award-winning movie, but that's okay because it is still worth buying when it comes out on video. of coarse, I won't buy it on video, I'll buy it on DVD!!!  "},{"Title":"Don't miss this 'evolution'","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  EVOLUTION is an absolutely incredible science fiction movie that will leave you breathless. It has everything you could ever want in a movie. It has action, adventure, romance, scary bits, humor, science fiction, suspense, and mystery. It is thrilling from start to finish. It is probably one of the greatest movies of the summer and 2001. Anyone who liked GHOSTBUSTERS, will love EVOLUTION.  "},{"Title":"Laugh Riot (Minor Spoilers)","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a gut-busting laugh riot. No, it's not terribly original; plot elements were lifted right out of Ghostbusters and Ghostbusters 2. And yes, it's mostly predictable. But that doesn't detract from its enjoyability whatsoever.Yeah, it's Ghostbusters all over again, only with  computer-generated aliens instead of ghosts as the baddies this time. But this is a well-acted and funny update to Reitman's classic, not a tired rehash.(Minor plot spoilers ahead, nothing big)Duchovny and Jones play a pair of community college professors who discover an alien meteorite with strange properties. Scott plays the aspiring fireman who was actually on the scene when the meteor hit; Moore plays the CDC official who arrives on the scene when the military takes over the crash site. The two scientists are ousted from the site, and break in to attempt to regain credit for their discovery. Hilarity ensues.Duchovny and Jones are a wonderful comic pair, Jones's wacky brand of humor blending well with Duchovny's deadpan delivery. It was odd (but refreshing) seeing Moore in a comedic role; overall she does quite well but comes off as a little flat at times. Scott appropriately Stifler-izes his role, which is getting a little repetitive, but still manages to be funny here.The special effects augment the movie without getting in the way too much. Don't go into the theater without expecting to be grossed out several times.Funny movie, best I've seen in a long time. Hopefully Duchovny will find more roles like this. (9/10) "},{"Title":"Very funny, I think David's finally found his niche...","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this last night (preview) and thought it was so funny that I'd like to see it a second time. It's extremely hard to bust-a-gut and this comedy does it. Hurrah for Ivan Reitman, who ably directed this great cast of characters (both human and non-human)!  "},{"Title":"har-har","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Evolution came out, many critics asserted that director Ivan Reitman had ripped off his own movie Ghostbusters and re-worked it to be about an alien invasion. Maybe there is an element of that, but the movie's mostly pretty funny (if completely absurd). Portraying a gaggle of scientists trying to explain to clueless outsiders that a meteor has brought alien life soon to multiply and take over, some parts are kind of predictable, but it's not terrible. To me at least, the only thing that weakens the movie is Ivan Reitman I lost respect for him when I learned that he backed Arnold Schwarzenegger for California governor.Anyway, it's the sort of movie that you'll find funny if you accept any humor, no matter how low. Starring David Duchovny, Julianne Moore, Orlando Jones, Seann William Scott, Ted Levine, Dan Aykroyd and Gregory Itzin. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Where do I start? Oh yes - David Duchovny is excellent parodying what made him famous in the first place (investigating paranormal activity, or at least acting the part), especially mooning the general (I don't think Fox Mulder would ever have done that!). Orlando Jones is also good - Harry basically moaning about alleged stereotyping of black people in film (I've seen this bit before- the black guy always gets killed first! line especially), and having an alien insect removed rectally (yes, rectally - not nice!), or being on the receiving end of alien flatulence (Eurgh!). Julianne Moore also does her character well (I didn't know SHE decided Allsion should be clumsy!). Sean William Scott - Well Wayne is no Stifler (who would be?), but he has his moments. Oh and finally - the Head and Shoulders ad at the end is brilliant! Ivan Reitman hits the spot again!! "}{"Title":"Not funny at all... 1/10","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very boring movie I can't see how it could make anyone laugh unless you are about 7 years old. They had a good cast and it just seemed like they didn't know what to do with them the movie really is just a waste of time its not even worth to rent. "},{"Title":"I lika.. I lika... Buuutttt..","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think it is a great fun monster movie, sort of frightening how quickly, if something that actually happened, we would be wipe out..I do have a few quirks tho.. David is good ( better than Kalifornia.. eww, bad touch)but too much like Mulder.. And the Science with the ending.. how do the figure that out?? Alot are poison(sp)to us.. but hey, what do the call it..? Oh yeah, Movie Magic.. Give it 8.2 out of ten. Nice to see ray has gotten a good job ...;)  "},{"Title":"Biology can be dangerous to your health.","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie may have had something redeemable if it was not presented as a comedy. A very good idea just seems to melt into itself in order to pass for trash. Two college professors(David Duchovny and Orlando Jones)have their microbiology backgrounds tested when an alien life-form oozes out of a meteor and starts evolving in the Arizona desert. Actually some very good F/X, but wasted on such a flick. Also wasted is the talent of Julianne Moore. Seann William Scott playing a clueless firefighting cadet is hard to ignore. And Dan Aykroyd is the dim witted Governor willing to have his state nuked. A far cry from say TREMORS that managed some how to pull off blending comedy with Sci-Fi. "},{"Title":"Waste of talent","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why such good talent signed up for this dull sophomoric movie?  I suspect because of the track record of the director who has done quite a few good ones.   However, if you read the fine print on his filmography, you will see he has done some other stickers too.   I love Julianne Moore and it was embarasing to see her in this. "},{"Title":"Grr...","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you didn't know that this was originally sci-fi HORROR, let me be the first to tell you This was originally sci-fi Horror.It shows, as some parts made me jump.  (Spoilers ahead)However, why did it have to take place in Arizona? I love the state, and am sure that lots who live here do, but do any Arizonans WANT to see their state destroyed by napalm? This had college people saying, Yes! Destroy this state! We don't care! More beer? and not caring. It also portrays them as idiots. Some of us are smarter than the scientists in the film-and we're not even in MIDDLE SCHOOL. (Yes, the scientists are dumb.)I thought this would suck. I saw it because I'll see films like Leonard Part 6 and Hanging Up if only to see another film. (I haven't seen LP6, but I didn't want to see Hanging Up. I only saw it to make my family happy.) The first part is better than I thought the whole film would have been, but once the oxygen-resistant alien is born, it seems to suck worse than Pearl Harbor.if you must see this film, watch up to the part where an alien is born, and they get surprised by it. At that point, return the tape to Blockbuster. If you bought it, rewind the tape and watch when you feel like it. If you are a Hollywod Executive-start showing people like they really are.Rating 2/6 "},{"Title":"Men in Black and Ghostbusters recycled, nothing new here.Ok special effects","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you have seen Men in Black or the Ghostbusters movies then you have seen this before. There is nothing new here at all. The story is basically a recycling of Men in Black and the Ghostbusters movies. This movie has OK special effects ,maybe they will be better on DVD. Wait fort his movie  at cheap movie theater or the DVD when it comes out! "},{"Title":"Two genes shy of viable entertainment","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The is a well deserved place for a quality sci-fi, crude humour, escapism genre...  but so long as my brain still has a few taste buds I prefer a film with more flavour  than this mindless celluloid gruel. The effects were good but hardly spectacular,  the cast a mixed bag with flat performances from a credible few capable of much  more. One of the worst films I've ever seen. Good potential, should try harder. "},{"Title":"incredibly dull and stupid","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  cant believe that dreamworks was associated with it, the movie is pretty boring and stupid. nothing much happens, the plot is also very lame, the acting horrendous and the situations so boring.not much to redeem this crap. do yourself a favor and skip this waste of celluloid. unless you are so desperate that you want to catch a couple of lame laughs. julianne moore is ofcourse her stunning self.an irredeemable 3! "},{"Title":"Interesting concept - rather dully delivered","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is weird. Yeah, the alien lifeforms are weird, Seann William Scott's character is weird, classical independent drama actor Julianne Moore attempting to do broad slapstick comedy is weird, David Ducovny doing a half-baked parody of his famed X-Files persona and baring his ass is weird; and Ivan Reitman attempting to copy the success of his hit GHOSTBUSTERS with a sci-fi movie comedy grounded in science exobiology theory is weird. Hell - even the art direction is weird.Not really bad. Not really good. Just ... weird.Like a acid-trip-inspired memory of a 50s B-grade sci-fi drive-in fodder that appeared on late nite television kinda weird.Interesting, but really - was it actually worth the effort?Nice try anyway. "},{"Title":"This is a comedy?","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Absolutely dreadful and almost completely devoid of anything I recognised as humour. Only noteworthy for taking the American male obsession with the anal region to new heights of desperation, seasoned of course with enough thinly-veiled homophobia to make it acceptable. This, when combined with what may be a genuinely careful attempt to include an interesting sci-fi premise, makes for a film that manages to be bizarre and dire in roughly equal proportions. It may have been my imagination but you can actually see the growing awareness of the actors' plight dawning on them as the movie progresses, as their faces become ever more strained and their delivery becomes increasingly leaden. A blemish on the careers of all those who participated in it. "}{"Title":"Middle of the road pap","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't believe the hype.If only I'd have listened to these words back then, the media campaign, my alien friends all told me to see this film.The one consolation, I didn't have to pay for the rental.David Duchovnoy cannot do comedy to save his life, the film itself is directionless and boring, mundane, I can't even be arsed to finish this rev "},{"Title":"This movie is plain Crap!","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" How can the heroes just walk into top secret offices at will. It says in the IMDb notes that Reitman took over the script to make it more of a comedy he didn't succeed, it's totally lame and not funny at all. If rectal humor is supposed to be funny then I'm out of the loop, happily. The mall scenes are just not funny, the guy singing is just bad and the story is just trying too hard, the heroes just bust into the rifle rack and take over the area while the security guards just run amok, not knowing what to do (they probably read the script), where were the police? The best part of the movie was the actor named Levine, he's quite a screen presence, if you're good you can overcome all sorts of script deficiencies. It's mind boggling to me that the writers thought that a alien with diarrhea is funny and then depict it so descriptively and sickeningly (if they spent more of their time on the story?????). I understand Ducovney took this picture over a Star Wars flick (I know a big fish in a small pond is better than a small fish in a big pond), bad choice. "},{"Title":"Who was this film meant for?","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I finally finished Evolution, after falling asleep to it like 5 times. I'm not sure who this film was meant for. It had high school type of science with elementary/junior high humor. I'm not sure yet, but I don't think I liked this movie at all. There were a couple parts I kind of went hmph in a laughing matter, but nothing that deserves a 5.8 rating on IMDb. What's with that by the way? I mean I see pretty decent movies on IMDb that are low, I mean like cute little comedies like Mannequin or Simply Irresistible that just make you feel good at the end. But somehow Evolution got a 5.8? I'd just like to know how? It's really not that good of a movie. If this was from X-Files fans, wow. I really hope it's not, because there are more deserving movies of a higher rating. This has no structure, good acting, or actual comedy to it. Please, just review the film one more time before giving this film any points higher than a 3.2/10 "},{"Title":"The longest Head and Shoulders commercial ever...","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is pretty much just a remake/update of Ghostbusters, with aliens instead of ghosts. This pretty much proves that director Ivan Reitman can't really do anything but this type of films. The plot is stupid and poorly paced. The acting is pretty decent, but that's also the only good thing about this film. The characters are all clichés and stereotypes. Most of the actors portray pretty much the exact same type of character that they usually do, so I don't know how much it really took for the actors to get into character or act their parts. The humor is childish, cheesy and juvenile throughout. The special effects look hideous. The science fiction elements are poor. The whole thing is just so throughly unfunny and dull that it's hard to put into words. It's boring and cheesy, never particularly funny and never engaging, exciting or interesting. I doubt anyone but the biggest of fans of Reitman or the actors involved would find this even marginally interesting. The whole thing about the shampoo in the end was so stupid I could actually feel my IQ dropping drastically. So, in conclusion, if you are a fan of the newer, apparently popular, one-note childish, juvenile crude humor as seen on shows like Family Guy and (sadly) recent episodes of The Simpsons, look no further... or, maybe, look further, as even that type of humor is better in other films... but, anyway, if you aren't, stay away. Far away. I recommend this to big fans of Reitman or the various actors, and of the aforementioned type of humor. 3/10 "},{"Title":"rather more and more regression","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In 1984, a film-maker named Ivan Reitman made himself known thanks to a blockbuster Ghostbusters. All the hopes put in this man gradually turned out to be vain and disappointed. Indeed, you had the right to expect better than comedies with nice and harmless humor as Junior (1994) or Six Days Seven Nights (1998) testified. This is not this Evolution that will make things evolve. We always stay on the same territory and Reitman is powerless to go out of the beaten tracks traced by Hollywood. The characters, the situations, the dialogs, the comic everything is colorless, predictable, unoriginal. Moreover, Evolution is a rather dramatic story that is told on a comedy tone. Unfortunately, so many hackneyed comical effects end up wrecking any laugh even any interest. Reitman was about 54 years old when he made this movie. He'd better retire.   "},{"Title":"Evolution to Nothing.","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution (2001) Dir Ivan Reitman / Cast David Duchovny, Orlando Jones, Seann William Scott, Julianne Moore, Ted Levine Ghostbusters rip-off that has no real bearing on evolution at all in a meaningful sense. David Duchovny plays a biology teacher and Orlando Jones plays a girls' volleyball coach who answer a call to the site where a meteor landed. A sample indicates that there is an organism evolving at an alarming rate. They are sabotaged when scientists take them to court to gain possession of the research. Although the solution is clever the plot is recycled and dull. It seems that director Ivan Reitman is trying to relive the success of Ghostbusters and failing miserably. Duchovny is basically playing his X-Files role while Jones spouts one-liners as if he was auditioning for a nightclub gig. Julianne Moore serves no purpose than to play the woman. She doesn't even get slimed when things get unbelievably messy. Seann William Scott who opens the film, becomes unnecessary from each passing moment. The special effects will remind viewers of Ghostbusters and while the effects here are good, they are not accompanied with a story worth evolving into a movie to begin with. Ghostbusters is funnier and far better written but Reitman proves that he cannot catch lightning in a bottle. It is a pointless and boring mess that should be sent through a blender. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Sometimes entertaining, always stupid","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm sure between the time of the two Ghostbusters movies and the time Ivan Reitman made Evolution, a lot of people had told him he should make another movie like Ghostbusters. In theory, they were correct, but his attempt to do so is largely a failure.The premise is a clever one. An alien substance has landed on earth and begins to evolve at an incredible rate, going from goo to flatworms to dinosaurs to apes in a matter of days. The best part of the movie is the creature design, which is really impressive.The movie focuses on a couple of college science teachers who investigate this substance.The first thing to note is that these teachers handle this very badly, even though the movie doesn't seem to think so. They don't seem to recognize the danger of a rapidly evolving substance out in the wild for quite a while, irresponsibly telling no one, so when others interfere, I failed to feel the sort of outrage one normally is expected to feel when the heroes lose control of something. In this case, that's exactly what should have happened.The illogic of the script goes beyond the stupidity of the teachers. A central plot point relies on the army to have not done one of the first scientific tests that any idiot would do with an alien substance. Meanwhile, another scientist, played by Julianne Moore, is established early on as clumsy. The problem is, this in no way defines or establishes the character nor is it particularly funny, so it feels like a pointless addition, as though the writers realized that she wasn't very interesting and decided to give her a random quirk.The movie also concerns a wannabe firefighter, and his presence is as extraneous as Moore's clumsiness. He appears to be in the movie only because there were three ghostbusters so Reitman wanted three alien- busters. But you could excise him from the film without losing much of anything.While sometimes amusing and filled with cool visual effects, this movie is constructed so poorly that it never achieves any momentum. Ultimately it is what happened when Ghostbusters devolved. "},{"Title":"Great ghost busters featuring MIB comedy. refreshing.","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie long time ago, remembered that was very funny.Now, at older age, this became even more funny. I love the script, jokes, acting and everything, lots of humor that I didn't quite get when watching with fin-subs. Awesome movie, like Ghostbusters 3 or something.I recommend this to everyone who likes humor, ghost busters, nice acting, funny scenes and great dialog (i almost laughed my head of in few scenes) And very funny complications or similarities to MIB-movies also those Ghostbusters, really entertaining it is says Yoda.9/10 (one point away 'cause this could be more funny actually or better effects) "},{"Title":"A bit underrated, Evolution is a solid, humorous Ivan Reitman film in the same vein of Ghostbusters, though not quite as fresh...","Date":"2 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ivan Reitman's 2001 release Evolution appears to be a prototype for a potential franchise very similar to Reitman's own iconic Ghostbusters series. It follows the same sort of archetypal set-up in its assembly of a team, and an otherworldly problem only they can handle, despite meddling and objections from government forces.For all intents and purposes, one could safely call it a sort of spiritual remake of Ghostbusters with a focus on Sci-Fi rather than the supernatural.And for the most part, Evolution works as a fun little film.David Duchovny and Orlando Jones star as Arizona college professors Ira Kane and Harry Block. When a meteorite crashes, they go to investigate, taking samples which show something curious- the microbial alien life attached to the meteor appear to be evolving at a highly accelerated rate- millions of years of evolution in mere hours. As the evolution progresses more and more, turning the site of the meteor into a full- fledged, miniature alien atmosphere and forest, government agents arrive. Lead by a former college (Ted Levine) from Ira's military days, the government locks out Kane and Block, and quarantines the area. With them is beautiful government official Alison Reed (Julianne Moore).However, the accelerated evolution begins to cause problems as the alien life begins to escape and threaten the nearby city. Ira and Harry are forced to team with Alison as well as good-natured by oafish local fireman Wayne Grey (Sean William Scott) to battle the alien menace and save the day.The saving graces of the film really fall to two main aspects the chemistry of the cast and the superb direction by Reitman.The cast gives generally good performances and mesh together quite well. Duchovny is a joy as Ira Kane and bring a lot of heart, and the obvious love story with the clumsy but ultimately good Alison Reed is fun to watch play out. Jones is good as Harry Block, though he always struck me as being a bit on the cartoonish side. Sean William Scott is hilarious, but again a little too broad as Wayne Grey. But the four together make an admirable, memorable team and function extremely well together on screen. Once together, they create a great heart to the story, and keep you interested as a viewer. Other performances by the likes of Ted Levine and a cameo by Dan Aykroyd are marvelous.The direction is the other strong piece in the film. Reitman has always been a simple but wonderful visual storyteller, and his direction is first class.However, the film does have a lot of flaws. Mainly relating back to the script and comedic set-pieces. There's just a few too many jokes built around... *ahem* rear-ends, and it becomes juvenile. A lot of the jokes are also a bit too obvious and broad. And it moves just a tad too fast for it's own good, making it feel a little forgettable in the long run.But all-in-all, this is a fun little semi-forgotten film from the early 2000's. It's a great rainy-day movie, and I'd recommend it for some laughs.Evolution gets a solid 7 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"Good Advertising","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK first off the movie was GOOD. Not excellent, but good. However i was surprised that no one saw it as a flagrant Head and Shoulders Shampoo advertising! In that aspect it was appalling and hopeless. All that stuff about the shampoo being used to save the world? And what the hell is it with that ending? That's just pure Carp. To quote  Fighting aliens is hard work. so always keep a bottle of head and shoulders with you. As for the science part, its OK. The humor is good and so are the actors. David Duchovny does his part well with a dry sense of humor. Orlando Jones kicks it cool and adds some good jokes and witty sentences. Other than the advertising crap its a movie worth watching just once. "}{"Title":"Let's shampoo us some aliens!","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ivan Reitman directs Evolution, a film which plays like a sequel to his 1984 movie, Ghostbusters.And so Evolution finds a cast of likable scientists (David Duchovny, Julianne Moore, Orlando Jones) attempting to stop an alien invasion. The film's twist on the alien invasion scenario is that the aliens are initially harmlessly unicellular, though they quickly asexually reproduce - or evolve - into increasingly complex creatures.The film ends with a Ghostbusters franchise inspired climax in which our heroes save the day via the administering of Head and Shoulder's shampoo to the buttocks of a giant alien.The film is swift, amiable and features some good humour. Duchovny takes Bill Murray's role from Ghostbusters (dead pan humour, and much light poking at his role as an alien hunter in The X-Files), Julianne Moore plays the obligatory love interest (it's a bimbo role, but she elevates it) and Jones plays the black side kick (the film toys with the submissiveness such a role usually entails). Sean William Scott also pops up. He does his usual surfer-dude-jock shtick. Comedian Dan Aykroyd is wasted as an Arizona Governor. Aykroyd claims to have had UFO encounters in real life.7.9/10 &#x96; Has become a cult movie for scifi buffs. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" We've all seen science fiction movies where some sort of alien/mutation infestation threatens small-town USA. The armed forces either don't believe or come in heavy handed (or both). Finally, salvation comes from unsung hero scientists and/or some other unexpected source (or both).Welcome to Evolution, where the threat is assorted alien critters which evolve to adapt to changing conditions very very quickly.Evolution takes the established template and has great fun with it. The group of four unlikely heroes play second fiddle to a plethora of wildly varying, and often very funny, CGI monsters.The revelation here is Julianne Moore. Never one of my favourite actresses (there's something about her face which worries me), she does very well here is a clumsy - and very funny - scientist. "},{"Title":"Fun, that's all its meant to be","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie isn't meant to change your life or make you thing. It's an out and out entertaining movie. This movie is funny simple and good. Read the plot to get an idea, I'm not here to give out spoilers. Metoeor hits earth and 2 community college professors make the discovery and the government take over. Hilarious, and really is one to add to your collection.Actors in this movie were very good, nothing moving, because the script doesn't call for it. The characters interact well and have good chemistry.A gem to watch when bored and can be watched a thousand time over. Get the DVD if you can.A good solid 8 for entertainment. "},{"Title":"Certainly doesn't move cinema forward in any way, though it is okay . . . in the mane.","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution is all about a rock that lands on our planet with an organism on it that, unsurprisingly, evolves. Evolves QUICKLY. This is discovered by two unorthodox scientists (Orlando Jones and David Duchovny, both pretty good on screen with the latter particularly enjoyable in deadpan comedy mode) and one young lad who happens to be in the right/wrong place at the right/wrong time while training to be a fireman (Seann William Scott). Before you can say mega-amoeba it's a race to stop things getting out of hand as the suburbs of America play host to all kinds of strange, new creatures all trying to adapt to Earth's atmosphere and set the stage for the next step in the evolutionary process.It's clear to see what director Ivan Reitman thought he could do with this material as it's very much a riff on the Ghostbusters vibe. We have some likable leads with good chemistry (no pun intended), a small and unusual problem growing into something potentially world-threatening and a series of scenes blending special effects with some inoffensive comedy.Sadly, it certainly fails to reach anywhere near the heights of Reitman's ectoplasm-filled hit and this is due to a number of reasons.First of all, the laughs just aren't THAT funny. As already mentioned, Jones and Duchovny do well but Seann William Scott's schtick was already a little tired by this point and Julianne Moore's accident-prone character is, frankly, quite embarrassing to watch . . . . . comedy is certainly not her forte.Secondly, Reitman lets the effects take centre stage instead of weaving them throughout the plot line and around the chemistry of the leads.Thirdly, despite the fact that the movie is all about a giant threat to all mankind things never really feel as if there is any actual giant threat to all of mankind.Evolution isn't without it's entertaining moments (and with a cast including the likes of Ted Levine, Sarah Silverman and Dan Aykroyd in supporting roles there is probably something for everyone here) but it's quite a waste of talent compared to what we all know could have ended up on screen. Which should have really been more than just some bizarre, limp Head & Shoulders advert.See this if you like The Blob, Species, Ghostbusters 2. "},{"Title":"Give Them Some Head & Shoulders","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Science professor David Duchovny (as Ira Kane), geologist coach Orlando Jones (as Harry Block), and firefighter trainee Seann William Scott (as Wayne Grey) make a good team, fighting a possible alien invasion of Earth. They are joined by clumsy Julianne Moore (as Allison Reed); she falls down, bumps into things, and provides Mr. Duchovny (and the film) with love interest. Evolution is from Ghostbusters Ivan Reitman. The reported adapting of the material from straight science fiction to comedy was a good idea; unfortunately, the asinine humor works only half the time. Some of the slimy effects are good enough to make up some of the difference.***** Evolution (6/8/01) Ivan Reitman ~ David Duchovny, Orlando Jones, Seann William Scott, Julianne Moore "},{"Title":"Tense Between Being a Comedy or a Sci-Fi !","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is no doubt that this is an amusing movie. There is no doubt that this was a kind of vacation for everyone took a part in it. And there is no doubt that there is something wrong with it.. even if slightly.Since its first release I watched 3 times already. And after the last one I discovered the real problem of it. It's the nature of its character; was it a comedy with smart irony ?, or was it a sci-fi horror with diligent CGI?, or was it something mediocre in between ?Surely it's not Ghostbusters for the same director 15 years ago without the strong cast, the goofy look, or the prospering antecedence. Unlike the old formula  spoof of a spook, then a good laugh, this time it's a real spooky scene, then a tired smile. Actually here there is more talking about science, less comedy, and horrible images sometimes (still the moment of that creature at the bathroom scares the hell out of me, deeming it one of the most terrifying indeed!).The many sci-fi details were catchy and creative but not funny. Moments like the rampant blue creature, the gigantic mucus and the climax right up the alien's anus make the movie's original not-so-visible comedy more invisible and full of bad taste. There are some scenes you won't find at any comedy (the huge dead creatures in the valley) which confirms some ambition this movie just doesn't achieve or enjoys missing with. So with useless scenes like the 3 leading men singing in their Jeep you've got to feel that the main script was really a pure sci-fi in the first place then got a little polishing to be fit as a comedy as well!Sorrowfully, David Duchovny and Julianne Moore didn't make me laugh, didn't enthuse me as action heroes, and didn't have any chemistry on-screen (I know, before blaming them, and the casting, I must blame the screenplay). I even felt that (Duchovny) was younger than his character not to mention frigid at places. Simply all of that left all the time in the world for (Orlando Jones) to own the charisma, create freely and be memorable. (Evolution) is a mix. Somehow dazzling as a sci-fi but not as a comedy. And you know what ? Both ways its cast didn't wholly click. I think it needed a bit of rectifying to modify its taste to be something clearer or more entertaining.So true that there was a silly unnecessary commercial about shampoo at the end. But there was also a moment in which finally someone declared it  I saw that movie before. The black dude dies first. As you see, according to this last irony, it gives itself nearly the 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Daft yet somewhat engaging and fun movie!","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I liked Evolution, even if it is very silly and daft on the most part. But I cannot deny it is a very fun and entertaining movie. The script has some very funny moments, there is some great camera work and some splendid scenery. Plus the creatures were superbly designed and by far the best element of the movie.The acting is perfectly acceptable, with Orlando Jones chewing up the scenery as much as he can, and Seann William Scott at his most dumbest in an appealing way. David Duchovney plays it straight. In fact my only real complaints of Evolution were although it was well constructed on the most part there are one or two slow moments in the plot, and Julianne Moore is miscast.Overall, it is daft and extremely silly to the core, but it is also very enjoyable and likable. And it never fails to give a sense of fun, no matter how daft it initially sounds. I do think this movie is very underrated, by no means perfect, but I guarantee to anyone who gives it a chance that you'll like it. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Fun and Enjoyable!","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Evolution' is a fun movie to watch with a group of friends or by yourself. It's full of great-one liners and is guaranteed to make you laugh more than once or twice.The movie is full of great actors who portray their character very well--especially Orlando Jones as the stereo-typical Black guy. And David Duchovny's subtle jokes that he used to be involved with government will make an X-Phile smile. Evolution manages to reference many great, classic Sci-Fi movies, too, which just adds to the laughter. Besides, we always knew Head & Shoulders had a hidden power.Fun, funny and a great movie. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution is an excellent comedic romp, whether you're an egghead or not. The nerd lingo is always reigned in by humor and the creatures are very well thought out, well executed. The film is filled with 'continuity errors' and the like, but all are superficial and negligible; this is too funny a film to seriously criticize. There are some moments your kids probably won't understand..SPOILERSPOILERSPOILERSPOILERSPOILERSPOILERSPOILERSPOILERSPOILERS Like Block's insistence that Reed was hitting on Kane, or Block's near testicle experience with a mosquito.. or corn-holing the overgrown single cell alien.. or Reed's receiving some of the 'Kane Madness.' SPOILERSPOILERSPOILERSPOILERSPOILERSPOILERSPOILERSPOILERSPOILERSIf you liked Evolution, I'd highly recommend Starship Troopers, Tremors(I & II), Eight Legged Freaks. Creature features had a golden age and the SciFi channel is living in its shadow. "},{"Title":"Lubricant and the giant product placement.","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A meteorite falls to Earth and lands right in the desert at Glen Canyon, Arizona. Two college professors, Dr. Ira Kane and Prof. Harry Phineas Block, take it upon themselves to investigate and mooch around. At the site, they discover worm like insects that are not of this world. Thinking they are on to Nobel Prize type history, they are dismayed when the government takes over the site and shunts them out the way. But as the insects start to evolve in the Earth atmosphere, they take on various shapes and forms of alien creatures. Pretty soon the whole place is over run and the government is at a loss in how to stop them. Enter Ira, Harry, Wayne and Allison to hopefully save the day.Directed by Ivan Reitman Ghostbusters 1 & 2, Evolution is a zany sci-fi comedy that achieves firmly what it sets out to do. Using the available special effects for great rewards, and lashing it in Technicolor, all that remained was to have a cast happy to be in on the joke itself. Up step David Duchovny revelling in none serious X Files malarkey, Orlando Jones getting all the best lines, Julianne Moore accident prone and Sean Wiillian Scott goofball fireman wannabe. Backed up by Ted Levine, Dan Ackroyd, Ethan Suplee and Ty Burrell, Evolution is well served right across the cast. Of course they aren't asked to do anything special, but it's not that kind of film. There's enough here for all the family to enjoy, kids will be awed by the array of alien creatures, whilst the adults should be chuckling away at some of the jokes.If you are expecting real science then you have come to the wrong place, Evolution parodies the sci-fi parodies, and then some. 7/10 "}{"Title":"HBO giveth and taketh away","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" On the night HBO debuted Joe Buck Live, an unwatchable hour of something, I started flipping through my saved list and found Evolution. I remembered seeing ten minutes of it late one night, then recording it because it seemed amusing. It's better than that for a number of reasons. First is Julianne Moore, but that's another story that would simply betray my superficiality. A stronger reason is the daffy but symbiotic relationship that develops among the three main characters. But most important, the writing is crisp and funny, and it made me forget the outlandishness of certain plot points. Right around then David Duchovny was still basking in the X-Files glow, and since then he has been involved in his share of clunkers. But in Evolution he's Mulder again, smart-mouthed and wry and comfortable in surroundings that demand bemused surprise but never denial. Good stuff...and did I mention Julianne Moore? "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie and find it to be very underrated by the general public, including myself for a long time. I never gave the movie a chance and finally rented it and watched it for the first time based one some reviews I read here. I was quite satisfied to find a very humorous and interesting story with some great visual effects. A lot of people have described this as Ghostbusters meets Men In Black, and I would call that quite accurate. The evolution of the alien life forms was very cool and the special effects team did an awesome job. David Duchovny played his role perfectly. There were few similarities to his X Files role of Mulder, which makes sense given the film's premise, but it is played a lot more light hearted. His dry humor cracked me up. Dan Akroyd was not a main character, but he was perfect for his part. If you are in the mood for some laughs w/ an actually interesting story and great effects, this is the movie for you. If you are looking for a movie with a similar premise but without the humor and light hearted tone, then I'd suggest War Of The Worlds or something like that. "},{"Title":"Only good if you lack higher brain functioning....","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Meaning you're comatose without any hope of recovery. I liked this movie the first time I watched it, and feeling nostalgic, I rented it again. Boy oh boy, what 6 years between viewings will do.This movie tries too hard. Tries to hard to be thought provoking, sci fi, comedy, and fails massively on all levels. I cannot believe Julianne Moore agreed to this, I guess i've had my palate spoiled by seeing her better movies. Orlando Jones plays a lecherous community college professor/women's athletic coach. The implications of him trying to get into the pants of barely legal college students dominates the movie, offers no plot point or advancement and leaves you with an awful taste in your mouth. Seann William Scott is being, well Seann William Scott. I can't say I was disappointed with him as he basically is playing the same character he does in everything else i've seen him in. This leads me to Duchovny.For an actor who was trying to distance himself from his work on the XFiles so he could spread his wings as an actor and explore different roles he sure didn't go to far. He goes from playing Sci-fi alien butt kicking Agent Fox Mulder to playing Sci-Fi alien butt kicking Ira Kane. The only real difference in the characters is occupation, name and partners (replace Scully with Orlando Jones.) Way to go David! (And no, he shouldn't live that down!!)Here's all you need to know Aliens are undergoing Evolution at an alarming speed, and threatening to wipe out life as we know it. Enter Fox Mulder, the pervert coach, Stifler, Moore and Tweedle Dee & Tweedle Dumb. (2 students who are also volunteer firemen.) Out of all the people on the planet, they figure out how to kill the aliens. And they do, in one of the most laughable, badly done, anti-climatic CGI effect you've ever seen. That being done, Mulder & Moore disappear to get it on in a nearby firetruck. The End. Oh, there's also a big product placement for Head & Shoulders. If it sounds dumb, that's because it is. This coming from the man who brought us GhostBusters, a far superior film in both story and effects. If you're really hankering down for some good Sci Fi or Alien type of things, i'll suggest to you the actual XFiles. There's 9 seasons of them to pick from where you can watch Duchovny in his original alien seeking, conspiracy theorist paranormal investigator role. 2/10 for Moore and for Seann William Scott, who is at least not pretending to be anyone else. "},{"Title":"There are only a couple of other competitors for Movie that gave me my worst cinematic experience - and I'm such a movie buff","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought the comment displayed was ironical. Excellent! Great fun! Then I read the comment. And found out no joke. And saw a seemingly endless list of 8 to 10 stars rating other comments.So I randomly jumped to page eight... and am here to thank Dan Phillips (filops@yahoo.com) from California for his 5 out of 10 stars comment entitled Just did not work for me, 15 June 2002. He expressed some of the mix of desperation, anger, but mainly disbelieving shock I experienced when confronted with actors I loved involved in a *non-movie*.I'm really trying hard to find something positive to say. The special effects sometimes were good. In certain action scenes, sometimes there was rhythm. Some brief shots of Julianne Moore smiling were nice.But what is worse than a movie trying to be funny. Sometimes you hear dialog that is perfectly funny - potentially. And somehow, the movie manages to choke it to flat-line. Bad editing, bad directing for the actors both Duchovny and Moore have nothing to prove... and let's not even recall Dan Ayckroyd also got entangled in this mess somehow. If this movie has nothing to offer but the sadness of a doom, it's neither their fault nor any of the other excellent actors who in any given other flick are allowed to contribute to the collective effort.I saw this when it came out, and watched the end on TV again tonight, just to be sure... I was remembered of the suffering (no, I really mean that word, no quotes, nothing) sitting through this *thing* with my one movie-buff friend, both sharing the same painful experience (and he has a tolerance level for Z movies about 80 stores below mine) and holding on to our seats, unable to believe the movie would stay this terrible until the very end. There are hundreds of flawed movies out there I'll take any time over this one. There's always SOMEthing that'll make it worthwhile. But not with this one, no.I'm not arguing my case, I'm offering no explanations, only complaining, I'm aware of that. But for once, I really feel totally alienated by the reality that people obviously enjoyed this movie. I'm flabbergasted. I just can't imagine that a movie for which someone should be arrested, a movie so utterly bad at every level, could be taken for what it only claims to be but fails obscenely at being a comedy. I remember thinking, when I went into the theater, that the three-eyed smiley on the movie's poster was a really cool idea. And, of course, I remember coming out, shaking my head in disbelief at the fact I couldn't think of ANYthing in the movie that even remotely held the promise of the poster. (the fact that that three-eyed smiley doesn't play any role whatsoever in the movie just exactly depicts how wrong the whole thing is)No movie ever made me feel like this one money spent on nothing, actors I admire wasting their time, becoming aware a director can use his power to prevent a 90 minutes movie from being anything the whole time through.I still can feel how it was to see this movie. I usually don't bother writing about films I disliked. This one's in a league of its own, I felt offended by it... can you tell? ....I must apologize. I'll - hopefully - never write a comment like this about a movie again. As I hope I'll never watch one like this again.***WARNING terrible waste of time and money for everyone involved, and for you if you watch it.*** "},{"Title":"Really great sci-fi fun.","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution is set in the Arizona town of Glenn Canyon where two scientists Dr. Ira Kane (David Duchovny) & Professor Harry Block (Orlando Jones) who lecture at the local university investigate a meteorite that has fallen in the desert nearby, they find it in some old caves & take some samples. The results are startling as Kane discovers an alien life form which can evolve & adapt at an amazing rate, soon the Army becomes aware of the meteorite & takes control of the situation as a whole mini alien eco-system is growing at a tremendous rate in the caves. As the strange alien creatures within begin to find their way to the local town a way must be found to stop them before they take over the entire planet...Co-produced & directed by Ivan Reitman I think Evolution is one of the best sci-fi comedies I've ever seen & for that I apologise to no-one. The script by Don Kakoby, David Diamond & David Weissman originally started out as a straight forward & serious sci-fi thriller film but once Reitman came on-board he developed the comedic aspects which makes one think he wanted to do another Ghostbusters (1984) which is easily his best & most successful film to date. Anyway, it has a definite Ghostbusters feel in it's deadpan humour & slimy monsters everywhere but Evolution is a great film in it's own right. For a start Evolution is surprisingly funny, I find a lot of Hollywood comedies to be moronic but Evolution works really well & the light hearted script has a nice balance between the humour & more serious sci-fi side of things. The film is quite epic in scope with a whole town being overrun by alien monsters & an entire alien eco-system trying to take over which I think I might be right in saying is an original concept, can you think of another film that uses it? I thought the idea in itself was clever & keeps all manner of alien beasties coming thick & fast. The character's are also very likable, Duchovny & Jones as the two scientists in particular have good chemistry & work well against each other with Duchovny's deadpan delivery & Jones' more eccentric performance. It moves along like a rocket, the alien meteorite crashes to Earth during the opening credits sequence & from that point the film never lets up. A class film, if there is anything to dislike about Evolution I haven't discovered it. Forget about the obligatory 'this is the worst film I've ever seen' threads on the IMDb message board, every film ever made seems to have one.Director Reitman does a great job, he keeps things moving along nicely & he handles the special effects scenes well. The effects are a mixture of puppet & on set creature effects which are brilliant & the expected CGI computer effects which are also top drawer, it just goes to show if you have literally millions of dollars to spend on your effects then you can achieve some spectacular results. From flying reptilian Dragon like aliens to living plants to alien spiders to alien fish to a huge gigantic walking blob at the end, all the aliens look fantastic & are a nice mixture of the cute & the creepy. I liked the ending too, the way they wanted to be celebrities & as such ended up doing commercials.With a supposed budget of about $80,000,000 Evolution was a well funded film & it show's, it looks great with fantastic special effects & spectacular alien monsters. The acting is good from the main cast, I admit I've never liked Julianne Moore in anything I've ever seen her in but she's tolerable in this. To to reinforce the Ghostbusters theme Dan Aykroyd has a funny cameo at the end as the state Governor.Evolution is a brilliant sci-fi comedy & it's as simple & straight forward as that, I loved it. Again this is just my opinion because there's plenty of 'this is the worst film ever' type posts on the IMDb but I honestly think it's a fantastic film from start to finish in just about every respect. Followed by the Saturday morning cartoon series Alienators Evolution Continues (2001) which ran for 26 episodes & features both Ira Kane & Harry Block. "},{"Title":"Occasionally smart and funny but doesn't evolve into anything great.","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution is one of those films that, cleverly at times, mixes in humour and comedy with a scary concept to combine it with horror in a very juxtaposed sense. Director Ivan Reitman made Ghostbusters about twenty years before he made Evolution and although it's been a while since I saw Ghostbusters, I can remember enough to suggest that Evolution sorts of feels like a 21st Century version of the now rather iconic, albeit for puzzling reasons, Ghostbusters.Evolution is fast, fun and sort of dumb but it knows it is. It uses some of the oldest ways of both telling a story and how to present characters to the audience; what I'm getting at here is the 'buddy' combination which was very popular and rather successful during the 1980s, coincidentally round about the time Ghostbusters was proving to be such a hit. What I liked about this reference or perhaps 'spoof' at times is that Evolution recognises what it's doing The white guy named Ira Kane (Duchovny) and the black guy named Harry Block (Jones) are the two protagonists combining for the duration and Block consistently references the way the buddy genre works giving a very post-modern feel to the film. He states that he's 'seen this movie the black guy dies first' when faced with a could-be dangerous situation; he also falls foul of most of the jokes in the film The flying bug just happens to get into HIS costume; he has the job of going up the massive alien's anus in order to fulfil the goal and of course, there's never enough time for lubricant whenever the coloured guy's on the operating table &#150; typical.Evolution seemed to have a plan and it stuck to it throughout. The film is a comedy but it's also a rather frightening horror film in the sense we see so many nasty things happen that it's tempting to look away out of knowledge that we have no idea how bad the consequences might be. When that flying bug gets into Block's suit and we see it 'inside' him, it's grim but funny; likewise when that monster comes out of 'a water hazard of the fourth green', grabs a sexually active character and drags him back into the water, it's pretty grim but it's funny because he leaves grassy trails with his fingernails along the pristine putting green a post-modern touch as it looks like it's straight out of a Tom & Jerry cartoon.Evolution is at its core, a comedy because there aren't as many 'scary' moments once the film's narrative is developed into something more serious. The whole idea about visitors from outer space is appealing and fun with the speedy growth the aliens make also interesting as well as unpredictable I got the reference to 2001 A Space Odyssey when they mutated into primitive men and were suddenly hostile. Unfortunately, Evolution becomes a very tired film when it enters its final thirty-five minutes or so. There is an amusing if not anti-climatic scene in a shopping mall involving a creature that's a cross between a raptor dinosaur and an eagle that has no bearing on anything what-so-ever and Allison Reed's (Moore) quote about how 'as soon as they (the aliens) take America, we're extinct' is basically two fingers up at every other military any other country has which was disappointing. If Evolution was a house of cards then this quote is the jolt that causes it to sort of collapse a little the 'race against time' is tired and familiar, the plot point written on the back of someone's T-shirt is bizarre and the whole product placement of a certain shampoo leaves a hell of a lot to be desired.Despite this; Evolution is a good film for what it is exploring some themes such as greed and envy and whether or not if extra terrestrials did land here, how much would it be worth to keep quiet? It's sort of funny, sort of scary and sort of clever but many people will consider this film to be a complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"Missed Oppportunity","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow. What a shame that Ivan Reitman had to direct this. In other hands this could have been a highly effective, and scary, sci-fi flick. The concept of alien organisms coming to earth and rapidly evolving, ultimately threatening all life on the planet, is a powerful and promising idea for a straightforward fright flick, especially when you have this kind of budget and the special effects are good as they are here.Unfortunately, Mr. Reitman decides to try to turn this into Ghostbusters 3, and drops the ball. None of the so-called humor works, and two of the actors, Orlando Jones and Seann William Scott, play it way too broadly for this kind of material. More laughs would have been had if they had played it straight.The first half is nearly intolerable, but picks up in the second half as the alien menace evolves and grows. Terrific special effects and well set up action sequences, like the scene in the mall, almost salvage this mess. David Duchovny and Julianne Moore do their best to no avail. With a better script that relied less on sophomoric humor and adolescent gags, and with stronger direction, this could have been a real winner. "},{"Title":"Evolution in humor","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dan Aykroyd does a great job as the Creator of this new universe. The evolution fighters or Alienators as they soon will be known as is a great flickin' flick. The human cast does a great job, the aliens are cool. David Duchovny is great as Ira Crane. As good as the first Ghostbusters, now I do have one complaint, the ****less General. He could have been better. But just like Ghostbuster I guess they're had to be one butt head to deal with. The whole premise works and I think they did their homework and created a real life possibility when it comes to aliens. It was funny, exciting, scary at points. Everything you expect in a sci-fi comedy in equal amounts. What I would love to see is the GHOSTBUSTERS meet the ALIENATORS. That would be a cool cross-over. Dan Aykroyd, I hope you're reading this. CROSSOVER these two, NOW! 9 STARS. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but really could've been funnier.","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Stars David Duchovny, Orlando Jones, Julianne Moore, Sean William Scott, Ted Levine, Ty Burell, Dan Aykroyd, Ethan Suplee, Pat Kilbane and Craig Anton.From the director of Ghostbusters, comes this entertaining, but lacking film about aliens that are evolving at an alarming rate. Dr. Ira Caine (Duchovny) and Harry Block (Jones) are two school teachers trying to get involved in the alien discovery that General Woodsman (Levine) and his crew (including Julianne Moore) have taken over. Meanwhile Wade (Scott) goes through many amusing jobs and acts as the idiot comedian in the film. I actually did like this film, but it didn't successfully make the humor very funny. The slapstick was Julianne Moore always falling and being accident prone, and that was just stupid. It seems that they tried to save any funny lines for Dan Aykroyd as the Governor, who makes a few amusing appearances. I recommend this movie but don't expect too much.My rating ** 1/2 out of ****. rated PG-13 for Crude Humor, Violence and Language. 98 mins. "},{"Title":"The aliens attack. the heroes come but the bad guys say no then the heroes save the world from the bad guys and the aliens ya ya hooray every body!","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I only watched this movie because David was in it. But it was actually good. i thought it was funny, Really funny! It didn't ever lose my attention or laughs. But there was some crude humor, but what can you expect. The movie could have done fine without some of it. Everything got explained, and like my some of my movie choices it wasn't just out of the blue, random stuff happening. There was a plot and i liked that. the computer animation was, how do i say, not the best but good for a corny aliens taking over the world movie. I recommend this movie for a person who like to laugh and who likes sci-fi comedy. Plus of course the guy gets the girl so hey its all good. "}{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Light-hearted, quite innovative take on the 'alien invasion' genre, full of fun and with a quality cast. Obviously sponsored by a well-known shampoo manufacturer, although I feel they should have given clearer instructions on how to apply the product. Seann William Scott is always a funny guy - I don't think I've seen him give a performance that didn't make me laugh, and this is no exception. Duchovny has another alien-busting, sexy red-head to play with, in the shape of Julianne Moore. Orlando Jones is the fourth goo-buster, and provides some of the funniest moments. Dan Aykroyd has a small part, but he can still perform.This is one of those movies the whole family can enjoy, nothing too smutty or sexual, no offensive language. It's not too demanding, and does just enough to keep you interested to the end. Some of the effects look a bit shaky, but some of them are very impressive indeed. It's not trying to be a 'serious' sci-fi, perhaps not one for the geeks - and probably better for that. A good, honest, WYSIWYG slice of family entertainment that's a cut-above the average. "},{"Title":"Good, um, Clean - and Shiny -  Fun!","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have had this DVD for a couple of years and have watched it a lot. Picked it up in the bargain bin at Walmart for half the price or better of a single matinée ticket. But until tonight, I never noticed the soundtrack. Wow! Patty Larkin and her song Anyway the Main Thing Is was hypnotic and hearing Wild Cherry and their Play That Funky Music White Boy, was a nice, upbeat guy moment. I'm not usually a credits watcher but a lot of the tunes were replayed over the end. Well worth letting them roll with your eyes closed and the volume up.David Duchovny Funny. Better than in Playing God. A little inside joking about his X-Files day's. He looked like he was having fun - as did all the rest of the cast.Julianne Moore, I think plays somewhat against type. I haven't seen that much of her work but what I have seen has been of a more dramatic nature. She was wryly funny and it's fun to see a serious actress just do some bits and have some fun. (Are we detecting a trend here? Fun?)Wayne the Fireman-wanna be. He is an archetype - everyone at one time or another has known Wayne. Everyone has known the blustery, clueless police lieutenant and the witless, large, 'clean and shiny' brothers and Ted Levine as General Woodman, the military bad guy archetype. I've seen some complaints about Levine's performance as simply playing the stereotyped bad guy, but just as he is for Detective Adrian Monk, he was an admirable foil/straight man for Duchovny. I can't really think of who would have been a better General Woodman to Duchovny's Ira Kane.As for the Governor - it was nice to see an older Dan Akroyd do his schtick. His performance was less intense than his Bassomatic bit but I think Dan nailed the good old boy, get-to-the-point, smooth-but-bossy politician, as only Akroyd could do it (and minus any hint of a Chicago-land accent).And finally, the lamented (in some few comments) performance of Olando Jones Orlando is Orlando. Orlando playing against type...I can't even imagine that in this movie. This was not the vehicle for Orlando to make a run for an Oscar. I thought, in a sense, he and Duchovny took turns playing straight man for the other and THAT was fun to see. Seven Up Yours, Orlando. You make me laugh.It is simply a nice, escapist bit o'FUN for an evening when the World seems to be tearing at its guts and I really don't want to have to think about anything other than Ivan Reitman's players in the Arizona dessert, battling something out of this world. Call me irresponsible. I had been plugged into NPR for most of the day. I think sitting down with my 9 year old son and having some good laughs was like taking a shower from the grit and grime of the World's problems. I'll get back to the World's issues tomorrow and that, my friends, will have to be soon enough.So have a nice, thoughtless bunch of laughs; have fun and escape the troubles of this world for 90 minutes, give or take. "},{"Title":"Midly Fun Sci Fi movie about alien evolution out of control","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is not a serious movie, it's tongue-in-cheek but it has fun casting and if you enjoy these actors- you will enjoy this movie. It's light, it's gross, it's a little spooky at times and pretty silly other times. It's never actually hilarious but it IS watchable and entertaining. I like the leading lady in this- she's yummy and 'ol Dave from X-files fame is always a good comedic talent smart ass. They have nice chemistry. I guess this is targeted as a family movie you can take teens to but I think some teens have a high potential of being bored by this. The feel of it sort of reminded me of gremlins with the whole town turned upside down by an infestation of occasionally (mildly)humurous monsters.Serious sci fi fans will be miffed by the humor, people looking for a comedy won't find one- this is sort of a middle of the road kind of thing but it works. Occasionally our politically correct inclusion of a comedic relief non-threatening black man in a positive role gets about as tiresome as Jar-Jar banks, but Dave Duchovny's quick wit smooths over his occasional lameness.I was annoyed at several moments that revealed a low level of intelligence from the script writers including contrived plot twists with zero logic that kid-gloved what should have been a rather nice chunky and bloody scene. I would have appreciated a little more legitimacy and only using jokes that were super funny. This is overall, a sophomoric movie at best but it's still kinda watchable in a dorky sci fi kinda way. This is basically fodder for a Saturday afternoon on the Sci-Fi channel- keep expectations low and you will be mildly amused. "},{"Title":"Evolution","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I didn't think much of it when it was advertised, but when I actually saw it, this is a pretty good sci-fi comedy. Basically one night practising for his fireman's exam, Wayne Grey (American Pie's Seann William Scott) sees a meteorite hit Earth. The next day Dr. Ira Kane (The X Files' David Duchovny) and Prof. Harry Phineas Block (Bedazzled's Orlando Jones) are assigned to investigate and experiment with the discovery. Then, soon enough, the government and armed forces get involved. Dr. Allison Reed, CDC (Julianne Moore) and General Russell Woodman (Ted Levine) are among the team of people in Ira and Harry's way. Soon enough, even when they can't get into the sight, things happen around the area of Navada. Also starring My Name Is Earl's Ethan Suplee as Deke, Michael Ray Bower as Danny and Dan Aykroyd as Governor Lewis. Good! "},{"Title":"rush hour meets independence day","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't worry, I got this one all figured out. If you liked rush hour and if you liked independence day then this one is for you. Yes, just grab in some popcorn and enjoy. If you are reading this for an in depth analysis, let's just first observe the themes in this piece of...ehmmm... cinema (in the order of appearance) 1. a meteor falling into earth...wohooo, catastrophe, fire and brimstone! wait a minute!... not just yet. but there is a guy with a blow-up doll! 2. ahhh... the years of college, or is that high school, whatever, here we have a guy who is giving straight A's and he's even David Duchovny! This bit kinda bothered me because it was sort of unrealistic, but HEY, that's what the entertainment is here for. 3. Ahhh, and finally The pinnacle of cinema The black guy teaming up with the The white guy. Only this time!!!... it's not some muscle kung-foo marine he's fighting with...it's....David Duchowny!!!! Just insert your usual list of clichés in here. 4. What else is left? Toilet humour and inappropriate sexual references? Well you have them!!! And that's the whole beauty of this film. 5. What!? We also have a generic Idiot to tie the whole plot together. No! there are three of them! Brilliant if you ask me! 6. OK, forget the product placement... 7. Yes, it's Independence Day. Just watch closely. I almost missed it myself.I would say in the end this was not bad at all. Chill out kids. It's just fun. But if you're feeling kinda philosophical, put on some... hell I don't know (if forgot if I ws trying to be cynical or serious). I could have been a better parody if that what it was trying to be, or a better I don't know. All in all it has some rather noble humour in it if you know where to look for it. If not for anything else you should see it for that sexy Julianne Moore. I'm sorry I just didn't came up with a better closing, but it's true! "},{"Title":"Shocking and Stupid","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Have read several reviews for this and am completely surprised by comparison made to Ghostbusters. This is a horrific movie with few redeeming values. The script regularly bends awkwardly to catch, continue or introduce story lines, standard themes like romance seem thrown in for formula's sake and carried horribly throughout. It will even resort to crotch hitting site gags and tried and true music sequences that are thrown in out of the blue and have no bearing on anything, to fill in large and I mean LARGE empty spaces. Also, the chemistry,heart and genius of the original Ghostbuster ensemble is nowhere to be found here. I find also that accuracy is imperative in whatever kind of story you are trying to tell and a comedy should not be given carte blanche simply because it is a comedy. I'm not expecting nano-tolerances on factual information but this film trounces all over basic expectations with regard to scientific procedure. A little more effort on this front would have added to the credibility of the humour. (This was definitely part of the magic of the original Ghostbusters, Egon Spengler's dead pan delivery of highly accurate scientific information added to the suspension of disbelief and was integral to the overall contrasting aspect and the movie's humour.) This film also has a heavy reliance on cheap stereotyping (dumb cops, stiff military types, and fat-stupid rednecks), again to fill in the spaces. Laughing at someone being stupid is the lowest form of entertainment out there and the first tool of assembly line writers and directors. This looks really insulting to the skills and reputations of Duchovny and Moore often look like strange people in a strange land trying to carry this off.When I read good reviews for this on IMDb, I have to wonder, are there people out there being paid to post good reviews? It would seem an excellent way to promote a film, disguising it in an honest forum and would reach enough people to keep the video rental numbers afloat for years. "},{"Title":"oh my god! its ghostbusters 3!!!","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  oh wait, no, its some other film made by ivan reitman which is so scarily like some kind of remake only with aliens that its, well, scary. a fun game to play during the film is to imagine which ghost buster wouldve said what, and while egon is not given a part in this, all the others are. its shame that they didnt try something original and really let loose the way the ghostbusters films did. mildly amusing with some nice special effects. 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Funnier than they think","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alot of people are mentioning Ghostbusters, this movie rates between Ghostbusters I and GBII.  Alot closer to GBII. I gave it a 7 of 10 because it IS a funny movie.  I can't believe one reviewer said they should have played it straight.  The problem with the movie is that the story line of the discoverers vs. the Army kind of flip flops between who is advocating what, regarding what to do with the aliens. In the end, you just roll with it to see what happens.  Any way, David Duchovny and Orlando Jones did fine, Duchovny played his part with a dry sense of humor, while Jones could have used some funnier lines. Sean William Scott did a great job with his part, the lovable goof. Juliane Moore isn't going to make anyones favorite actor list based on this movie, not her fault, the part was kind of lame.  Dan Aykkroyd came on as the governor of Arizona toward the end and spewed hilarious bombast like the Aykroyd of old. I can't believe that some said there were no funny scenes in this flick the shotguns in the mall was real fun and Aykroyd's scenes were worth the price of admission. Good but not great, I would recommend it. "},{"Title":"Cool movie!!","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this movie. I mean a lot of people thought it was stupid. But I liked it. It was funny and a bit thrilling. It was a little corny but it was still cool. Anyway, I was at a friend's house and I asked her if we could watch a movie on her VCR or DVD Player (she had both). Anyway, she said they were both screwed up so we surfed through to the channels and we looked on HBO and they were showing Evolution but we already missed half on it. So we just kept it on and it was cool. When I got home I looked through all the channels and I was just on time because they were showing Evolution again this time I got the beginning. It was really funny. David, Orlando, and Seann were all funny. Julianne Moore was not really that funny in the movie but cool. The profanity and violence may disturb younger viewers and the aliens and stuff might frighten children under the age 8-years-old. Also the sexual humor and crude humor. THIS MAY CONTAIN SPOILER In one scene Orlando Jones's character has to go for operation and the doctor says It's headed for his testicles... and other sexual humor through out the movie. The thing about the movie was there was no sexual content or sexuality even though they talked about it a bit. I recommend this movie. If you haven't seen it, you should!!! B+ "},{"Title":"Hilarious Flick","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We watched it over and over and over.  It does have some strong language and the Ice Queen scene that needs to be edited for children, but other then that it was great.  David D. is a great actor.  The story line is perfect, and the shampoo finish is wacky enough to be great.  The cowboy shootout in the mall is a highpoint in the film - it's to funny.  Great work by a lot of unknown actors.  It keeps you laughing and laughing.  We use a number of the lines in everyday conversation anymore.  "}{"Title":"Excellent movie!!!!!!!","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie was great. It had excellent special effects (courtesy of Phil Tippet), a great cast and a good musical score. It is very funny and is probably the best movie that I have ever seen. A must-see, and I give it 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Good idea - wrong genre","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This starts out to be a really good movie.  the ideas stated are seem very scientific and the possibilities are endless.  Unfortunately, the writers seemed to go with the wrong possibility.  This movie could have been a great sci fi, alien destroys the world epic - but instead, they turned it into a witless comedy.  Oh well. "},{"Title":"Caw-Caw Tukki-Tukki","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As comedies go, EVOLUTION stands 'head and shoulders' above most of the dross offered by Hollywood these days.   It is also far funnier than the woeful GHOSTBUSTER movies to which it is frequently compared (it was initially intended as the third in the series).   Taking all the elements from classic 50s Sci-fi flicks, then acknowledging present-day paranoia in the form of a bullying military (who are nevertheless portrayed as stereotypical buffoons and/or incompetents), director Reitman more or less hits all the targets at which he aims.   And while the humour isn't consistent (it never is these days) the film has such a pleasingly light touch that you're willing to overlook the slower sections.Orlando Jones is amusing as geologist Harry Block, while Duchovny plays Fox Mulder as a failed college professor, which was probably what was asked of him ('I don't trust the government,' he knowingly declares at one point, 'I know those people.').   Julianne Moore displays a pleasing comic touch in what is sadly an under-developed role, and is possibly the only major actress who manages to look like a normal person in her movies.  "},{"Title":"The Contents of This Film Consist of 99% Recycled Product","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  GHOSTBUSTERS meets TREMORS must be how this project was pitched to studio execs.  This is not to say it doesn't have moments, but I'd imagine there will be more laughs in EVOLUTION for those who haven't seen the aforementioned than for those who have.  It's all executed fairly well, and it's worth a look if you're a David Duchovny fan; for those familiar with X-FILES, his droll and low-key performance will be old-shoe comfortable, but it's still hard not to think of Bill Murray - who can get away with such things much easier because his whole persona has that slightly disconnected from reality vibe - when Mr. Duchovny tosses off insouciant one-liners in the midst of world-threatening chaos.  One might wonder how Julianne Moore, luminous as always, found herself in such a lightweight project, but even here she demonstrates that she is incapable of being anything less than wonderful. If you go in prepared for been-there-done-that, and just want to kill a couple of undemanding hours, well........put it this way if you're not going too far, you can usually get there even on retreads. "},{"Title":"An okay movie, but no Ghostbusters","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Upon a second viewing, Evolution is much more watchable. David Duchovny's deadpan delivery works pretty well, but it's pretty embarrassing to watch Julianne Moore play such a vapid role. There are some genuinely funny moments, but overall the script suffers from a predictability and staleness that hurts the movie.I wish Reitman's brand of comedy - the sci-fi/horror mishmash parody - was more popular. While Evolution isn't a classic, it's way better than comedies like Goldmember or Scary Movie 2. "},{"Title":"Don't see the trailer!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw the trailer on TV and laughed so hard I had stomach pain. The trailer made me go and see the movie. Which I found was a dissapointment. I thought it would be the most funniest movie ever, but it was barely chuckeble. The most funniest moments where already seen on the trailer and after seeing the trailer 10 times on TV they weren't to funny anymore.The only thing that made this movie watchable was one of my favourite actors, David Duchovny.So my recommendation is, if you haven't seen the trailer and like David Duchovny, then you should check it out. Otherwise, there isen't to much here to see. "},{"Title":"The Fun Stops Here","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a total waste of writer Director Ivan Reitman Talant First off you have the nerd from the X-Files in this movie and I Guess that the Red Head from The X-Files was unavailble so the got     Julianne Moore From Boogie Nights instead.Don't Waste your money even renting this!!! "},{"Title":"A good story that missed telling it, big-time!","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'll make this short and sweet Here was a film with a story, a good director tied to it and good lead actors that just fell as flat as a crepe. The special effects hold your attention for a New York Minute, but you have the feeling that there was so much more to this film your NOT seeing. The special effects could have been better based on the premise of the film. And what's with Head and Shoulders? Did they fund this film, Is this why it came out so horribly? See it if you've got nothing to do, you're stuck in a hospital on a lengthy stay but don't see it if you're on a long airline flight. It's sad this was a big budget feature film. This was a made for TV movie -- no doubt about it. "},{"Title":"okay....","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i saw this movie once and i thought it would be good, it's not all its cracked up to be, i didnt like it much, it was funny at some parts but boring and annoying at most...My friends liked it but i didnt really, it was alright but wasnt the best, i would give it a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Nice Comedy--Even if the critics don't agree","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution is one of those movies that critics love to hate.  Sure, its not The Fellowship of the Ring or The Royal Tenenbaums (two of the best movies of 2001).  On the other hand, its not near as bad as say, Glitter or Moulin Rouge.  Evolution is a movie that accomplishes what it set out to do--make you laugh.  Ivan Reitman wasn't trying to garnish Oscars with this film; he was trying to entertain America for a couple of hours.  And there is nothing wrong with that.  Isn't that what movies are supposed to do?  When we go to the movies we want to escape the mundane trials of life.  We want to forget whatever problems or hassles we have for two hours and just be entertained.  Well, Evolution accomplished that goal.  I left the theater feeling my $7.00 was well spent.  I had a few laughs and enjoyed myself.  It seems many people just don't understand this concept.  Every film released is not meant to be high art.  Evolution is not high art.  It is a great escape from reality though.  And in that sense it was one of my favorite  "}{"Title":"Missing the 'one joke'!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just saw Evolution and then heard that it was supposed to be a straight sci-fi thriller.  I believe it, because this flick just wasn't funny.  I thought that this was going to be a 'one joke' movie, but they even overlooked the biggest laugh they may have gotten out of it!SPOILERS?Here is the 'missing' joke.  (I'll allow Reitman to use it in a sequel... on the house.)Spoken by literally anyone at the end of the movie I love the smell of 'Head and Shoulders' in the morning. (a la Robert Duvall in Apocalypse Now)3/10 (for the great effects!) "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the bad reviews.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, if I were to look at the movie from a distance, yes the plot is kind of mundane.  Yes, it has some potty humour.  But you know what?  There were several scenes where I laughed out loud, and I had a good time.  Isn't that is what movies are about?  It appears to me that people are being critical just because Ivan Reitman did Ghostbusters, and how great that was.  If there were no comparisons, I think you would realize that this is a fun movie.It's not going to win any oscars, and it's not the greatest sci-fi comedy in the world.  In the end however, my wife and I had a good time.  It was worth the $4 DVD rental.  Don't let these amateur reviewers scare you from having a good time.  I admit I wanted to watch this one in the theater and online reviews scared me from the theater and deterred me from renting it.  I'm glad I changed my mind. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the bad reviews.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, if I were to look at the movie from a distance, yes the plot is kind of mundane.  Yes, it has some potty humour.  But you know what?  There were several scenes where I laughed out loud, and I had a good time.  Isn't that is what movies are about?  It appears to me that people are being critical just because Ivan Reitman did Ghostbusters, and how great that was.  If there were no comparisons, I think you would realize that this is a fun movie.It's not going to win any oscars, and it's not the greatest sci-fi comedy in the world.  In the end however, my wife and I had a good time.  It was worth the $4 DVD rental.  Don't let these amateur reviewers scare you from having a good time.  I admit I wanted to watch this one in the theater and online reviews scared me from the theater and deterred me from renting it.  I'm glad I changed my mind. "},{"Title":"what a waste","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What could have been a high concept and gripping sci-fi thriller has been turned into a dim witted and only mildly amusing comedy with some good special effects, but very few other redeeming features. A waste of talents and resources. "},{"Title":"It's not as if Ghostbusters was good film, either.  But look what it had going for it","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It had Bill Murray.  That means it had ONE inspired semi-comic performance, at any rate.It had defined central characters.  Bill Murray was the only one to make a success of his role, but the composition of the team made sense the naïve enthusiast, the genuinely competent scientist (the joke was that he was the only good paranormal scientist in the world, which meant he had no peers to recognise his worth), and the charlatan.  (Plus a fourth to make up the numbers.)It had better effects.  The climax saw the New York skyline transformed into an apocalyptic nightmare, with dark clouds, lightning, portals to Hell, etc.  The climax of Evolution has an enormous, shapeless, turd-coloured lump of computer-generated biomass spreading over an anonymous desert.  I know which I prefer.It had a better central idea.  We'd almost WANT there to be ghosts, just so that there could be ghostbusters.  Some of the creatures we see in Evolution have charm, all right, but more as sight gags; and the scenario as a whole is rather flavourless.Moreover, the Swiss cheese explanations we were offered in the earlier film weren't out of place.  Poor science, inadequately designed experiments and half-baked theories that's what parapsychology is all about.  Not so evolutionary biology.Ghostbusters failed for two reasons the fantasy set-up wasn't taken seriously enough, yet the jokes at its expense weren't funny.  Evolution gets it wrong in just this way, and even manages, for the five reasons listed above, to get it even wronger. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was so dumb with all the respect, there were so many commercials like the shampoo one, it's a shame that Julianne Moore and Duchovny did this movie, like someone says in this forum a waste of talent 5/10 "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was so dumb with all the respect, there were so many commercials like the shampoo one, it's a shame that Julianne Moore and Duchovny did this movie, like someone says in this forum a waste of talent 5/10 "},{"Title":"Locker room joke","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Based on R4 DVDDespite being an X-Files fan I cannot bring myself to giving this movie a 'worth watching' rating. The gags revolve around groin and anus jokes and the characters are caricatures. Even at his most whimsical Mulder would never stoop to this.Viewed as a kids whoopsie movie it might be passable.5/10 catch it on TV "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I starting this movie with high expectations. What I got was a poor copy of Ghostbusters. With David Duchovny, Julianne Moore, Orlando Jones this movie had much more potential but all of the funny scenes were shown on the trailers.  "},{"Title":"For the first time in cinematic history, the trailer was better then the movie!","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer for Ivan Reitman's latest screwball sci-fi comedy, I thought it would be great. Reitman going back to his roots and making a funny and thrilling sci-fi film. Then I saw the movie......what happened to all that funny stuff in the trailer? they cut it all out and believe me i usually hate it when all of a movie's jokes are ruined in a trailer but the point is that they showed all the deleted scenes in the trailer, so you were walking into a trap. As my english teacher would've said ( and probably did after seeing this movie) where's all the effort that I expected? "}{"Title":"How come everything that involves americans AND evolution is automatically bad?","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie started out fine. A little spooky, a little fun, the kind of film that shouldn't be taken too seriously. But what bothers me is that this film is (in a nutshell) a perfect example of what's wrong with the masses' understanding of the concepts of evolution. Yuuk... american filmmakers really need to take some basic biology classes! Maybe one of these years they'll get it RIGHT!It was entertaining though, but it could have been alot better. The ending was just plain sucky. No explanations, no tying up loose ends. Nothing. Just a schampoo commercial. I gave this movie 2/10. It was entertaining, but it was stupid. I felt insulted as an intelligent human being. /Auryn "},{"Title":"Not bad the first time round, but it gets old really fast.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers?I laughed away on this alien ripoff.  But by the end, I could tell that if I'd watched it beyond a third time, I'd grow tired of it.It was nice to see the 7 Up yours guy though.  He's hilarious as ever. David D is as ordinary as ever.  Julianne Moore... I'm appalled that she'd even star in a movie like this.The dvd is pretty darn good.  Though it lacks a movie trailer.  It does include a pretty funny interview.  As well as tons of deleted scenes.  I found the original ending better than the one they ended up with.  (most test audiences found it confusing I guess)   Hey, imagine the black dude has gotten pregnant with an alien.  lol  bad boy.5/10Quality 5/10 Entertainment 6/10 Replayable 3/10 "},{"Title":"Not too bad.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one was a little disappointing to me.  I was expecting something with better humor but it was not all bad.  The plot was at least solid and the chemistry between the three main character, Duchovny, Moore and Jones help the film quite a bit.  The special affects were good which also helped, and the science was easy to follow.  This made for okay film.  If the comedy were better, this would have been a much better film. Over all, worth renting, 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wham! Bam! Thank you Protozoa!!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sort of an Jurassic Park meets Ghostbusters. Zany, doesn't make much sense at times, definitely technically incorrect and blatantly commercial (Jeep & Proctor&Gamble must have paid a fortune!), but it doesn't spoil the fun. Still haven't figured out how some of the plot elements came together - just sort of happened! Wildly happened!! One minute bugs & small cuddly animals, next minute BUTT BAM!Unencumbered by logic, unrepressed by facts - let your mind go, don't think too hard and you'll have a lot of laughs! "},{"Title":"A film that misses the mark","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution is not nearly as bad as some of the reviewers on this page would have you believe.  The special effects, make-up, and humor of the films only two succesful comic relief actors save this film.Duchovny's character is static and unfunny, and unoriginal.  (Spoiler)he falls in love with Dr Allison Reed a fellow scientist, played by Julianne Moore.  Moore's performance is quite possibly the worst in the film.  The character of Reed is at first unlikable, and as the story-line between Moore and Duchovny develops not enough character development occurs for Moore for us to really like her.The films three shining spots were the effects, Orlando Jones, and Sean Williams Scott.  Though Jones' acting was nothing tremendously great ( and Scott's was lacking) Both were hilarious at least towards the end of the film.All In all Evolution is not a great film but the comedy makes it tolerable, and even enjoyable. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Great cast wasted on a goofy film","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a film with an identity crisis.  Director Ivan Reitman (Ghostbusters, Meatballs, Twins, Kindergarten Cop) can't seem to make up his mind if he wants it to be a straight science fiction flick or a parody.  The result is a film that is far too goofy to be good science fiction and nowhere near funny enough to be good comedy.A great cast is wasted on a script that lays one unfunny egg after another.  The only one able to squeeze any comedy out of his lines is Orlando Jones.  David Duchovny and Julianne Moore mostly try to play it straight and Ted Levine plays his part as too much of a doofus.  Seann William Scott is occasionally so bizarre that it is humorous, but mostly his character is more stupid than funny.The one strength of the film is the visual effects.  The monsters are innovative and realistic.  The scene where the flying reptile is terrorizing the shopping mall is particularly good.I rated this film a 6/10 on the strength of the creatures.  It seems like it may have been written as straight sci-fi and Reitman (more of a comedy director) futilely tried to change its direction.  The result fell flat and hung a lot of talented actors out to dry.  "},{"Title":"Humorless comedy","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A bit surprising to find that Mr. Reitman can waste his talent producing a comedy without humour. Duchovny is improving his performances, although I'd rather see him in the role of the agent Mulder. I haven't got much to say other that poor, very poor.As for the hi-tech imagery, they lack immagination. Besides, everything in the film lacks immagination.Been there, done that.  "},{"Title":"Bad, Bad Bad.","Date":"31 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Duchovny's droll demeanor and some decent special effects can't save this clunker. I'm astonished that J. Moore took this job. Orlando Jones is funnier in 7-Up commercials. Reitman could have done much, much better. Will likely only appear to fans of Butt jokes. "},{"Title":"Lighthearted Comedy! (minor spoilers)","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ivan Reitman, director of 80s blockbuster 'Ghostbusters', creates an entertaining but formulaic science-fiction comedy in 'Evolution'. David Duchovny plays a college professor, Dr Ira Kane, who investigates a meteor crash along with his colleague, Dr Harry Block (Orlando Jones), in the Arizona desert. They discover that the meteor is a life form and is evolving at a rapid pace. The military eventually quarantines the crash-site under the control of General Woodman (Ted Levine) who Kane used to work with. Woodman, assisted by scientist Dr Alison Reed (Julianne Moore), prevent Kane and Block from entering the alien site which is slowly evolving. Although Kane is strangely attracted to Dr Alison Reed, he and Block infiltrate the site after the military steal their initial documentations. Eventually Reed, Kane, Block and a wannabe fireman, Wayne Green (Seann William Scott), work together to battle weird alien creatures as the evolving crash-site spreads into the town.After an awkward beginning, 'Evolution' becomes quite funny in parts, especially during a scene where Block (Orlando Jones) has an alien bug enter his body. Seann William Scott is also quite funny and David Duchovny plays his usual dead pan self, but it works well within the comic context of the film. The visual effects are very cool, with some interesting alien characters appearing throughout the film adding to the comic aspect as well. At times, 'Evolution' feels awkwardly paced and formulaic in it's script, and the romantic angle between Julianne Moore and David Duchovny's characters does not really work! Reitman's 'Evolution' definitely beats out his last two duds, 'Six Days, Seven Nights' and 'Father's Day', but doesn't quite live up to 'Ghostbusters'. It's entertaining to watch and has some genuinely funny moments, but 'Evolution' is not a riotous comedy. The science fiction element is blended well, but it is not a must-see for the big screen as the visual effects can equally be appreciated on video. Worth seeing if you have seen everything already, or if you're particularly in the mood for light-hearted science-fiction comedy. *** out of *****! "},{"Title":"nice try","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I watched this movie the first time I was blown away by it's catchy one-liners, it's great special effects and it's nice feel, but I've now watched it 3 times and the film has lost a lot of ground on each of these things.  I realised that I enjoyed because it was like Ghostbusters one of my favourite movies and then I realised that it was exactly like Ghostbusters. It's still great fun though and exceptionally good escapist fun. "}{"Title":"The evolution of Extraterrestrial organisms","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As usual in all Hollywood-made films, the creatures coming from other planets are dangerous and aggressive. The plot is very simple and touched before in other similar films, the only difference here is that the technology used is more sophisticated in comparison with the previous ones. Small ET micro-organisms grow fast in anaerobic conditions becoming later as big as any dinosaur, and obviously attacking (eating) the human beings. At the end of the film these monsters were controlled with simple procedures for extinguishing fire.     "},{"Title":"Revolution","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watchout Chris Tucker and Chris Rock... there's a new player intown... Orlando Jones definitely steals the entire show for his own,while David Duchovny's still face remains on the line of his own,as well as Sean William Scott also does. What mistakenly castedwas Julianne Moore. Her clumsyness seemed to be  inappropriate, considering the movie itself speaks more aboutabsurdity more than slip of the feet.A meteor hits the earth and many people's trying to take advantagetowards it. What follows is a turmoil of chaos, aliens computergenerated gallery, madness joke, and a bottle of shampoo.Do expect lots of original jokes and punchline throughout themovie. As you have known what type of this movie, the ending isneedless to be told.Recommended for an hilarious laugh. "},{"Title":"A Good Science Fiction Comedy?","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Is there such a thing? I do not have a definite answer to this question after having seen this movie. While science fiction literature has produced some remarkable names (Douglas Adams, Terry Pratchett) which write something that is simultaneously good literature, science fiction or fantasy and goo humor - I still have to see a good movie that gets the three in one.David Duchovny is good, playing on the lower key of some of the X-Files appearances. The script is not bad but there are too many standard characters acted in standard way and filmed in a standard manner. If you happen to be around, and you can afford easily the tickets and the popcorn, you will not regret probably. Otherwise, do not plan a trip just to see this film. "},{"Title":"mediocre","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A mediocre movie, trying to combine sci-fi and humor and failing in both. Not a close shadow to Mars Attacks. The sci-fi plot was laughable and irrelevant. The alien goo likes fire and is afraid of selenium. The government scientists couldnt possibly find that out? Humor was pretty much non-existent. I'd rate this movie 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie on a four hour flight. They typically show you a preview before they show the movie. Against my better judgement, after viewing the trailer, I decided that it would kill 90 minutes of the flight and shelled out the $5 entertainment charge.  Unfortunately, the trailer shows both laughs you find during this waste of film.Certainly, no one would expect an Oscar nominated movie after viewing the preview, but it is quite possibly the worst film ever made. The script is weak, the movie is uneven, and even though it is supposed to be some sort of science fiction fantasy-comedy, the whole thing is completely unbelievable and gets more ludicrous with every passing frame. David Duchovny playing a scientist may be plausible, but Orlando Jones? Dan Akroyds' short performance might have helped were it not Dan Akroyd playing the Governor of Arizona. Miscasting all around, and one would have to believe that they made up the ending as they went.  The good people at Head & Shoulders  should be embarrassed they allowed the use of their product in this pathetic waste of time. My only regret is that I will never get back the hour and a half of my life that I was robbed of. Delta Airlines should really consider the use of the word  entertainment when asking for peoples money  to rent the uncomfortable headphones to watch this crap. "},{"Title":"I only chuckled (at Mulder)","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love the X-Files, so I thought that this would be like one of their more humorous episodes. I was so wrong. The movie itself was pathetic.POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD!A comedy is supposed to leave you with a smile on your face. The ending of this movie was beyond gross. I should have seen it coming, but kept hoping it would improve. I know, I'm naive.END OF SPOILERThe only time when I really laughed, was when Duchovny made any references to the government, the FBI or the Men in Black. I appreciated the irony of Mulder being on the other side, so to speak. A *total* waste of time, unless your definition of comedy is restricted to slapstick and lavatory humour. I wish I'd stayed home and watched an episode of X-Files instead.  "},{"Title":"Stupid, ugly spoof that doesn't succeed in its belly laughs.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  EVOLUTION (2001) Rating 4/10There are some funny movies you accept as guilty pleasures because you enjoyed them so much. I expected Evolution was going to be like that, but I was wrong. I just plain didn't like this movie, it was see-through stupid and frankly boring. Julianne Moore, Orlando Jones and Seann William Scott give a pinch of personality, but their performances can't save the ultimate sense of stupidity in the air. The extra-terrestrial's are appallingly ugly to look at. There is no comic rhythm or pattern in the movie, it's messy story-wise and the laughs are few and far between. Evolution is confused with what it's trying to achieve. Does it want to be an action movie? If so, the action scenes aren't tense or exciting. Comedy? As I mentioned before, not enough belly laughs. Sci-fi/horror? Succeeds in this area only because there are some quite scary bits involving a platypus cross turtle looking creatures that comes right in your face and the score goes up. The sci-fi has good story building at the start (about the only genre in the film that has some back-story to it), but Evolution is too tired and misses way too many opportunities. If this film was left as the gut-punching horror movie it was going to be, it would've been much better. "},{"Title":"Half bad, half good","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  > The Stars David Duchovny, Orlando Jones, Seann William Scott, Ted Levine, and Julianne Moore Directed by Ivan ReitmanThe Synopsis A meteor crashes into a barren Arizona land catching the attention of an aspiring fireman. He in turn goes to two community college professors to investigate the meteor's crash, and it appears that the meteor has made a home for itself. But it's only a matter of time before the meteor begins to take shape and begins evolving years beyond any normal evolution. Leaving the three men and a government scientist to stop it.The Review Evolution was made in the midst of the impending actors strike, which never came to fruition. So the feeling that it may have been a rushed project is fine. The film is the latest in a long line of comedies to feature gross jokes, such as an alien anal probe, mooning, and pulling out a bug where the sun don't shine among many others. It plays off as a kind of Ghostbusters with a different twist. Mind you, Dan Aykroyd pops up in an unbilled role as a state governor. The special effects are quite impressive involving CGI aliens and creatures. The film is pure slapstick with the sci-fi twist. However, what's not good about Evolution is it feels half-assed, therefore reitering the point that this film was a rushed project. It feels like it was sped up for the benefits of cashing in but the film flopped at the box office. The ending is capped on and it just doesn't feel satisfactory. But on the other hand, Evolution is a funny movie because it relies on the chemistry between David Duchovny, giving Fox Mulder a dynamic personality, in which his character moons a government official, and Orlando Jones (The 7UP guy) as Duchovny's spastic best friend, a geology professor who's also a women's volleyball coach. It's a humorous movie with some good moments, but it plays better on video tape than it did in theaters.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Science-fiction or comedy? Misses as both.","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One can't talk about this film without referring to Ghostbusters (1984). And it's not hard, because a number of elements seem to have found their way from Ghostbusters into Evolution - the strong female lead, the wacky professional scientists, the won't listen man in charge, and Dan Aykroyd. Ghostbusters was an ensemble piece, three comedians who had worked together for a long time and who could play off one another. Not so with evolution. So much of the friendly banter seems forced and artificial, and Orlando Jones' cliched one-liners only slow the scenes down. Something was wrong with the editing, though I found it hard to put my finger on it - like the editors (both experienced people, I might add) had left a few too many frames on either side of a cut. Other scenes - such as the argument over the shirt between Duchovny and his ex in the cafe - felt like they shouldn't have been there at all. It was clear seeing the end sequence that great chunks of the film had been removed, but whether they were the right chunks you'll have to decide for yourself. The effect is a slow and choppy film. Now, it is supposed to be a comedy, but a little scientific accuracy wouldn't go astray. Not some argument over the atomic weight of Nitrogen, but something as simple as these creatures can't possibly survive in our atmosphere... We got some of it, but not much, and what we did get left me shaking my head in bewilderment. I assumed that was what Scott's character was there for - to have things explained so the audience would understand. As it turned out, Scott's presence was essentially a plot device. The best bit? Aykroyd's appearance. He waltzes onto the set and out-acts everybody on screen, and looks like he has a lot more fun doing it too. Only Julianne Moore manages to match his enthusiasm. Duchovny's character seems to pull the solution to their problem out of thin air, which grates badly. These characters aren't smart, they're lucky. Disappointing? You betcha. And not just because of the high standards set by Ghostbusters. This film has its own set of problems. "},{"Title":"EVOLUTION? What evolution? An insult to science!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, we all know it's a comedy but... Can this film be further from the truth from the real thing? I mean, having a bug crawling up the inside of your skin to be pulled out your a*s and not feel excruciating pain is one thing... but watching 1 billion years of evolution happen in 2 weeks and then waiting overnight for the ape-thing to evolve into a human-thing that simply DID NOT HAPPEN is pure rubbish!! That event would have happened in a few seconds if the stupid film makers had got their facts right. Of course if it had evolved into a humanoid we might have ended up liking it more than the main characters but Im sure there's a more sinister reason... like... humans didn't evolve from apes... yeah, that's what most Americans think and it would insult their beliefs. Well, if you think that way - DON'T MAKE A FILM ABOUT EVOLUTION and insult all of science!!! "}{"Title":"Don´t waste your money on a movie ticket","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you want to see a really funny movie don´t see this one. I laughed maybe three times. If you have seen the trailer you have seen the movie. David Duchovny is a great actor but not for a funny movie. If you really want to see it wait until you can rent it.  "},{"Title":"Unevolved sci-fi comedy","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  More monsters with lots of hopefully comic touches. Same sci-fi/comedy balance that Mars Attacks aimed for, but with slightly less success. Gags like acclaimed actress Julianne Moore falling over every few scenes (being a dippy sexy scientist who doesn't look where she's going) fall flat rather sooner than they should. The monsters are fun, and keep evolving, which at least keeps the movie interest above the snooze zone. Go along expecting the rubbish you might reasonably guess this to be and you might enjoy it as better than the awful movie you thought it would be. It's not awful - just hasn't evolved far up the scale.  "},{"Title":"Just not as good as expected!","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nowadays the film makers seem to totally rely on special effects and the same is true of Evolution. This is the one part that I enjoyed. But the rest? There is a very thin line here between disgust / shock and laughing about others. The characters are ok, but not really likeable. And I'm not sure if this is age, but very, very few of the scenes made me laugh. The jokes are predictable, like taken from a joke database and slightly adapted. Is it really funny if someone always stumbles? Is it really funny if you to the scientifically impossible and pull a huge mosquito out of someone's a**? Is it funny if a harmless looking animal turns into a monster and bites a woman? - I think Ghostbusters was VERY different in this respect. It was much funnier although the humour was also crude. "},{"Title":"Reitman did it again","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I was a child, Ghostbusters was one of my favorite movies. Now, I'm 28, and Ivan Reitman's work in comedies likes me a lot too. Evolution is a cool movie, with a nice plot and good performances of David Duchovny, Mario Jones, Julianne Moore and (of course) the former Ghostbuster Dan Aykroyd.Perfect for a Sunday's date.  "},{"Title":"The comedy of the summer has arrived","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The two mediocre, but highly eccentric, scientists Ira (David Duchovny) and Harry (Orlando Jones) investigates a meteor out in the deserts of Arizona, and they sense that there is something very odd about it. Everything around the meteor starts evolving extremely fast, at first lots of mushrooms pop up, and soon they also have a bunch of bug-like creatures around them. The government quickly steps in, but the scientists fear that the army is far to incompetent (they are) to handle the situation. So together with the discoverer of the meteor, pool-manager Wayne (Seann William Scott) and the clumsy epidemiologist Allison (Julianne Moore), they set out to stop the life forms on their own.The director of Ghostbusters, Ivan Reitman, has taken his successful formula and converted it from the 80´s to the new millennium. The result is a funny, and sometimes scary, comedy that mixes the best bits from Ghostbusters and Men In Black. But Evolution does not really stand up to any of its inspiration sources.  The characters all have their own kind of jokes, which tend to be repetitive after a few minutes. And in the end, Evolution stands out to be a pretty dumb movie, and not as clever as it could have been.Bun on the other hand; Evolution does not really aim to be smart, and that´s why it can´t be taken too seriously. After all, this is a comedy. The actors do good jobs, Orlando Jones proves that he is one of the funniest guys in Hollywood at the moment, with a hilarious performance. And when Duchovny tells his dry jokes ala Mulder in        X-Files, you can´t help yourself but smile. The special effects are imaginative and sticky. And it´s nice to see Reitman having the good taste of bringing back the old Ghostbuster Dan Aykroyd, here he plays the governor of Arizona, with lots of bugs to swat. Aykroyds performance is very funny, to say at least. And Reitman does a good job too, this is after all, the kind of films he do best.Evolution´s biggest problem is that it might be to scary for kids, and to silly for adults. I would personally have preferred that they loosed the comedy bit and made this into a sci fi/horror movie, since the original idea about the evolving cells is very clever. But this is still the funniest and most originally comedy you´ll see this summer. * * * ½ out of * * * * *  "},{"Title":"Nothing to see here, move on","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I knew absolutely nothing about this before I saw it last night at the cinema.  Somehow I wish I could go back to last night approx 6.30pm and keep walking past that cinema!One to miss.  Weak characters, OK-ish plot and it had some potential.  But that potential was never realised.  I've never seen a film where so many gags -- visual and spoken -- fell so flat.Ghostbusters had Murray, Moranis and a headlining Ackroyd to carry it off.  The cardboard cutouts in 'Evolution' just weren't up to the task.3/10. "},{"Title":"Is it a thriller or a comedy? Answer...neither!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A very, very disappointing movie.  It seems to be a lightweight sci-fi thriller, but the makers (in their wisdom?) decided to include some silly one liners, some absolutely ridiculous pratfalls from Julianne Moore and some plain stupid plot devices (Head and Shoulders?) in order to class it as a comedy.  This film is neither thrilling nor funny.  From the outset, the tone of the film is uncertain and remains that way all the way through. It's not often I am looking at my watch after 15 minutes of a Reitman movie. Good special effects and music do their best to redeem things. Julianne Moore is wasted in her role and this film suggests that David Duchovny has a long way to go to convince me that he is a potential big screen star. "},{"Title":"Ghostbusters gets overrun by 'dumb & dumber' mentality","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Take an excellent idea for a movie - aliens that can evolve really quickly arrive on earth Add a dash of humour from classic movies such as Ghostbusters or Men In Black... And you've got an excellent movieThen assume an average IQ of movie-goers of 75 Factor in the recent success of movies like dumb and dumber that celebrate stupidity Add juvenile lavatorial humour (fart gags and shampoo enemas)And you've got a barely watchable movie that celebrates all that is wrong with modern America.What upsets me is that is could have been great.  Oh-well. "},{"Title":"A 2-hour commercial","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here in Argentina there are a kind of movies that's called Shampoo movies. Those are the movies to clean your head. When you are too stressed and don't want to think, when you want something to pass 2 hours, you watch a shampoo movie. Evolution is a Shampoo movie in several ways. I don't want to give away the ending of the movie, but after you see it it'll be so obvious that a company went to the producers and said I want my product to be crucial for this movie. You'll see what I mean... David Duchovny signed for less episodes in X-Files to do movies like this. He'll have more money, I'm sure about that. Prestige? Not at all.Not enough characters die on this movie. Most of them deserved it. Hey! Do we have to keep seeing fart jokes? Shouldn't movies evolve also? I give this movie a D-. I'm glad I didn't have to pay to see it. "},{"Title":"Evilution","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I would humbly suggest that anyone who found this film funny or entertaining take a long, hard look at themselves in the mirror - if their padded cell has a mirror.The plot is wafer-thin, lurching from cliche to cliche in ways a school child would be embarrassed to draft.  The character development is non-existent.  Most of the actors don't appear to be acting - they've simply turned up, taken the money and unplugged their emotion chips.None of this, of course, would matter, if the laughs were full and frequent.  If only that were so.  A couple of light guffaws is all that is on offer.  It is hard even to see if certain segments are supposed to be funny or not, it's that bad.One redeeming feature - the aliens/bugs are particularly icky and at times downright unpleasant.Conclusion - if you want to see a sci-fi comedy, try Galaxy Quest. "}{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've seen","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I did not have huge expectations for this movie, not after hearing a few reviews and seeing it go from two screens to one after only a week, but I did expect some entertainment value. There was none. The characters are cartoonish and one-dimensional, the dialog runs from stupid to downright pointless and there is no attempt to develop or even justify the many cliches that are dumped in. Nothing in this movie hits the mark--there is no tension, the effects are so-so, the interplay between characters is vaporous and the so-called humor is forced and unfunny. I am extremely disappointed that David Duchovy chose a mediocre vehicle like this after the wonderful Return to Me. A pure waste of money. I'm glad I went to the discount matinee and didn't pay full price. "},{"Title":"Good SFX, reasonable acting, rubbish screenplay.","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wasn't expecting too much when I went to see this film and I wasn't surprised. The special effects were up to the standard expected of movies nowadays, the gags were cheap and it had its fair share of cliches. Pretty run of the mill really.Some credit had to be given to the actors. Julianne Moore and Seann William Scott had me in stitches. David Duchovny, whom I've never really seen in a comedy role, was OK. He was very adept at applying himself to the more childish aspects of his role, for instance when he was arguing with his ex about her stealing his shirts, but was completely unconvincing as a scientist or a romantic.The single biggest thing that let this film down was the script. I laughed out loud about twice. Most of the time I was waiting for the next interesting or funny thing to happen. I spent a lot of time waiting I can tell you. Quite frankly, the jokes were thin on the ground and the majority of them expected you to laugh at words like 'loogie' or the fact that one of characters is black so therefore has more rhythm than his white friends by default.This film doesn't cut the mustard as a comedy - there are much funnier films out there. Neither could it be called a science fiction - it has a sort of self-parodying B-movie plotline. The only appeal it has is to those who are easily impressed by adolescent humour, because that's one thing it does have.The market for this film I can see as being largely confined to those of about 15 and under because I would have loved this sort of thing when I was that age. For the average adult moviegoer however, this film will pass the time at best, irritate you at the worst. Don't expect anything too brilliant from this film, or for it to go down in movie history or anything.  "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Did you like Ghostbusters? If yes, then go see Evolution. It takes the classic Ghostbusters comedic formula, updates it, and gives it a spiffy new context. (To you purists, no the films are not exact parallels.) They do, however, share several key plot devices and the fast-paced, subtle wit for which Reitman has become justifiably recognized.  Overall, a pretty good movie "},{"Title":"Ehh....","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *One Spoiler At The End*Well, first off, this is not a bad movie. I've seen a whole lot worse. But... I've also seen better. The plotline is fantastic. VERY creative. Much better than some sci-fi films I've seen. But some of the jokes were.. weak. I mean, am I the only one who doesn't find anal jokes funny? Apparantly. The characters were shaky sometimes, and the complete turn-around of the lead female character felt out of place to me.The redeeming points of this film, however, do justice. Again, the plotline is good. The effects are good. Most jokes are good.Overall, this is a good movie, if you just want to be entertained. Not a soul-searching, thought-provoking one, but just fun and silly.I do have one question, though. Why did the aliens follow the same basic evolutionary path of of humans? The primates had two arms, two legs, head on top, basic human physiology. *Especially* after the aliens forms we saw before. "},{"Title":"Only the humourous side.","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  During the viewing of this movie I could only think of the fact that this could have been a great movie if not a comedy. The huge impact of the situation is  not even close to being understood by the characters in this movie. Even in the end of the movie this is still questionable.Now I read in another review that the script was a sci-fi thriller. I can only imagine what this movie could have been, as this was exactly what I imagined this picture should have been while viewing.The actual movie is not that much enjoyable as a comedy. It has a few good jokes, but most are pretty childish. The only reason I enjoyed watching was because of my fixation on the whole situation. And this happened mainly in my head. That's too bad. "},{"Title":"More Effects Than Laughs","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution isn't a bad movie as far as sci-fi comedies go.  The digital effects of the alien creatures are visually good.  However, that's mostly all Evolution has going for it.  Although there are funny performances by Orlando Jones, Sean William Scott and Dan Aykroyd, the laughs are far between.  This movie has often been compared to Ghostbusters.  But I'd say Ghostbusters is better by far. "},{"Title":"A Lost Opportunity","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution has one of the strongest Sci Fi plotlines I've encountered in a movie for some time. A premise that had the potential to develop into a truly great film. Unfortunately very little of this potential is ever realised on screen. Instead what we end up with is a Porkys meets Independence Day mish mash that does nothing for the careers of anyone involved on set.Guys if you're going to do a teen comedy please don't use a good storyline like this. Do a Tim Burton and shoot a 'Mars Attacks'. I like others here wonder why Duchovny ever agreed to be in this film. Most of his time he plays the part of a lame straight man while the buffoons around him react to a possible alien invasion by cracking bad one liners and doing infantile sight gags. And the supposed love interest between Duchovny & Moore looked like it was cut and pasted in from a B grade script writing programme.   In spite of the fore mentioned Evolution wasn't the worst film I've seen this year. It did have it's amusing moments and the special effects were spectacular. I just would have liked to have seen this film made by someone like Ridley Scott. Mind you the young girls sitting next to me were continually cackling at the obvious jokes and toilet humour that pervades this piece. Guess Hollywood doesn't really care what some middle aged old fart like me thinks of their films.                      "},{"Title":"Those nasty creatures.......","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The chemistry between David Duchovny, Julianne Moore, and Orlando Jonesis very good and the plot revolves round these people;it works very well indeed. The send up of a few monster movies is there to see. The operation scene was very funny. So catch this film if you can... 8/10 "},{"Title":"Those nasty creatures.......","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The chemistry between David Duchovny, Julianne Moore, and Orlando Jonesis very good and the plot revolves round these people;it works very well indeed. The send up of a few monster movies is there to see. The operation scene was very funny. So catch this film if you can... 8/10 "},{"Title":"The reliable Summer movie","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, first I should stress that this film was forgotten so fast that I almost forgot to write a review of it, but this is by no means a bad thing. Certain movies just aren't there for criticism, they *are* pure entertainment (for some, as the Pearl Harbor comments here have proven), and this is one such film, as you can imagine from the excellent poster (still gotta get me one of those).It's from the same director of the 80s 'classic' Ghostbusters, and he hasn't done anything quite as memorable in between. Evolution has elements of movies like Galaxy Quest, Men in Black, and Independence Day, but resolves itself in the manner of what could have been a South Park movie sequel.A meteor arrives on earth, and single cell organisms inside of it begin to evolve at a phenomenal speed (millions of years in a couple of days). Ira Kane (David Duchovny) and fellow college professor and cheerleading coach Block make the discovery but, inevitably, the info finds its way to the government (Kane used to work for them until he gave a large portion of the army 'Kane's Madness'), at which point Dr. Allison Reed (Julianne Moore, doing comedy again, at last) enters the movie. By this point the organisms are almost human, with a few dinosaur type creatures (the effects are *amazing*) thrown in for visual spectacle. All comes to a head when the military decide to napalm the meteor site, just as Kane and Block discover that fire will turn the organisms into... well, you'll have to see the movie to discover one of the most shamelessly hilarious final acts since, well, South Park Bigger, Longer and Uncut.The score is by John Powell and the cinematography by Michael Chapman. I note these two since they seem to have reversed roles. John Powell used to do Hans Zimmer type clones for movies like Face/Off and Antz, yet here he produces something which, though familiar, I found to be pretty astounding and will likely be getting the soundtrack. Michael Chapman, on the other hand, is one of the greatest modern cinematographers and seems, in my opinion, to be wasting his time on a visual effects extravaganza like this. Where's Raging Bull and Taxi Driver?Evolution was always to me the most reliable Summer movie, and it delivers more than expected. Though the Tomb Raiders and the Pearl Harbors have big bucks for advertising and stars, this one struck me as a firm concept backed by a capable crew. That it turns out having the audience I was in laughing their heads off every 5 minutes is, in this typical Summer of flaws, reassuring indeed. "}{"Title":"Another dog for Duchovny","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am totally amazed that David Duchovny stepped into this piece of c**p at what is a pretty critical time in his feature film career.I am equally amazed that nobody spotted the bad writing before this film went into production.A buddy movie where they don't look like buddies-a romance where they just sort of fall into each other with no signs as to why they would do this-absurd gaps in logic like scientists investigating a meteorite without checking for radioactivity or the fact that a 5 ton meteor would leave a crater like an atom bomb blast but this one basically pokes a small hole.A big budget B movie.Wait for it to come out on video! "},{"Title":"A comedy that should have been funnier!","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ivan Reitman directed Ghostbusters, a movie that mixed special effects with comedy brilliantly. Evolution is basically Ghostbusters with aliens instead of ghosts. But alas, the quality is inferior. The cast is totally wrong, they obviously chose David Ducovney because they wanted him to make fun of his X files persona, unfortunately he is not a good comedic actor. Orlando Jones really ids the only one in the cast to get some legitimate laughs. But the worst choice is Julianne Moore, she is all wrong for her role. She is a great actress but again she is miscast as she was in Hannibal earlier this year. The movie is not bad, it does have about 4 great laughs but unfortunately a lot of the comedy falls flat.Grade C- "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only thing that keeps this movie alive is the special effects and Sean William Scott's funny antics.  Other than that and a few funny moments with Orlando Jones,this is proably one of the worst movies by Ivan Reitman.  The movie centers around two men(Duchovany,Jones) who are chemists who discover a metor that crash lands on earth of course the metor is diseased with aliens and they start growing at a rapid pace.  Of course as in every movie the gov't has to get involved and take over everything.  I won't say much more because you have to judge it yourself, but You will probably be very disappointed like I was.5/10 "},{"Title":"Why do people always expect classics?","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't understand why everyone on here expects *every* movie to be a classic, intelligently written movie.  After seeing such disgusting 'comedies' (note that the term is used loosely) as Scary Movie, American Pie, and others that my acquaintances around here seem to have loved, I, for one, am thrilled to see a comedy that, while containing some gross humor, isn't mired in the sophomoric humor that has become standard for the day. This movie isn't a classic comedy.  Compared to Ghostbusters (as it inevitably will be), it comes out about even in my opinion.  Compared to Men In Black (a comparison that has shown up here, but for the life of me, I can't figure out why), it's better. Men In Black couldn't seem to decide whether it was a comedy or a serious movie, and this movie embraces the comedy. The plot is cliched, yes.  The aliens 'evolution' doesn't seem to follow a real pattern, and some of the lesser creatures were much more frightening than the ones in the later parts of the movies.  The creatures aren't particularly well designed.  But, as far as killing a few hours, I can think of worse ways to do it. "},{"Title":"Yeah... but what else...?","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie had so much promise.  Funny and worth watching, but don't expect a whole lot.  Good cast and characters, some great lines, but it is kind of like that old Wendy's commercial...Where's the beef?!The script was good, the cast was good, good effects... that leaves bad directing...  "},{"Title":"What A Mess!","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The really unforgivable thing about this movie is that if it had been treated seriously it had some real potential to be a good movie. Unfortunately, director Ivan Reitman chose to treat it not so much as a comedy, but as a cartoon - and not a particularly funny one at that. What we ended up with were one dimensional characters, none of whom were very interesting, and a couple of big names (David Duchovny and Julianna Moore) who surely must have done this for the money because they didn't really seem to throw a lot of effort into it.Too bad. It really was an interesting premise. Alien micro-organisms crash to earth and begin to evolve at fantastic rates. There might have been the opportunity for some interesting takes on evolution, and the potential for human-alien and inter-species communication and it could still have been done as a comedy. But I just didn't feel that it was well put together, I certainly didn't find it funny, and the gaps in logic were too much. In short - I thought the thing was a mess.2/10 "},{"Title":"Sucks almost beyond belief","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Absolutely dreadful sci-fi comedy about a meteor which falls to Earth containing an organism which has an unlimited ability to evolve and adapt to any environment.  It's up to David Duchovny, Orlando Jones and Julianne Moore (with the aid of smart-ass fire-fighter Seann William Scott) to stop the creature(s) from taking over the Earth.  Rips off GHOSTBUSTERS almost scene for scene, and unsuccessfully satirizes other genre classics such as THE THING and INDEPENDENCE DAY.  Terrible performances, witless screenplay (with a few too many toilet jokes) and second rate special effects (which almost always LOOK like special effects) sink this train wreck of a movie.  Duchovny and Moore both prove that they are NOT comediens.  Reitman's worst movie.   "},{"Title":"Does it get any worse?","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My wife were in the mood for something light and silly but were amazed at how much more stupid this movie got at every turn. We laughed at a few parts but in the end felt like the movie was an insult to the intelligence of anyone who watched it. It's clearly not a movie to be taken seriously but the makers seemed to forget that a silly movie is still serious business. Please pass on this movie, watch anything else for the millionth time before you see this. Unless you want to make fun of it, which is easy to do. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your money!","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was seriously disappointed in this movie and would not suggest it to anyone unless they were feeling in need of something to watch.  So many holes and way too silly.  The acting was way below par and I think that X-Files fans would generally be just as disappointed as I was. "},{"Title":"not bad but it's already been done","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Funny but derivative sci-fi comedy/adventure about a meteorite that crash lands in the middle of the Arizona desert with some unusual alien life forms. Two college professors want to research it, but once its arrival is disclosed to the public, the military quickly moves in and takes over the operation. With the aid of an intelligent but clumsy scientist, and a firefighting cadet, they team up to try and save humanity after it evolves and multiplies into vicious little monsters that wreak havoc on their new surroundings. Well-cast, with convincing special effects and some genuine laughs, but it follows a familiar formula and grows sillier as it goes along. **½ "}{"Title":"One of Reitman's better films","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Any movie with my home state of Arizona as its  main locale is okay by me. Ivan Reitman made  a funny and engaging film about an impending  invasion, making not only a comedy but a  cool psuedo-sci-fi film that not only had some  cool effects, but some great comedy. I especially  loved Orlando Jones in his role as Prof. Harry  Block, and Seann William Scott managed to  not annoy me for the first time in his career. I  especially liked David Duchovny as Ira Kane,  which seemed to be spawned from his former  character of Fox Mulder. Overall, I would give  this film a 6.7/10, simply because their were  just too many moments that didn't quite click  in this film. However, Dan Akroyd was excellent  as Governor Lewis, making me wish we really  had him running Arizona.  "},{"Title":"Where's the jokes","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this was going to be a sci-fi comedy, but hardly anything was funny.  Orlando Jones has one funny scene when the bug gets in his red jump suit.  And Sean William Scott, who is so funny in the American Pie movies, has nothing to do in this.  His part was just a waste.  They could have given him some funny lines.  The computer creatures were OK. I've seen worse special effects.  Overall, the script just wasn't what it could and should have been.  The script should have been rewritten before the money was spent to make this.FINAL VERDICT  This movie has some interesting creative creatures, but the script just isn't funny enough.  I wouldn't pay to see this, but it is fairly short(only 100 minutes), so it wouldn't be a complete waste of time if you can watch this on cable. "},{"Title":"Another scattershot effort that everyone got paid for....","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My preliminary comments1) Reitman's seems to have a 18 success ratio with his films. Guess which part of the scale this one falls on....2) This is what Duchovny left X-Files for?3) Julianne Moore, what were you thinking when you took this film? Did you owe someone for that third Mercedes you bought last month?4) I'm sorry, this isn't anywhere near Ghostbusters....or Airplane!....or Caddyshack (one of the original dumb-and-dumber epics)...5) I am thoroughly convinced that some films only get made because everyone gets paid for doing it, and there is always life on cable forever and ever. It's amazing what gets produced out there, but I guess there is always the thin chance that something like this could be the next Ghostbusters. Very very thin chance.6) Mars Attacks! was a vastly superior movie - and it had a lot less pretension that this one. Reitman's probably had smoke blown up his rear for the last 20 years - and since his last real hit is probably getting to be around 8 or 10 years ago, his well will run dry real soon.7) I hear MS3K is looking for contemporary films to use - I think Jim Mallon and friends would find they could get the rights to this bow-wow for the price of a 20# bag of Puppy Chow - hey, it's all ancillary income, right?8) What ever happened to his halcyon days of Cannibal Girls(1973) -or Tigress(1977)(aka Ilsa, the Tigress of Siberia - evidently one of any number of films inspired by Ilsa, She-Wolf of the SS) - now that's filmmaking! "},{"Title":"They spent $80 million on THIS?","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  EVOLUTION wants so badly to be GHOSTBUSTERS 4.  Think about it.  MEN IN BLACK could easily have been rewritten as GHOSTBUSTERS 3.  And EVOLUTION has the tired, been-there, done-that feel of a sequel in a series that should have given up while it was ahead.It's hard to believe that Ivan Reitman directed this.  And even harder to believe the amount of money spent on it.  I'll admit that it must take a special talent to spend that on a movie and have it feel like something made by student film-makers.EVOLUTION was originally going to be a straight sci-fi thriller, and it might have been a good one.  Adding the comic elements just took all possible suspense out of it.  If the three 'heroes' are really uptight about the menace facing them, why are they singing Play That Funky Music, White Boy, while they're driving?This problem of tone is what sets the whole movie going in the wrong direction.  There's talk about how in a short period of time the aliens could take over all of North America, but nobody really seems all that concerned.There's consolation in two things, though.  On the DVD, there's an awful alternate ending that was scrapped after one screening.  Good thinking there, boys.The best consolation, though, was looking at the listing in the IMDB and finding that as of 04-09-2002 NONE of the credited writers had gotten another screen credit.  Boys and girls, can you say You'll never work in this town again! "},{"Title":"I watched the whole damn thing and not one laugh","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not only did I not laugh, but if I saw it in a theater, I would have walked out in disgust.Seemed like a good idea, at first but quickly went downhill.Had there been more focus on the shower with the girls' volleyball teamand a little bit of nudity, it MAY have had some redeeming qualities.Other than that false hope, it was a total waste. "},{"Title":"Undoubtedly amazing","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me begin by stating that I am a fan of Starship Troopers.  To see another alien-monster movie of this calibre was certainly a pleasure and a privilege.  Allow me to also state that I rate my movies on entertainment value, not that artistic crap or plausibility (after all, when dealing with alien DNA, what is plausible?). David Duchovny and Orlando Jones starred as a pair of goof-ball scientists (a biologist and geologist, respectively) who wanted to use the meteor fragment (teeming with only microscopic life at the time) as a get-rich-quick scheme. The creatures were very imaginative; everything was incredible.  The movie started off with the asteroid entering Earth's atmosphere and took little time to get the story/plot well underway.  Not only that, but mix in a little humour and action, and the end result was an extremely fun movie to watch and enjoy. All in all, I gave it a 10 because I really liked this movie.  Also, a sequel starring David and Orlando would be fantastic.  A sequel could be possible because after all, the asteroid broke into several chunks.  David and Orlando could then be called into the scene, since they would be known as the foremost experts of dealing with these creatures (I assume that as a biologist and hero, David's character would have an opportunity to study these creatures further). "},{"Title":"One Very Bad Film","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is truly terrible. The story line is non-existent, the script was obviously put together very quickly around a load of special effects and the acting, well, was as good as the script.However, the special effects are quite impressive although as that's the case for most films nowadays, you would think the film producers might actually try and add something else in with it.If you are watching this film because David Duchovney is in it, I suggest watching a few X-File episodes.  "},{"Title":"At least I didnt pay to see it...","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was excited when I read of the plot for this movie.  That excitment soon dulled however, when I noticed David Duchovny was cast in a starring role.It wasnt until the end scene that I realised that this  was supposed to be a comedy.  Cheesy and Corny just arent strong enough to describe the lameness of the gags in this film.It is utterly pathetic.  I only laughed once, and that was at one of Seann William Scott's facial expressions.  I think Scott has let himself down a lot by appearing in this movie, many of his other films are quite funny.Although it wasnt worth the download, I'm glad I downloaded this movie. Otherwise I might have ended up parting with money to see it.Rating  2/10  The plot was good, but the movie sucked. It sucked a lot. "},{"Title":"I JUST CAN SAY GREAT","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  BOMBASTIC! It is the best Comedy Film I've ever seen! Great Aliens, great actors, GREAT FILM! Over 100 X-Files and Duchovny only hunted invisible Aliens, one film and Duchovny takes a big victory about visible Aliens! "},{"Title":"I haven't had this fun in a long, long time...","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to say, I had thought that I had found the perfect character in David Duchovny's Fox Mulder (the X-files). Mulder was chilly but had a warm heart, and along with his partner Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) they were unstoppable! ......Until now. David's new role character is everything Fox Mulder didn't have and so much more! I can't describe in words, but who will miss the X-files after this movie?? Not me.Everything begins when a meteor from outer space crashes, loaded with life in form of turbo fast-growing microorganisms. In a few hours, the organisms develops with the speed of about 300 million years! You'll just have to wait and see....Evolution is somewhat a mixture of the cute monsters a la Men in black, and the mystic atmosphere  in the X-files. It combines humor with deep serious moments when aliens are trying to colonize our planet.This movie is so fun that a can't describe it with my own words, Orlando Jones alias Dr. Harry Block throws out the one awesome comment after the other that would let Chandler Bing's comments in FRIENDS seem like a sleeping pill.If I would rate this movie, I would give it a six out of five possible! I haven't seen such a great movie in a long, long time..GO SEE IT!! "}{"Title":"Dire","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A truly dreadful film that barely raised a laugh in the cinema I was in.It started off making fun of two fat boys and then it got worse.Professional women falling down, hilarious, mooning, hilarious, bum and fart jokes, hilarious.The black character despite attempts at modern sensibilities may have well as been called Stepin Fetchitt. This was sexist and moronic and let's not talk about the science.However, the worst, worst, thing about this film was that it wasn't funny.  "},{"Title":"Nothing huge, just an entertaining movie","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a hard-core fan of The X-Files, I was, of course, obligated to see this movie due to David Duchovny's presence.  Although I hadn't been expecting much, I found myself pleasantly surprised--it's fairly funny and has a nicely developed sci-fi plot.Evolution reminds me of a film called Home Fries more than anything, actually.  It's not really a laugh-out-loud comedy.  It's comedy that makes you smile as it keeps you engaged in the relatively serious plot that is the core of the film.  (Ironically, Home Fries was written by Vince Gilligan, who is the best writer for The X-Files, IMHO, and has written many of the series's more comedic episodes--and it's thanks to those episodes of The X-Files that we've gotten a taste of David Duchovny's comedy acting talent before.  I was glad to see he was able to exhibit one of his strengths in this film.)As for the other performances, they were great.  Julianne Moore was hysterical--she's got talent for physical comedy.  Orlando Jones was a little too wide-eyed and wild at times, but other than that managed to credibly play his role (particularly during the insect extraction scene).If there's any complaint I can have, it's that the romance seemed rather tacked-on.  (Just like the final scene of The X-Files's season finale, hmm!)  It really didn't add anything to the film, and the two actors involved didn't have any romantic chemistry.  Also, the butt jokes went a little too far.  One was an obvious reference to Independence Day, but it was still gratuitous and over-the-top.Despite its flaws, I think Evolution is a fine film.  It's probably not going to get anyone an Academy Award, but it's good when you want something that is pure entertainment. "},{"Title":"It's a GREAT movie if you're a fan of David Duchoveny","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know that David's role in Evolution mirrors that of his role of Agt. Fox Muldar on The X-Files, but this is completely different. I happen to love this film, despite the film critics' (i.e., Roger Ebert, Richard Roeper, Larry Ratliff, Rex Reed, etc.) panning this film.After all, I just happen to see Miss Sarah Silverman as Denise in one scene, and she was just fantastic.The on-screen chemestry between both David and Orlando Jones (Say It Isn't So) and David and Jullianne Moore (Hannibal) makes the folks at the MTV Movie Awards want to choose either one of them for a Best On-Screen Duo nomination. Only time will tell for sure. "},{"Title":"A Good Film","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw Evolution yesterday and i loved it.Each actor gave  great,standout performances. Jones provided most of the laughs ,and Scott was great as the slightly dumb fireman,Wayne.Duchovny is good(and surprisingly funny) as Ira Kane,a biology teacher at a local community college.Julianne Moore gave a good performance as well as a clumsy government official.I give this movie **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"It Evolved into a mess","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What started out as a frightening science fiction thriller gets turned inside out by the antiquated mechanics of Ivan Reitman. His brand of 'gookie' comedy albeit Ghostbusters, Stripes and Meatballs has come and gone, Remember Reitman wrote and directed the celluloid sleeping pill call Six Days, Seven Nights with Ford and Heche five years ago. The cast seems at odds with each other, more importantly Duchovny's comic turn backfires resulting in something neither fish nor fowl. It was a strange mix of personality, I suppose. And surprisingly the main five showed no chemistry with one another. I felt embarassed for Moore -- not all solid dramatic actors can easily make a leap to comedy. Scott and Jones are nothing more than window dressing. Perhaps recasting would have helped but what can you expect from a man who casts Ford and Heche as lovers. The concept itself sans comic attempt is brilliant. I would have rather seen the original story than this boiled-out, miscast stew pot of errors.  "},{"Title":"Worse than bad...","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw the trailer for this movie, I thought light hearted comedy, I'll wait and catch it on cable.  Am I ever glad I saved my $7.50 on this little piece of rubbish.  It epitomizes everything that is wrong with how movies are made today.  If you've seen the trailer, you've seen every funny joke.  After I started watching it, I kept watching like an idiot, waiting for it to redeem itself.  There was no redemption coming.How did Duchovny and Moore get suckered into this turd? (more on that later).  They both look embarrassed to even be there.  His performance is basically a non-performance.  He just recites his line in the most monotone voice possible with no expression on his face.Can someone tell me what the scene in the restaurant with his girlfriend was supposed to be about?  It wasn't funny, didn't advance the story, provide foreshadowing, etc.  Were we supposed to get excited that she might take her/his shirt off?  This is the kind of movie that is becoming all too common from the big Hollywood studios.  Get a few mid-level stars, cook up some lame script, spend a few million dollars on special effects (the only redeeming part of this movie, and just barely) and the unwashed masses will lap it up.  Apparently the suits are right and have us figured out, because so far almost 5000 people have rated this an average of 6.0 out of 10.  I think as a nation we are becoming stupider every day.Is Ivan Reitman obsessed with scatalogical themed humor?  There's an extended scene where they're using forceps to remove a large alien bug from Orlando Bloom's anus, they all get to enjoy a tremendous blast of flatulence from a 50 story amoeba, and for the coup de grace Mr. Bloom gets sucked up into this enormous alien's sphincter.  Was this supposed to have people rolling in the aisles?  It's all very tasteless and juvenile.  Hasn't all this type of humor been done before by Jim Carrey?  It's excruciatingly unfunny.  At least to someone over 8 years old and possessing an IQ over 80.Save your time and money.  We will all die someday, and this is 101 minutes of your life that will be gone forever.  I feel so strongly in condemning this trashy movie that after several years of using imdb.com, I had to register and write this review. "},{"Title":"Disjointed, not cohesive, too far fetched.","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wanted so much to like this film. After all, it was made by Ivan Reitman, director of Ghostbusters.I came away from the movie theater trying to justify what I had just seen. And I only felt better when I accepeted the fact that the movie was, well... kind of a failure.First, the good parts. It *is* a tribute to Ghostbusters. How much, you say? Well, it has a Slimer catching scene (the one with the pterodactyl look-alike), the ending is basically the same, and it has tons of green goo. The main characters are professors at a university. The government agents are, in fact, the bad guys. The list goes on, and on.Now, the bad. Ghostbusters had lots of laughs. This one has lots of forced laughs. When a good director has to resort to flatulence jokes in order to bring out forced laughter from his audience, you know he is way past his prime, or that he couldn't do too much with the material. I think this is evidence of the former. The movie had lots of potential, but it was basically treated as a rehash of a good film.Add to that null character development, in which all of them disappear and reappear on screen almost at random, tremendously unbelievable situations, and way too many jokes that fall flat on their face, and you get a not-so-good movie.And lets not forget the comment of the brainy doctor, when she observes that in 1 week the aliens will invade Arizona, and in a month they will be in all the US, therefore annihilating humanity. Someone should tell her there is life outside the US border. Oh, well. At least the aliens didn't speak english. "},{"Title":"Just plain fun","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's clear that as long as Ivan Reitman works in sci-fi comedy he will never achieve the greatness he did with Ghostbusters. That movie was a masterpiece of genius. Evolution is nothing but a fun ride that comes nowhere near the class of Ghostbusters. But it's still well worth it.Weird really when you consider that Ghostbusters Go to Hell, the second sequel in which hell got so full that spirits started spilling out into the real world, was re-written and redrafted that it became this...something completely different. You probably know the story. A meteor crash lands in the desert and the single celled organisms living on it very, very quickly become multi celled and then little worm creatures and then...many other things. The movie repeatedly calls them aliens but since they evolve from nothing on earth and are conditioned by earth's environment they are, effectively, earth creatures. Watching them run riot and cause havoc is the main fun of this film.Ghostbusters had a dry, sarcastic sense of humor, like a fine wine. Evolution has a crude, gross-out sense of humor like American Pie, which seriously lessens the overall quality of the film. The lead trio of actors perform rather well together. Duchovny is much looser and easy-going here than his stiff, X-Files character. Seann William-Scott once again plays a dufus but he's more endearing here than he has been in other roles. Orlando Jones is kind of good but he too often takes his role in the stereotyped 'only black guy in a white movie' direction. Sadly though, Julianne Moore's accident-prone scientist just isn't funny and her clumsiness seems false and forced.But obviously when you judge Evolution next to something better it seems an inferior movie. Judge it on it's own terms and you'll definitely enjoy. The DVD is in 1.851 anamorphic widescreen (though it really could have benefited from a scope 2.351 aspect ratio) and is in rather lacklustre Dolby 5.1  "},{"Title":"Devolution of humor","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First things first This movie is baaaad! So, with that said, here's why1. I might be a little to scientific in some matters, esp. matters biological and genetical (with me being a biological genetecist), but I always keep one eye shut, because you can't do it right AND let 90% of the people understand it. BUT!!!! Hera are a few lines, that are just sooo wrong. When talking about the growth of the microbes, David made a horrified face and concludes, that those microbes growth is exponential.......WOW! What a conclusion since EVERY microbe does it for some billion years now.And this nice little whatever gadget that tells him, it is based on 10 bases. Why should there be such a machine or program, since everything is based on those ACGT. Has somebody build such thing just in case? And those cells growing within seconds...on what? How do they metabolize and what? There are some things called laws of nature, that work quite fine on this planet. And, of course, this they are based on nitrogen and therefore selenium will kill them, because arsenic kills us-periodic tabel mojo. I would have used neon, because fluorine is also deadly....as is everyhing if you use enough of it. And why do these creatures have to be breath a nitrogen atmosphere? How did he know? Because they choke? Because he used a handheld-instant-knowitall-gadget (and not a GC/MS which is bigger but IS used for those analysis)? Just remember what you breath -> 78% nitrogen. Let just stop here....2. It's not funny. Well...maybe it is rarely funny. Two to three puns are delivered. That's all. The rest is just of the funny-fart, pie-in-face, white-boys-black-boys, and sexual anything (which is so not funny, because it really is just on pre-school level, as seemingly everything sexual in the US) variety. If you are not dead drunk, low(no)-brained or in need of a punishment, you just can't laugh about it.The story is not bad. They could have made it a great movie. They blew it. A little more thinking, a little less fake-dog-poop-humor and scratch those cheesy CGIs.2/10 stars, just for the story "},{"Title":"sucky suck suck","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie was a bunch of suckiness and crap thrown into 90  minutes and shown to an unsuspecting audience that could have expeted better writing from a CBS show!  There were so many corny lines that I expected to see that rooster from cornflakes cereal come out at any minute and end the torture.  It was a painful and excrutiating 15 minutes before I left to watch pootie tang with a friend.  This movie is not even worthy of the one that I reluctantly gave it.  "}{"Title":"An Embarrassment","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Evolution is shocking.  Shocking in that it is a comedy with no laughs.  I can't express how tired I am of using the anus as a comedic device/locale.  Julianne Moore should be ashamed of herself for being involved and playing a character whose single trait is that she's clumsy and falls down a lot.  Har, har.  It isn't just that the movie isn't funny.  It's inept.  There are so many jokes that misfire and die that I was squirming with embarrassment and pity for everyone involved.  How Ivan Reitman directed the sublime Dave and then finished Evolution thinking, You know guys, this is pretty funny, is beyond me.  A waste. "},{"Title":"New depths in.....awful..","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So what was the point to this hideous movie? An attempt to make it into the Ed Wood Hall Of Shame? If so, Evolution slides easily into the ballot box.The high point Good casting...but what are they to do with a dead script, aimless direction and an idea that should've been scrapped prior to shooting? The jokes are lifeless. Five minutes into the film, you're hit with this really awful sense of didn't we see this done better before? feeling. You're not alone.It's not even so bad that it's funny, as in Plan 9 From Outer Space or other mishaps that make it to the cinema, no, this work is just plain _awful_...and nothing can improve it, unless you use the DVD as a coaster afterwards.Leave this one alone, really. "},{"Title":"unoriginal and unfunny","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Perhaps it was my fault for going to see a film not aimed at my age group (aimed at perhaps), but I found the characters unfunny stereotypes and the plot simplistic. "},{"Title":"Only for those who are NOT Evolved....","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the worst movies of the year....What the heck happened to Ivan Rietman? BAD directing, BAD acting, TERRIBLE script writing (Makes me feel even stronger in my convictions that NEPOTISM among screenwriters & producers is ALIVE & WELL in Hollywood)This is an AWEFUL retread of Men in Black...and when, OH WHEN, are we gonna see a comedy with a Black character NOT talking about whoopin' some White ass, dancing, and/or acting like a sex fiend?..Oh, how about this now CLICHE' throw away line by a black actor in a movie... Uh, uh...I aint going in there/touching that/doing that, etc.....I watch movies...and the BLACK character is ALWAYS first ta die!.....gee, I've NEVER heard THAT line before.....what total and UTTER waste of a movie and its talent....and dont even get me started on the HACK job role Dan Ackroyd had....JEEZ.... "},{"Title":"I feel like a part of this film....","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Specifically, I feel like I've just had an alien bug forcibly extracted from my rectum without lubrication.  This is hardly a spoiler, as every trailer for this atrocity makes it quite clear that rectums are the prime feature of this sad excuse for a movie.Here we go.  The acting is flat and uninvolving, the tone is uneven, the filmwork shakey, the effects shoddy, the dialogue is a series of random phrases and (bad) rip offs from better films, and the script is so thin as to be transparent.  The product placement ending is so forced as to be actually painful.  And no, the final scene isn't an ironic post modern twist, it's just bludgeoning marketing.This movie is neither fun nor funny.  In fact, this film, and others like it is the reason why I rarely pay for content any more.  Why?  WHY? "},{"Title":"The Mystery Men of 2001!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I suppose one of the problems of dealing with one of these modern (i.e. digital) special effects movies is that people can be tricked into thinking that the special effects will be SO GOOD, we don't NEED acting, a story or believable characters and situations!Men in Black was an inspired movie.  This tries SO HARD to be Men in Black (in a different tailored suit), only it lacks the inspiration and the humor.  Sure, Ivan Reitman also directed Ghostbusters, but this movie has NO similarity to that film in plot, location, theme, etc. except for the director.  Reitman, however, is NOT an auteur.  Why people are comparing it to Ghostbusters is beyond me.  This was supposed to be a Men in Black knockoff.The only thing is that Orlando Jones is no Will Smith and David Duchovny is no Tommy Lee Jones.Was this supposed to be a funny movie?  For the length of this film I watched it asking myself over and over again, So, they thought THAT was supposed to be funny?Remember Mystery Men?  Remember how SOMEONE thought people would laugh out loud because of the set design?  Did the same people make this?Seeing ordinary and otherwise innocent people being put in the way of dangerous creatures does not strike me as funny.  For some reason, the makers of this film were just BURSTING with glee as they imagined this flying dinosaur with big teeth (and it was not a funny looking dinosaur) flying around a mall terrorizing ordinary people.  This was not The Blues Brothers, however.  At no time during the Blues Brothers did I feel that someone in the mall scene was actually going to die.AlsoDavid Duchovny.  I am beginning to believe that his monotone Joe Friday impersonation represents more than just a small part of his repertoire. "},{"Title":"Dr.Darwin , your grave is a mess!","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution of what (question). Ghostbusters 2 minus good actors (question). As far as the (often stimulating) Trivia section related to this film graciously informs us a) Who cares if Julianne Moore thought up the being clumsy gimmick... she should have thought up the lets get OUT OF THIS MOVIE one! b) David Duchovny should stick to T.V. and relieve us from seeing his one (and only expression) and pink, bare,Behind at the movies (be it a Polaroid or not). When Hollywood spends millions on this trash, the U.S. should hide its head in shame... Had Ed Wood shot this movie on a legendary shoestring, it may have been better, but the childish scatological stuff that can wrench a belly-laugh out of a teenage twit would not have made it into one of his scripts anyhow. So... the creepy little monsters may be alright, man,... but Ivan Reitman is WRONG, Man! (Where did you learn where to WRITE, Man (question).) "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WOW! Wow is all I can say about the reviews of this movie here on this site. I wasn't going to waste my time writing a comment on such a piece of garbage cinema but when I started to read the reviews already posted here, I had to add a sane piece of insight.  THIS MOVIE IS GARBAGE! This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen and I absolutely flipped over backwards as I read the reviews of this film here saying it was great.  There is nothing to offer in this movie; atrocious witting, terrible acting, boring generic music and terrible visuals.  This is the epitome of generic Hollywood garbage film making. "},{"Title":"Where in the world was Ivan Reitman???","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is really BAD!!!  I consider Ivan Reitman to be a fine director of comedy, however this film is probably his worst film since film school.Was he ever on the set or did he phone it in?? It's a great story idea for drama or comedy but this movie is neither. Lame performances by the actors, boring photography by the  usually excellent michael chapman, formula editing. It was a total waste of time and money.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought the movie would just be like just a regular horror movie but I was wrong once I saw it with my Biology class. It was funny and somewhat scary, but I loved it. I hope to ask my parents to buy it for me so I could show them the movie I saw.I hope you would like to see it. It is very interesting ad I hope you will enjoy it. It combines comedy and horror.Thats usually a good mix. This is my comment about the movie. Yours might be a lot different about mine but I loved it. This movie is packed with a lot of stuff, like military, action, horror comedy, sci-fi and etc. I like this kind of stuff but a lot of people might not. People are different with what movies they watch. I for one like these kind of movies. "}{"Title":"Really Fun Movie...7.5 stars!","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lighten up all you 'nay sayers'! Stop trying to be Roger Ebert and watch the movie for what it is...not what you wanted it to be. It's a funny sarcastic look at all space alien films. It never meant to be Alien or Independence Day, just a fun flick to watch...and it is. Funny cast, great effects and FUN! Remember when movies were just that...fun? This one is. "},{"Title":"Entertaining!","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Good blend of comedy and sci-fi! Duchovny and Jones work adequately together! I found myself rewinding certain scenes repeatedly! On the 1-10 scale I'll give it a 6! "},{"Title":"Play that funky music, white boy!","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  From reading the comments of this film from other people who have seen it, and I know a lot of them didnt like it, but I thought it was really funny. The whole cast was hilarious, especially Seann William Scott who I think is wonderful. He never ceases to make me laugh, no matter how many times I watch this film, especially the scenes where he and David Duchovny and Orlando Jones are trying the film the giant alien bird in the department store, where S.W.S. attempts to find the creature by calling heeeere birdy birdy birdy birdy, birdy, ca caw, ca caw, ca caw and then starts to sing You are so beautiful to me in a microphone, which is shortly followed by a rendition of Play that funky music white boy. I think the people who have seen this film and think it's rubbish, take things to seriously. It's supposed to be a bit stupid, thats what makes it so funny.  "},{"Title":"Light, carefree comedy.","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this film because it was a light, carefree comedy. Of course some of it was stupid, but it was good stupid in my book. This is not an average sci-fi movie. Also, the casting for this movie was excellent. Each of the actors played their parts very well. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny throughout","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film on TV in the middle of a sleepless night, and found myself laughing out loud. The film manages to be funny by taking itself very seriously. Not nearly as good a satire as Airplane, I'll admit, but still a great sendup of alien infection movies. The only problem I had was the casting of David Duchovny in the lead role; I felt he was trying much too hard to be funny, which is of course the fastest way not to be funny. Still, his forced performance does not do significant harm to the film.For those who are interested in a more serious literary treatment of the same subject, read David Gerrold's Chtorr science fiction series. "},{"Title":"Dissapointed...","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw the Evolution poster in the subway, and had 2 hours to spare today. 'Have a nice end of the world' I didn't have a clue what to expect. A SciFi comedy??? The SciFi idea was interesting. But the 'comedy' side of the movie spoiled it. And the ending was the last nail in the coffin. No character in the movie seemed to take ANYTHING seriously. The one-liners weren't funny enough for my taste or mood. The special effects were nice, but that's where the 'nice' ended for me. Ghostbusters was good. Mars attacks was funny. But Evolution I think it's almost a waste of (one's) time. Even Ice Pirates, 25-30 years older, was funnyer, with crappy effects and hilarious costumes and robots. If they had made 'Evolution' a thriller/drama/horror, a little a la 'Alien', or 'X-Files - The Movie', it would have come out something better, I bet. As I said, before I saw it, I didn't know what to expect. Now I can say that - if I expected a pure comedy, or a pure SciFi, I would have been even more dissapointed. If there's no other movie around you that might raise your interest, and have absolutely nothing better to do for 2 hours, then I think you might consider watching Evolution. Rate - 3/5  "},{"Title":"Read this funny lil' comment...","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  when i firsT saw tHis movIe in theaterS, i found it to be very funny. looking at it now, I realize that it is surely one of the Most extraOrdinary films eVer to come out of hollywood. to some It may look tritE or cliched, or maybe too un-ordinary to be worthy of Its praise, but the overall impact of this film iS extremely powerful. afTer you've seen it, you know you've seen sometHing.  a few notable Elements stand out. the direction is superb; this is visually a superior film, for the director understands the subtle changes in tone. the Writing is equally cOmpelling; the stoRy effortleSsly inTerwEaVes multiple storiEs to cReate one amazing movie. "},{"Title":"Unconvincing, unimaginative and achingly unfunny","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A comedy without laughs (OK, there was one), a science fiction movie without any science, and a wannabe crowdpleaser that won't really please anybody. Evolution is all of the above and add to that a hopelessly lame romantic couple (Moore and Duchovny), a hopelessly lame comedy couple (Scott and the black fella) and what you've got left is (you guessed it) a hopelessly lame movie. The only thing that's done right in this failure are some inspiring special effects, but if you're smart, you've walked out long before the shampoo-up-the-alien-ass (I kid you not) finale. And as a bonus, you'll get a great Head and Shoulders ad for free!!! How great is that???Do NOT pay to see this.* (out of *****)  "},{"Title":"Neanderthal","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let's not beat about the bush - the worst film of the year so far. Derivative, poorly paced, embarrassing performances (and the actor look embarrassed - I wish I hadn't signed that contract written all over their faces), cheesy effects... it has nothing going for it at all except a neat take on the smiley badge for the promo posters. What can you say about a 'comedy' that doesn't raise a single laugh for the whole of its running time? An absolute stinker. "},{"Title":"Like Ebert said, I have a sneaky affection for it","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, Evolution is not Ghostbusters, although it is Ghostbuster-like. So what? Reitman pretty much invented the genre. He steals from himself. Is that a crime?I enjoyed this movie a lot. Duchovny and Jones make a terrific team and I found them to be quite funny. They are not Aykroyd and Murray and I don't think they were intended to replicate that duo. I would have been annoyed by Julianne Moore's clumsy scientist character, except I knew she talked Reitman into letting her do the awkward-thing from the movie promotional material. Consequently, I found it rather endearing, as well as amusing. I thought Seann William Scott's performance was a bit forced, but cute anyway.The CGI was terrific, the actors were great and the script stank.I didn't walk into the movie expecting some great new revelation in entertainment. It's a fun summer popcorn movie. I liked it and I'm going to go see it again today. I'll buy the DVD when it is available. So sue me <g>. "}{"Title":"Has Movie Making Taken a Step Back in Evolution?","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was excited to see this movie.  The previews made it look like it could be a funny, Men in Black sort of thing.  It wasn't.  It was S T U P I D!  The jokes were forced and misplaced.  They were old and rehashed jokes from movies before.  The plot was extremely predictable, and lame.  The acting was rather poor, and the characters were poorly developed and not very likable.I will admit I laughed a couple of times.  One being when Prof. Block was getting sucked up the anus of the large creature at the end.  Sick, yes, but funny.  But to wait through 2 hours of stupidity to get to that?  NOT WORTH IT.Overall I was entertained by the visual effects, and the fun creatures they created.  But, it just wasn't worth it.  I'm glad it was a preview that I paid nothing for, or I would have been demanding my money back! "},{"Title":"This Movie is Great!","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't believe that it's only being rated as a 5.9 movie!!!  No, it's not Lord of the Rings and No, it's not Gone with the Wind, but it has visually stunning special effects, a great script, great acting, and I would definetly rate this movie somewhere between an 8 and a 9.  I have a large family (6 of us) and we sit and watch this movie about every couple of weeks.  My children range from 2 to 10 years old and there's nothing in it that would keep me from allowing them to watch it, so it's a great movie all around.   "},{"Title":"A worthwhile comedy thanks to Orlando Jones.","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We all know Orlando Jones as the endlessly amusing 7-Up guy, but in Evolution he is given a full-length role and the opportunity to show the world how funny he can be. Here is an enormously underrated actor who steals the show even when he's not onscreen, so we can only hope to see a lot more of him in the future. David Duchovny is perfectly cast as the geology professor at the local city college who is on the scene to investigate a mysterious asteroid that has landed on earth and seems to have brought with it some astonishingly quickly growing and evolving organisms from an unknown origin. His history from the X-Files gives him the perfect mixture of seriousness since he just has that voice that makes anything he's talking about sound mysterious and other-worldly, and at the same time it gives him a great opportunity to make some nice inside jokes about his iconography (`I don't trust the government, I know those people.').Julianne Moore is the place where the movie really trips up. She is a tremendously talented actor, and is given a role that is immensely below her. She is there literally for no other reason than to have a love interest for Dr. Kane (Duchovny) and so that she can, for some reason, trip and fall flat on her face for some completely unknown reason every once in a while in the movie. Seann William Scott, the single reason to watch crapfests like the American Pies and Road Trip, is given a role that reduces him to goofball comic relief spouting bad jokes (`That's like a big loogie!') that are funny almost not a single time in the film. This guy was side-splittingly hilarious in some of his previous films, even the bad ones (which was most of them), and he is a hugely talented comedy actor, but he just had nothing to work with here. Maybe they should have let him write his own part.The aliens themselves are remarkably interesting, given the way they grow and evolve at such an alarming rate and the things that they grow into. There is a lot of creativity there, even though a lot of it goes way over the top and there are occasional special effects that are just not convincing enough. The idea of having the aliens being unable to tolerate oxygen was a good one, because when aliens are introduced from another world, you can't just have them running around killing people, there have to be some rules that the humans can work with in fighting them so that they're not just freaky looking bad guys. An intolerance of our atmosphere gives them character and gives the humans an edge. The way that they conducted experiments (purposely or otherwise) to see what killed the aliens was some of the more interesting parts of the movie, although their weapon against the biggest baddest aliens at the end of the film was a little too goofy, even for a movie like this.Evolution is a very rare kind of film, placing itself among very few colleagues in a genre almost entirely its own, the science fiction comedy. It has the cast to create this kind of film successfully, but some of them, mainly Julianne Moore and Seann William Scott, are simply misused and do not fulfill their entire potential. If a little more work had been put into their roles, the movie could have been immeasurably better.  "},{"Title":"Great fun, good use of CGI.","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie's big strengths were it's goriness(a bad word but I can't find a better one)and the use of CGI. The actors were mostly boring and stereotypic, and the script was very silly. The setting is the classic we've seen so many times; A small town in USA is threatened by horrible monsters, this time aliens evolving extremely fast. The concept was surprisingly funny, and good use of CGI made the movie smooth and good-looking. Sometimes I was actually wondering if they'd used a doll or CGI. The jokes and the humour of the movie is a bit boring at times, but the imaginative aliens and the really stupid (and funny) ending balanced it. It was no masterpiece, but it's worth seeing sometime. "},{"Title":"I guess that the fans of 80 'movies feel too nostalgic to realize how bad is this movie  .","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1984 , Ivan Reitman directed the excellent comedy The Ghostbusters  .Besides that ,he didn't make anything interesting . In the 2001 ,it seems that he tried to repeat the Ghostbusters  success ,but now with aliens instead of ghosts . And Evolution  it's a complete failure it's bad as a sci-fi movie and it is unfunny as a comedy . How a movie with so much talent could be so bad ? The answer could be .this  It have the money ,the actors ,the effects ,and even that Ivan Reitman couldn't make this movie more interesting .What it tries to be ? it isn't even entertaining . Sure the effects were good ,but who cares when the story and the characters are so dull and uninteresting ? To get it worst ,they have to add Sean William Scott,who does the role of a unfunny idiot ,like in his other movies . This movie it's so weak and boring .I prefer to see The Ghostbusters  again that waste my time with this lame movie . "},{"Title":"Who ya gonna call?","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Undoubtedly fed up with all the red tape required to finally launch a Ghostbusters 3 off the ground, Ivan Reitman probably decided he'd take a similar, but wholly different, route and, even if he couldn't give us Ghostbusters, he would certainly deliver something Ghostbusters-ish. Enter Evolution.We meet Dr. Ira Kane, a man whom combines the suave, obnoxious nature of Peter Venkman as transplants it into the brain of Egon Spengler. He, and his partner, Prof. Harry Phineas Block, work at a college, teaching classes. They get a rude awakening when a mysterious meteor slams in to the earth, unleashing an alien organism that evolves at a frighteningly rapid rate. With the help of Fire Fighter Wayne Grey (who is best described as the film's Ray Stanz), they band together to deal with the ever-changing alien menace, against orders from the Government, whom are trying their best to contain and study the situation.Every where you look in this movie, the Ghostbusters influence is heavy Lots of cutting-edge (For the time) special effects shots, great characters, lots of sarcasm, and a little bit of scary monster movie guff; even Dan Aykroyd makes an appearance to get in on the fun. Unfortunately for us, it just doesn't connect on the same level as Ghostbusters did. The formula is almost exactly the same, right down to the Saturday Morning cartoon, but the polish just isn't there.That's not to say it's a bad movie. I really enjoyed myself, and it's unfortunate the movie tanked - I liked it enough to the point where I'd love to see a sequel, with Ira and his 21st Century Ghostbusters traveling around, cleaning up the leftover evolutionaries. If you can get past some bumpy patches, this is a very watchable movie, and very recommended to fans of the Ghostbusters series. "},{"Title":"The perfect comic / sci-fi / adventure!","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution is a wonderful comedy/sci-fi/adventure that really has no equal. As much as I love Ghost Busters I and II, this is a movie I can watch over and over again.The set designs and special effects are fantastic. The music by John Powell is dynamic and thrilling. The chemistry between the characters is delightful, including the two fat guys who turn out to be far more intelligent than the audience realizes. Dan Aykroyd is fabulous as the governor of Arizona. Every line he utters is hysterical. Dan improvised most of them during filming.The film works perfectly as a comedy, but it also works extremely well as a sci-fi adventure/thriller. In fact, the story was originally conceived as a serious sci-fi thriller, but director Ivan Reitman wisely realized that a comic version would be much better. As one of the millions of intelligent people who realize that the theory of evolution is actually just a joke that Charles Darwin never intended for anybody to take seriously, this movie does a fabulous job of demonstrating just how ridiculous it is to believe that complex lifeforms could accidentally develop from simpler organisms. (Just try demonstrating this moronic idea in the laboratory. Good luck, pal . . . )As a true fan of the best of the 1950s sci-fi films, Evolution is the perfect ancestor to movies like the Harryhausen classics like It Came from Beneath the Sea and 20 Million Miles to Earth, and director Jack Arnold's two best films, It Came from Outer Space, and The Space Children.Ironically, the people who criticize this movie often seem to do so because they object to the fact that the science is inaccurate. Ivan Reitman states on the commentary track of the DVD that he took great pains to get the science in he story correct, including the use of science advisors. It's obvious that these people's objections are based on their pathetic defense of the totally illogical theory of evolution (pause for chuckle).It you don't like Evolution, try rethinking your personal philosophies. As soon as you get them right, you'll love this movie. "},{"Title":"Enjoyably silly stuff in the mould of Ghostbusters","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a meteorite crashes in the desert near their hometown, local teachers and scientists Ira Kane and Harry Block take a sample back to their school and prepare for the noble prize when they discover it is teeming with single-celled organisms. However before they can tell anyone they find that their specimens have become multi-celled organisms. Returning to the meteorite site they find that the place is alive with complex life and flatworms. At this point they are locked out by the US military and have to try and break back in past General Woodman and clumsy scientist Allison Reed but it isn't long before the creatures they are trying to study and freely accessible and moving within the community and continuing to evolve to our world.Without a great deal of fuss or hype, Evolution opened up in the UK and maybe it was because I had no specific expectations that I managed to enjoy it for what it is &#150; a silly comedy that never takes itself seriously at all. The plot basically sees aliens spreading across a small desert town with only a ragtag handful of local teachers and a wannabe fireman seem to be able to tackle them. It is nonsense of course but the tone suits the material and you never think that it is expected you to do anything but laugh and go with it. As such the film is very much the Ghostbusters 3 that some other reviewers have called it &#150; it is funny, tongue-in-cheek but still managing to be still exciting and engaging rather than just being too daft for the audience to care about or get involved in. The writing helps by being quite irreverent, while the direction (and I'm not a massive Reitman fan) deals well with the mix of action and comedy.The cast really helps and the majority of them have really got hold of the tone and have understood what is required of them. Duchovny has particular fun sending up his X-Files scientist role and greatly enjoys dealing with aliens without the serious tone &#150; it is a shame that he doesn't seem to have been able to capitalise on this venture and so far he is still in the shadow of his most famous role. Usually Orlando Jones is terrible but here he is used just right and brought several big laughs out of me (specifically the line there's ALWAYS time for lubricant which cracked me up); Duchovny may be the star of the show but Jones tends to scene-steal when he gets the chance &#150; even if he does have a bit much to do with anal action for my taste! Moore is sadly wasted in a role that lumbers her with clumsy, unfunny pratfalls that never work and it is only really where she just blends into the group that she manages to give an OK performance; it is just as well that she is such a fine actress but on the evidence of this, comedy is certainly not her thing. Scott does his usual stuff with all that that implies and he works well within the film even if he doesn't make that much of an impression. Support from Levine, Aykroyd and others is pretty good throughout. The special effects do vary but are mostly enjoyable and work well enough within the context of a comedy sci-fi, although some viewers will fine the usual problem with CGI looking much more like it exists on another plane rather than working within the film.Overall this is the sort of film you need to be in the mood for as it will please you if you let it but may also annoy you if you come to it with high hopes so my advice would be to try and watch it without any hopes. It is very silly and never takes itself seriously but it is also pretty funny, energetic, exciting and enjoyable. Hardly high art but a funny sci-fi that will please those that enjoyed Ghostbusters. "},{"Title":"Moore's Evolution","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Films decay. Most films will. And most of this will too, and much faster than usual because we'll tire of effects soon. But for a very long time, I suspect this film will be viewed only because it has Julianne in it.It is junk (formulaic rectal humor), but she fills every scene she's in even though all she's asked is to be a cartoon. All that work on multidimensional projection she did for Vanya surely shows. "},{"Title":"Awful, in lots of different ways.","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's been a long time since I've felt temptation to walk out of a cinema (think it was the Lawnmower Man). As it happens, I stayed put until the credits rolled, but it was a hard job.Everything about this movie was poor. The characters were wafer-thin and irritating, although it seemed clear we were supposed to like them from the get-go. Not much chance of that, as they were a particularly vapid bunch.The rehashed Ghostbusters plot was tired and - most criminally - devoid of anything remotely funny (yes, even the anal probe gags).Even the creature effects looked half-arsed. The 'big ending' being a particular disappointment.I'm going to have to watch Tremors again soon, just to try and forget this mess. Now there's a film that did the same thing a damn sight better! "}{"Title":"If you have any dignity - do not watch this film!","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes there were moments of laughter, and no I suppose you cannot expect more from just another cheap, simple Hollywood production BUT this was a disgrace. To begin with the story seemed to have some potential to get interesting, with an alien lifeform that evolves at a very rapid pace, but soon this movie, which was not announced as a comedy in my TV-guide, got out of hand in stupidity. The jokes were so cheap and cheesy, special effects did not impress or even entertain but worst of all - the whole damn movie was an advert for Head & Shoulders! They save the world with shampoo! I felt suicidal when, after the happy ending, the three main characters say some cheesy line about this apparently awesome shampoo and then all three of them pose with a bottle of Head & Shoulders each! This makes me wonder why Hollywood is still legal... "},{"Title":"this is truly the ghostbusters 2 of the evolution franchise","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" if you thought ghostbusters 2 was good, wait till you fall in love with this one! oops. i ruined what would happen to you. anyways, if you thought ghostbusters paled in comparison to ghostbusters 2, try this analogy on for size it's like they made ghostbusters 2 without having to go through the first one! except this movie is even more like ghostbusters 2 than ghostbusters 2 was! it's like they found the ingredient that separated ghostbusters 2 from ghostbusters and concentrated it into a Supercal (or super-chemical for people who don't understand science). imagine if someone found out how to make a giant lemon without the skin, seeds, or stringy stuff. that's what this movie is, but replace the normal lemon with a copy of ghostbusters 2. say an elephant is just a bigger, purer version of a small dog. if this were true, you could say this was the elephant of dogs. i'm giving this two stars to symbolize the purity of its ghostbusters 2-ziness! "},{"Title":"A winning formula","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having been a huge fan of Ghostbusters, I was expecting big things from Evolution. I was not disappointed. True, there were many striking resemblances to Ghostbusters, and many of Reitman's other films. But hey, it works. I thoroughly enjoyed it and I wasn't alone as the packed out cinema were laughing out loud and clapping (which is not usual behaviour in British cinemas so it must be good)!The idea was great, the characters were fun, the special effects were perfect. It will never have the same magic that Ghostbusters has for me, but Evolution is a film I have bought on DVD, and I still find it very entertaining and amusing....and isn't that what it's all about?Don't retire yet Ivan.... "},{"Title":"A hilarious science fiction comedy!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"    I saw Evolution in the theater, and I thought it was really funny! When I first had seen previews for Evolution I knew I had to see it, and when I did, I was very happy! This is a very funny film and all of the alien creatures were very well animated. David Duchovny, Julianne Moore, Orlando Jones, and Seann William Scott did good and hilarious performances. This movie has non-stop laughs, and unbelieveable hilarity! I highly recommend this film! I give it a 10 out of 10!!!!! "},{"Title":"It starts bad and evolves into something worse!","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Would Ivan Reitman please retire. Has this guy had a hit post Reagan administration? This is Ghost Busters with not as talented actors. Paint by the numbers summer comedy, with nothing special. Not even the special effects are of note. I was allowed to see this movie for free or I would really be angry. Hack director hired to make bad summer movie. The word of mouth on this one will kill it. Moreover, I see that the newspaper add for this film uses quotes from Roger Ebert, however Ebert gave it thumbs down. Wow! They are using quotes from people that hated the movie. Now that is evolutionary! "},{"Title":"evolution? more like de-evolution","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  if this flick was made for 10 year olds, 15 years ago, it would still have been flat, lacking, rushed, unfunny, predictable...the only accomplished actor was moore, but her role was that of the quick, requirred love interest, a role which ran it's predictable course.. blech. while the cgi shined for a few moments, nothing distracted me from the fact that i was aware i was watching a movie, my suspension of disbelief never set in.  in evolution, duchoveny and jones prove they are just 2 dimensional tv actors working with a bad movie script. they have no screen presence, aren't consistantly funny, and do nothing to dispell their tv personas. their delivery made them SEEM like they were in a movie. overall the movie was stale and dumb. the ending was about as lazy and  anti-cimatic as they come. i hadnt learned it was directed by reitman untill after i had commented that it was bad even for a bad 80's -esque movie. dont bother with this unless you enjoy being insulted, or are one of those who adhere to the notion that critics are always wrong.  "},{"Title":"a cookie cutter movie, except the cookies taste awful","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  what a complete waste of money. it sucked. dont see it. as much as you may be tempted by the previews DO NOT SEE IT. many people walked out. the only reason i didnt was the air conditioning. by the end, i regretted that decision.you might think well the special effects will be cool. but they're only in 5% of the movie, so be prepared to talk long and frequent trips to the bathroom to avoid all the useless dialogue and poor character development.then you might think, well at least there will be a big fancy ending. and there was. but it sucks. it sucks a lot. I almost walked out during the ending scene, but i didn't want to give up so close to the finish. although the couple in front of me didn't feel the same and left about 10 minutes before the end.  I'd say the theater was 50% as full at the end as at the beginning.it was a cookie cutter movie, except the cookies were moose-p*** flavored with chunks of human feces.  the actors were extraordinarily underused, the story was shoddy, the caricatured army dufus's were way too over-done. and the science was from ass-land.there was actually a moment when Duchovny's character blatently said Hey, look at that one and the camera focused for a money shot of a CG bug crawling around. there was no further mention to the bug, it was simply eye-candy/movie-filler.  too bad after all those filler's it was still an empty movie.the only shining moments were whenever Dan Akroyd's character came on-screen. which didn't happen until halfway through and he's on for less time than the special effects, which already weren't worth it.  I'd recommend renting Ghostbusters (the original gem which inspired this fugesee) it's a far better film, and you'll have enough money to rent Ghostbusters II the next night.  and you can watch Dan Akroyd throughout the whole film. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think I chuckled once during this movie and the rest of my time was spent in utter amazement of how much of an entertainment disappointment this film is. Gags are thrown in and just kind of hang there not sure what to do with themselves...it's almost like they had one of those kinds of people who always state the obvious & quote bumper stickers when they're trying make an ironic statement, writing the script between takes. This is not even entertaining in a 'let your hair down' kind of way; it was embarrassing to watch intelligent talent such as Duchovny, Moore and Jones be a part of this mess and ultimately, at the end of the film, I was embarrassed to be in the same theater with this useless, mediocre, dumbed-down, flairless excuse to showcase special effects. --Haven't felt this way since 'Wild Wild West.'  "},{"Title":"Julianne Moore's Serious Lapse in Judgment","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Easily one of the worst films of the year.  This is the kind of filmthat makes you wonder who on earth read this script and thought it hadpotential?  It's easy to see why David Duchovny, Ivan Reitman and SeannWilliam Scott would sign on to dreck like this  none of them isexactly first in line for anything A list.  The mystery is whyJulianne Moore would enlist in such a lousy project.  Virtually devoidof humor -- virtually devoid of ANYTHING interesting, for that matter-- this throwback to goofy sci-fi like GHOSTBUSTERS has none of thewit of that film, and is a sure waste of bucks.  Avoid it like theplague. "},{"Title":"Pretty Silly But Still Enjoyable To Watch, With Really Cool Effects, Fun Story And Hilarious Performances!","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was pretty silly but still enjoyable to watch, with really cool effects, fun story, and hilarious performances!. All the characters are great, and i thought it had some cool looking creatures, plus the finale is a hoot!. All the characters are extremely likable (except for Ted Levine), and i thought the Four main characters had great chemistry with each other!, plus David Duchovny actually had a great sense of humor in this!.a lot of people thought Julianne Moore was terrible in this, i have to disagree, i thought she had a really funny and interesting character, and i must say Orlando Jones brought a lot of laughs to the film, plus one of my favorite moments in this film is when a bug crawls in Orlando's suit, it cracked me up. The head and shoulders ending was hilarious, and Seann William also brought a lot of laughs to the film! (especially his singing), plus it reminded me a lot of ghost busters. It's very well made, and Ted Levine was great as the asshole, plus Dan Aykroyd is great in his small role. Pretty silly, but still enjoyable to watch, with really cool effects, fun story and hilarious performances, i highly recommend it. The Direction is pretty good. Ivan Reitman does a pretty good job here, with very good camera work, solid angles and keeping the film at a fast pace!. The Acting is excellent. David Duchovny is fantastic here, he actually does have a great sense of humor, and didn't take this film too seriously, he cracked me up, had very good chemistry with Moore and Jones, and was very likable, he was great. Julianne Moore is amazing as always, and is really funny here, despite what other people think if found her character to be hilarious and pretty interesting, she also had great chemistry with Duchnovy, and is stunningly gorgeous, really sexy as well! (Moore Rules!!!). Orlando Jones is absolutely hilarious, and steals a lot of the scenes, his chemistry with Duchnovny, was on,and he cracked me up throughout the film!, he was awesome. Seann William Scott is amazing as always, and is hilarious here, sure he did his usual stuff but it's still downright hilarious (especially the Ka Ka Ka cookie, cookie thing). (Scott Rules!!!!). Ted Levine is perfect as the asshole, i simply hated him, he is good at this type of role though. Ethan Suplee&Michael Bower are both funny as the brothers i liked them. Dan Aykroyd is good in his small role. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall i highly recommend it. ***1/2 out of 5(barely) "}{"Title":"Plain Fun","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution was a film I had little hope for when I first started watching it on TV one night. I thought that David Duchovny wouldn't mix well with Orlando Jones and the whole story seemed pretty weak to me when I read about it earlier in the day. I was caught off guard by this one.Dr. Ira Krane (David Duchovny) and Prof. Harry Block (Orlando Jones) are two teachers at Glenn Canyon Community College and aren't going anywhere. One day, after taking his class on an expedition to a meteor crash site, Dr. Ira Krane makes an amazing discovery. Aliens are slowly evolving and adapting on Earth. Dr. Krane wishes to make more discoveries and experiment with the new life forms but is stopped by the government who is now taking hold of the discovery.But soon the situation gets out of control when the aliens become more hostile and smarter. Now, with the help of firefighter cadet (Seann William Scott) and a nerdy military scientist (Julianne Moore), Ira and harry must figure a way to convince the military that they need to be in control of the project and to find a way to stop the now massive organisms from taking control of the planet.To my surprise, Duchovony and Jones mixed quite well. Jones had some fantastic lines and really held quite a bit of the comedy. Duchovony, knowing him only from his serious role on the X-Files, was surprisingly funny and filled the role perfectly. Seann William Scott, though placed in this for the goofy side of comedy, was able to still fit in making his character believable, he's just stupid though.The special effects are put into the film to be the eye popping but the aren't bad. The story is actually quite good. The scientific parts are accurate if I am correct in saying so and the film is beautifully shot with the Arizona landscape. The movie isn't spectacular. It's no Animal House or Dumb and Dumber but it is still really funny.Evolution. Starring David Duchovony, Julliane Moore, Orlando Jones, and Seann William Scott.3 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Funny and weird at the same time","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Another offering from the director of 'Ghostbusters', 'Dave', and 'Kindergarten Cop', Ivan Reitman. Now, I like Ivan Reitman. He's a funny guy. 'Ghostbusters' was VERY funny. I've also heard 'Dave' and 'Kindergarten Cop' are good. Anyway, back to my review. 'Evolution' is a story of a meteor that crashes on to our planet, releasing aliens that evolve (thus the title of the movie). There are some really funny moments in this movie, including references to 'Alien' and 'The X-Files'. The cast is great; David Duchovny, Orlando Jones, Sean William Scott, and Julianne Moore are all funny in their respective roles. The special effects are great, and the aliens are just-plain weird looking. All in all, two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Would have been good back in 1986; MAYBE","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I caught this piece of crap on Showtime on a Saturday morning while working on the computer. The wife wanted to watch it so I had to suffer. This movie could have been made in 1986 and would have been the same. The effects are shoddy, the dialogue inane, the characters caricatures of 1980s comedy characters, horrible acting, and a plot so implausible and non funny as to require either the transporting of the entire staff responsible for this drivel back to 1985 so they would only torture an audience accustomed to this level of inanity or the confiscation and destruction of all the copies of this film and the summary execution of the creators of this waste of movie studio money.  "},{"Title":"A Spiritual Follower to Ghost Busters","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution follows on the path of Ghost Busters, giving contemporary observation to Outlandish themes. This time the theme is Alien lifeforms.Just as Ghost Busters 2, this movie is highly under-rated. David Dukovny is a great actor, no matter what people say. The comedy undoubtedly, in parts, was a tad more off-the-wall than in Ghost Busters but the movie delivers a type of experience that I find extremely entertaining. You get both seriousness and comedy, something which most people have difficulty accepting (in the same film).Dukovny's dead-pan delivery also mirrors that of Bill Murray and over all helps to create a very similar feel as in Reitman's previous films. Particularly the scene where the heroic male-trio hunts down the terradactyl-like beast in a shopping mall brings Ghost Busters to mind.Some points of criticism include the rather rushed ending and a slight inconsistency in the quality of the CGI. Reagardless, both a fun and a clever movie. "},{"Title":"fun movie","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this is a totally fun movie.This is great to watch for recreation when one wants to totally relax and not think about anything.Whoever is looking for a meaning here or Oscar winning performances is watching the wrong movie.I think this was filmed for leisurely pastime and that is what you get from watching it.The plot, the acting, and the entire set up is very light and I walked away smiling.David Duchovny is very funny and I love the incident in the mall where they are hunting a flying dinosaur. The whole scene is a bit unrealistic but then the whole movie is unrealistic and that is what's so great about it! Orlando Jones is brilliantly funny in the scene where an alien bug gets inside his body. I fell over laughing while watching that.I can watch any move with Julianne Moore. The role of a cold princess in this movie becomes her as this is a comedy.Definitely worth a look if anyone wants an easy, light laugh. "},{"Title":"Fun movie to watch.","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is nothing more than just simple plain fun. Still there isn't much story present which causes the movie to leave a bit of a pointless impression afterward. This movie is nothing memorable or anything but it still is entertaining and fun to watch, for at least once.Perhaps the best thing about Evolution are the two main characters played by David Duchovny and Orlando Jones, who have a great on-screen chemistry together. It's really believable in the movie that they have been friends for years. Another thing that is great about this movie is the sharp and fun dialog.David Duchovny really plays excellent in this movie. He was criticized a lot I remember, when this movie was just released but that had everything to do with the fact that people had a hard time seeing him playing a character different than Fox Mulder from The X-Files. It's too bad that Julliane Moore doesn't have a big comical talent and Seann William Scott plays a bit of a perhaps needless and just pointless character.The story really isn't about much and that is the main reason why Evolution doesn't quite work as a movie, at least not as a successful one. The movie is very forgettable and leaves a pointless impression afterward.The movie is nicely looking and has some above average special effects in it. The musical score by John Powell is surprising good and perhaps a bit underrated.A movie that is entertaining and fun to watch, at least once but no must see by any means. It's watchable but not exactly highly recommendable.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Among the classic all-time noises","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a funny movie. It deserves a better rating than this. But it needs to be approached in the right light though - more half cut on beers than depressed on cognac. Lightweight but amusing, interesting set of evolutionary creatures, and perhaps one of the great comedy noises this century. That is, the call for the animal in the mall. Of all the calls, this is a stroke of genius! Acting is fine, in particular it is always amusing to see David Duchoveny try and act. He always seems to have a half-smile behind the mask. Maybe it's TM he's thinking about, who knows! Anyway this is a must see DVD sometime in your life. "},{"Title":"Evolution!","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evolution is good alien movie directed by great director Ivan Reitman! David Duchovny, Julianne Moore, Orlando Jones, Seann William Scott, Ted Levine, and Dan Aykroyd were all good! The alien special effects are tremendous and I am so amazed by the incredible variations of all of the creatures and they all looked so realistic! The action is good and there are many hilarious moments! The music by John Powell is very good. If you are a fan of the actors above and want to see them in some good performances and see some awesome aliens then I strongly recommend this film! Movie Nuttball's NOTEIf you like alien movies and/or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films The Thing from another World, The War of the Worlds, The Day the Earth Stood Still, Horror Express, The UFO Incident, E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial, John Carpenter's The Thing, Krull, Time Walker, My Science Project, Howard the Duck, John Carpenter's Starman, John Carpenter's They Live, Mac and Me, Explorers, Invaders from Mars, Alien Seed, Total Recall, The Abyss, Communion, Suburban Commando, Fire in the Sky, The Arrival, Mars Attacks! Men in Black I & 2, Stephen King's Dreamcatcher, Xtro 3 Watch the Skies, Battlefield Earth A Saga for the year 3000, Impostor, Stargate, The Puppet Masters, John Carpenter's Village of the Damned, Independence Day, Life Form, The X-Files Fight the Future, Mission to Mars, Signs, Silent Warnings, Alien Hunter, Spaceballs, Alien, Aliens, Alien 3, Predator & Predator 2, The entire Star Wars saga (A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, The Return of the Jedi (Original and Special Editions!), The Phantom Menace, & Attack of the Clones), the entire Star Trek movie saga (Star Trek The Motion Picture, The Wrath of Khan, The Search for Spock, The Voyage Home, The Final Frontier, The Undiscovered Country, Generations, First Contact, Insurrection, & Nemesis) and Stephen King's IT "},{"Title":"Ghostbusters Lite","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first question that continues to pop into my mind after seeing Evolution is How did this picture get made?  The script is so absolutely awful (especially compared to earlier films by the director) that I'm incredulous that no one at Columbia pulled the plug on this mess early on, let alone greenlighted the project.  One suspects that only the force of Ivan Reitman's past commercial blockbusters got this picture in front of a camera.The special effects are good, the cast is gallant in trying to get through the dialogue, but in the end the total failure of the material kills this flik so bad it's spirit could be zapped by the Ghostbusters. The thing most missing from this erzatz GhostbustersIII is the writing of Harold Ramis who, it is very clear to me now, was the true genius behind the best Reitman films (i.e., Animal House, Ghostbusters).I have pretty low expectations when I go to see a mindless summer time comedy; Entertain me a little for my seven bucks.  Evolution didn't even manage to do that.  Pearl Harbor???  Thank God the Japanese weren't able to drop THIS bomb on us in '41.  We'd still be eating fish heads and rice. "},{"Title":"I have seen worse movies (but not this year and maybe not in a few years)","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, I wanted this to be good, I wanted it to be enjoyable, I was wanting another Men in Black or GhostBusters. Instead I got an unfunny Alien Ishtar. (OK, maybe not that bad) I have to admit I cracked a smile once or twice, but left feeling robbed. This is not a good or funny movie. When the special effects outperform the (ahem) actors you know this is a FLOP. Wait for video and rent it with something you really want to see. It is really REALLY bad. (We gave up the X-Files for crap like this!) shame shame... Next time please just throw the money away and don't make anymore movies like this.1/2 Star of Five "}{"Title":"What a horrible waste of time!","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ivan Reitman has made (produced and/or directed) a handful of what I would consider GOOD movies. Evolution isn't one of them. Duchovny is just playing a shelled out version of Mulder, and the humor is half-hearted, both in concept and delivery. Ghostbusters flew because of the VERY funny people involved, not necessarily because it was better written - which it was. The only MILDLY interesting aspect of Evolution are the Sci-Fi elements. They really start to go somewhere, but fall apart about half-way through. Don't waste your time on this one. "},{"Title":"Ghostbusters meets Men in Black","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Ivan Reitman directed Ghostbusters (one of my all time favourite comedies) in 1984, it was the runaway hit of the year. And with good reason. It combined cutting edge special effects with a terrific troupe of comedians from Saturday Night Live, and redefined what mainstream comedy could be all about.But since then, Ivan Reitman's career has been decidedly uneven. With Evolution, he has made a welcome return to form. Although it doesn't come close to eclipsing Ghostbusters, this amiable comedy is an amusing and inventive film, and one of Reitman's more well rounded comedies of recent years.Like Ghostbusters, Evolution is about a group of scientists who take it upon themselves to save the world. But not from the supernatural. This time the threat comes from the stars.Our story begins when a meteorite crashes to Earth in the Arizona desert. Inside the meteor are alien cells. Once they've arrived on Earth, they begin to evolve into all manner of different creatures. First it's just little things like worms and insects. But they start becoming more dangerous and intelligent. Things like amphibians, reptiles, primates, and eventually an enormous blob (don't ask!).The task of stopping these aliens has fallen into the hands of disgraced scientist Dr Ira Kane (David Duchovny) and the kooky Prof Harry Block (Orlando Jones). Two scientists who don't exactly inspire you with confidence, and if truth be told, seem a little half-arsed about everything. That's not surprising, since Reitman never portrays scientists as egg-headed geniuses. More like eccentrics only marginally more intelligent than people you'd meet on the streets. That was the way it was in Ghostbusters, and that's how it is with Evolution.Ira and Harry are joined by a sexy (and clumsy) scientist Dr Allison Reed (Julianne Moore) and trainee fireman Wayne Grey (Seann William Scott). Our hopeless foursome are all that stands between the aliens and Earth's extinction.It's impossible not to compare Evolution with Ghostbusters, because barring the fact the threat is alien this time, the plot is virtually identical. A group of scientists are called in to save the day. CGI creations running amok, and turning into something enormous they have to defeat to save the world.That's not to say its a terrible film. Personally, I don't mind if directors use the same sound ideas, just as long as they find a new spin on them. Although Ira and Harry don't have the crackling chemistry the Ghostbusters had, they do make a personable double act. David Duchovny has a real talent for understated comedy. His dry wit almost reminds you of Bill Murray at times.Orlando Jones is more zany but there are times when he really cracked me up, especially the scene where he has a pair of forceps jammed up his arse to retrieve a pesky fly inside his body. The two actors work well together, and they are rather endearing, so that's definitely a positive.Unfortunately, the same can't be said for Julianne Moore and Seann William Scott. Moore is rather flat, and never comes across as funny. For some reason she thought the idea of being an accident prone scientist would make people laugh. Quite frankly I don't know how Julianne Moore ever agreed to sign on to this project. A great actress like her deserved much better.And as for Seann William Scott, well I've never been a fan of him anyway. He always seems so obnoxious to me, which is why I didn't like the American Pie films all that much. He doesn't really add anything, and his presence was probably just a marketing ploy by the producers to bring in a teenage audience as well.I know I sound like I'm riffing the film, but Evolution does have it's strong points as well. The CGI effects are top notch, and we really do get a colourful assortment of creatures in this film. Personally my favourite part is when an alien dinosaur swoops into a shopping centre and makes off with a shoplifter. Ira, Harry and Wayne's rescue of the girl is one scene that recaptures the spirit of Ghostbusters, and then afterwards when they're on a high listening to Play That Funky Music it's not only funny, it fills you with a warm fuzzy feeling.It also has a nice line of supporting characters. Dan Aykroyd puts in an hilarious appearance as the Governor of Arizona. He has the self important befuddled politician stereotype down to a tee, and lights up the film whenever he's around. I also liked Katharine Towne as Nadine, one of Harry's students. She only gets a couple of scenes, but she's very funny as a prissy Valley Girl.Inevitably, things come to a head with the aliens coming together to form a massive blob (as I mentioned before). This giant monstrosity is not nearly as memorable as Mr Stay Puft, but at least it gives the FX technicians an opportunity to make the ending look impressive. Our heroes chosen weapon is Head and Shoulders (believe it or not!). That's not as preposterous as it sounds, especially from my perspective, who has used Head and Shoulders in the past, and knows exactly what it can do!Evolution was sadly not the success Ghostbusters was. It's not so surprising really, because Evolution was probably trying to cash in on the success of other recent sci-fi comedies like Men in Black. But Evolution is still an entertaining film, even if you don't root for these characters like the Ghostbusters.One thing I do like about Evolution. The Smiley face logo with the third eye. Now there's evolution for you Charles Darwin! "},{"Title":"Awful, stay away from it.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The ONLY good thing with the movie is some of the monsters, the rest is just awful... AWFUL. I mean, it's unbearable, I got really frustrated when I watched it, believe me, it's really really bad... mmkay? I wont go into any details here, but everything else, except some of the monsters, is extremely bad. I'm 26 years old and I must say that this movie ruined my day completely... Maybe it wouldn't be SO bad if you're 12 or less, but there's so much out there that's at least watchable so, please just stay away from this f****** movie... Thank you! "}]